

In order to measure the perceived direction of &quot;up&quot;, subjects judged the three-dimensional shape of disks shaded to be compatible with illumination from particular directions. By finding which shaded disk appeared most convex, we were able to infer the perceived direction of illumination. This provides an indirect measure of the subject's perception of the direction of &quot;up&quot;. The different cues contributing to this percept were separated by varying the orientation of the subject and the orientation of the visual background relative to gravity. We also measured the effect of decreasing or increasing gravity by making these shape judgements throughout all the phases of parabolic flight (0 g, 2 g and 1 g during level flight). The perceived up direction was modeled by a simple vector sum of &quot;up&quot; defined by vision, the body and gravity. In this model, the weighting of the visual cue became negligible under microgravity and hypergravity conditions.
We measured the amount of visual movement judged consistent with translational head movement under normal and microgravity conditions. Subjects wore a virtual reality helmet in which the ratio of the movement of the world to the movement of the head (visual gain) was variable. Using the method of adjustment under normal gravity 10 subjects adjusted the visual gain until the visual world appeared stable during head movements that were either parallel or orthogonal to gravity. Using the method of constant stimuli under normal gravity, seven subjects moved their heads and judged whether the virtual world appeared to move &quot;with&quot; or &quot;against&quot; their movement for several visual gains. One subject repeated the constant stimuli judgements in microgravity during parabolic flight. The accuracy of judgements appeared unaffected by the direction or absence of gravity. Only the variability appeared affected by the absence of gravity. These results are discussed in relation to discomfort during head movements in microgravity.
Four payload crewmembers were exposed to sustained linear acceleration in a centrifuge during the Neurolab (STS-90) flight. In contrast to previous studies, otolith-ocular reflexes were preserved during and after flight. This raised the possibility that artificial gravity may have acted as a countermeasure to the deconditioning of otolith-ocular reflexes. None of the astronauts who were centrifuged had orthostatic intolerance when tested with head-up passive tilt after flight. Thus, centrifugation may also have helped maintain post-flight hemodynamic responses to orthostasis by preserving the gain of the otolith-sympathetic reflex. A comparison with two fellow Neurolab orbiter crewmembers not exposed to artificial gravity provided some support for this hypothesis. One of the two had hemodynamic changes in response to post-flight tilt similar to orthostatically intolerant subjects from previous missions. More data is necessary to evaluate this hypothesis, but if it were proven correct, in-flight short-radius centrifugation may help counteract orthostatic intolerance after space flight.
Short-radius centrifugation is a potential countermeasure against the effects of prolonged weightlessness. Head movements in a rotating environment, however, induce serious side effects: inappropriate vestibular ocular reflexes (VOR), body-tilt illusions and motion sickness induced by cross-coupled accelerations on a rotating platform. These are well predicted by a semicircular canal model. The present study investigates cognitive effects on the inappropriate VOR and the illusory sensations experienced by subjects rotating on a short-radius centrifuge (SRC). Subjects (N=19) were placed supine on a rotating horizontal bed with their head at the center of rotation. To investigate the extent to which they could control their sensations voluntarily, subjects were asked alternatively to &quot;fight&quot; (i.e. to try to resist and suppress) those sensations, or to &quot;go&quot; with (i.e. try to enhance or, at least, acquiesce in) them. The only significant effect on the VOR of this cognitive intervention was to diminish the time constant characterizing the decay of the nystagmus in subjects who had performed the &quot;go&quot; (rather than the &quot;fight&quot;) trials. However, illusory sensations, as measured by reported subjective intensities, were significantly less intense during the &quot;fight&quot; than during the &quot;go&quot; trials. These measurements also verified an asymmetry in illusory sensation known from earlier experiments: the illusory sensations are greater when the head is rotated from right ear down (RED) to nose up (NU) posture than from NU to RED. The subjects habituated, modestly, to the rotation between their first and second sequences of trials, but showed no better (or worse) suppression of illusory sensations thereafter. No significant difference in habituation was observed between the &quot;fight&quot; and &quot;go&quot; trials.
Removal of the mechanical pressure gradient on the soles leads to physiological adaptations that ultimately result in neuromotor degradation during spaceflight. We propose that mechanical stimulation of the soles serves to partially restore the afference associated with bipedal loading and assists in attenuating the negative neuromotor consequences of spaceflight. A dynamic foot stimulus device was used to stimulate the soles in a variety of conditions with different stimulation locations, stimulation patterns and muscle spindle input. Surface electromyography revealed the lateral side of the sole elicited the greatest neuromuscular response in ankle musculature, followed by the medial side, then the heel. These responses were modified by preceding stimulation. Neuromuscular responses were also influenced by the level of muscle spindle input. These results provide important information that can be used to guide the development of a &quot;passive&quot; countermeasure that relies on sole stimulation and can supplement existing exercise protocols during spaceflight.
Co-injection of wortmannin (inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase, PI3K) and GF109203X (inhibitor of protein kinase C, PKC) into the rat brain was found to induce spatial memory deficiency and enhance tau hyperphosphorylation in the hippocampus of rat brain. To establish a cell model with durative Alzheimer-like tau hyperphosphorylation in this study, we treated N2a neuroblastoma cells with wortmannin and GF109203X separately and simultaneously, and measured the glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) activity by gamma-32P-labeling and the level of tau phosphorylation by Western blotting. It was found that the application of wortmannin alone only transitorily increased the activity of GSK-3 (about 1 h) and the level of tau hyperphosphorylation at Ser396/Ser404 and Ser199/Ser202 sites (no longer than 3 h); however, a prolonged and intense activation of GSK-3 (over 12 h) and enhanced tau hyperphosphorylation (about 24 h) were observed when these two selective kinase inhibitors were applied together. We conclude that the simultaneous inhibition of PI3K and PKC can induce GSK-3 overactivation, and further strengthen and prolong the Alzheimer-like tau hyperphosphorylation in N2a cells, suggesting the establishment of a cell model with early pathological events of Alzheimer's disease.

Microdysgenesis is a microscopic malformation of cortical development characterized by heterotopic neurones and abnormal cortical architecture. It has been described in primary generalized and partial epilepsy. Its significance in epileptogenesis is controversial, partly due to lack of consensus of diagnostic criteria. Different terms have also been used for the malformation. Several quantitative studies have been performed of the histopathological aberrations associated with microdysgenesis. A majority of the studies have revealed an increased number of heterotopic neurones in specimens from epilepsy patients. However, the quantitative values given for abnormal numbers of white matter neurones vary greatly between studies and there is no consensus yet on quantitative criteria for microdysgenesis. There have also been conflicting results from studies correlating microdysgenesis with clinical data. Both favourable and worse outcome after epilepsy surgery have been reported in patients with increased numbers of white matter neurones and microdysgenesis. While some studies have shown earlier seizure onset and increased frequency of mental retardation in patients with microdysgenesis, others have not. Differences in inclusion criteria and definition might contribute to the contradictory results. There is some evidence that microdysgenesis could be important in epileptogenesis, but the mechanisms involved remain unknown and difficult to investigate. A consensus on what histopathological criteria to use for the diagnosis of microdysgenesis is needed to explore this further and enable comparisons between centres. There are advantages and disadvantages both with quantitative stereological and with qualitative assessments. It is necessary to evaluate these in the decision on diagnostic criteria, if possible taking both qualitative and quantitative aspects into account.
The presence of microvasculature abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenics was proposed in a recent study of molecular signatures of schizophrenia [Prabakaran et al (2004) Mol Psychiat 9:684-697]. To assess this possibility further, we investigated capillary length densities in prefrontal cortex area 9 and anterior cingulate cortex area 24 in postmortem brains from 13 schizophrenics and 13 age- and sex-matched controls. To check that our sample of brains shared cardinal neuropathological features of schizophrenia with previously reported case studies, we also measured cortical gray matter volumes and cortical thickness in areas 9 and 24. The mean cortical gray matter volume was significantly reduced in brains from schizophrenics compared to controls. Mean cortical thickness was significantly reduced in area 24, but not in area 9, in schizophrenics. There were no differences in mean capillary length densities in either area 9 or 24 between the two groups. Thus, alterations in capillary length density in the prefrontal cortex cannot be considered a general feature of schizophrenia. Compromised brain metabolism and occurrence of oxidative stress in the brain of schizophrenics are likely caused by other mechanisms.
The klotho gene was identified in 1997 as the gene whose severe insufficiency (kl/kl) causes a syndrome resembling human aging, such as osteoporosis, arteriosclerosis, gonadal atrophy, emphysema, and short life span in a mouse strain. Regarding the gait disturbance reported in kl/kl mice, the present study examined the spinal cord of kl/kl mice, and revealed decreases in the number of large anterior horn cells (AHCs), the amount of cytoplasmic RNA, the number of ribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER), and the activity of ribosomal (r) RNA gene transcription without significant loss of the total number of neurons in the ventral gray matter. Increased immunostaining of phosphorylated neurofilament in the AHCs and of glial fibrillary acidic protein in reactive astrocytes in the anterior horn of kl/kl mice were also observed. On the other hand, the posterior horn was quite well preserved. The results suggest that the kl/kl insufficiency causes atrophy and dysfunction of the spinal AHCs through decreased activity of rRNA gene transcription, which may reduce the amount of cytoplasmic RNA and the number of ribosomes and rER. These findings resemble those found in the spinal cord of patients with classic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The results show that klotho gene insufficiency causes dysfunction of the protein synthesizing system in the AHCs, and might indicate the klotho gene is involved in the pathological mechanism of classic ALS. The kl/kl is a new animal model of AHC degeneration, and may provide clues to understanding the etiology of classic ALS.
Silver staining profiles of Pick bodies (PBs) and their relation to tau-like immunoreactivity were examined on hippocampal sections and compared with those of neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer type (NFTs). Pairs of mirror sections were double-fluorolabeled with an anti-paired helical filament tau (AT8) antibody and thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that identifies fibrillary structures such as NFTs. One of the paired sections was subsequently stained using the Gallyas method (GAL), and the other using the Campbell-Switzer method (CS). By comparison of the same microscopic field on fluorolabeled sections and on both silver-stained paired sections, four different profiles of each structure could be distinguished: AT8 immunoreactivity, affinity to TR, argyrophilia with GAL or CS staining. PBs, containing mainly three-repeat (3R) tau, were positive for CS but not for GAL and its affinity to TR was, at most, weak. This selective affinity of PBs to CS is in sharp contrast with tau-positive structures of corticobasal degeneration/progressive supranuclear palsy, which are positive for GAL but not for CS, as we reported previously. This contrast is explainable if the argyrophilia with CS is related to deposits containing 3R tau, while that with GAL is linked to those containing four-repeat (4R) tau. Indeed, NFTs, containing both 3R and 4R tau, are positive for both CS and GAL, as expected. Taken together, differences in molecular composition of tau protein in these deposits are linked to their argyrophilic properties that are dependent on the staining method. Although explanations for these empirical differences are not yet available, awareness of this clear distinction is potentially of diagnostic and pathological relevance.


A large body of data supports the view that movement plays a crucial role in letter representation and suggests that handwriting contributes to the visual recognition of letters. If so, changing the motor conditions while children are learning to write by using a method based on typing instead of handwriting should affect their subsequent letter recognition performances. In order to test this hypothesis, we trained two groups of 38 children (aged 3-5 years) to copy letters of the alphabet either by hand or by typing them. After three weeks of learning, we ran two recognition tests, one week apart, to compare the letter recognition performances of the two groups. The results showed that in the older children, the handwriting training gave rise to a better letter recognition than the typing training.
The nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine, has been shown to reduce cue-elicited cocaine craving and to aid in smoking cessation. In a within-subjects design, 16 dependent smokers received mecamylamine (10 mg) or placebo capsules on two different days. Subjects imagined smoking urge and non-urge scenarios after smoking their usual brand vs. denicotinized cigarettes. Smoking usual-brand cigarettes produced greater positive effects and mecamylamine blocked heart rate (HR) boost and cigarette sensory impact. Mecamylamine also resulted in greater craving and less calmness, regardless of cigarette smoked. Urge script imagination in the mecamylamine+denicotinized condition resulted in calmness similar to usual-brand conditions and higher than the placebo+denicotinized condition. A similar trend was observed for negative affect. These results suggest that mecamylamine can moderate smoking cue-induced emotional responses in smokers.






Extracellular nucleotides interact with purinergic receptors, which regulate ion transport in a variety of epithelia. With the use of two different human epithelial carcinoma cell lines (HCT8 and Caco-2), we have shown by RT-PCR that the cells express mRNA for P2X1, P2X3, P2X4, P2X5, P2X6, P2X7, P2Y1, P2Y2, P2Y4, P2Y6, P2Y11, and P2Y12 receptors. Protein expression for P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptors was also demonstrated immunohistochemically, and P2X receptor subtype protein was present in the following decreasing order: P2X4 &gt; P2X7 &gt; P2X1 &gt; P2X3 &gt; P2X6 &gt; P2X5 &gt; P2X2. The functional presence of P2X7, P2Y1, P2Y2, and P2Y4 receptors was shown based on the effect of extracellular nucleotides on apoptosis or cell proliferation, and measurement of nucleotide-dependent calcium fluxes using a fluorometric imaging plate reader in the presence of different selective agonists and antagonists. ATP, at high concentrations, induced apoptosis through ligation of P2X7 and P2Y1 receptors; conversely, ATP, at lower concentrations, and UTP stimulated proliferation, probably acting via P2Y2 receptors. We therefore propose that stimulation or dysfunction of purinergic receptors may contribute at least partially to modulation of epithelial carcinoma cell proliferation and apoptosis.
The electrophysiological and morphological properties of rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) neurons innervating the pancreas were examined by using whole cell patch clamp recordings from brain stem slices and postfixation morphological reconstructions of Neurobiotin-filled neurons. Recordings were made from 178 DMV neurons whose projections had been identified by previous apposition of the fluorescent neuronal tracer DiI to the body of the pancreas. DMV neurons projecting to the pancreas had an input resistance of 434 +/- 14 M omega, an action potential duration of 3 +/- 0.1 ms, and an afterhyperpolarization of 18 +/- 0.4 mV amplitude and 108 +/- 7 ms time constant of decay; these electrophysiological properties resembled those of gastric-projecting neurons but were significantly different from those of intestinal-projecting neurons. Interestingly, 14 of 178 pancreas-projecting neurons showed the presence of a slowly developing afterhyperpolarization whose presence was not reported in DMV neurons projecting to any other gastrointestinal area. The morphological characteristics of pancreas-projecting neurons (soma area 274 +/- 12 microm2; soma diameter of 25 +/- 0.7 microm; soma form factor 0.74 +/- 0.01; segments 9.7 +/- 0.41), however, were similar to those of intestinal- but differed from those of gastric-projecting neurons. In summary, these results suggest that pancreas-projecting rat DMV neurons are heterogeneous with respect to some electrophysiological and morphological properties. These differences might underlie functional differences in the vagal modulation of pancreatic functions.
Using whole cell patch clamp in thin brain stem slices, we tested the effects of cholecystokinin (CCK) on identified gastric-projecting neurons of the rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV). Perfusion with the sulfated form of CCK octapeptide (CCK8s, 30 pM-300 nM, EC50 approximately 4 nM) induced a concentration-dependent inward current in 35 and 41% of corpus- and antrum/pylorus-projecting DMV neurons, respectively. Conversely, none of the fundus-projecting DMV neurons responded to perfusion with CCK8s. The CCK8s-induced inward current was accompanied by a 65 +/- 17% increase in membrane input resistance and reversed at 90 +/- 4 mV, indicating that the excitatory effects of CCK8s were mediated by the closure of a potassium conductance. Pretreatment with the synaptic blocker TTX (0.3-1 microM) reduced the CCK8s-induced current, suggesting that a portion of the CCK8s-induced current was mediated indirectly via an action on presynaptic neurons apposing the DMV membrane. Pretreatment with the selective CCK-A receptor antagonist lorglumide (0.3-3 microM) attenuated the CCK8s-induced inward current in a concentration-dependent manner, with a maximum inhibition of 69 +/- 12% obtained with 3 microM lorglumide. Conversely, pretreatment with the selective CCK-B antagonist triglumide did not attenuate the CCK8s-induced inward current; pretreatment with triglumide (3 microM) and lorglumide (1 microM) attenuated the CCK8s-induced current to the same extent as pretreatment with lorglumide alone. Immunohistochemical experiments showed that CCK-A receptors were localized on the membrane of 34, 65, and 60% of fundus-, corpus-, and antrum/pylorus-projecting DMV neurons, respectively. Our data indicate that CCK-A receptors are present on a subpopulation of gastric-projecting neurons and that their activation leads to excitation of the DMV membrane.


Smoking during pregnancy leads to decreased pulmonary function and increased respiratory illness in offspring. Our laboratory has previously demonstrated that many effects of smoking during pregnancy are mediated by nicotine. We now report that vitamin C supplementation can prevent some of the effects of maternal nicotine exposure on pulmonary function of offspring. Timed-pregnant rhesus monkeys were treated with 2 mg/kg/day nicotine bitartrate from Gestation Days 26 to 160. On Gestation Day 160 (term, 165 days) fetuses were delivered by C-section and subjected to pulmonary function testing the following day. Nicotine exposure significantly reduced forced expiratory flows, but supplementation of mothers with 250 mg vitamin C per day prevented the effects of nicotine on expiratory flows. Vitamin C supplementation also prevented the nicotine-induced increases in surfactant apoprotein-B protein. Neither nicotine nor nicotine plus vitamin C significantly affected levels of cortisol or cytokines, which have been shown to affect lung development and surfactant expression. Prenatal nicotine exposure significantly decreased levels of elastin content in the lungs of offspring, and these effects were slightly attenuated by vitamin C. These findings suggest that vitamin C supplementation may potentially be clinically useful to limit the deleterious effects of maternal smoking during pregnancy on offspring's lung function.
We have previously shown that a subset of axon terminals in the locus coeruleus (LC) containing methionine(5)-enkephalin (ENK) forms type I (asymmetric-type) synaptic specializations that are characteristic of excitatory-type transmitters. In addition, we previously provided ultrastructural evidence showing that ENK is colocalized with glutamate using a combination of pre- and postembedding immunohistochemistry. To examine cellular substrates for interactions between glutamate and other endogenous opioid peptides in the LC, we examined the localization of the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1), a transporter protein involved in the accumulation of the transmitter glutamate into synaptic vesicles, with either ENK or preprodynorphin (ppDYN). Dual-immunofluorescence and electron microscopy showed prominent coexistence of VGLUT1 and ENK in varicose processes of the LC, confirming our previous report using postembedding immunolabeling for glutamate. Likewise, VGLUT1 and ppDYN were identified in common varicose processes in the LC using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Immunoelectron microscopy using gold-silver labeling for VGLUT1 and peroxidase labeling for ppDYN established that this endogenous opioid peptide also colocalizes with glutamate transporters. The majority of these formed asymmetric-type synapses. Taken together, these results demonstrate that excitatory LC afferents are enriched with endogenous opioid peptides and are positioned to modulate LC neuronal activity dually.
We test whether inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) can exert a cytoprotective effect on cerebral endothelial cells upon stimulation by pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mouse brain endothelial cells were stably transfected to express an antisense RNA against iNOS driven by an endothelium-specific von Willebrand factor (vWF) promoter. Upon stimulation with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) plus interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), antisense transfectants showed less iNOS enzymatic activity with less nitric oxide (NO) when compared to the sense control cells. Correspondingly, the antisense cells showed a reduced LDH release and less cytosolic content of oligonucleosomes. These findings establish a cell-specific antisense strategy and confirm the cytotoxic role of iNOS expression in cultured cerebral endothelial cells.
BCNU (1,3-bis[2-chloroethyl]-1-nitrosourea) is the mainstay in glioblastoma multiform chemotherapy with only minimal effects. BCNU may kill tumor cells via carbamoylating cytotoxicity, which irreversibly inhibits glutathione reductase with resultant accumulation of oxidized form of glutathione causing oxidative stress. S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) is a product of glutathione and nitric oxide interaction. We report that GSNO formation may underlie carbamoylating chemoresistance mediated by activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase. Transactivation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1)-responsive genes reduces oxidative stress caused by glutathione depletion. We also noted that preconditioning of C6 glioma cells to induce HIF-1 and its downstream genes confers chemoresistance against carbamoylating cytotoxicity of BCNU.
Relaxin inhibits smooth muscle contractions by binding Ca2+ and making it unavailable to the contractile elements. Rat uterus sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) was isolated, incubated with 45Ca in the presence and absence of porcine relaxin, and filtered. In the presence of relaxin, only 4% of the 45Ca was on the filter with the SR as compared to that measured on the filter with SR alone or in the presence of proteins of similar isoelectric point (cytochrome C) and size (insulin). A Sephadex G-25 column was equilibrated with buffer containing 45Ca, and 0.5 mL fractions were collected. Each fraction contained 240-250 K cpm. Relaxin was diluted in the buffer, added to the top of the column, and eluted. A peak of 45Ca (&gt;600 K cpm) was found with the eluted relaxin. No peak of 45Ca was associated with cytochrome C or insulin under the same conditions. The eluted fractions containing 45Ca and relaxin were combined. A sample was incubated with rabbit anti-porcine relaxin serum and goat anti-rabbit serum and centrifuged, and 45Ca in the pellet and supernatant was determined. Ninety-eight percent of the 45Ca was found in the supernatant. Thus, 45Ca was not tightly bound to relaxin or the antibodies knocked the 45Ca off. Is relaxin a calcium transporter or buffer?
The purpose of this study was to identify tissues in the day 25 pregnant rabbit that bind relaxin. First, the clearance half-life of relaxin from the rabbit (n = 6) was determined by injecting 10 g porcine relaxin via the marginal ear vein. One-milliliter blood samples were collected via a cannula in the central ear artery. Samples were collected at 10- and 5-min pre-relaxin and at 1-min intervals post-relaxin injection, and the relaxin concentrations determined by radioimmunoassay. The clearance half-life was 4 min. Next, pregnant rabbits were infused with [125I]-relaxin. Control rabbits (n = 3) received 10 g radio-inert relaxin via the marginal ear vein in order to saturate endogenous receptors. Ten minutes later, 10 ng [125I]-relaxin was similarly injected. Treated rabbits (n = 3) received only [125I]-relaxin. After allowing sufficient time for clearance (24 min), a 1-mL blood sample was removed via the central ear vein. Rabbits were euthanized, tissues of maternal and fetal origin excised, and cpm/mg of tissue divided by cpm/mL of blood was determined. Differences in uptake of [125I]-relaxin between control and treated animals, using the Student paired t test, were found for the uterus (P &lt; .05), uterine cervix (P &lt; .03), and mammary gland (P &lt; .05). These data suggest potential rabbit tissues with the LGR-7 receptor.
Recent studies suggest a neuroprotective function of the PGE2 EP2 receptor in excitotoxic neuronal injury. The function of the EP2 receptor was examined at time points after excitotoxicity in an organotypic hippocampal model of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) challenge and in a permanent model of focal forebrain ischemia. Activation of EP2 led to significant neuroprotection in hippocampal slices up to 3 hours after a toxic NMDA stimulus. Genetic deletion of EP2 resulted in a marked increase in stroke volume in the permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model. These findings support further investigation into therapeutic strategies targeting the EP2 receptor in stroke.
Nearly 300 years have passed since the first description of the toxicity of hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) in 1713. Although many studies have been devoted to its toxicity, very little attention has been paid to understanding its normal physiological function. Relatively high concentrations of endogenous H(2)S, however, have recently been discovered in animal tissues, and its possible function as a biological messenger has been proposed. H(2)S enhances the activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and facilitates the induction of hippocampal longterm potentiation, a synaptic model for memory. H(2)S also increases intracellular concentrations of Ca(2+) in glia and induces Ca(2+) waves, which mediate glial signal transmission. Based on accumulating evidence for the reciprocal interactions between glia and neurons, it has been suggested that glia modulate synaptic transmission. Therefore, H(2)S may regulate synaptic activity by modulating the activity of both neurons and glia. In addition to a role in the signal transduction, H(2)S protects neurons from oxidative stress and in smooth muscle it may function as a relaxant. H(2)S, the toxic gas, may therefore be used as a multifunctional signaling mechanism under normal physiological conditions.

The purpose of this article is to promote research that tests hypotheses of measured gene-environment interaction (GxE). A GxE occurs when the effect of exposure to an environmental pathogen on health is conditional on a person's genotype (or conversely, when environmental experience moderates genes' effects on health). Gene-environment interactions were thought to be rare in psychiatry, but empirical findings of measured GxEs are now emerging. However, the current high level of curiosity about GxE is accompanied by uncertainty about the feasibility of GxE research and by pragmatic questions about how to carry out good GxE studies. First, we summarize emerging evidence about GxE in psychiatric disorders. Second, we describe 7 strategic steps that may be used to organize further hypothesis-driven studies of GxE. Third, we explain the potential benefits of the measured-GxE approach for basic neuroscience and for gene hunting. We suggest that in psychiatric genetics, ignoring nurture handicaps the field's capacity to make new discoveries about nature.
Depression occurs frequently in post-stroke patients and appears to be associated with an impairment in their rehabilitation and functional recovery. Although selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are often used in post-stroke depression (PSD), it has been observed that only a subset of patients is responsive to this treatment. Other patients respond to tricyclic antidepressants or MAO inhibitors, which, however, may not have a favorable profile of safety and tolerability in post-stroke patients. In this double-blinded, placebo-controlled study, we evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, reboxetine, in a subset of PSD patients classified as affected by &quot;retarded&quot; depression. Reboxetine (4 mg, twice daily, for 16 weeks) was administered to patients that developed depression after a single ischaemic or hemorrhagic stroke. We assessed the severity of depressive symptoms by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). HDRS and BDI scores (mean+/-S.D.) at baseline were, respectively, 24+/-1.31 and 19.87+/-1.46 in the placebo group, 24.06+/-1.52 and 20.56+/-2.16 in the reboxetine group. After 16 weeks, HDRS and BDI mean scores were respectively 22.73+/-2.4 and 18.4+/-3.33 in the placebo group, 9.26+/-2.15 and 8.06+/-3.43 in the reboxetine group [p&lt;0.01 versus the respective baseline (paired t-test); (#)p&lt;0.01 versus retarded depressed patients treated with placebo (one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) applied to the difference from baseline, associated with Dunnett's t-test to isolate the differences)]. Reboxetine showed a good efficacy, safety and tolerability in PSD patients affected by &quot;retarded&quot; depression. We conclude that reboxetine is well tolerated and may be a useful therapeutic option in PSD patients with &quot;retarded&quot; depression.
Using immunocytochemical techniques and confocal microscopy we have studied the localization of the vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) 1 and 2 in the mammalian cerebral cortex. The cardinal observations gathered to date can be summarized as follows: 1) Many VGLUT1-positive puncta coexpressing synaptophysin-1 outline pyramidal cell somata and proximal dendrites; of these, a sizeable fraction coexpress VGAT, the vesicular transporter for GABA; 2) VGLUT2-positive puncta are also present in layers II-III and some of them coexpress VGLUTI. These findings suggest that in the cerebral cortex of adult rats axon terminals expressing VGLUT1 are heterogeneous.
Sensory input from peripheral nerves to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord is mediated by a variety of agents released by the central terminals of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. These include, but are not limited to, amino acids, especially glutamate, peptides and purines. The unraveling of the mechanisms of synaptic transmission by central terminals of DRG neurons has to take into account various ways in which the message from the periphery can be modulated at the level of the first central synapse. These include postsynaptic and presynaptic mechanisms. Homomeric and heteromeric complexes of receptor subunits for the different transmitters released by DRG neurons and interneurons, clustered at the postsynaptic site of central synapses, can be expressed in different combinations and their rate of insertion into the postsynaptic membrane is activity-regulated. Inhibitory mechanisms are an important part of central modulation, especially via presynaptic inhibition, currently believed to involve GABA released by inhibitory intrinsic neurons. Recent work has established the occurrence of another way by which sensory input can be modulated, i.e. the expression of presynaptic ionotropic and metabotropic receptors in central terminals of DRG neurons. Microscopic evidence for the expression, in these terminals, of various subunits of ionotropic glutamate receptors documents the selective expression of glutamate receptors in functionally different DRG afferents. Electrophysiological and pharmacological data suggest that activation of presynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors in central terminals of DRG neurons may result in inhibition of release of glutamate by the same terminals. Glutamate activating presynaptic receptors may spill over from the same or adjacent synapses, or may be released by processes of astroglial cells surrounding synaptic terminals. The wide expression of presynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors, especially in superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, where Adelta- and C fibers terminate, provides an additional or alternative mechanism, besides GABA-mediated presynaptic inhibition, for the modulation of glutamate release by these fibers. Since, however, presynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors are also expressed in terminals of GABAergic intrinsic interneurons, a decrease of GABA release resulting from activation of these receptors in the same laminae, may also play a role in central sensitization and hyperalgesia.



PsychMate is a set of software tools for undergraduate psychology students to run, develop, and analyze computerized experiments. It includes 30 psychological experiments in the areas of perception, cognition, social psychology, human factors, and cognitive neuroscience. Students run experiments themselves and see basic results immediately. The automatic spreadsheet analysis forms allow them to aggregate data and create analyses, presentations, and Web pages with a single click. Students can use the Psychology Experiment Authoring Kit experiment editor to create their own experiments in minutes and run experiments with other students using Web-based experiment-management tools. The BrainTutor and BrainViewer applications teach brain anatomy and permit students to analyze fMRI brain imaging data from subjects who have performed the same memory experiments in which they participated. PsychMate has been used in 83 classes in which 1,533 students submitted 5,464 completed experiments with few (less than 1%) requests for help and a very positive rating of the research experience.
We describe a custom-built feeder based on stepping motor technology controlled by a laboratory computer. The feeder dispenses a wide range of foods: any fruit, vegetable, or nut. The feeder allows the investigator to reward monkeys with different foods within a single experimental day. The monkey's motivation to perform tasks is high and does not rely upon food regulation. The avoidance of regulation, as well as the palatability and variety of the rewards dispensed by our device, distinguishes it from commercially available products. We also describe the use of the feeder in the context of novel behavioral and neurophysiological studies in freely moving monkeys.
In academic courses in which one task for the students is to understand empirical methodology and the nature of scientific inquiry, the ability of students to create and implement their own experiments allows them to take intellectual ownership of, and greatly facilitates, the learning process. The Psychology Experiment Authoring Kit (PEAK) is a novel spreadsheet-based interface allowing students and researchers with rudimentary spreadsheet skills to create cognitive and cognitive neuroscience experiments in minutes. Students fill in a spreadsheet listing of independent variables and stimuli, insert columns that represent experimental objects such as slides (presenting text, pictures, and sounds) and feedback displays to create complete experiments, all within a single spreadsheet. The application then executes experiments with centisecond precision. Formal usability testing was done in two stages: (1) detailed coding of 10 individual subjects in one-on-one experimenter/subject videotaped sessions and (2) classroom testing of 64 undergraduates. In both individual and classroom testing, the students learned to effectively use PEAK within 2 h, and were able to create a lexical decision experiment in under 10 min. Findings from the individual testing in Stage 1 resulted in significant changes to documentation and training materials and identification of bugs to be corrected. Stage 2 testing identified additional bugs to be corrected and new features to be considered to facilitate student understanding of the experiment model. Such testing will improve the approach with each semester. The students were typically able to create their own projects in 2 h.
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that the P-type Mg(2+)-ATPase, termed ATPase II, could play an important role in apoptosis. With the long-term objective of studying the regulation of this protein during apoptosis, we delineated the exon-intron organization of the human ATPase II gene (within chromosome 4). Subsequently, we used RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends to identify a major transcription start site at position -143 with respect to the translation start site. Luciferase reporter analysis of a 1.2-kb 5'-flanking sequence (-1222 to +94 with respect to the transcription start site) revealed strong promoter activity in three human cell lines, human oligodendroglioma (HOG), SHSY5Y (hybrid neuroblastoma), and EA.hy926 (endothelial cell line). Serial deletions from the 5' end of this sequence up to nucleotide -291 yielded some decrease in activity only in the EA.hy926 cells. Further deletion to -217 caused a drastic decrease in activity in all three cell lines, but a -148 fragment showed preferential reduction in activity in the EA.hy926 cells. The promoter activity was nearly equal in two sequence variants of the promoter, one of which (designated as Variant 2) contained a 15-bp direct repeat within a GC-rich region. Additionally, there were several single base-pair changes from the sequence reported by the human genome project. Despite the presence of enhancer/repressor elements, such as Sp1 and NFkappaB, relatively small differences in promoter activity were observed in the three cell lines. However, it is likely that such sequence elements could cause major regulation of promoter activity in cells subjected to conditions that trigger apoptosis. The ATPase II promoter sequence will provide valuable clues to the regulation and role of the ATPase II protein.



The aim of this experiment was to study drivers' performance when confronted with a critical crash avoidance situation. Subjects were asked to cover three laps of a private circuit (4 min per lap), respecting speed limits. During the last lap, an inflated dummy car, placed at an intersection, was pulled onto the traffic lane. The synchronization signal releasing the obstacle was triggered to make the braking distance too short, thus requiring subjects to brake and turn the driving wheel simultaneously. Before driving, subjects completed the Stroop color-word test. Skin conductance (SC) was recorded continuously, before and during driving. Subjects who performed the least well also performed the least well to Stroop test. The SC level showed that subjects avoiding the obstacle were more aroused than those who crashed into the dummy car. Performance to Stroop test and physiological arousal were thus shown to be determining factors in management of a critical driving situation.
Polyimide sieve electrodes were implanted between the severed ends of the sciatic nerve in rats. The degree of axonal regeneration through the electrode was examined by physiological and histological methods from 2 to 12 months postimplantation. Regeneration was successful in the 30 animals implanted. Functional reinnervation of hindlimb targets progressed to reach maximal levels at 6 months. Comparatively, the reinnervation of distal plantar muscles was lower than that of proximal muscles and of digital nerves. The number of regenerated myelinated fibers increased from 2 to 6 months, when it was similar to control values. The majority of myelinated fibers crossing the via holes and regenerated through the distal nerve had a normal appearance. However, in a few cases decline of target reinnervation and loss of regenerated nerve fibers was found from 6 to 12 months postimplantation. Motor axons labeled by ChAT immunoreactivity regenerated scattered within minifascicles, although they were found at higher density at the periphery of the regenerated nerve. The number of ChAT-positive axons was markedly lower distally than proximally to the sieve electrode.
Artificial grafts are promising alternatives to nerve grafts for peripheral nerve repair because they obviate the complications and disadvantages associated with autografting such as donor site morbidity and limited tissue availability. We have synthesized poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate-co-methyl methacrylate) (PHEMA-MMA) porous tubes and studied their efficacy in vivo. Specifically, we studied the short- and long-term stability and biocompatibility of 12 mm long tubes for the repair of surgically created 10 mm nerve gaps in rat sciatic nerves. Prior to implantation, tubes were analyzed in vitro using a micro-mechanical tester to measure displacement achieved with load applied. These results served as a calibration curve, y = 6.8105 x -0.0073 (R2 = 0.9750, n = 28), for in vivo morphometric tube compression measurements. In vivo, most of the PHEMA-MMA conduits maintained their structural integrity up to 8 weeks, but 29% (4/14) of them collapsed by 16 weeks. Interestingly, the tube wall area of collapsed 16-week tubes was significantly lower than those of patent tubes. Tubes were largely biocompatible; however, a small subset of 16-week tubes displayed signs of chronic inflammation characterized by &quot;finger-like&quot; tissue extensions invading the inner tube aspect, inflammatory cells (some of which were ED1+macrophages) and giant cells. Tubes also demonstrated signs of calcification, which increased from 8 to 16 weeks. To overcome these issues, future nerve conduits will be re-designed to be more robust and biocompatible.

Corollary discharge signals play an important role in monitoring self-generated movements to guarantee spatial constancy. Recent work in macaques suggests that the thalamus conveys corollary discharge information of upcoming saccades passing from the superior colliculus to the frontal eye field. The present study aimed to investigate the involvement of the thalamus in humans by assessing the effect of thalamic lesions on the processing of corollary discharge information. Thirteen patients with selective thalamic lesions and 13 healthy age-matched control subjects performed a saccadic double-step task in which retino-spatial dissonance was induced, i.e. the retinal vector of the second target and the movement vector of the second saccade were different. Thus, the subjects could not rely on retinal information alone, but had to use corollary discharge information to correctly perform the second saccade. The amplitudes of first and second saccades were significantly smaller in patients than in controls. Five thalamic lesion patients showed unilateral deficits in using corollary discharge information, as revealed by asymmetries compared with the other patients and controls. Three patients with lateral thalamic lesions including the ventrolateral nucleus (VL) were impaired contralaterally to the side of damage and one patient with a lesion in the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) was impaired ipsilaterally to the lesion. The largest asymmetry was found in a patient with a bilateral thalamic lesion. The results provide evidence for a thalamic involvement in the processing of corollary discharge information in humans, with a potential role of both the VL and MD nuclei.

Are the linguistic forms that are memorized in the mental lexicon and those that are specified by the rules of grammar subserved by distinct neurocognitive systems or by a single computational system with relatively broad anatomic distribution? On a dual-system view, the productive -ed-suffixation of English regular past tense forms (e.g., look-looked) depends upon the mental grammar, whereas irregular forms (e.g., dig-dug) are retrieved from lexical memory. On a single-mechanism view, the computation of both past tense types depends on associative memory. Neurological double dissociations between regulars and irregulars strengthen the dual-system view. The computation of real and novel, regular and irregular past tense forms was investigated in 20 aphasic subjects. Aphasics with non-fluent agrammatic speech and left frontal lesions were consistently more impaired at the production, reading, and judgment of regular than irregular past tenses. Aphasics with fluent speech and word-finding difficulties, and with left temporal/temporo-parietal lesions, showed the opposite pattern. These patterns held even when measures of frequency, phonological complexity, articulatory difficulty, and other factors were held constant. The data support the view that the memorized words of the mental lexicon are subserved by a brain system involving left temporal/temporo-parietal structures, whereas aspects of the mental grammar, in particular the computation of regular morphological forms, are subserved by a distinct system involving left frontal structures.
The present study was designed to assess the potential of marrow stromal cells (MSCs) to deliver therapeutic genes to the brain and result in biologically significant functional recovery. The tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene was transfected to MSCs with an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector. MSCs expressing TH gene were transplanted into the striatum of Parkinson's disease (PD) rat. The asymmetric rotation of these models after apomorphine administration was detected every week after transplantation. Six weeks after grafting, animals were sacrificed. Some brains were sectioned to do TH immunohistochemistry. The others were used to detect the dopamine levels by high-performance liquid chromatograph and electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD). The results showed that MSCs multiply rapidly and formed fibroblast colony-forming units in primary culture. The gene expression efficiency was about 75%. The rounds of asymmetric rotation after apomorphine administration decreased after TH-engineered MSCs were grafted. Histological examination showed that TH gene was expressed around the transplantation points. The dopamine level in the lesioned striatum of rats injected with TH-MSCs was significantly greater than that in rats treated with LacZ-MSCs (P &lt; 0.05). All the data demonstrated that MSCs could readily be genetically engineered. Therefore, MSCs could be useful gene delivery vehicles of gene therapy for Parkinson's disease.
A growing body of evidence suggests that the drug concentration in the effect compartment of the body is the major factor regulating self-administration behavior. A novel computer-based protocol was developed to facilitate studies on mechanisms of drug addiction by determining correlations between drug levels and behavior during multiple drug injections and infusions. The core of the system is a user's program written in Medstate Notation language (Med-Associates, Inc.), which runs the self-administration session (with MED-PC software and hardware, Med-Associates, Inc.) and calculates the levels of infused and/or injected drugs in real time during the session. From the comparison of classical exponential and simple linear models of first-order kinetics, it is concluded that exponential solutions for the appropriate differential equations may be replaced with linear equations if the cycle of computation is much shorter than the shortest half-life for the drug. The choice between particular computation equations depends on assumptions about the pharmacokinetics of the particular drug: (i) one-, two- or three-compartment model, (ii) zero-, first- or second-order process of elimination, (iii) the constants of distribution and elimination half-lives of the drug are known or can be reasonably assumed, (iv) dependence of the constants on the drug level, and (v) temporal stability of all parameters during the session. This method of drug level computation can be employed not only for self-administration but also for other behavioral paradigms to advance pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling.
A problem frequently facing researchers examining abundance of expression of a given antigen is measurement. When the antigen is confined to the nucleus, absolute numbers of nuclei or a percentage of nuclei expressing the antigen in a given region can be estimated. When the antigen is localized to cytoplasm, cytoplasmic organelles or processes or membranes, the assessment becomes more difficult. In these settings, an observer/experimenter may assign a density score but intra- and inter-observer agreement using a three-tiered system, and finer resolution than this, is unlikely to be reproducible. Digital image analysis provides an opportunity to minimize observer bias in quantification of immunohistochemical staining. Previously, reported digital methods have mostly employed chromogen-staining methods and often report mean image brightness. We report a method for quantitatively assessing and expressing abundance of expression of an antigen in neural tissue stained with immunofluorescent methods by determining the brightness-area-product (BAP). The described protocol utilizes simple to use commercially available software and calculates BAP rather than mean brightness as a measure more representative of antigen abundance and visual interpretation. Accordingly, we propose this protocol as a useful adjunct to observer interpretation of fluorescent immunohistochemistry and its application to assessment of antigen abundance for varying patterns of antigen localization.
Theta-burst stimulation (TBS: four pulses at 100 Hz repeated with 200 ms inter-burst-intervals) and another commonly used high-frequency stimulation protocol (HFS: 1 s burst of equally spaced pulses at 100 Hz) were compared for the magnitude of LTP produced in rat hippocampal slices. The total number of pulses applied during tetanus (TET) was either 40, 100, 200, or 300. In a conventional analysis of the last 10 min of the post-TET period, a two-way ANOVA revealed no difference either in LTP of the field excitatory post-synaptic potential (fEPSP) between TBS and HFS or differences across pulse number at 40, 100, or 200 pulses. At 300 pulses, there was a significant main effect by pulse number but not by protocol. A linear regression analysis showed that stimulation protocol accounted for only about 10% of the change in magnitude while pulse number contributed to 30% of the change. However, when an extended analysis of the same data was performed across the entire post-TET period with a repeated-measure ANOVA, a small but persistent increase in TBS over HFS at 200 pulses was significant. A difference between TBS and HFS at 300 pulses that occurred only during the early phase of LTP was also significant. These results suggest that, over a range of stimuli, the number of pulses in an induction protocol, rather than the pattern of stimulation, determines the magnitude of late phase LTP, while TBS produces greater potentiation than HFS in the early phase of LTP with higher TET number.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB)-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R) rats have been selectively bred for their opposite sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB. This opposite sensitivity has been found to generalize to the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. A control line [named GHB-control (GHB-C)] has been derived from the foundation stock of GHB-S and GHB-R rats. GHB-C rats have been bred without any evaluation of their sensitivity to GHB. The experiments described here were designed to evaluate the sensitivity of GHB-C rats, from the 13th generation, to the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB (1 g/kg, i.p.) and baclofen (20 mg/kg, i.p.). All measures (onset, sleep time and r = sleep time/onset) of sensitivity to GHB- and baclofen-induced sedation/hypnosis in GHB-C rats were significantly different from and intermediate to those recorded in GHB-S and GHB-R rats. Furthermore, these values were similar to those recorded in the foundation stock. These results suggest that GHB-C rats may constitute a valid control line for GHB-S and GHB-R rats, representing the &quot;general population&quot; from which GHB-S and GHB-R rats were derived. Furthermore, the relative equidistance of sensitivity to GHB- and baclofen-induced sedation/hypnosis of GHB-C rats from those of GHB-S and GHB-R rats suggests that genetic factors contributes to the development of both sensitivity in GHB-S rats and resistance in GHB-R rats.
A prominent account of conceptual knowledge proposes that information is distributed over visual, tactile, auditory, motor and verbal-declarative attribute domains to the degree to which these features were activated when the knowledge was acquired [D.A. Allport, Distributed memory, modular subsystems and dysphagia, In: S.K. Newman, R. Epstein (Eds.), Current perspectives in dysphagia, Churchill Livingstone, Edinburgh, 1985, pp. 32-60]. A corollary is that when drawing upon this knowledge (e.g., to answer questions), particular aspects of this distributed information is re-activated as a function of the requirements of the task at hand [L.J. Buxbaum, E.M. Saffran, Knowledge of object manipulation and object function: dissociations in apraxic and non-apraxic subjects. Brain and Language, 82 (2002) 179-199; L.J. Buxbaum, T. Veramonti, M.F. Schwartz, Function and manipulation tool knowledge in apraxia: knowing 'what for' but not 'how', Neurocase, 6 (2000) 83-97; W. Simmons, L. Barsalou, The similarity-in-topography principle: Reconciling theories of conceptual deficits, Cognitive Neuropsychology, 20 (2003) 451-486]. This account predicts that answering questions about object manipulation should activate brain regions previously identified as components of the distributed sensory-motor system involved in object use, whereas answering questions about object function (that is, the purpose that it serves) should activate regions identified as components of the systems supporting verbal-declarative features. These predictions were tested in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study in which 15 participants viewed picture or word pairs denoting manipulable objects and determined whether the objects are manipulated similarly (M condition) or serve the same function (F condition). Significantly greater and more extensive activations in the left inferior parietal lobe bordering the intraparietal sulcus were seen in the M condition with pictures and, to a lesser degree, words. These findings are consistent with the known role of this region in skilled object use [K.M. Heilman, L.J. Gonzalez Rothi, Apraxia, In: K.M. Heilman, E. Valenstein (Eds.), Clinical Neuropsychology, Oxford University Press, New York, 1993, pp. 141-150] as well as previous fMRI results [M. Kellenbach, M. Brett, K. Patterson, Actions speak louder than functions: the importance of manipulability and action in tool representation, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15 (2003) 30-46] and behavioral findings in brain-lesion patients [L.J. Buxbaum, E.M. Saffran, Knowledge of object manipulation and object function: dissociations in apraxic and non-apraxic subjects, Brain and Language, 82 (2002) 179-199]. No brain regions were significantly more activated in the F than M condition. These data suggest that brain regions specialized for sensory-motor function are a critical component of distributed representations of manipulable objects.
Analysis of combined event-related potentials (ERP) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can provide a high temporal and high spatial resolution to study functional cerebral processes. However, EEG data recorded inside an MR scanner is heavily distorted by artifacts. It is important in cognitive studies to ensure that recorded data reflect the same brain activity, and this is achieved through interleaved electroencephalographic (EEG) and fMRI measurements. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of recording P300 ERPs during fMRI using a three-stimulus visual oddball task and involving a small number of trials for each stimulus. Ten EEG channels were acquired interleaved with fMRI images in five healthy subjects. The stimuli, including rare targets &quot;X,&quot; frequent repetitive distractors &quot;O,&quot; and rare distractors referred to as novels, were randomly presented every 2 +/- 1 s. The post hoc filter presented here was designed and applied to EEG data to remove the cardiac pulse artifact. Interleaved EEG/fMRI acquisition evidenced two P300 ERPs evoked at Fz, Cz, and Pz by targets and novels. Novel-related ERPs were of higher amplitude than their target-related counterparts. The fMRI maps acquired concurrently showed stronger BOLD response for target condition. We have shown that interleaved acquisition allows to obtain reliable P300 data and fMRI results, likely to shed light on the anatomical location of brain regions involved in cognitive ERPs relevant to many disorders affecting CNS functions. These noninvasive multimodal neuroimaging techniques can be used to explore and better understand processes underlying the functional brain organization.
Alpha/theta neurofeedback has been shown to be successful both in treating addictions and in enhancing artistry in music students. How its effects are mediated are not yet clear. The present study aimed to test the hypothesis that alpha/theta neurofeedback works inter alia by normalising extreme personality and raising feelings of well being. 12 participants with high scores for Withdrawal (as measured by the PSQ) were given either alpha/theta neurofeedback or mock feedback and their personality and mood were assessed. Withdrawal scores on the PSQ-80 were not found to change in either group but significant effects were found for the Profile Of Mood States (POMS), with real feedback producing higher overall scores than mock feedback (P = 0.056). Real feedback caused participants to feel significantly more energetic (P &lt; 0.01) than did mock feedback. Sessions of real feedback made participants feel more composed (P &lt; 0.01), agreeable (P &lt; 0.01), elevated (P &lt; 0.01) and confident (P &lt; 0.05), whilst sessions of mock feedback made participants feel more tired (P &lt; 0.05), yet composed (P &lt; 0.01). These findings suggest that, whilst 9 sessions of alpha/theta neurofeedback was insufficient to change personality, improvements in mood may provide a partial explanation for the efficacy of alpha/theta neurofeedback.
The aim of the present study was to investigate mechanisms underlying processing of contralesional visual stimuli in brain-damaged patients with unilateral spatial neglect (USN). Nine right-hemisphere-damaged stroke patients with left-sided neglect and nine controls performed a reaction-time task involving manual response to a central color patch (target stimulus) flanked to the left or right by a Stroop stimulus they had to ignore. While the word dimension of the flanker affected patients' responses considerably and equally when presented to either side, the color dimension of the flanker had no effect when presented to the left, but had a large effect when presented to the right. Four of the patients performed a control task requiring same/different judgments between either of the two flanker dimensions (color and word) and the central target. Their performance indicated that they were able to process color information from the contralesional field, despite their results in the first experiment. These findings demonstrate a dissociation between how the patients processed different dimensions of the same stimuli and imply that the extent of processing in the contralesional hemifield depends both on task requirements and on the exact features of the stimuli. The implications of these results on normal attentional mechanisms is also discussed.
The objective of this study was to compare autistic adults and matched control subjects in their ability to focus attention selectively on a sound source in a noisy environment. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded while subjects attended to a fast paced sequence of brief noise bursts presented in free-field at a central or peripheral location. Competing sequences of noise bursts at adjacent locations were to be ignored. Both behavioral measures of target detection and auditory ERP amplitudes indicated that control subjects were able to focus their attention more sharply on the relevant sound source than autistic subjects. These findings point to a fundamental deficit in the spatial focusing of auditory attention in autism, which may be a factor that impedes social interactions and sensory-guided behavior, particularly in noisy environments.
Memory loads exceeding the limited capacity of working memory (WM) have been shown to expand the prefrontal areas that participate in WM and have revealed substantial individual differences in performance. We used a delayed-match-to-sample (DMS) task in an event-related fMRI study to map the full extent of the expanded regional activations associated with supracapacity loads. A 6-letter study array was compared to arrays of 1 and 3 letters. The task comprised separate encoding, retention, and retrieval fMRI epochs. A brain-wide spatial covariance analysis was applied to the data of all task epochs to identify patterns of correlated regional activations whose expression increased monotonically across 3 memory-load levels on a subject-by-subject basis. Such load-related activation patterns were in all task phases. Of greatest interest is the activation pattern that was obtained during the maintenance phase: increasing activation with memory load was found not only in the lateral PFC (BA 9,44) but also in the parietal lobe (BA 7,40), anterior cingulate (BA 32), and cerebellum. Decreasing activation was found in the occipito-temporal lobe (BA 19,39) as well as the medial prefrontal cortex (BA 9,10). Subject increases in pattern expression from 1 to 6 items were positively correlated with the corresponding reaction time increases (p&lt;0.05) and negatively correlated with NARTIQ (p&lt;0.05), indicating that people who were faster in their responses and had higher NARTIQ had to increase their subject expression of the memory-load-related activation pattern less and were more efficient at the cognitive task. Our method thus not only reproduced findings of other WM studies but also addressed the issue of interactions between lateral PFC and other parts of the brain during the task, for the retention of the to-be-remembered information. The load-related activation patterns from encoding and retrieval phase and their relationship to behavior are also discussed.
Rodents are the animals most commonly employed to model human cognitive functions, but serious problems arise from the non-selective use of behavioral paradigms that measure different processes in rodents than those found in humans. To avoid problems stemming from the use of different paradigms on humans and mice, a new experimental paradigm for mice was developed to study the cognitive functions involved in delayed response tasks. The experiments were conducted in an olfactory tubing maze using three successive delayed response tasks: an alternation task, a non-alternation task, and a reversal task. Mice had to discover the rule by themselves by choosing one of two identical odor cues presented simultaneously at the left and right sides of a testing chamber. The success criterion was set at 10, 8, 6, or 4 consecutive correct responses, with a maximum of 80 trials per task, as used in primates. In the delayed alternation task with the criterion of 10 or 8 consecutive successful trials, the rule was discovered but required many more than 80 trials for most of the mice. With a criterion of 6 or 4, the mice were successful but twice as many trials were necessary to reach the criterion of 6 as opposed to 4. In the delayed non-alternation and reversal tasks, more than 80 trials were needed to figure out the new rule with the criterion of 10 or 8. All mice were successful with the criterion of 6 or 4. The results indicated that no matter what criterion was used, mice were able to discover the two rules on the three consecutive delayed response tasks, but they did so with more or less ease. This novel paradigm for mice should be useful in experiments on pharmacological treatments or for testing transgenic or gene-targeting mice to gain insight into the brain structures involved in this type of task.

The objective of this review is to summarize the literature on Alzheimer's disease progression utilizing cognitive batteries to track change over time. Studies published in English and obtained through PubMed searches (1983-2004) were included (i) if they had a longitudinal design and followed probable Alzheimer's patients diagnosed by National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association or Diagnostic and Statistical Manual III/IV criteria, and (ii) if the techniques used for serial assessment were well-established in terms of validity and reliability. Longitudinal studies examining Alzheimer's disease progression report highly variable annual rates of change in decline rate. It remains unclear if this reflects disease subgroups or stage-related rate of decline. In conclusion a combination of stage-appropriate cognitive tests such as the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale and the Severe Impairment Battery, along with appropriate statistical methods to account for individual variability in decline rates, can capture the progression of Alzheimer disease and may be useful in further investigation.


Brahma (Brm) and brahma-related gene-1 (Brg1) are mammalian homologues of SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling factor subunits that can regulate both transcriptional activation and repression. Both Brg1 and Brm are mutated or deleted in numerous cancer cell lines, leading to the altered expression of genes that influence cell proliferation and metastasis. Here, we find that the promoters of two such genes, CD44 and E-cadherin, are hypermethylated in cells that have lost Brg1 or Brm. In two carcinoma cell lines that lack functional Brg1 and Brm, CD44 and E-cadherin expression are induced by the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Transfection with either Brg1 or Brm also induces CD44 and E-cadherin transcription and protein expression in these cells, as well as loss of methylation at sequences in the promoters of both genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays show that Brg1 and Brm associate with these regions of the CD44 and E-cadherin promoters, suggesting that SWI/SNF protein complexes may directly influence the loss of DNA methylation. In vivo, Brm-deficient mice also show methylation and silencing of the CD44 promoter. Collectively, these data implicate loss of SWI/SNF-mediated transcriptional activation as a novel mechanism to increase DNA methylation in cancer cells and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying aberrant gene induction and repression during tumor progression.
Although it is well established that ionizing radiation and benzene are epidemiologically linked to acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the underlying mechanisms are not understood. We have shown that gamma-radiation can induce a persisting genomic instability in the clonal descendants of hemopoietic stem cells manifested as a high frequency of nonclonal chromosome and chromatid aberrations. A strikingly similar instability is shown after exposure to the benzene metabolite hydroquinone. The CBA/Ca but not the C57BL/6 genotype is susceptible to the induction of instability by both ionizing radiation and hydroquinone and exposure of CBA/Ca, but not C57BL/6, mice to either agent is known to be associated with the development of AML. The results are consistent with the proposal that chromosomal instability induced by either agent may contribute to AML development by increasing the number of genetic lesions in hemopoietic cells. Genotype-dependent chromosomal instability can be induced by hydroquinone doses that are not acutely stem cell toxic and this may have important implications for current assessment of safe levels of exposure to benzene as well as for mechanistic understanding of the hemotoxic and leukemogenic effects.
In the developing CNS, postmitotic neurons exhibit dynamic changes in the mode, direction and rate of migration as they traverse different cortical layers, but the mechanisms underlying this process is largely unknown. Recent studies show that the changes in Ca2+ transient frequency play a central role in controlling the neuronal cell migration in a cortical layer-specific manner. In this article, we will first describe how granule cells migrate through different terrains of the developing cerebellar cortex. We will then present how such migration of granule cells is controlled by altering the Ca2+ transient frequency in their somata. Finally, we will discuss how the loss of Ca2+ transients triggers the completion of granule cell migration at their final destination.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are implicated in various cellular processes, including sensory signal transduction and electrolyte homeostasis. We show here that the GTL-1 and GON-2 TRPM channels regulate electrolyte homeostasis in the C. elegans intestine. GON-2 is responsible for a large outwardly rectifying current of intestinal cells, and its activity is tightly regulated by intracellular Mg(2+) levels, while GTL-1 mainly contributes to appropriate Mg(2+) responsiveness of the outwardly rectifying current. We also used nickel cytotoxicity to study the function of these channels. Both GON-2 and GTL-1 are necessary for intestinal uptake of nickel, but GTL-1 is continuously active while GON-2 is inactivated at higher Mg(2+) levels. This type of differential regulation of intestinal electrolyte absorption ensures a constant supply of electrolytes through GTL-1, while occasional bursts of GON-2 activity allow rapid return to normal electrolyte concentrations following physiological perturbations.
The expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in fetal lung suggests maternal smoking during pregnancy effects newborn lung structure and function by the direct interaction of nicotine with nAChR in the developing lung. The recent identification of the lynx1 nAChR modulator protein in nicotinic neurons in the brain suggests that lynx1 may be similarly expressed in the lung. To study this, cDNAs encoding lynx1 were cloned from rhesus monkey lung. The temporal expression of lynx1 was studied in pre- and postnatal monkey lungs by in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and realtime polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Lynx1 mRNA signal and lynx1 immunohistochemical staining were localized predominantly in airway epithelial cells, submucous glands, and smooth muscle cells, in endothelial and smooth muscle cells in vessel walls, and in alveolar type II cells. The distribution of lynx1 was similar to that of alpha4, beta2, and beta4 nAChR expression as determined by immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemical staining also co-localized choline acetyltransferase, the enzyme that synthesizes acetylcholine, with lynx1 expression. Lynx1 expression was first observed in 71-day fetal lungs and increased with age. Immunohistochemistry, Western analysis, and realtime PCR analysis showed increased lynx1 expression in lungs following prenatal nicotine exposure. Thus, lynx1 is co-expressed with nAChR in the lung. Alteration of lynx1 levels is a potential new mechanism by which nicotine affects lung development.
Previous investigations have suggested that changes in platelet activity may play a key role in the pathophysiology of migraine via mechanisms involving the nitric oxide (NO) pathway. Changes in platelet response and nitrite levels have recently been demonstrated during migraine attacks, while there is considerable uncertainty about NO activity in headache-free periods. A reactive oxidant produced from NO and superoxide anion at the site of inflammation, peroxynitrite (ONOO-) has effects including changes in membrane activity and fluidity. The aim of the present study was to determine ONOO- levels in the platelets of patients suffering from migraine during the headache-free period. Nitric oxide synthase (eNOS and iNOS) expression in platelets and the effects of ONOO- on membrane Na+/K+-ATPase activity and membrane fluidity were also evaluated. Subjects were 57 patients suffering from migraine without aura and 35 controls. Blood samples were collected in the headache-free period. Platelet ONOO- levels were determined using dichlorofluorescein acetate with steady-state fluorescence. Platelets were then probed for induction of eNOS and iNOS expression by western immunoblotting. Membrane Na+/K+-ATPase activity and fluidity were determined with the fluorescent probes TMA-DPH and DPH. In the presence of extracellular l-arginine(100 micromol/l), ONOO- production was significantly greater in patients' platelets than in those of controls (P &lt; 0.001). Western immunoblotting of platelet proteins evidenced higher iNOS expression in patients than in controls. In addition, platelet membrane Na+/K+-ATPase activity and membrane fluidity evaluated by TMA-DPH were significantly lower in patients (P &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, migraine patients show intercritic changes in platelet membrane fluidity and activity that may be related to the oxidative stress caused by increased ONOO- levels.
Electrophysiological studies have revealed a pre-attentive change-detection system in the auditory modality. This system emits a signal termed the mismatch negativity (MMN) when any detectable change in a regular pattern of auditory stimulation occurs. The precise intracranial sources underlying MMN generation, and in particular whether these vary as a function of the acoustic feature that changes, is a matter of some debate. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show that anatomically distinct networks of auditory cortices are activated as a function of the deviating acoustic feature--in this case, tone frequency and tone duration--strongly supporting the hypothesis that MMN generators in auditory cortex are feature dependent. We also detail regions of the frontal and parietal cortices activated by change-detection processes. These regions also show feature dependence and we hypothesize that they reflect recruitment of attention-switching mechanisms.
Recent findings point to the existence of a cortical-subcortical parietal network that drives attention-related integration of features and elements. Here we ask whether the functioning of this network might be modulated by early periventricular lesions. To this end, a cohort of adolescents who were born premature with different severity of bilateral periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) and two groups of matched peers (term-born adolescents and former preterms with normal MRI scan) were shown a set of impoverished point-light stimuli. Observers had to detect a point-light walker embedded in an array of distracters mimicking the motion of the target's dots. Patients exhibited higher susceptibility to distortions caused by distracters. In patients only, sensitivity to the point-light figure highly correlates not just with performance on additionally administered feature integration tasks but also on visual attention-demanding IQ tasks. Moreover, the sensitivity index, as well as the values of both IQ factors, decreases with an increase in the volumetric PVL extent in the parieto-occipital region. No relationship was found between these variables and the lesion extent in the frontal or temporal periventricular regions. The data suggest that visual integration and attention in processing cluttered point-light displays are intimately connected. Most importantly, periventricular parieto-occipital regions might be part of a distributed network recruited in deployment of the posterior attentional system. The functioning of this system seems to be vulnerable to bilateral periventricular damage even if it occurs very early in brain development.
Some neuroimaging studies have reported activation by imitation in the left Brodmann area 44 (BA 44), a part of Broca's area considered to be a neural substrate for speech production. However, in these previous studies the subjects were required to perform the same movements repeatedly so that the experimental stimuli could be viewed as cues when to do the given movements rather than a specification of what to do. Activation in the left BA 44 has also been observed in delayed motor execution tasks. This may confound the activity in BA 44 for imitation tasks used in the former studies. We tested the involvement of bilateral BA 44 and BA 45 in imitation and delayed execution tasks by functional magnetic resonance imaging with cytoarchitectonically defined BA 44 and BA 45 as volumes of interest. Our tasks required the subjects to perform a transformation from visual information (photographs of hand postures or symbolic specification of the postures) into a new hand movement in each trial. A three-way analysis of variance was performed with factors instruction, execution timing and area. The results revealed significant main effect by execution timing and by area, but not by instruction. We conclude that Broca's area does not play a pivotal role in imitation.
The aim of this review was to consider the effects of induced hypocapnia both on systemic physiology and on the physiology of the intracranial system. Hyperventilation lowers intracranial pressure (ICP) by the induction of cerebral vasoconstriction with a subsequent decrease in cerebral blood volume. The downside of hyperventilation, however, is that cerebral vasoconstriction may decrease cerebral blood flow to ischemic levels. Considering the risk-benefit relation, it would appear to be clear that hyperventilation should only be considered in patients with raised ICP, in a tailored way and under specific monitoring. Controversy exists, for instance, on specific indications, timing, depth of hypocapnia, and duration. This review has specific reference to traumatic brain injury, and is based on an extensive evaluation of the literature and on expert opinion.



This monograph summarizes the proceedings of a roundtable meeting convened to discuss pseudobulbar affect (PBA). Two didactic lectures were presented followed by a moderated discussion among 11 participants. Post-meeting manuscript development synthesized didactic- and discussion-based content ad incorporated additional material from the neuroscience literature. A conceptual framework with which to distinguish between disorders of mood and affect is presented first, and disorders of affect regulation are then reviewed briefly. A detailed description of the most common of these disorders, PBA, is the focus of the remainder of the monograph. The prevalence, putative neuranatomic and neurochemical bases of PBA are reviewed, and current and emerging methods of evaluation and treatment of persons with PBA are discussed. The material presented in this monograph will help clinicians better recognize, diagnose, and treat PBA, and will form a foundation for understanding and interpreting future studies of this condition.
Reaction times are usually faster when stimulus and response occur at the same location than when they do not, even if stimulus location is irrelevant to the task (Simon effect). This effect was found with both horizontal and vertical stimulus-response arrangements. The same mechanisms have been proposed to be involved in either case. Here, we compared a horizontal and a vertical Simon task by means of a RT time-course analysis of the Simon effect. Also, we analysed the lateralised readiness potential (LRP), an index of covert response-preparation processes. In the horizontal task, the Simon effect decays over time and pre-activation occurs above the motor cortex ipsilateral to the stimulus. In contrast, the Simon effect does not decay over time and no early incorrect LRP deflection is observed in the vertical task. These findings suggest that typical activation accounts can fit only the horizontal Simon effect, while a translation explanation is more suitable for the vertical Simon effect.
Self-organized maps are commonly applied for tasks of cluster analysis, vector quantization or interpolation. The artificial neural network model introduced in this paper is a hybrid model of the growing neural gas model introduced by Fritzke (Fritzke, in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 7, MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1995) and the adaptive resolution clustering modification for self-organized maps proposed by Firenze (Firenze et al., in International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks, Springer-Verlag, London, 1994). The hybrid model is capable of mapping the distribution, dimensionality and topology of the input data. It has a local performance measure that enables the network to terminate growing in areas of the input space that is mapped by units reaching a performance goal. Therefore the network can accurately map clusters of data appearing on different scales of density. The capabilities of the algorithm are tested using simulated datasets with similar spatial spread but different local density distributions, and a simulated multivariate MR dataset of an anatomical human brain phantom with mild multiple sclerosis lesions. These tests demonstrate the advantages of the model compared to the growing neural gas algorithm when adaptive mapping of areas with low sample density is desirable.

This unit provides a comprehensive overview on the generation of transgenic mice using bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs), and the application of BAC transgenic mice in neuroscience research. In the first section, advantages of the BAC transgenic approach compared to the conventional transgenic approach are summarized. In the second section, important considerations in designing BAC transgenic constructs are outlined. Four commonly used BAC transgenic construct designs are also outlined. Concepts of modifying BACs by homologous recombination in E. coli to introduce a variety of mutations into BACs, and important steps to characterize a modified BAC prior to the generation of transgenic mice are also presented. In the final section, some of the important applications of BAC transgenic mice in neuroscience research, including studying gene expression, gene function, mapping neuronal circuitry, and modeling human diseases, are described.
Cell-cell fusion initiates fertilization, sculpts tissues during animal development, reprograms stem cells to new differentiated states, and may be a key step in cancer progression. While cell fusion is tightly regulated, the mechanisms that limit fusion to appropriate partners are unknown. Here, we report that the fus-1 gene is essential to repress fusion of epidermal cells in C. elegans: in severe fus-1 mutants, all epidermal cells, except the lateral seam cells, inappropriately fuse into a single large syncytium. This hyperfusion requires EFF-1, an integral membrane protein essential for fusion of epidermal cells into discrete syncytia. FUS-1 is localized to the apical plasma membrane in all epidermal cells potentiated to undergo fusion, whereas it is virtually undetectable in nonfusing seam cells. fus-1 encodes the e subunit of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase), and loss of other V-ATPase subunits also causes widespread hyperfusion. These findings raise the possibility of manipulating cell fusion by altering V-ATPase activity.
Tcf/Lef transcription factors play an important role in mediating canonical Wnt signaling. When bound by beta-catenin, Tcf/Lef proteins either activate or de-repress gene transcription. In zebrafish, four members have been identified: Lef1, Tcf3, Tcf3b, and Tcf4. Here, we report the cloning and expression of the tcf7 gene. Forms of Tcf7 expressed in the embryo contain two highly conserved regions: an N-terminal beta-catenin binding domain and a C-terminal HMG domain. Tcf7 lacks a putative Groucho corepressor binding site, suggesting that, like Lef1, it functions as a transcriptional activator. We isolated three C-terminal splice variants of tcf7 corresponding to human B, C, and D isoforms. tcf7 expression overlaps with lef1 expression maternally, in the tail bud, fin buds, and paraxial mesoderm, and we expect that the two genes function redundantly in those areas. tcf7 is also expressed in nonoverlapping areas such as the prechordal mesoderm, dorsal retina, and median fin fold, suggesting unique functions.

Two forms of spatial navigation, piloting using external cues and dead reckoning using self-movement cues, are manifest in the outward and homeward trips of adult rats exploring from a home base. Here, the development of these two forms of spatial behavior are described for rats aged 14-65 days using a new paradigm in which a huddle of pups or an artificial huddle, a small heat pad, served as a home base on an open circular table that the rats could explore. When moving away from both home bases, the travel distance, path complexity, and number of stops of outward trips from the home base increased progressively with age from postnatal day 16 through 22. When returning to the home bases, the return trips to the home base were always more direct and had high travel velocities even though travel distance increased with age for the longest trips. The results are discussed in relation to the ideas that: (1) the pups pilot on the outward portion of their excursion and dead reckon on the homeward portion of their excursion, and (2) the two forms of navigation and associated spatial capacity are interdependent and develop in parallel and in close association with locomotor skill.
Among the many factors involved in regulation of chondrogenesis, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and members of the Sox and homeobox transcription factor families have been shown to have crucial roles. Of these regulators, the homeobox transcription factors that function during chondrogenesis have been the least well defined. We show here that the homeobox transcription factor Barx2 is expressed in primary mesenchymal condensations, digital rays, developing joints and articular cartilage of the developing limb, suggesting that it plays a role in chondrogenesis. Using retroviruses and antisense oligonucleotides to manipulate Barx2 expression in limb bud micromass cultures, we determined that Barx2 is necessary for mesenchymal aggregation and chondrogenic differentiation. In accordance with these findings, Barx2 regulates the expression of several genes encoding cell-adhesion molecules and extracellular matrix proteins, including NCAM and collagen II (Col2a1) in the limb bud. Barx2 bound to elements within the cartilage-specific Col2a1 enhancer, and this binding was reduced by addition of Barx2 or Sox9 antibodies, or by mutation of a HMG box adjacent to the Barx2-binding element, suggesting cooperation between Barx2 and Sox proteins. Moreover, both Barx2 and Sox9 occupy Col2a1 enhancer during chondrogenesis in vivo. We also found that two members of the BMP family that are crucial for chondrogenesis, GDF5 and BMP4, regulate the pattern of Barx2 expression in developing limbs. Based on these data, we suggest that Barx2 acts downstream of BMP signaling and in concert with Sox proteins to regulate chondrogenesis.
Treatment with the atypical antipsychotics olanzapine and clozapine has been associated with an increased risk for deterioration of glucose homeostasis, leading to hyperglycemia, ketoacidosis, and diabetes, in some cases independent of weight gain. Because these events may be a consequence of their ability to directly alter insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells, we determined the effects of several antipsychotics on cholinergic- and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from isolated rat islets. At concentrations encompassing therapeutically relevant levels, olanzapine and clozapine reduced insulin secretion stimulated by 10 micromol/l carbachol plus 7 mmol/l glucose. This inhibition of insulin secretion was paralleled by significant reductions in carbachol-potentiated inositol phosphate accumulation. In contrast, risperidone or ziprasidone had no adverse effect on cholinergic-induced insulin secretion or inositol phosphate accumulation. None of the compounds tested impaired the islet secretory responses to 8 mmol/l glucose alone. Finally, in vitro binding and functional data show that olanzapine and clozapine (unlike risperidone, ziprasidone, and haloperidol) are potent muscarinic M3 antagonists. These findings demonstrate that low concentrations of olanzapine and clozapine can markedly and selectively impair cholinergic-stimulated insulin secretion by blocking muscarinic M3 receptors, which could be one of the contributing factors to their higher risk for producing hyperglycemia and diabetes in humans.
Vagal parasympathetic input to the islets of Langerhans is a regulator of islet hormone secretion, but factors promoting parasympathetic islet innervation are unknown. Neurturin signaling via glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha2 (GFRalpha2) has been demonstrated to be essential for the development of subsets of parasympathetic and enteric neurons. Here, we show that the parasympathetic nerve fibers and glial cells within and around the islets express GFRalpha2 and that islet parasympathetic innervation in GFRalpha2 knockout (KO) mice is reduced profoundly. In wild-type mice, neuroglucopenic stress produced a robust increase in plasma levels of islet hormones. In the GFRalpha2-KO mice, however, pancreatic polypeptide and insulin responses were completely lost and glucagon response was markedly impaired. Islet morphology and sympathetic innervation, as well as basal secretions of the islet hormones, were unaffected. Moreover, a glucose tolerance test failed to reveal differences between the genotypes, indicating that direct glucose-stimulated insulin secretion was not affected by GFRalpha2 deficiency. These results show that GFRalpha2 signaling is needed for development of the parasympathetic islet innervation that is critical for vagally induced hormone secretion. The GFRalpha2-KO mouse represents a useful model to study the role of parasympathetic innervation of the endocrine pancreas in glucose homeostasis.
CRH-binding protein (CRH-BP) is a key factor in the regulation of CRH signaling; it modulates the bioactivity and bioavailability of CRH and its related peptides. The conservation of CRH-BP throughout vertebrates was only recently demonstrated. Here we report the presence of CRH-BP in the honeybee (Apis mellifera) and other insects. Honeybee CRH-BP resembles previously characterized vertebrate CRH-BP sequences with respect to conserved cysteine residues, gene organization, and overall sequence identity. Phylogenetic analyses confirm the unambiguous orthology of insect and vertebrate CRH-BP sequences. Soon after their discovery, it was noted that insect diuretic hormone-I (DH-I) and its receptor share similarities with the vertebrate CRH family and their receptors. Despite these similarities, demonstration of common ancestry of DH-I and the vertebrate CRH family is still speculative: the mature neuropeptides are short, and their genes differ substantially with regard to the number of coding exons. Moreover, DH and CRH receptors belong to the much larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. In contrast, the unique and conspicuous features of CRH-BP greatly facilitate the establishment of orthology over much larger evolutionary distances. The identification of CRH-BP in insects clearly indicates that this gene predates vertebrates by at least several hundred million years. Moreover, our findings imply that a CRH system is shared by insects and vertebrates alike and, consequently, that it has been present at least since the common ancestor to both phylogenetic lines of proto- and deuterostomians.
We used SK-N-SH human neuroblastoma cells to test the hypothesis that adrenomedullin (ADM), a multifunctional neuropeptide, stimulates nitric oxide (NO) release by modulating intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in neuron-like cells. We used a nitrite assay to demonstrate that ADM (10 pM to 100 nM) stimulated NO release from the cells, with a maximal response observed with 1 nM at 30 min. This response was blocked by 1 nM ADM(22-52), an ADM receptor antagonist or 2 microM vinyl-L-NIO, a neuronal NO synthase inhibitor. In addition, 5 microM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester, an intracellular calcium chelator, eliminated the ADM-induced NO release. Similar results were observed when the cells were incubated in calcium-free medium or when L-type calcium channels were inhibited with 5 microM nifedipine or 10 microM nitrendipine. Depletion of calcium stores in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) with 1 microM cyclopiazonic acid or 150 nM thapsigargin, or inhibition of ryanodine-sensitive receptors in the ER with 10 microM ryanodine attenuated the ADM-induced NO release. NO responses to ADM were mimicked by 1 mM dibutyryl cAMP, a cAMP analog, and were abrogated by 5 microM H-89, a protein kinase A inhibitor. Furthermore, Fluo-4 fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis showed that ADM (1 nM) significantly increased [Ca2+]i at 30 min. This response was blocked by nifedipine (5 microM) or H-89 (5 microM) and was reduced by ryanodine (10 microM). These results suggest that ADM stimulates calcium influx through L-type calcium channels and ryanodine-sensitive calcium release from the ER, probably via cAMP-protein kinase A-dependent mechanisms. These elevations in [Ca2+)]i cause activation of neuronal NO synthase and NO release.
We report preliminary results from a proteomic search for rat brain protein targets adducted by organophosphorous pesticides. Azamethaphos, chlorfenvinphos, diazinon, malathion and chlorpyrifos oxons (in rat brain homogenates) or pirimiphos-methyl (after systemic treatment) were tested at levels producing no more than 30% inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase. Loss of reactivity with tritiated diisopropylflurophosphate was taken as proof of adduction by the test organophosphate. In addition to acetylcholinesterase other, previously unrecognised, adducted proteins were detected in total brain protein extracts at 30, 32, 41, 71 and 83kDa. Azamethiphos adducted all but the 30 and 32kDa bands, but chlorpyrifos only acetylcholinesterase.



Writing epilepsy is a rare reflex syndrome in which seizures are triggered by writing. We describe a 33-year-old, right-handed man, with a history of juvenile absence epilepsy in remission and a family history of epilepsy, in whom myoclonic jerks precipitated exclusively by writing started at the age of 30. Intensive video/EEG monitoring during neuropsychological tests revealed, at about 1 minute after starting to write, a dystonic posture, followed by myoclonic jerks involving the right hand that shortly after became generalized. Concomitantly, the ictal EEG documented generalized hypersynchronous polyspike-wave discharges, maximal over the right parietocentral area. SPECT revealed an ictal hyperperfusion and interictal hypoperfusion over right parietofrontal regions, and fMRI showed extensive and intense left frontal, supplementary motor area activation, induced by writing. This case study provides some evidence supporting the hypothesis that the mechanism underlying writing-triggered seizures may be a generalized seizure process, with a focal cortical trigger zone, presumed to be the left frontal lobe as suggested by clinical and fMRI data. A relevant role played by the right hemisphere (right parietofrontal region) is postulated in the full-blown expression of reflex epileptogenesis, as supported by EEG and SPECT findings.
We report on seven children who developed abnormal involuntary movements as early as 1.5 years after unremarkable term births. The paroxysmal episodes of abnormal movements were typically precipitated by sudden, voluntary movements, or a startle. The clinical features in each case were consistent with the diagnosis of paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD). The episodes of abnormal movements are described. EEG was obtained in all cases, and video/electroencephalography (VEEG) monitoring was performed to exclude the possibility of epilepsy in six patients. VEEG studies revealed multiple events consistent with PKD; no ictal epileptiform discharges were recorded. The apparent benign nature of the disorder, as well as treatment options with antiepileptic drugs, was discussed with the parents, and most chose no pharmacologic treatment. We discuss clinical characteristics of PKD, treatment with anticonvulsant therapy, and recent insights into its possible pathophysiology.
We retrospectively reviewed reports of all EEGs performed at the New Jersey Neuroscience Institute at JFK Hospital between January 1999 and December 2003. Of 9234 EEGs performed, 1094 were of patients with syncope. Among patients with syncope, 67.18% of the EEGs were normal and 28.15% showed diffuse and focal slowing. Only 1.46% of the EEGs showed epileptiform discharges (EDs). This is similar to the incidence of EDs in healthy adults. The presence of EDs did not change the management of these patients. Therefore, EEGs have very low yield and should not be routinely obtained in patients with syncope.

A novel human tumor-associated antigen, receptor-binding cancer antigen expressed on SiSo cells (RCAS1), induces apoptosis in normal human erythroid progenitor cells, which express putative RCAS1 receptors. In the present study, we investigated a possible role of RCAS1 produced by human peripheral blood monocytes (CD14-positive cells) and monocyte-derived macrophages. RCAS1 was immunohistochemically detected in monocytes as well as macrophages. When macrophages were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the expression of RCAS1 was remarkably enhanced. An increased production of RCAS1 mRNA was observed in LPS-stimulated macrophages by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Soluble RCAS1 molecules were only detected in the culture supernatants obtained from LPS-stimulated macrophages. Moreover, LPS-stimulated macrophages induced cell death of erythroid progenitor cells through RCAS1 production. These results suggest that macrophages may negatively regulate erythropoiesis at least in part through the production of RCAS1 molecules, and this may contribute to the pathogenesis of the anemia seen in patients with inflammatory disorders.
To explore the functional roles of Reelin in the adult olfactory system, we examined changes in the expression of reelin mRNA and Reelin protein in the olfactory bulb (OB) of adult mice after a chemical lesion to the olfactory epithelium. Following intranasal irrigation with 2% zinc sulphate solution, animals were perfused at various times between 5 and 40 days post-lesion. The expression of reelin mRNA in mitral cells in the OB was slightly reduced at 5 days post-lesion, completely abolished by 20 days, but restored almost to the normal level at 40 days post-lesion. Similarly, the expression of Reelin protein in mitral cells of the deafferented OB also recovered, although not to the normal level. No recovery of either reelin mRNA or Reelin immunoreactivity was seen in the periglomerular cells and external tufted cells. The expression profile of reelin mRNA and Reelin protein in the OB coincided with the time course of degeneration and regeneration of olfactory nerves, as indicated by anterograde labeling of olfactory nerves with WGA-HRP. These results suggest that expression of reelin mRNA in the adult OB is regulated by olfactory inputs.
It is well accepted that populations of neurons responsible for the onset and maintenance of paradoxical sleep (PS) are restricted to the brainstem. To localize the structures involved and to reexamine the role of mesopontine cholinergic neurons, we compared the distribution of Fos- and choline acetyltransferase-labelled neurons in the brainstem of control rats, rats selectively deprived of PS for approximately 72 h and rats allowed to recover from such deprivation. Only a few cholinergic neurons from the laterodorsal (LDTg) and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei were Fos-labelled after PS recovery. In contrast, a large number of noncholinergic Fos-labelled cells positively correlated with the percentage of time spent in PS was observed in the LDTg, sublaterodorsal, alpha and ventral gigantocellular reticular nuclei, structures known to contain neurons specifically active during PS. In addition, a large number of Fos-labelled cells were seen after PS rebound in the lateral, ventrolateral and dorsal periaqueductal grey, dorsal and lateral paragigantocellular reticular nuclei and the nucleus raphe obscurus. Interestingly, half of the cells in the latter nucleus were immunoreactive to choline acetyltransferase. In contrast to the well-accepted hypothesis, our results strongly suggest that neurons active during PS, recorded in the mesopontine cholinergic nuclei, are in the great majority noncholinergic. Our findings further demonstrate that many brainstem structures not previously identified as containing neurons active during PS contain cholinergic or noncholinergic neurons active during PS, and these structures may therefore play a key role during this state. Altogether, our results open a new avenue of research to identify the specific role of the populations of neurons revealed, their interrelations and their neurochemical identity.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is known to subserve activity-dependent neuronal plasticity in the central nervous system. To examine in vivo the implication of spinal CaMKII activity in the generation and development of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury, we used an animal model of mononeuropathy, the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model, in the rat. We found that, 3 days after CCI, the total CaMKII (tCaMKII) immunoreactivity increased in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord and this increase continued for up to 14 days. The immunoreactivity of phosphorylated CaMKII showed an increase from 1 day after CCI, which preceded the up-regulation of tCaMKII. A non-selective N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK801, significantly attenuated the increase of tCaMKII and phosphorylated CaMKII. Moreover, intrathecal administration of an inhibitor of CaMKII, KN93, before the CCI surgery attenuated the development of thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. In addition, KN93 significantly reduced the nociceptive behavior in phase II of the formalin test. These findings demonstrate that the activity of CaMKII in spinal neurons is elevated after peripheral nerve injury and may be involved in central sensitization. The alteration of CaMKII is considered to be a neuroplastic change that occurs in spinal neurons that contributes to neuropathic pain, suggesting the potential for the development of novel therapeutics for neuropathic pain that target CaMKII.
Postsynaptic autophosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) at Thr286/287 is crucial for the induction of long-term potentiation at many glutamatergic synapses, and has also been implicated in the persistence of synaptic potentiation. However, the availability of CaMKII phosphorylated at Thr286/287 at individual glutamatergic synapses in vivo is unclear. We used post-embedding immunogold labelling to quantitatively analyse the ultrastructural localization of CaMKII phosphorylated at Thr286/287 (pCaMKII) at synapses formed by presumed nociceptive and low-threshold mechanosensitive primary afferent nerve endings in laminae I-IV of rat spinal cord. Immunogold labelling was enriched in the postsynaptic densities of such synapses, consistent with observations in pre-embedding immunoperoxidase-stained dorsal horn. Presynaptic axoplasm also exhibited sparse immunogold labelling, in peptidergic terminals partly associated with dense core vesicles. Analysis of single or serial pCaMKII-immunolabelled sections indicated that the large majority of synapses formed either by presumed peptidergic or non-peptidergic nociceptive primary afferent terminals in laminae I-II of the spinal cord, or by presumed low-threshold mechanosensitive primary afferent terminals in laminae IIi-IV, contained pCaMKII in their postsynaptic density. However, the postsynaptic levels of pCaMKII immunolabelling at low-threshold primary afferent synapses were only approximately 50% of those at nociceptive synapses. These results suggest that constitutively autophosphorylated CaMKII in the postsynaptic density is a common characteristic of glutamatergic synapses, thus potentially contributing to maintenance of synaptic efficacy. Furthermore, pCaMKII appears to be differentially regulated between high- and low-threshold primary afferent synapses, possibly reflecting different susceptibility to synaptic plasticity between these afferent pathways.
Experimental stroke increases cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and in the dentate gyrus subgranular zone (SGZ) in the adult mammalian brain. This study examined the effects of postischemic voluntary exercise (running wheel) and environmental enrichment on the SVZ and SGZ 1 week after focal cortical ischemia in adult spontaneously hypertensive rats. Immunohistochemical labeling was performed for incorporation of specific cell markers such as Ki67 and 5-bromodeoxyuridine (proliferating and newborn cells), terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP in situ nick-end labeling (apoptotic cells), Sox-2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (neural stem and progenitor cells), polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule and doublecortin (neuroblasts). Postischemic exercise and environmental enrichment differentially modulated SVZ cell genesis but lacked effects on the SGZ. Lesion-induced proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells and neuronal precursors was attenuated in stroke runners without any effects on apoptosis or neuronal migration in the forebrain. Running activity did not affect the SVZ in intact rats. In contrast to postischemic wheel running, postischemic environmental enrichment did not have attenuating effects on the ipsilateral SVZ and increased proliferating putative neural stem cells and neuronal precursors contralaterally. A significant functional improvement, assessed using a rotating pole, was observed only in the postischemically enriched group and was likely due to other types of plasticity than neuronal replacement at this early time point. It may be concluded that in contrast to enriched environment, exercise during the first postischemic week might be detrimental for regenerative processes initiated in the SVZ after stroke.
Using intact and lens-lesioned wildtype, leucocyte common antigen-related phosphatase deficient (LARDeltaP) and protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-BAS-like phosphatase deficient (PTP-BLDeltaP) mice, we have evaluated the role of LAR and PTP-BL in retinal ganglion cell survival and neuritogenesis, and survival of activated retinal glia in vitro. There were no differences in in vitro retinal ganglion cell neuritogenesis and survival, as well as in activated retinal glia survival between intact wildtype and intact LARDeltaP or PTP-BLDeltaP mutant mice. In wildtype, LARDeltaP, and PTP-BLDeltaP retinal cultures, pre-conditioning by lens injury significantly increased retinal ganglion cell neuritogenesis and activated retinal glia numbers. However, in retinal cultures from lens-lesioned LARDeltaP and PTP-BLDeltaP mice, significantly smaller percentages of retinal ganglion cells grew neurites compared to lens-lesioned wildtype cultures. Significantly increased numbers of retinal ganglion cells survived in retinal cultures from lens-lesioned LARDeltaP mice compared to lens-lesioned wildtypes. PTP-BL phosphatase deficiency did not affect retinal ganglion cell survival in retinal cultures from lens-lesioned mice, though activated retinal glia numbers were significantly reduced in cultures from lens-lesioned PTP-BLDeltaP mice compared to lens-lesioned wildtypes. In summary, a functional phenotype was found in LARDeltaP and PTP-BLDeltaP mice, that was only obvious in lens lesion-stimulated retinal cultures. These observations suggest that LAR enhances retinal ganglion cell neurite initiation whilst suppressing retinal ganglion cell survival, and that PTP-BL facilitates both retinal ganglion cell neurite initiation and survival of activated retinal glia.
Significant reduction in glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1)- and GluR2/3-immunopositive neurons was demonstrated in the hilus of the dentate gyrus in mice killed on days 1, 7 and 60 after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE). In addition, GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunostaining in the strata oriens, radiatum and lacunosum moleculare of areas CA1-3 decreased drastically on days 7 and 60 after PISE. Neuronal loss observed in the above regions may account, at least in part, for a decrease in GluR immunoreactivity. By contrast, many GluR1-immunopositive neurons were observed in the gliotic area of CA1. Of these, about 42.8% were immunopositive for markers for hippocampal interneurons, namely calretinin (7.6%), calbindin (12.8%) and parvalbumin (22.4%). GluR1 or GluR2/3 and BrdU double-labelling showed that the GluR1- and GluR2/3-immunopositive neurons at 60 days after PISE were neurons that had survived rather than newly generated neurons. Furthermore, anterograde tracer and double-labelling studies performed on animals at 60 days after PISE indicated a projection from the hilus of the dentate gyrus to gliotic areas in both CA3 and CA1, where the projecting fibres apparently established connections with GluR1-immunopositive neurons. The projection to CA1 was unexpected. These novel findings suggest that the intrinsic hippocampal neuronal network is altered after PISE. We speculate that GluR1-immunopositive neurons in gliotic CA1 act as a bridge between dentate gyrus and subiculum contributing towards epileptogenesis.
Dopamine neurons originating in the midbrain and projecting to cortico-limbic and motor structures are one of the major neuronal substrates implicated in the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. The output of this system is largely determined by its impulse activity (amount and pattern of firing activity). Several intrinsic and synaptic factors can influence dopamine neuronal activity and, consequently, addiction liability. Pharmacological studies indicate that mu-opioid receptors and their activation by endogenous opioids may play an important role. In the present study, we use a genetic approach to better understand the role of mu-opioid receptors in modulating dopamine neuronal activity in vivo. Using in vivo extracellular single-unit recordings, we show that mice lacking mu-opioid receptors exhibit lower firing rates of dopamine neurons compared with their wild-type littermates. Although we observed no overall changes in bursting activity compared with wild-type mice, animals lacking mu-opioid receptors exhibited a higher proportion of regular-spiking cells that lacked bursting activity. These findings are the first to emphasize the critical role of mu-opioid receptors in modulating action potential output of dopamine neurons in vivo using a genetic approach. They also provide a possible underlying mechanism for the decreased reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse that was previously observed in mice lacking mu-opioid receptors.
The transcription factor deltaFosB is induced in the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum by chronic exposure to several drugs of abuse, and increasing evidence supports the possibility that this induction is involved in the addiction process. However, to date there has been no report of deltaFosB induction by drugs of abuse in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which is also a critical brain reward region. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry to demonstrate that chronic forced administration of cocaine induces deltaFosB in the rat VTA. This induction occurs selectively in a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) cell population within the posterior tail of the VTA. A similar effect is seen after chronic cocaine self-administration. Induction of deltaFosB in the VTA occurs after psychostimulant treatment only: it is seen with both chronic cocaine and amphetamine, but not with chronic opiates or stress. The expression of deltaFosB appears to be mediated by dopamine systems, as repeated administration of a dopamine uptake inhibitor induced deltaFosB in the VTA, while administration of serotonin or norepinephrine uptake inhibitors failed to produce this effect. Time course analysis showed that, following 14 days of cocaine administration, deltaFosB persists in the VTA for almost 2 weeks after cocaine withdrawal. This accumulation and persistence may account for some of the long-lasting changes in the brain associated with chronic drug use. These results provide the first evidence of deltaFosB induction in a discrete population of GABA cells in the VTA, which may regulate the functioning of the brain's reward mechanisms.
Intrastriatal grafts of fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue, rich in dopaminergic neurons, can reverse symptoms in Parkinson's disease. For development of effective cell replacement therapy, other sources of dopaminergic neurons, e.g. derived from stem cells, are needed. However, the electrophysiological properties grafted cells need to have in order to induce substantial functional recovery are poorly defined. It has not been possible to prospectively identify and record from dopaminergic neurons in fetal transplants. Here we used transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein under control of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase promoter for whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of endogenous and grafted dopaminergic neurons. We transplanted ventral mesencephalic tissue from E12.5 transgenic mice into striatum of neonatal rats with or without lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system. The transplanted cells exhibited intrinsic electrophysiological properties typical of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, i.e. broad action potentials, inward rectifying currents with characteristic 'sag', and spontaneous action potentials. The grafted dopaminergic neurons also received functional excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs from the host brain, as shown by the presence of both spontaneous and stimulation-evoked excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Occurrence of spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory currents was lower, and of spontaneous action potentials was higher, in neurons placed in the dopamine-depleted striatum than of those in the intact striatum. Our findings define specific electrophysiological characteristics of transplanted fetal dopaminergic neurons, and we provide the first direct evidence of functional synaptic integration of these neurons into host neural circuitries.
Hypothalamic anorexigenic [corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and proopiomelanocortin] peptides decrease and the orexigen, neuropeptide Y, increases with diabetic hyperphagia. However, when diabetic rats are allowed to eat lard (saturated fat) as well as chow, both caloric intake and hypothalamic peptides normalize. These neuropeptide responses to lard require an intact hepatic vagus [la Fleur et al. (2003) Diabetes, 52, 2321-2330]. Here, we delineate temporal interactions after lard consumption +/- hepatic vagotomy (HV) between feeding and brain neuropeptide expression in insulin-dependent diabetic rats. CRF-mRNA was reduced in the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) by 6 h after presentation of lard, before caloric intake increased in HV-diabetic rats, and did not increase at 30 or 36 h, as it did in shamHV-diabetic rats eating lard. CRF-mRNA was increased in the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis of HV-diabetic rats compared with shamHV-diabetic rats only when caloric intake was high at 30 or 36 h. At 36 h, shamHV-diabetic rats eating chow had increased CRF-mRNA in the central amygdala but diabetic rats eating lard had decreased CRF-mRNA, whereas HV-diabetic rats eating chow or lard had normal CRF-mRNA in the central amygdala. We conclude that eating lard restores peptide expression to normal in the hypothalamus of diabetic rats, and because decreased CRF-mRNA in the PVN precedes the increase in caloric intake in HV-diabetic rats eating lard, that the loss of a hepatic vagal signal to PVN may be responsible for increased intake; moreover, CRF-mRNA in limbic structures is also sensitive to both HV and lard ingestion in diabetic rats.
The right and left inferior colliculi (ICs) in the auditory midbrain are connected to one another by a bundle of fibres, the commissure of the IC. Previous studies show that this commissural projection connects corresponding frequency regions in the two sides and originates mainly from excitatory neurons, although some studies suggest a smaller number of GABAergic inhibitory neurons may also project via the commissure. Although the commissure of the IC is a major pathway connecting the most important nuclei of the auditory tectum, little is known about its functional significance. To investigate its role in auditory processing in the rat, we recorded sound-evoked responses of single neurons in one IC while injecting kynurenic acid into a corresponding region of the opposite IC. This procedure enabled us to block reversibly excitation of commissural projections to the recorded IC. The changes in the neural responses when input from the opposite IC was blocked are consistent with the commissural projection exerting both an excitatory and an inhibitory influence. The inhibition could be accounted for by monosynaptic or disynaptic connections. The responses to both monaural and binaural stimulation were affected, and the effects were proportionately greater at near-threshold sound levels. The results suggest that one function of the commissure of the IC may be to modulate the response gain of IC neurons to acoustic stimulation.
Axonal/neuronal pathology is an important and early feature of multiple sclerosis and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. We have previously reported that the levels of an important neuronal calcium pump, plasma membrane calcium ATPase 2 and synaptic proteins, synapsin IIa and syntaxin 1B are decreased in the rat spinal cord at onset of acute EAE. Whether the expression of these genes is restored during neurological recovery and affected in other EAE models is currently unknown. The present study was undertaken to address these issues by use of validated multiplex quantitative real-time RT-PCR with fluoro-primers, western blot and immunocytochemistry. We report that plasma membrane calcium ATPase 2 (PMCA2) transcript and protein levels return to control values during recovery from acute disease in the Lewis rat, whereas they are reduced throughout the course of chronic, non-remitting EAE in the C57Bl/6 mouse. These results indicate a close correlation between PMCA2 levels and disease course as defined by clinical scores reflecting motor deficits. Decrease in synapsin IIa expression also correlated with the onset and progression of neurological symptoms, whereas the pattern of syntaxin 1B mRNA and protein expression suggested post-transcriptional regulation. The decrease in PMCA2 transcript and protein levels and the correlation between expression and disease course in two different EAE models further highlight the importance of this calcium pump in neuronal dysfunction during inflammation.
Collapsin-response mediator proteins (CRMPs) are highly expressed in the developing brain where they take part in several aspects of neuronal differentiation. CRMPs are still present postnatally, but their function remains speculative in the adult brain. We studied the expression and localization of CRMP1, CRMP2 and CRMP5 in two areas of the nervous system with persistent neurogenesis in adult mice, the olfactory mucosa and the olfactory bulb. In the olfactory mucosa, we have established that CRMP expression is restricted to postmitotic cells of the olfactory neurons lineage. CRMP5 is coexpressed with growth associated protein of 43 kDa (GAP43) in immature olfactory neurons and is down-regulated in olfactory marker protein-positive mature neurons. In contrast, CRMP1 and CRMP2 persist at all stages of differentiation from immature GAP43-positive to fully mature olfactory neurons. In the olfactory bulb, CRMP1, CRMP2 and CRMP5 are abundant in neuronal progenitors of the subependymal layer and in differentiating interneurons. In both areas, the subcellular distribution of CRMP1 or CRMP2 is different in mature vs. immature neurons, suggesting that these proteins are sequentially involved in various cellular events during neuronal lifetime. The variations of CRMP expression following axotomy are consistent with their differential localization and functional involvement in immature vs. mature neurons of the olfactory system. Our data bring new insight to the putative functions of CRMPs within areas of the adult nervous system with permanent neurogenesis, some related to differentiation of newly generated neurons but others occurring in mature neurons with a limited lifespan.
In the present study we show that the endogenous opioid systems play a modulating role in cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats. We investigated the effect of blockade of opioid receptors on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior by cocaine priming. Drug-naive rats were allowed to initiate self-administration behavior of cocaine (30 and 60 mug per infusion, i.v.) for 5 consecutive daily sessions, and after a 5-day extinction period during which the rats did not receive cocaine, a test for cocaine-induced (1 mg/kg, i.v.) reinstatement followed. The effect of cocaine priming was tested on days 1, 3, and 5 after extinction, while on days 2 and 4 the animals received saline priming. Before each daily reinstatement test, different groups of animals received an injection with the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (3 mg/kg, s.c.) or with placebo. We observed that cocaine readily reinstated extinguished responding in the rats, and that this reinstatement responding did not change over the consecutive reinstatement tests. Pretreatment with naltrexone progressively attenuates the cocaine-induced reinstatement, with a significant reduction on days 3 and 5 of reinstatement testing. Discriminative lever-pressing (active versus inactive lever) during reinstatement phase, however, remains present in animals treated with naltrexone. This implies that repeated opioid receptor blockade progressively attenuates cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior in abstained animals, but this cannot simply be attributed to extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior.

The recorded responses of single neurons often vary considerably in the numbers of spikes emitted across repeats of a single experimental condition. Because of this irregularity and for theoretical convenience the responses are often approximated using a Poisson process. However, it has been frequently pointed out that many details of the responses, including the distribution of spike counts across similar trials, are not consistent with a Poisson process, even an inhomogeneous one. Wiener and Richmond (2003, J Neurosci 23:2394-2406) showed that the spike count distributions could usually be fitted nicely by mixtures of a few (1-3) Poisson distributions, a step they regarded as a computational convenience. Now, we find that a substantial proportion (47%) of the neuronal responses from anterior cingulate cortex, which we conceptualize as part of a system related to the balance between work and reward, have responses with multimodal firing rate distributions. When these distributions are modeled as mixtures of Poisson distributions, the proportions of the different Poisson distributions are related to behavioral state, and might be related to cognitive factors. This suggests that the neurons undergo behaviorally-related mode changes.
We recognize objects even when they are partially degraded by visual noise. Using monkeys performing a sequential delayed match-to-sample task, we studied the relation between the amount of visual noise (5, 10, 15, 20 or 25%) degrading the eight black and white stimuli used here, and the accuracy and speed with which matching stimuli were identified. The correct response rate decreased slightly as the amount of visual noise increased for both monkeys. Even at the 25% noise level, the correct response rate was more than 80%, indicating that the monkeys can recognize the pattern they are trying to match when the pattern is masked with visual noise. In contrast, the reaction time to the match stimulus increased substantially as the amount of visual noise increased. Thus, the monkeys appear to be trading time to maintain accuracy, suggesting that the monkeys are accumulating information and/or testing hypotheses about whether the test stimulus is likely to be a match for the sample being held in short-term memory.
The gain of reactive saccades was manipulated in 17 subjects using a target-jump paradigm. Following adaptation three sub-groups were formed: (1) rest 15 min in the dark, eyes closed; (2) perform self-generated saccades for 15 min; (3) perform reactive saccades for 15 min. The series of saccades were the same in groups 2 and 3 (amplitude, sequence), except that group 3 performed fewer saccades (same number as the lowest number of saccades performed by one subject in group 2). Neither the rest period nor the series of self-generated saccades affected the adapted gain. The series of reactive saccades generated, by contrast, quick de-adaptation. These results support the conclusion that the gain of self-generated and reactive saccades is independently controlled.
To investigate the influence of proficiency level on the cortical organization of foreign language processing, two groups of German speaking students, differing only in their proficiency in English as a second language, were subjected to EEG coherence analysis during foreign and native language processing (news reports, alpha1 frequency band). In the group with minor experience with English, coherence increase was observed with all electrode combinations, with left hemisphere (LH) predominance. In the high proficiency group, coherence increase was limited to temporal electrodes over LH. In the latter group only, coherence between prefrontal electrodes was significantly lower during the language tasks than during the baseline task (silence, noisy screen). Both results were obtained with foreign as well as native language processing. We suggest that reduced EEG coherence in highly proficient foreign language speakers reflects a more efficient operating strategy not only for their second, but also for their native language.
It is not evident how the small effects of the flankers of the Ebbinghaus figure on peak grip aperture (PGA) should be interpreted. One interpretation is that the flankers influence the estimated size, which in turn influences the grasp. If this interpretation is correct, then only the size-dependent aspects of the grasping movement should depend on the spatial positions of the flankers. An alternative interpretation is that the effect on grip aperture is caused by a change in judgement of the required precision, in which case various aspects of the grasping movement could be influenced by the size and position of the flankers. We presented subjects with a display consisting of a central disk surrounded by four large or small flankers. The array of circular flankers could be rotated by 45 degrees . There were two tasks: to reproduce the perceived size of the central disk, and to grasp the central disk. As in other studies, the reproduced size and the PGA were both influenced by the size of the flankers. The effect on reproduced size settings was independent of the flankers' spatial position. Nevertheless, the flankers' position did influence the final grip aperture and the grip orientation at PGA and at movement offset. Because the flankers changed more than only the PGA, we conclude that the effect of the flankers on prehension cannot only be because of misjudgement of the size of the central disk.
Local injection of substance P (SP)-saporin can cause selective ablation of striatal interneurons expressing SP receptors (SPR). In this study, we evaluated quantitatively the impairment of skilled forelimb use after unilateral ablation of the striatal interneurons using a pasta matrix reaching task in rats. We found a significant decrease of the number of the pasta pieces (uncooked spaghetti) retrieved using the paw of the experimental side contralateral to the ablation, whereas the number of the pasta pieces retrieved using the paw of the intact side increased significantly. These findings, with our previous reports, suggest that the modulation of the cortico-striato-entopeduncular direct pathway by striatal interneurons is important for maintaining normal basal-ganglia control for skilled forelimb movements.
Single-joint elbow flexions are associated with muscle activity at the shoulder that opposes interaction torques arising from rotation of the elbow. We have previously shown that this activity is linearly related to elbow muscle torque and is robust in the presence of novel dynamic loads. Here we examined this relationship in the context of shoulder joint fixation. We tested the hypothesis that after mechanically fixing the shoulder the relationship between shoulder muscle activity and elbow muscle torque will be preserved. In contrast, proposals in which energetic variables are optimized predict that shoulder muscle activity should cease. Subjects performed single-joint elbow flexions in a horizontal plane while interacting with the KINARM robotic exoskeleton. After repeated movements with the shoulder joint fixed we observed a slight and gradual decrease in the activity of pectoralis major relative to movements in which the shoulder was free to rotate. However the strength of the coupling between the shoulder and elbow did not change after shoulder fixation. This is consistent with our previous findings and suggests that the nervous system maintains this inter-joint coupling relationship even when activity at the fixed joint is no longer needed for movement accuracy.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is increasingly utilized in clinical neurology and neuroscience. However, detailed knowledge of the impact and specificity of the effects of TMS on brain activity remains unresolved. We have used 14C-labeled deoxyglucose (14C-2DG) mapping during repetitive TMS (rTMS) of the posterior and inferior parietal cortex in anesthetized cats to study, with exquisite spatial resolution, the local and distant effects of rTMS on brain activity. High-frequency rTMS decreases metabolic activity at the primary site of stimulation with respect to homologue areas in the unstimulated hemisphere. In addition, rTMS induces specific distant effects on cortical and subcortical regions known to receive substantial efferent projections from the stimulated cortex. The magnitude of this distal impact is correlated with the strength of the anatomical projections. Thus, in the anesthetized animal, the impact of rTMS is upon a distributed network of structures connected to the primary site of application.
A screening procedure was developed to provide quantitative estimates of structural parameters, regional volumes and neuron number, in a neurotoxicologic study of the Gttingen minipig brain. The study material consisted of normal controls and brains collected from young minipigs which had been exposed in utero to the mitotic inhibitor methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM). Based on stereological principles and systematic sampling techniques, volumetric data from pre-selected regions of the pig brain was obtained using Cavalieri's principles and point-counting. Secondarily, estimates of total hemispheric neocortical cell numbers were obtained from pre-selected groups to test the potential effect of MAM on neuron number. No significant differences were observed in volume of the pre-selected regions of MAM intoxicated pigs nor in estimates of total neocortical neuron number.
Complex limb movements exhibit segmentation into submovements characterized as bell-shaped speed pulses. Submovements have been implicated in both feedback and feedforward control, reflecting an intermittent error-correction process. This study examines submovements occurring during a circular manual tracking task in humans, focusing on the amplitude-duration scaling of submovements and the properties of this scaling across changes in movement speed and external force load. The task consisted of intercepting and tracking a circularly moving target using a two-jointed, robotic arm that allowed external force fields to be imposed during tracking. Different speed levels and different levels of three types of force field were examined. Submovements were defined as fluctuations in the speed profile. The properties of the amplitude-duration ratio of the speed pulses were examined in relation to target speed and external force fields. The results show that the amplitude and duration of the submovements scale linearly in human manual tracking. The slope of the scaling was independently influenced by both target speed and external force fields. A common element in the increase in the scaling slope was increased tracking errors. Control experiments using passive movements and power spectral analysis showed that the submovements were not artifacts of the mechanical/acquisition system or the imposed force field. These results are consistent with the concept of stereotypy in which movements are constructed of scaled versions of a single prototype. Furthermore, the results support the hypothesis that submovements are integral to an error detection and correction control process.
The great majority of the world's music is metrical, i.e., has periodic structure at multiple time scales. Does the metrical structure of a non-isochronous rhythm improve synchronization with a beat compared to synchronization with an isochronous sequence at the beat period? Beat synchronization is usually associated with auditory stimuli, but are people able to extract a beat from rhythmic visual sequences with metrical structure? We addressed these questions by presenting listeners with rhythmic patterns which were either isochronous or non-isochronous in either the auditory or visual modality, and by asking them to tap to the beat, which was prescribed to occur at 800-ms intervals. For auditory patterns, we found that a strongly metrical structure did not improve overall accuracy of synchronization compared with isochronous patterns of the same beat period, though it did influence the higher-level patterning of taps. Synchronization was impaired in weakly metrical patterns in which some beats were silent. For the visual patterns, we found that participants were generally unable to synchronize to metrical non-isochronous rhythms, or to rapid isochronous rhythms. This suggests that beat perception and synchronization have a special affinity with the auditory system.
The mammalian auditory system evolved to extract meaningful information from complex acoustic environments. Spectrotemporal selectivity of auditory neurons provides a potential mechanism to represent natural sounds. Experience-dependent plasticity mechanisms can remodel the spectrotemporal selectivity of neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1). Electrical stimulation of the cholinergic nucleus basalis (NB) enables plasticity in A1 that parallels natural learning and is specific to acoustic features associated with NB activity. In this study, we used NB stimulation to explore how cortical networks reorganize after experience with frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps, and how background stimuli contribute to spectrotemporal plasticity in rat auditory cortex. Pairing an 8-4 kHz FM sweep with NB stimulation 300 times per day for 20 days decreased tone thresholds, frequency selectivity, and response latency of A1 neurons in the region of the tonotopic map activated by the sound. In an attempt to modify neuronal response properties across all of A1 the same NB activation was paired in a second group of rats with five downward FM sweeps, each spanning a different octave. No changes in FM selectivity or receptive field (RF) structure were observed when the neural activation was distributed across the cortical surface. However, the addition of unpaired background sweeps of different rates or direction was sufficient to alter RF characteristics across the tonotopic map in a third group of rats. These results extend earlier observations that cortical neurons can develop stimulus specific plasticity and indicate that background conditions can strongly influence cortical plasticity.
An increase in arousal in response to hypercapnia [elevated arterial PCO2 (partial pressure of CO2) levels] during awake or sleep states is an important component of mechanisms designed to maintain acid-base homeostasis. Since central histaminergic neurons are crucial for maintaining waking states and vigilance, a nonresponsive or dysfunctional histaminergic system could contribute to the lack of arousal in response to hypercapnia in some sleep-related disorders [e.g., sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and Ondine's curse]. Therefore, the present study attempted to determine if histaminergic neurons display functional responses to acute exposure to hypercapnic gas (i.e., gas with elevated CO2 concentrations). Healthy adult male rats were placed in flow cages during the light cycle, or inactive phase, and exposed to either atmospheric air or to environmental CO2 concentrations increasing from baseline up to 20% CO2 over a 5-min period. The expression of the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos was used as a measure of functional cellular responses within subpopulations of histaminergic neurons. Among the histaminergic subgroups (E1-E5), only the ventral tuberommamillary nucleus (VTMn)/E2 cell group showed significant increases in c-Fos expression following brief exposure to hypercapnic gas. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that histaminergic neuronal cell groups are heterogeneous and are involved in physiological and/or behavioral responses to acute hypercapnic challenge, potentially increasing vigilance during active waking and awakening from sleep during hypercapnic states.
Accuracy of targeting is critical for the success of cell transplantation in the central nervous system. We compared the accuracy of conventional atlas-guided stereotaxis to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided stereotaxic targeting in various basal ganglia nuclei in parkinsonian monkeys. 28 monkeys underwent unilateral striatal transplantation. High-resolution 3D MR images of the brain were used in 15 monkeys fitted with a MRI-compatible stereotaxic frame for target localization. This was immediately followed by cranial surgery with the frame &quot;in situ&quot;. 13 additional monkeys underwent stereotaxic atlas-guided cranial surgery for placement of cell transplants. Following extensive behavioral testing and microelectrode recordings, all animals were perfused. The brains were sectioned coronally and stained to determine the morphology of needle tracts as an accuracy measure of stereotaxic placements. MRI-guided stereotaxy was completely accurate in 80% as compared to 38.5% in atlas-guided stereotaxis. The chance of missing a target completely was as high as 38.5% in atlas-guided stereotaxis, which was reduced to 6.67% when MRI was used for guidance. Targeting error occurred mostly in the anterior caudate and posterior putamen as against better accuracy in the anterior putamen. These results suggest that accuracy of stereotaxic unilateral cranial targeting into the putamen and the caudate in monkeys can be improved with high-resolution 3D MR imaging.
The tachykinin neuropeptides acting at NK3 receptors affect mean arterial pressure (MAP) through both neuroendocrine and neural mechanisms. NK3 receptors are found in brainstem nuclei that mediate the baroreflex, but the effects of NK3 receptor stimulation on baroreflex function are unknown. The present study tests the effects of intraventricular injections of senktide, a selective NK3 receptor agonist, on the sensitivity of the baroreflex in three stains of rats: Charles River Laboratory, Long-Evans, and Brattleboro rats, which lack the ability to synthesize vasopressin. Rats with lateral ventricle cannulas were administered injections of isotonic saline, 100 ng, or 200 ng senktide, and 5 min later arterial baroreceptor-heart rate (HR) function was examined by constructing full-range blood pressure-HR curves using alternating doses (5-20 microg kg min) of phenylephrine and nitroprusside to raise and decrease blood pressure approximately 50 mm Hg over a period of 1 min, respectively. Intraventricular injections of 200 ng senktide had no significant effect on baseline MAP, but significantly decreased the gain of the baroreflex in all three rat strains whereas the 100 ng dose had no effect on the baroreflex. These results show that NK3 receptor stimulation modulates the baroreflex that is independent of any action of vasopressin.
Transgenic R6/2 mice, which express exon 1 of the human mutant Huntington disease gene, develop behavioral and neuropathological changes that bear some resemblance to the human disease. Several studies have shown that elevated glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) levels can exert neuroprotective effects in animal models of Huntington disease that are based on intrastriatal injections of excitotoxins. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine whether intrastriatal delivery of the GDNF gene by lentivirus (LV-GDNF) could provide structural and functional protection in R6/2 transgenic mice. Four- to 5-week-old mice were left untreated or alternatively received intrastriatal injections of either LV-GDNF or the same viral vector encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) (LV-GFP) as a control. During the 4-week follow-up period, there was the expected deterioration in performance of the R6/2 mice in paw clasping, rotarod, and open field tests, and the LV-GDNF treated mice showed no improvement over controls. ELISA showed that the LV-GDNF-injected animals had a significant increase in GDNF level in the striatum, and immunohistochemical analysis revealed that GDNF was also overexpressed in brain regions receiving striatal projections. However, GDNF overexpression had no effect on the neuropathological changes examined. Thus, there were no significant differences in the number of EM-48-positive intraneuronal huntingtin inclusions, number of BrdU-positive cells and size of striatal neuronal cross-sectional area. These results suggest that intrastriatal lentiviral vector transfer of GDNF, performed at 5 weeks of age, does not ameliorate neurological and behavioral impairments in the R6/2 transgenic mice model of HD. Further studies are, however, needed to investigate if GDNF given at earlier time points is beneficial.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is involved in motor and cognitive performance through its key role in the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits, but how these different modalities (motor and cognition) are controlled (similar vs. dissimilar) has not yet been elucidated. In the present study, the effects of bilateral STN deep brain stimulation (DBS) on motor and cognitive performance were investigated in a rat model of Parkinson disease (PD). After being trained in a choice reaction time (CRT) task, rats received bilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the striatum. One group of 6-OHDA animals was implanted bilaterally with stimulation electrodes at the level of the STN. Stimulations were performed at 130 Hz (frequency), 60 micros (pulse width), and varying amplitudes of 1, 3, 30, and 150 microA during the CRT task. Finally, rats were sacrificed and the brains processed for staining to determine the dopaminergic lesion (TH immunohistochemistry) and localization of the electrode tip (HE histochemistry). Bilateral 6-OHDA infusion significantly decreased (70%) the number of dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and increased motor time (MT), proportion of premature responding (PR), and reaction time (RT). Bilateral STN stimulation with an amplitude of 3 microA normalized 6-OHDA-induced deficits in PR and RT. Simulation with an amplitude of 30 microA reversed the lesion-induced deficits in MT and RT. Our data show for the first time that bilateral STN stimulation differentially affected the 6-OHDA-induced motor and cognitive deficits. This means that basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor and associative circuits responsible for specific motor and cognitive performance, which are processed through the STN, have unique physiological properties that can acutely and separately be modulated by specific electrical stimuli.
The present study analyzed the anatomical plasticity of serotonergic immunoreactive projections to external anal sphincter (EAS) motoneurons, and the behavioral plasticity of EAS reflexes, penile erection, and locomotion in rats with spinal contusion injury (SCI) or complete spinal cord transection (TX). Electromyographic activity of the EAS, penile erection latency, and BBB locomotor score exhibited parallel recovery over the 6-week recovery period after contusion SCI. This pattern of recovery was not observed in TX animals. While locomotor scores demonstrated a small increase after TX, erectile and anorectal function remained at abnormal levels established immediately after injury. Serotonergic immunofluorescent (5-HT-IF) staining at the lesion site identified a small number of fibers spared after SCI that may provide a substrate for functional recovery. Pixel density measurements of 5-HT-IF in the vicinity of retrogradely labeled EAS and unlabeled pudendal motoneurons necessary for penile erection provide indirect evidence of serotonergic sprouting that parallels the observed functional recovery in animals with SCI. No 5-HT-IF was detected caudal to the injury site in TX animals. These studies indicate: (1) lumbosacral eliminative and reproductive reflexes provide a valid means of studying the mechanisms of post-SCI plasticity; (2) the similar recovery curves suggest similar return of descending control, perhaps through sprouting of descending serotonergic fibers; (3) the observed deficits after TX likely represent the permanent removal of descending inhibition and reflect reorganization of segmental circuitry.
Mechanical spinal cord injury (SCI) initiates a cascade of pathochemical and pathophysiological events, collectively known as the secondary injury. There has been a long-standing interest in understanding the activation and involvement of proteases in this secondary injury process. Several proteases including the calpains, caspases and matrix metalloproteinases are activated by perturbations to the spinal cord and have been linked to cell death following SCI and in other models of CNS disease and insult. Cathepsin B (Cath B), a potent lysosomal protease, has also been implicated in the pathology of CNS diseases including brain tumors, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and stroke. Previously, we reported significant increases in Cath B mRNA and protein expression following contusion-SCI. This characterization of Cath B continues with the experiments reported herein, which were designed to examine Cath B enzymatic activity and cellular localization following contusion-SCI in the rat. Cath B enzymatic activity was significantly increased in the injury epicenter at 5 and 7 days post-injury and was highly correlated with increases in the active forms of the Cath B protein reported earlier. Furthermore, the immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the post-injury increases in expression and enzymatic activity at the injury epicenter were due to the presence of a large and diverse population of inflammatory cells. However, in areas adjacent to the injury epicenter, it appears that parenchymal neurons may also contribute to these increases. Our findings coupled with the documented role of Cath B in other CNS pathologies make this potent protease an attractive candidate for involvement in the tissue destruction associated with the secondary injury cascade following SCI.
Non-selective benzodiazepine (BZ) binding-site full agonists, exemplified by diazepam, act by enhancing the inhibitory effects of GABA at GABA(A) receptors containing either an alpha1, -2, -3 or -5 subunit. However, despite their proven clinical anxiolytic efficacy, such compounds possess a relatively narrow window between doses that produce anxiolysis and those that cause sedation, and are also associated with physical dependence and a potential for abuse. In the late 1980s and early 1990s a number of non-selective partial agonists, exemplified by bretazenil, pazinaclone and abecarnil, were described. Their reduced intrinsic efficacy relative to full agonists such as diazepam resulted in an improved preclinical pharmacological profile in that there was a large window between anxiolytic and sedative doses and their dependence and abuse liabilities were much lower. Unfortunately, these compounds failed, for a variety of reasons, to translate into clinical benefit, and as the public perception of BZs deteriorated interest in the area waned. However, the advent of molecular genetic and pharmacological approaches has begun to delineate which GABA(A) receptor subtypes are associated with the various pharmacological effects of the non-selective BZs. More specifically, the alpha2- and/or alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors play a role in anxiety whereas the alpha1 subtype is involved in sedation, raising the possibility of a compound that selectively modulates alpha2- and/or alpha3-containing receptors but does not affect alpha1-containing receptors would be a non-sedating anxiolytic. In order to achieve selectivity for the alpha2/alpha3 subtypes relative to alpha1, two approaches may be used; selective affinity or selective efficacy. Selective affinity relies on a compound binding with higher affinity to the alpha2/alpha3 compared with alpha1 subtypes, but to date no such compounds have been described. On the other hand, subtype-selective efficacy relies on a compound binding to all subtypes but having different efficacies at various subtypes (relative selective efficacy, for example SL654198 or pagoclone) or having efficacy at some subtypes but none at others (absolute selective efficacy; for example, L-838417). The status of these and other BZ site compounds with claimed, but often not explicitly stated, GABA(A) subtype selectivity (such as ELB-139 and ocinaplon) will be reviewed in relation to their development as non-sedating anxiolytics for the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder.

Increased central nervous system (CNS) levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 [CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) in the systematic nomenclature] have been reported in chronic neurological diseases such as human immunodeficiency virus type 1-associated dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and multiple sclerosis. However, a pathogenic role for CCL2 has not been confirmed, and there is no established model for the effects of chronic CCL2 expression on resident and recruited CNS cells. We report that aged (&gt;6 months) transgenic (tg) mice expressing CCL2 under the control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter (huGFAP-CCL2hi tg+ mice) manifested encephalopathy with mild perivascular leukocyte infiltration, impaired blood brain barrier function, and increased CD45-immunoreactive microglia, which had morphologic features of activation. huGFAP-CCL2hi tg+ mice lacking CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) were normal, showing that chemokine action via CCR2 was required. Studies of cortical slice preparations using video confocal microscopy showed that microglia in the CNS of huGFAP-CCL2hi tg+ mice were defective in expressing amoeboid morphology. Treatment with mutant CCL2 peptides, a receptor antagonist and an obligate monomer, also suppressed morphological transformation in this assay, indicating a critical role for CCL2 in microglial activation and suggesting that chronic CCL2 exposure desensitized CCR2 on microglia, which in the CNS of huGFAP-CCL2hi tg+ mice, did not up-regulate cell-surface expression of major histocompatibility complex class II, CD11b, CD11c, or CD40, in contrast to recruited perivascular macrophages that expressed enhanced levels of these markers. These results indicate that huGFAP-CCL2hi tg+ mice provide a useful model to study how chronic CNS expression of CCL2 alters microglial function and CNS physiology.
In birds and mammals, including humans, melatonin-binding sites are abundant in brain areas that have no known clock function. Although the role of such binding sites is still unclear, it is assumed that these sites link neural functions to circadian or circannual demands of neuroendocrine homeostasis and reproduction. To investigate a possible direct role of melatonin in motor control, we studied the song and neural song system of the zebra finch. Neurons of two sensory-motor areas of the descending song control circuit that are crucial for the organization of the song pattern, the HVC and RA, express the melatonin-1B receptor (Mel1B), while the hypoglossal motor neurons of the song circuit express melatonin-1C receptors (Mel1C). Application of melatonin to brain slices decreases the firing-rate of RA-neurons. Systemic administration of a Mel1B antagonist at the beginning of the night shortens the song and motif length and affects the song syllable lengths produced the next day. The temporal pattern of the song, however, does not undergo daily changes. Thus, melatonin is likely to affect a non-circadian motor pattern by local modulation of song control neurons and in consequence alters a sexual signal, the song of the zebra finch.
The E6 protein of human papillomavirus type 16 is essential for the oncogenic transformation process induced by these viruses. Here we expressed the E6 protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (which lacks p53) in order to determine if E6 interacts with normal cell functioning, independently of the p53 tumour suppressor factor. We observed a higher resistance to caffeine, hydrogen peroxide and to pheromone, but not to high temperature, starvation and osmostress. Measurement of the relative expression levels of target genes of the signalling pathways, involved in the latter stressful stimuli, led us to conclude that such pathways are differently regulated in the presence of E6.
The dietary diversity of marmosets is substantial, which may reflect differences in their colour vision. This study examined the colour discrimination ability of a gummivore/insectivore callitrichid, Callithrix penicillata, which inhabits the Brazilian cerrado (bush savanna). A series of ecologically relevant tasks, involving a behavioural paradigm of discrimination learning in semi-natural conditions and the usage of ecologically relevant stimuli, was executed. Three marmosets, 2 males and a female, behaved like human dichromats, showing an impaired performance when orange and green stimuli had to be discriminated. In contrast, 2 females resembled human trichromats, discriminating those kinds of pairs. Our data suggest that Callithrix penicillata presents a polymorphic trichromacy, with dichromatic males and dichromatic or trichromatic females.
In this study, we explored the use of electroporation or media that promote lipoplex formation for nonviral gene transfer in the eye. There was no detectable staining for LacZ after subretinal, intravitreous, or periocular injection of a plasmid containing a CMV promoter expression cassette for LacZ, but when plasmid injection in each of the three sites was combined with electroporation, there was efficient transduction. Specific staining for LacZ was seen in retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells after subretinal injection of a plasmid containing a vitelliform macular dystrophy 2 (VMD2) promoter expression cassette, demonstrating that this approach can be used to evaluate purported tissue-specific promoters in vivo. Electroporation with 10 V/mm resulted in strong LacZ staining, but was damaging to photoreceptors; substantial transduction with no evidence of retinal damage was seen using 3.4 V/mm. Staining for LacZ was also seen after subretinal or periocular, but not intravitreous, injection of plasmid DNA in medium containing 40% Lipofectamine2000 (Lf). Injection of 40% Lf into the subretinal space caused damage to photoreceptors, but subretinal injection of plasmid DNA in medium containing 10% NeuroPorter resulted in transduction of RPE cells with no adverse effects on retinal morphology or function as assessed by electroretinograms (ERGs). After either electroporation or lipofection, LacZ staining was detectable for at least 14 days, and could be reinduced by a second procedure. These data suggest that electroporation or lipofection can be used as experimental tools for ocular gene transfer to evaluate tissue-specific promoter fragments or to evaluate the effects of transgene expression in the retina. Also, with additional optimization, nonviral gene transfer may prove to be a valuable approach for the treatment of retinal and choroidal diseases.
To direct Cre-mediated recombination to differentiated medium-size spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum, we generated transgenic mice that express Cre recombinase under the regulation of DARPP-32 genomic fragments. In this reported line, recombination of an R26R reporter allele occurred postnatally in the majority of medium-size spiny neurons of the dorsal and ventral striatum (caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens/olfactory tubercle), as well as in the piriform cortex and choroid plexus. Although regulatory fragments were selected to target MSNs, low levels of Cre-recombinase expression, as detected by beta-galactosidase activity from the R26R reporter gene, were also apparent in widely dispersed areas or cells of the forebrain and hindbrain. These included the primary and secondary motor cortex, and association cortex, as well as in the olfactory bulb and cerebellar Purkinje cells. Notably, expression in these regions was well below that of endogenous DARPP-32. Analysis of colocalization of beta-galactosidase, as detected either by histochemistry or immunocytochemistry, and DARPP-32 revealed double-labeling in almost all DARPP-32-expressing MSNs in the postnatal striatum, but not in extrastriatal regions. The DARPP-32Cre transgenic mouse line thus provides a useful tool to specifically express and/or inactivate genes in mature MSNs of the striatum.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (MOG-EAE), share a complex genetic predisposition with contributions from the major histocompatibility complex class II genes and many other genes. Linkage mapping in F(2) crosses between the susceptible DA rat strain and the resistant ACI or BN rat strains in various models of autoimmune neuroinflammation have repeatedly displayed suggestive linkage to a region on rat chromosome 15. A direct study of this region was undertaken in congenic strains by transferring resistant ACI alleles to the susceptible DA background. Phenotypic analysis demonstrated lower maximal and cumulative EAE scores in the DA.ACI-D15Rat6-D15Rat71 (C15), DA.ACI-D15Rat6-D15Rat48, D15Rat126-D15Rat71 (C15R3b), and DA.ACI-D15Rat23-D15rat71 (C15R4) strains compared to the parental DA rat strain. Linkage analysis was then performed in a (DA x PVG.AV1)F(7) advanced intercross line, resulting in a LOD score of 4.7 for the maximal EAE score phenotype at the peak marker D15Rat71 and a confidence interval of 13 Mb, overlapping with the congenic fragment defined by the C15R3b and the C15R4 strains. Thus, a new MOG-EAE locus with the designation Eae19 is identified on rat chromosome 15. There are 32 confirmed or predicted genes in the confidence interval, including immune-responsive gene 1 and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinose gene 5. Definition of loci such as Eae19 enables the characterization of genetically regulated, evolutionary conserved disease pathways in complex neuroinflammatory diseases.
Tap, a member of the evolutionarily conserved nuclear RNA export factor (NXF) family of proteins, has been implicated in the nuclear export of bulk poly(A)+ RNAs. cDNAs encoding the mouse NXF proteins (Tap, NXF7, NXF2, and NXF3) were prepared and the gene products were characterized in terms of their genomic organization, expression patterns, and biochemical properties. Mouse Tap was found to be ubiquitously expressed, whereas tissue- and developmental stage specific expression of mouse Nxf2, Nxf3, and Nxf7 was observed. Although mouse Tap and NXF2 bound to the phenylalanine-glycine repeat sequences of nucleoporins, NXF7 and NXF3 did not. GFP-tagged mouse Tap and NXF2 were localized predominantly in the nucleus. In contrast, GFP-tagged NXF7 and NXF3 were localized exclusively in the cytoplasm. As shown for the human counterpart, disruption of the leucine-rich nuclear export signal or leptomycin B treatment abolishes the cytoplasmic localization of mouse NXF3. p15/NXT1, an essential cofactor for human Tap in the export of mRNAs, was able to bind to mouse Tap, NXF2, and NXF3, but NXF7 did not form a stable heterodimeric complex. Transient transfection experiments indicated that only mouse Tap and NXF2 enhance the nuclear export of an otherwise inefficiently exported mRNA substrate. The orthologous relationship between human and mouse Nxf genes is discussed on the basis of these data.
Oligodendrocyte development is controlled by a number of survival and migratory factors. The present study shows that signaling of CXCR4 receptor by the chemokine CXCL12 regulates survival and migration of neural precursors (NP) as well as oligodendrocyte progenitors (OP). CXCR4 is expressed by E14 striatal NP and OP generated by neurospheres. In CXCR4-defective mice, the number of NP in neurosphere outgrowth was twofold less than in wild-type (WT) mice; NP radial cell migration was also decreased. In contrast, the addition of CXCL12 to WT NP increased radial migration from the sphere in a dose-dependent manner with a maximal response at 200 nM. When oligodendrocytes differentiated in neurosphere outgrowth, CXCR4 was downregulated. OP isolated from newborn brain coexpressed CXCR4 with platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFR alpha) or chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan; receptor expression also decreased during differentiation in vitro. Neonatal OP showed a peak migratory response to 20 nM of CXCL12 in chemotactic chambers, a migration inhibited by a CXCR4 antagonist and anti-CXCL12 antibody. In the embryonic spinal cord, the number of OP-expressing PDGFR alpha was reduced more than twofold in CXCR4-defective mice compared with WT and the ratio of ventral to dorsal OP was significantly increased. This indicates a defect in OP survival and their dorsal migration from the ventral cord region, probably because CXCR4(-/-) OP are unable to respond to CXCL12 made by vascular endothelia and the pia mater. We propose that CXCR4 signaling regulate survival and outward chemotactic migration of OP during embryonic and postnatal CNS development.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), about 50% of the oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in the residual white matter at the injury site are lost by 24 h. However, chronically after SCI, the density of oligodendrocytes is normal. Previous studies have shown that the adult rat spinal cord contains a pool of proliferating glial progenitors whose progeny could help restore cell density after injury. To study proliferation in response to injury, we performed SCI on adult female rats at the T8 level, using a standardized contusion model. Animals received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections during the first week after SCI, and were perfused within 2 h for acute studies, and at 6 weeks for chronic studies. The tissue was analyzed using immunohistochemical detection of BrdU and cell marker antigens. We demonstrate that cell proliferation in the residual white matter is increased at 1-7 days after SCI, peaking on day 3. Dividing cells include oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, microglia/macrophages, and a high proportion of NG2(+) glial precursors. By 6 weeks, some cells that had been labeled 2-4 days after SCI were still present. Double immunohistochemistry showed that while very few of these cells expressed NG2 or the microglia/macrophage marker OX42, about 50% expressed CC1 or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), markers of mature oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, respectively. The post-injury environment represented by residual white matter is thus permissive to the differentiation of glial precursors. Cells that are stimulated to divide during the first week after SCI develop chronically into mature phenotypes that replace macroglia lost after injury.
Oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination involve dramatic changes in cell signaling pathways, gene expression patterns, cell shape, and cytoskeletal organization. In a pilot study investigating CNS angiogenesis, oligodendrocytes were intensely labeled by antisera directed against the C-terminal of Tie-2, a 140-kDa transmembrane receptor for angiopoietin. Immunoprecipitation of rat brain proteins with Tie-2 C-terminal antisera, however, produced a single spot of approximately 55-kDa pI approximately 5 by two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis, which was identified as beta-tubulin by mass spectrometry. Isotype-specific antibodies for beta(IV) tubulin selectively labeled oligodendrocytes. First detected in premyelinating oligodendrocytes, beta(IV) tubulin was abundant in myelinating oligodendrocyte perinuclear cytoplasm and processes extending to and along developing myelin internodes. Beta(IV) tubulin-positive MTs were diffusely distributed in oligodendrocyte perinuclear cytoplasm and not organized around the centrosome. Beta(IV) tubulin may play a role in establishing the oligodendrocyte MT network, which is essential for the transport of myelin proteins, lipids, and RNA during myelination.

In our recent study of corticofugal modulation of collicular amplitude sensitivity of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, we suggested that the corticofugal modulation is based upon the best frequency (BF) differences and the relative amplitude sensitivity difference between collicular (IC) and cortical (AC) neurons but not the absolute amplitude sensitivity of IC and AC neurons. To show that corticofugal modulation is systematic and multiparametric, we studied corticofugal modulation of directional sensitivity in 89 corticofugally inhibited IC neurons in the same bat species under free field stimulation conditions. A neuron's directional sensitivity was expressed with the azimuthal range (AR) at 50% below the maximum of each directional sensitivity curve and the best azimuth (BAZ) at which the neuron discharged maximally. Cortical electrical stimulation did not affect the directional sensitivity of 40 (45%) neurons with BF(IC-AC) differences of 7.3+/-4.4kHz but sharpened the directional sensitivity of other 49 (55%) neurons with BF(IC-AC) differences of 2.3+/-1.8kHz. Corticofugal modulation sharpened directional sensitivity curves of IC neurons by decreasing the AR and shifting collicular BAZ toward cortical BAZ. The decrease in AR and the shift in BAZ increased significantly with AR(IC-AC) and BAZ(IC-AC) differences but not with absolute AR and BAZ of IC and AC neurons or BF(IC-AC) differences. Corticofual modulation also shifted collicular BF toward cortical BF. The shift in BF increased significantly with BF(IC-AC) differences but not with the BF of IC and AC neurons or BAZ shift. Consonant with our previous study, these data indicate that corticofugal modulation of collicular directional sensitivity is based on topographic projections between the IC and the AC and the difference in directional sensitivity but not the absolute directional sensitivity of IC or AC neurons.
The synaptic pharmacology of the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL) was investigated in brain slices obtained from rats of 14-37 days old using intracellular recording techniques. Excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials (EPSPs and IPSPs) were elicited by electrical stimulation of the lemniscal pathway and recorded from neurons with five types of intrinsic firing patterns (onset, pause, adapting, regular and bursting types). Synaptic receptors that mediated the EPSPs and IPSPs were identified using AMPA, NMDA, GABA(A) and glycine receptor antagonists. The early/short EPSPs were mediated by AMPA receptors. The late/long EPSPs, encountered only in neurons of younger animals, were mediated by NMDA receptors. The IPSPs in most neurons were mediated by glycine receptors. In some neurons the IPSPs were mediated by GABA(A) receptors or both glycine and GABA(A) receptors. The temporal dynamics of fast AMPA EPSPs and glycinergic IPSPs were very similar. AMPA EPSPs and glycinergic (and/or GABAergic) IPSPs could be encountered in a single neuron. The results suggest that the VNLL not only relays incoming signals rapidly from the lower brainstem to the inferior colliculus, but also integrates excitatory and inhibitory inputs to modify and process auditory information.
Correlation-based synaptic plasticity provides a potential cellular mechanism for learning and memory. Studies in the visual and somatosensory systems have shown that behavioral and surgical manipulation of sensory inputs leads to changes in cortical organization that are consistent with the operation of these learning rules. In this study, we examine how the organization of primary auditory cortex (A1) is altered by tones designed to decrease the average input correlation across the frequency map. After one month of separately pairing nucleus basalis stimulation with 2 and 14 kHz tones, a greater proportion of A1 neurons responded to frequencies below 2 kHz and above 14 kHz. Despite the expanded representation of these tones, cortical excitability was specifically reduced in the high and low frequency regions of A1, as evidenced by increased neural thresholds and decreased response strength. In contrast, in the frequency region between the two paired tones, driven rates were unaffected and spontaneous firing rate was increased. Neural response latencies were increased across the frequency map when nucleus basalis stimulation was associated with asynchronous activation of the high and low frequency regions of A1. This set of changes did not occur when pulsed noise bursts were paired with nucleus basalis stimulation. These results are consistent with earlier observations that sensory input statistics can shape cortical map organization and spike timing.
Social support has a positive influence on the course of a depression and social housing of rats could provide an animal model for studying the neurobiological mechanisms of social support. Male and female rats were subjected to chronic footshock stress for 3 weeks and pair-housing of rats was used to mimic social support. Rats were isolated or housed with a partner of the opposite sex. A plastic tube was placed in each cage and subsequently used as a 'safe' area in an open field test. Time spent in the tube was used as a measurement of anxiety levels. Chronic stress increased adrenal weights in all groups, except for isolated females who showed adrenal hypertrophy in control conditions. In isolated males, chronic stress resulted in an increase in the time the animals spent in the tube. While stress did not affect this parameter in socially housed males, males with a stressed partner showed a similar response as isolated stressed males. Even though adrenal weights showed that isolated females were more affected by stress, after chronic stress exposure, they spent less time in the tube than socially housed females. Socially housed stressed females spent less time in the 'safe' tube compared to control counterparts, indicating that stress has a gender-specific behavioral effect. In conclusion: pair-housing had a stress-reducing effect on behavior in males. Isolation of females was stressful by itself. Pair housing of females was not able to prevent stress-induced behavioral changes completely, but appeared to reduce the effects of chronic stress.
There are striking differences in the behavioral response to social defeat between male and female Syrian hamsters. Whereas males exhibit a prolonged behavioral response to defeat (i.e., conditioned defeat), many females remain aggressive or show only a transient submissive response following defeat. The current study tested the hypothesis that sex steroids underlie this differential behavioral responsivity to social defeat. Female hamsters were ovariectomized and implanted with Silastic capsules containing estradiol (E(2)), testosterone (T), progesterone (P), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or a blank capsule (no hormone replacement). After a 3-week recovery period, each subject was placed inside the home cage of a larger, more aggressive female for four 5-min defeat trials. The following day, each animal was tested for conditioned defeat by testing it in its own home cage in the presence of a smaller, non-aggressive intruder. Submissive, aggressive, social, and nonsocial behaviors were subsequently scored. Hamsters receiving E(2) or T displayed significantly lower levels of submissive behavior than did animals receiving P, DHT, or no hormone replacement. There were no significant differences in aggressive behavior among groups. These data suggest that gonadal hormones can influence submissive behavior in female hamsters. Collectively, these results suggest that the sex differences observed in conditioned defeat may, in part, be explained by sex differences in circulating gonadal hormones.
Knowledge of the reproducibility of oral fat tolerance tests is important for experimental design and data interpretation. In this study, seven normolipidaemic men underwent two fat tolerance tests (blood taken fasting and for six hours after a meal containing 1.2 g fat, 1.2 g carbohydrate per kg body mass) with an interval of one week. Eleven normolipidaemic women underwent two fat tolerance tests--one during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, the other during the mid-luteal phase. Dietary intake was controlled for two days and subjects refrained from exercise for three days before each test. There was no significant difference in postprandial triglyceride responses between the two tests in the men (10.20 +/- 3.45 mmol/l.h vs. 9.68 +/- 2.77 mmol/l.h, NS) (mean +/- SD); intraclass correlation coefficient between the two tests was 0.93, and within-subject coefficient of variation was 10.1 %. In the women, the postprandial triglyceride response was lower in the luteal phase (6.75 +/- 1.83 mmol/l.h) than in the follicular phase (8.36 +/- 3.71 mmol/l.h) (p = 0.05), intraclass correlation was 0.65 and within-subject coefficient of variation was 23.2 %. These results suggest that, with adequate control of preceding lifestyle, reproducibility of postprandial triglyceride responses is high in men, but menstrual phase should be taken into consideration when studying these responses in women.
The neural systems sustaining object naming were examined using the activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis approach on the results of 16 previously published studies. The activation task in each study required subjects to name pictures of objects or animals, but the baseline tasks varied. Separate meta-analyses were carried out on studies that used: (1) high-level baselines to control for speech processing and visual input; and (2) low-level baselines that did not control for speech or complex visual processing. The results of the two meta-analyses were then compared directly, revealing a double dissociation in the activation pattern for studies using high and low baselines. To interpret the differential activations, we report two new functional imaging experiments. The aim of the first was to characterize activation differences associated with visual stimuli that are typically used in baseline conditions (complex visual features, simple structures, or fixation). The aim of the second was to classify object-naming regions in terms of whether they were engaged preferentially by semantic or phonological processes. The results reveal a remarkably precise correspondence between the areas identified by the meta-analyses as affected differentially by baseline and the areas that are affected differentially by non-object structure, semantics or phonology. As expected, high-level baselines reduced object-naming activation in areas associated with the processing of complex visual features and speech production. In addition, high-level baselines increased sensitivity to activation in areas associated with semantic processing, visual-speech integration and response selection. For example, activation in the anterior temporal areas that neuropsychological studies have associated with semantic processing was more strongly activated in the context of high-level baselines. These results therefore have implications for understanding the convergence of functional imaging and neuropsychological findings.
We used the activation likelihood estimation (ALE) method to quantitatively synthesize data from 19 published brain mapping studies of phonological processing in reading, six with Chinese and 13 with alphabetic languages. It demonstrated high concordance of cortical activity across multiple studies in each written language system as well as significant differences of activation likelihood between languages. Four neural systems for the phonological processing of Chinese characters included: (1) a left dorsal lateral frontal system at Brodmann area (BA) 9; (2) the dorsal aspect of left inferior parietal system; (3) a bilateral ventral-occipitotemporal system including portions of fusiform gyrus and middle occipital gyrus; and (4) a left ventral prefrontal system covering the superior aspect of inferior frontal gyrus. For phonological processing of written alphabetic words, cortical areas identified here are consistent with the three neural systems proposed previously in the literature: (1) a ventral prefrontal system involving superior portions of left inferior frontal gyrus; (2) a left dorsal temporoparietal system including mid-superior temporal gyri and the ventral aspect of inferior parietal cortex (supramarginal region); and (3) a left ventral occipitotemporal system. Contributions of each of these systems to phonological processing in reading were discussed, and a covariant learning hypothesis is offered to account for the findings that left middle frontal gyrus is responsible for addressed phonology in Chinese whereas left temporoparietal regions mediate assembled phonology in alphabetic languages. Language form, cognitive process, and learning strategy drive the development of functional neuroanatomy.
Human vision is an active process that involves shifting attention across the visual scene, with or without moving the eyes. Such shifts of attention can be generated at will (endogenously) or be triggered automatically, i.e., generated in response to exogenous stimuli including socially relevant cues such as someone else's gaze. What are the common and distinct brain mechanisms involved in these processes? To address this question, we carried out a quantitative effect-location meta-analysis of 59 brain-imaging experiments whose results were published using standardized coordinates. For each condition of interest, namely voluntary and visually triggered eye movements, voluntary and visually triggered (covert) shifts of attention, and perception of someone else's gaze, we computed activation likelihood estimation (ALE) maps. Those maps represent at each voxel of the brain the probability of reporting a signal change related to the condition of interest. For eye movements, this analysis confirmed the spatial location of the frontal eye fields, supplementary eye fields, and parietal saccade-related regions. The map of covert shifts of attention demonstrated highest similarity with the map of saccadic eye movements. Gaze perception showed common activation likelihood with the other conditions in the right intraparietal sulcus and in the lateral precentral gyrus. It demonstrated more similarity with the reflexive than with the voluntary saccades and shifts of attention. We propose that a core network of frontoparietal and temporal brain regions is recruited when we shift the focus of our attention with or without eye movements in response to the appearance of a visual target, as well as when we see someone else shift his or her gaze.

Today, the concept of brain connectivity plays a central role in the neuroscience. While functional connectivity is defined as the temporal coherence between the activities of different brain areas, the effective connectivity is defined as the simplest brain circuit that would produce the same temporal relationship as observed experimentally between cortical sites. The most used method to estimate effective connectivity in neuroscience is the structural equation modeling (SEM), typically used on data related to the brain hemodynamic behavior. However, the use of hemodynamic measures limits the temporal resolution on which the brain process can be followed. The present research proposes the use of the SEM approach on the cortical waveforms estimated from the high-resolution EEG data, which exhibits a good spatial resolution and a higher temporal resolution than hemodynamic measures. We performed a simulation study, in which different main factors were systematically manipulated in the generation of test signals, and the errors in the estimated connectivity were evaluated by the analysis of variance (ANOVA). Such factors were the signal-to-noise ratio and the duration of the simulated cortical activity. Since SEM technique is based on the use of a model formulated on the basis of anatomical and physiological constraints, different experimental conditions were analyzed, in order to evaluate the effect of errors made in the a priori model formulation on its performances. The feasibility of the proposed approach has been shown in a human study using high-resolution EEG recordings related to finger tapping movements.

In the present study, the effects of hearing aid use by hearing-impaired older individuals on different aspects of cognitive function, such as memory, attention, executive functioning, and processing speed, were investigated. Fifty-six participants (mean age = 72.5) who were fitted with hearing aids were compared with 46 control participants (mean age = 74.5) with an equivalent hearing impairment, but who were not fitted with a hearing aid. After a dual baseline measurement and fitting of the hearing aids, all participants were assessed again with neurocognitive tests after 12 months. While the participants with hearing aids had improved aided hearing thresholds, they did not demonstrate an improved performance on the cognitive tests compared to the controls. Thus improved hearing did not improve cognitive functioning. These findings may suggest that hearing aid use only restores impairments at the level of the sensory organ, but does not affect the central nervous system and, as a consequence, cognitive functioning.
The human protein DeltaNp53 and its murine counterpart p44 are isoforms of the tumor suppressor p53 lacking the transactivation domain present in the first 39 (40 in mouse) amino acids of the full-length protein. This makes them similar in structure to the DeltaN isoforms of the other members of the p53 superfamily of transcription factors, p63 and p73. The principle way both the human and the murine proteins are generated is by alternative translation of the p53 mRNA utilizing a start site in exon 4. Choice of start site depends on an interaction between p53 and its cognate RNA. When the balance between DeltaNp53 (p44) and full-length p53 is altered, the function of p53 as a transcription factor is disturbed. One consequence of over-expressing p44 in mice is an acceleration of the aging process and altered expression of genes in the IGF-1 signaling cascade [Maier, B., Gluba, W., Bernier, B., Turner, T., Mohammad, K., Guise, T., et al. (2004). Modulation of mammalian lifespan by the short isoform of p53. Genes &amp; Development, 18, 306-319]. This links p53 to the single most important growth factor pathway known to regulate lifespan in lower organisms.
Information on prescribing pattern of antiparkinsonian medications and factors influencing neurologists' choice of such drugs are important considerations in evaluating healthcare cost of Parkinson's disease (PD). We surveyed neurologists' perceived factors influencing their choice of drugs and actual prescribing pattern in PD. Three hundred and six patients at a tertiary hospital, diagnosed with idiopathic PD and who were dispensed antiparkinsonian drugs during a 6-month period were randomly selected. Patient demographics, type and dose of medications were analysed. A questionnaire survey evaluating the factors influencing choice of medications was administered to neurologists who practiced at the institution. The study population had a mean age of 64.4 years (SD +/- 9.9 years), and more than 80% were at Hoehn &amp; Yahr stage 2-3. 92.3% of the study population were receiving levodopa and monotherapy, with levodopa being the most common treatment regimen. Patients who were prescribed levodopa were significantly older and at a later stage of disease compared to those without levodopa (p &lt; 0.05). Only 26.8% of patients were prescribed dopamine agonists. In the survey, the neurologists cited severity of symptoms, and patients' intolerance of side effects, and efficacy as the most important factors influencing their choice of drugs. However, the actual prescribing pattern revealed a strong positive correlation of drug usage with cost subsidy by the institution. While factors affecting drug usage in PD are well recognised, cost and efficacy of a drug appear to be overriding practical factors in influencing usage pattern in clinical practice.
To test the hypothesis that a narrow intensity band of geomagnetic activity contributes to Sudden Infant Death, 32 pregnant rats were exposed for two to three days before expected parturition either to a coil that generated 0.5 Hz sine-wave, 5 to 10 nanoTesla magnetic fields, or to a reference coil (&lt;1 nT) in the same room. The field was off for 30 min every 4 h during the exposure. The orientation of the coils was perpendicular in space and activated alternately in four blocks of experiments. The litters born to the exposed mothers contained significantly fewer pups (M = 14.1,SD= 2.1) than those exposed to the control conditions (M = 16.2, SD = 2.7). There were significantly fewer numbers of males and fewer numbers of females in litters exposed to the fields generated in the east-west and north-south directions, respectively. These results support the hypothesis that a specific temporal configuration of brief periods of geomagnetic activity can produce an increased incidence of nonvital fetuses, neonates, or infants.
Male Wistar rats were trained in an eight-arm radial maze task (two sessions per day, delayed-non-matching-to-sample) that included an intramaze static magnetic field &quot;cue&quot; (185 microT) specific to the entrance point of one of the arms. Rats were exposed daily for 60 min to a complex magnetic field waveform (theta-burst pattern, 200-500 nT), presented with several different interstimulus intervals (ISIs), either immediately following training sessions or immediately preceding testing sessions. Application of the theta-burst stimulus with a 4000 ms ISI significantly improved the rats' memory for the arm of the radial maze whose position was indicated by the presence of a static magnetic field cue. Reference memory errors were homogeneously distributed among all eight arms of the maze for sham-exposed rats, and among the other seven arms of the maze for complex magnetic field-treated rats. These results suggest that static magnetic field cues may be salient orienting cues even in a microenvironment such as a radial maze, but their use as a cue during maze learning in rats is dependent on whole-body application of a specific time-varying complex magnetic field.

Long-latency ERP components were examined for scalp activation differences in children with poor and good listening skills in response to auditory movement created by IIDs. Eighteen children were grouped based on a parent questionnaire (CHAPS; Smoski et al, 1998) and clinical evaluation by a licensed audiologist. Obligatory cortical responses were recorded to an auditory movement and an auditory control task. Results showed greatest activation at fronto-central electrode sites. P1, N1, and P2 showed no significant effects. Significant differences in N2 amplitude and latency were present between groups at the lateral electrode sites (FC3, FC4) in the auditory movement but not in the auditory control task. More specifically, good listeners exhibited predominance of activation over the right hemisphere for left-moving sounds, whereas the poor listeners exhibited symmetric activation. These results suggest that abnormal hemispheric activation may be one of the reasons behind poor listening skills observed in some school-aged children.

Parkinson's disease (PD) has been associated with a pattern of performance on memory tests in which free recall is impaired but recognition and cued recall are intact, indicating problems with memory retrieval. Recent findings suggest that PD patients exhibit deficits in recognition as well as free recall, however. The current study set out to provide clear evidence that recognition and cued recall are not intact in PD. Ninety-nine idiopathic PD patients were administered the California Verbal Learning Test and their performance was compared to a well-matched normative sample. A profile analysis revealed that nondemented patients exhibited deficits on measures of cued recall and delayed recognition that were similar in magnitude to that of free recall. This was also the case for the cued recall deficits exhibited by demented patients; however, in this group recognition was worse than free recall. In both groups poor recognition appeared due to an elevated number of false positive errors. These results are inconsistent with the retrieval deficit hypothesis but support the notion that PD memory problems are secondary to prefrontal dysfunction.
Visceral hypersensitivity is considered one of the causes of functional gastrointestinal disorders. The objectives of this review are to provide a practical description of neuroanatomy and physiology of gut sensation, to describe the diverse tests of visceral sensation and the potential role of brain imaging to further our understanding of visceral sensitivity in health and disease. Changes in motor function in the gut may influence sensory levels, eg, during contractions or as a result of changes in viscus compliance. New insights on sensory end organs, such as intraganglionic laminar endings, and basic neurophysiologic studies showing afferent firing during changes in stretch rather than tension illustrate the importance of different types of stimuli, not just tension, to stimulate afferent sensation. These insights provide the basis for understanding visceral sensation in health and disease, which will be extensively discussed in subsequent articles.
For approximately 80 years following Alzheimer's description of the disease that bears his name, a gulf divided researchers who believed that extracellular deposits of the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide were pathogenic from those who believed that the deposits were secondary detritus. Since 1990, the discoveries of missense mutations in the Abeta peptide precursor (APP) and the APP-cleaving enzyme presenilin 1 (PS1) have enabled much progress in understanding the molecular, cellular, and tissue pathology of the aggregates that accumulate in the interstices of the brains of patients with autosomal dominant familial Alzheimer disease (AD). Clarification of the molecular basis of common forms of AD has been more elusive. The central questions in common AD focus on whether cerebral and cerebrovascular Abeta accumulation is (a) a final neurotoxic pathway, common to all forms of AD; (b) a toxic by-product of an independent primary metabolic lesion that, by itself, is also neurotoxic; or (c) an inert by-product of an independent primary neurotoxic reaction. Antiamyloid medications are entering clinical trials so that researchers can evaluate whether abolition of cerebral amyloidosis can mitigate, treat, or prevent the dementia associated with common forms of AD. Successful development of antiamyloid medications is critical for elucidating the role of Abeta in common AD.
Metastatic dissemination of malignant glioma is rare. Metastatic disease usually occurs within the neuraxis but extracranial spread to the liver, spleen, lung, peritoneum and lymph nodes can also occur. In most cases of metastatic disease, the patient has previously undergone a craniotomy. The prognosis is uniformly poor. The vast majority of patients do not survive beyond six months from diagnosis of metastatic spread of a primary intracranial tumour. The pathophysiology and natural history of this condition is still not fully understood, hence well-designed prospective studies are needed.
Misattribution refers to the act of attributing a memory or idea to an incorrect source, such as successfully remembering a bit of information but linking it to an inappropriate person or time [Jacoby, L. L., Kelley, C., Brown, J., &amp; Jasechko, J. (1989). Becoming famous overnight: Limits on the ability to avoid unconscious influences of the past. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 56, 326-338; Schacter, D. L. (1999). The seven sins of memory: Insights from psychology and cognitive neuroscience. American Psychologist, 54, 182-203; Schacter, D. L. (2001). The seven sins of memory: How the mind forgets and remembers. Boston: Houghton Mifflin]. Cognitive studies have suggested that misattribution errors may occur in the absence of recollection for the details of an initial encounter with a stimulus, but little is known about the neural basis of this memory phenomenon. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the hypothesized role of recollection in counteracting the illusory truth effect, a misattribution error whereby perceivers systematically overrate the truth of previously presented information. Imaging was conducted during the encoding and subsequent judgment of unfamiliar statements that were presented as true or false. Event-related fMRI analyses were conditionalized as a function of subsequent performance. Results demonstrated that encoding activation in regions previously associated with successful recollection--including the hippocampus and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC)--correlated with the successful avoidance of misattribution errors, providing initial neuroimaging support for earlier cognitive accounts of misattribution.
The marine nudibranch Tritonia diomedea crawls using its ciliated foot surface as the sole means of propulsion. Turning while crawling involves raising a small portion of the lateral foot margin on the side of the turn. The cilia in the lifted area no longer contribute to propulsion, and this asymmetry in thrust turns the animal towards the lifted side. Neurons located in the pedal ganglia of the brain contribute to these foot margin contractions. T. diomedea has a natural tendency to turn upstream (rheotaxis), and pedal flexion neuron Pedal 3 elicits foot margin lift and receives modulatory input from flow receptors. To assess the contribution of this single cell in turning behavior, two fine wires were glued to the surface of the brain over left and right Pedal 3. We determined that Pedal 3 activity is correlated with subsequent ipsilateral turns, preceding the lift of the foot margin and the change in orientation by a consistent interval. Both Pedal 3 cells show synchronous bursts of activity, and the firing frequency of the ipsilateral Pedal 3 increased before turns were observed to that side. Stimulation of the electrode over Pedal 3 proved sufficient to elicit an ipsilateral turn in Tritonia.
Previous research has shown that sex differences exist in the composition of lateral movements (E. F. Field, I. Q. Whishaw, &amp; S. M. Pellis, 1996, 1997a, 1997b; see also records 1996-06132-009, 1997-05322-015, and 1997-04722-005). An unresolved question is whether sex differences are present in other movements, such as rotation around the longitudinal axis, and whether this difference is dependent on a feminine or masculine skeletomusculature. Female rats (Rattus norvegicus) first rotate their forequarters and then their hindquarters in the same direction. Male rats exhibit rotation of the hindquarters counter to the direction of forequarter rotation. Males with the testicular feminized mutation, who have a feminized skeletomusculature and masculinized central nervous system, are similar to male controls. This study provides evidence that sex differences in movement integration are not restricted to the lateral plane, are not solely due to sex differences in skeletomusculature, and thus are likely mediated by the central nervous system.
Interest in the psychiatric consequences of trauma and the subsequent surgical intervention has been increasing steadily; therefore, the authors assessed the prevalence of acute symptoms of stress in patients who experienced a craniomaxillofacial injury. Fifty patients between the ages of 18 and 65 years were evaluated and assigned a score using the Injury Severity Scale (ISS). Within 48 hours of surgery (T0) and at 3 months after surgery (T1), the authors administered the Davidson Trauma Scale (DTS) to assess post-traumatic symptoms, Spielberger's State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) to assess symptoms of anxiety, and Zung's Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS) to assess depressive symptoms. Of the subjects, 44% (22 patients at T0) had acute symptoms of stress, and 26% (13 patients at T1) had post-traumatic stress symptoms. The statistical association between demographic variables was significant only for gender, especially for women. There was a significant correlation between the psychopathologic variables and trauma-specific symptoms at both T0 and T1; the same was true for the ISS at T0. Eight of the 13 patients with positive DTS results at 3 months had aesthetic and functional sequelae that might have served as reminders of the traumatic event. It is not only necessary to restitutio ad integrum the anatomy and function, but also to provide psychiatric support for patients experiencing psychiatric symptoms caused by traumatic events.
On cyclic-interval reinforcement schedules, animals typically show a postreinforcement pause that is a function of the immediately preceding time interval (temporal tracking). Animals, however, do not track single-alternation schedules-when two different intervals are presented in strict alternation on successive trials. In this experiment, pigeons were first trained with a cyclic schedule consisting of alternating blocks of 12 short intervals (5 s or 30 s) and 12 long intervals (180 s), followed by three different single-alternation interval schedules: (a) 30 s and 180 s, (b) 5 s and 180 s, and (c) 5 s and 30 s. Pigeons tracked both schedules with alternating blocks of 12 intervals. With the single-alternation schedules, when the short interval duration was 5 s, regardless of the duration of the longer interval, pigeons learned the alternation pattern, and their pause anticipated the upcoming interval. When the shorter interval was 30 s, even when the ratio of short to long intervals was kept at 6:1, pigeons did not initially show anticipatory pausing-a violation of the principle of timescale invariance.
While most mammals have no more than two types of cone photoreceptor, four species of Australian marsupial have recently been shown to possess three types, and thus have the potential for trichromatic colour vision. Interestingly, the long-wave cones of the honey possum Tarsipes rostratus are tuned to longer wavelengths than those of the other species measured to date. We tested whether the honey possum's long-wave tuning is adaptive for visual tasks associated with its almost unique diet of nectar and pollen. We modelled three tasks: (1) detecting food-rich 'target' flowers against their natural background of foliage or other vegetation; (2) discriminating target flowers from flowers of non-target species; (3) discerning the maturity of the most important target flowers. Initial comparisons of trichromacy vs dichromacy generally favoured the former, but interestingly dichromacy was no disadvantage in some cases. For tuning, we found that overall the honey possum's long-wave tuning is more adaptive than that of the other marsupial species. Nevertheless, the optimal tuning for tasks 1 and 2 would be at longer wavelengths still, implying that a different pressure or constraint operates against a further long-wave shift of the honey possum's L cone tuning. Our data show that a possible ecological pressure may be provided by the third task--the difficult and potentially critical discrimination of the maturity of the animal's major food supply, the flowers of Banksia attenuata.

It is widely acknowledged that there is a strong need to identify which modifiable risk factors predict healthy aging to use this information as the scientific basis for systematic interventions. Data from a 4-year longitudinal study on aging among 5632 older Italians were used. The definition of vitality was based on both cognitive and physical status, and the envisaged transitions were: positive or nonpositive stable, positive or negative transition, lost, and deceased. Predictors associated with different vitality trajectories were investigated by multinomial logistic analysis with a six-level outcome. Age and educational level were predictors of being &quot;positive stable,&quot; whereas the other factors behaved differently according to comparison group. For example, being overweight is a common predictor except when compared to the deceased group, as is depressive symptomatology except when compared to the &quot;positive transition&quot; group. Interventions are warranted to reduce social inequalities, promote adequate body weight, and prevent and treat depressive symptoms.


Modulation of T cell response is a novel property of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitors. Previously we reported the benefits of atorvastatin treatment in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, the murine model of the T cell-mediated autoimmune disorder multiple sclerosis, in which a blockade of the T cell cycle by atorvastatin was attributed to an accumulation of the negative regulator p27(Kip1). We show in this report that, in line with the documented role of p27(Kip1) in T cell anergy, treatment with atorvastatin results in a deficient response to a second productive stimulus in human T cells. This effect of atorvastatin was dependent on HMG-CoA reduction and required IL-10 signaling. Importantly, atorvastatin induced an early and sustained phosphorylation of ERK1, but not ERK2, which was crucial for the induction of anergy. On the basis of the therapeutic impact of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, the present findings should pave the way for future therapeutic concepts related to tolerance induction in neuroinflammatory disorders such as multiple sclerosis.
During oviposition, the parasitoid wasp Cotesia congregata injects polydnavirus, venom, and parasitoid eggs into larvae of its lepidopteran host, the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta. Polydnaviruses (PDVs) suppress the immune system of the host and allow the juvenile parasitoids to develop without being encapsulated by host hemocytes mobilized by the immune system. Previous work identified a gene in the Cotesia rubecula PDV (CrV1) that is responsible for depolymerization of actin in hemocytes of the host Pieris rapae during a narrow temporal window from 4 to 8h post-parasitization. Its expression appears temporally correlated with hemocyte dysfunction. After this time, the hemocytes recover, and encapsulation is then inhibited by other mechanism(s). In contrast, in parasitized tobacco hornworm larvae this type of inactivation in hemocytes of parasitized M. sexta larvae leads to irreversible cellular disruption. We have characterized the temporal pattern of expression of the CrV1-homolog from the C. congregata PDV in host fat body and hemocytes using Northern blots, and localized the protein in host hemocytes with polyclonal antibodies to CrV1 protein produced in P. rapae in response to expression of the CrV1 protein. Host hemocytes stained with FITC-labeled phalloidin, which binds to filamentous actin, were used to observe hemocyte disruption in parasitized and virus-injected hosts and a comparison was made to hemocytes of nonparasitized control larvae. At 24h post-parasitization host hemocytes were significantly altered compared to those of nonparasitized larvae. Hemocytes from newly parasitized hosts displayed blebbing, inhibition of spreading and adhesion, and overall cell disruption. A CrV1-homolog gene product was localized in host hemocytes using polyclonal CrV1 antibodies, suggesting that CrV1-like gene products of C. congregata's bracovirus are responsible for the impaired immune response of the host.
The Verbal Learning Test (VLT; Rey, 1958) evaluates the declarative memory. Despite its extensive use, it has been difficult to establish normative data because test administration has not been uniform. The purpose of the present study was to gather normative data for the VLT for a large number (N = 1855) of healthy participants aged 24-81 years, using a procedure in which the words to be learned were presented either verbally or visually. The results showed that VLT performance decreased in an age-dependent manner from an early age. The learning capacity of younger versus older adults differed quantitatively rather than qualitatively. Females and higher educated participants outperformed males and lower educated participants over the entire age range tested. Presentation mode affected VLT performance differently: auditory presentation resulted in a better recall on Trial 1 (a short-term or working memory measure), whereas visual presentation yielded a better performance on Trial 3, Trial 4, and Delta (a learning measure).


William (Bill) Liley received his MB ChB from Otago University, Dunedin (New Zealand), in 1954. Under the guidance of the neurophysiologist Professor J C Eccles (1903-97), he carried out major research on neuromuscular transmission, both as an undergraduate at Otago University and as a postgraduate at the Australian National University at Canberra. In 1957 Bill Liley switched to research in obstetrics at the Women's National Hospital at Auckland in New Zealand. He refined the diagnostic procedure for rhesus haemolytic disease of the newborn and was able to predict its severity. Liley developed the technique of intrauterine transfusion of rhesus-negative blood for severely affected fetuses and led the team that carried out the first successful fetal transfusions in the world. He was a passionate advocate of the medical and societal rights of the unborn child.
Heart failure is characterized by limited exercise tolerance and by a skeletal muscle myopathy with atrophy and shift toward fast fibres. An inflammatory status with elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines and exaggerated free radicals production, can worsen muscle damage. In a well established model of heart failure, the monocrotaline treated rat, we show that CHF is accompanied by oxidation of the skeletal muscle actin, tropomyosin and myosin, which further depresses muscle function and exercise capacity. We have also tested the efficacy of Carvedilol, a non-selective beta(1)-beta(2)-blocker, which has been widely used in clinical trials to improve exercise tolerance and reduce mortality in moderate and severe CHF, in preventing contractile protein oxidation in CHF rats. As comparison we used Bisoprolol a beta(1) selective agent, without known anti-oxidative properties. Carvedilol at the dose of 2 mg/kg per day was able to prevent the myofibrillar protein oxidation, while Bisoprolol (0.1 mg/kg) did it only partially, as demonstrated by the oxyblot analysis. While Carvedilol improved force production on isolated muscles, Bisoprolol did not. After the COMET trial, the anti-oxidative capacity of Carvedilol has been invoked as one of the mechanism that makes this drug superior to other selective beta-blockers in the treatment of CHF. One of the reason of Carvedilol superiority could be the effect on skeletal muscle with reduction of contractile protein peroxidation, amelioration of muscle function and improvement of exercise tolerance. Inhibition of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and of pro-inflammatory cytokines may also lead to a decreased muscle wastage, another factor contributing to worsening of exercise tolerance.
Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) is a family of key enzymes in membrane phospholipid metabolism. In rats, the inhibition of PLA2 activity in the hippocampus was found to impair memory formation. Because memory function is largely dependent on the fluidity of brain membranes, we performed the present study to investigate the effects of in vivo PLA2 inhibition (with PACOCF3) on the fluidity of hippocampal membranes from rats trained in a learning task. Hippocampal tissue from rats injected with 100 microM PACOCF3 showed reduced membrane fluidity as compared to vehicle (p &lt; 0.01), and the reduction of membrane fluidity was highly correlated with PLA2 inhibition (r = .76, p &lt; 0.03). This finding is of interest because reduction of brain membrane fluidity impairs memory formation and both decreased PLA2 activity and reduced membrane fluidity have been reported in the brain from patients with Alzheimer's disease.
We investigated the role of the Ras/extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway in the development of tolerance to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)-induced reduction in spontaneous locomotor activity by a genetic (Ras-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor (Ras-GRF1) knock-out mice) and pharmacological approach. Pre-treatment of wild-type mice with SL327 (50 mg/kg i.p.), a specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), the upstream kinase of ERK, fully prevented the development of tolerance to THC-induced hypolocomotion. We investigated the impact of the inhibition of ERK activation on the biological processes involved in cannabinoid tolerance (receptor down-regulation and desensitization), by autoradiographic cannabinoid CB1 receptor and cannabinoid-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding studies in subchronically treated mice (THC, 10 mg/kg s.c., twice a day for 5 days). In the caudate putamen and cerebellum of Ras-GRF1 knock-out mice and SL327 pre-treated wild-type mice, CB1 receptor down-regulation and desensitization did not occur, suggesting that ERK activation might account for CB1 receptor plasticity involved in the development of tolerance to THC hypolocomotor effect. In contrast, the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex showed CB1 receptor adaptations regardless of the genetic or pharmacological inhibition of the ERK pathway, suggesting regional variability in the cellular events underlying the altered CB1 receptor function. These findings suggest that at least in the caudate putamen and cerebellum, the Ras/ERK pathway is essential for triggering the alteration in CB1 receptor function responsible for tolerance to THC-induced hypomotility.
Rat spinal cord contusion injury models the histopathology associated with much clinical spinal cord injury (SCI). Studies on altered gene expression after SCI in these models may identify therapeutic targets for reducing secondary injury after the initial trauma and/or enhancing recovery processes. However, complex spatial and temporal alterations after injury could complicate interpretation of changes in gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we selected six genes and studied their temporal and spatial patterns of expression at 1 h, 1, 3 and 7 days after a standardized spinal cord contusion produced by a weight drop device (10 g x 25 mm at T8). Real-time RT-PCR using TaqMan probes was employed to quantify mRNA for proteolipid protein, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, glial fibrillary acidic protein, nestin, and the GluR2 and NR1 subunits of glutamate receptors. We found widely different temporal and spatial patterns of altered gene expression after SCI, including instances of opposing up- and down-regulation at different locations in tissue immediately adjacent to the injury site. We conclude that greater use of the reliable and extremely sensitive technique of quantitative real-time PCR for regional tissue analysis is important for understanding the altered gene expression that occurs after CNS trauma.
Dopamine D2 receptor activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) in non-neuronal human embryonic kidney 293 cells was dependent on transactivation of the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor, as demonstrated by the effect of the PDGF receptor inhibitors tyrphostin A9 and AG 370 on quinpirole-induced phosphorylation of ERKs and by quinpirole-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the PDGF receptor. In contrast, ectopically expressed D2 receptor or endogenous D2-like receptor activation of ERKs in NS20Y neuroblastoma cells, which express little or no PDGF receptor, or in rat neostriatal neurons was largely dependent on transactivation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor, as demonstrated using the EGF receptor inhibitor AG 1478 and by quinpirole-induced phosphorylation of the EGF receptor. The D2 receptor agonist quinpirole enhanced the coprecipitation of D2 and EGF receptors in NS20Y cells, suggesting that D2 receptor activation induced the formation of a macromolecular signaling complex that includes both receptors. Transactivation of the EGF receptor also involved the activity of a matrix metalloproteinase. Thus, although D2 receptor stimulation of ERKs in both cell lines was decreased by inhibitors of ERK kinase, Src-family protein tyrosine kinases, and serine/threonine protein kinases, D2-like receptors activated ERKs via transactivation of the EGF receptor in NS20Y neuroblastoma cells and rat embryonic neostriatal neurons, but via transactivation of the PDGF receptor in 293 cells.
Mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) account for 10-20% of a familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A common feature of SOD1 mutants is abnormal aggregation of the aberrant SOD1 in neurons and glia. We now report that in ALS transgenic mouse models the constitutively expressed heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is mislocalized into aggregates together with mutant SOD1 and ubiquitin. Forcing increased synthesis of Hsp70 ameliorates both aggregate formation and toxicity in primary motor neurons in culture. However, chronic increase in an inducible form of Hsp70 to about 10-fold its normal level is shown here not to affect disease course or pathology developed in mice from accumulation of any of three familial ALS causing SOD1 mutants with different underlying biochemical characteristics. Therefore, increasing Hsp70 to a level that is protective in mouse models of acute ischemic insult and selected neurodegenerative disorders is not sufficient to ameliorate mutant SOD1-mediated toxicity.
The transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE), or prion diseases are a group of transmissible neurodegenerative disorders of humans and animals. Although the infectious agent (the 'prion') has not yet been formally defined at the molecular level, much evidence exists to suggest that the major or sole component is an abnormal isoform of the host encoded prion protein (PrP). Different strains or isolates of the infectious agent exist, which exhibit characteristic disease phenotypes when transmitted to susceptible animals. In the absence of a nucleic acid genome it has been hard to accommodate the existence of TSE strains within the protein-only model of prion replication. Recent work examining the conformation and glycosylation patterns of disease-associated PrP has shown that these post-translational modifications show strain-specific properties and contribute to the molecular basis of TSE strain variation. This article will review the role of glycosylation in the susceptibility of cellular PrP to conversion to the disease-associated conformation and the role of glycosylation as a marker of TSE strain type.
Cytochrome P-450 function as mono-oxygenases and metabolize xenobiotics. CYP1A1, a cytochrome P-450 enzyme, bioactivates polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to reactive metabolite(s) that bind to DNA and initiate carcinogenesis. Northern and immunoblot analyses revealed constitutive expression of Cyp1a1 and CYP1A1 in rat and human brain, respectively. CYP1A1 mRNA and protein were localized predominantly in neurons of cerebral cortex, Purkinje and granule cell layers of cerebellum and pyramidal neurons of CA1, CA2, and CA3 subfields of the hippocampus. RT-PCR analyses using RNA obtained from autopsy human brain samples demonstrated the presence of a splice variant having a deletion of 87 bp of exon 6. This splice variant was present in human brain, but not in the liver from the same individual, and was absent in rat brain and liver. Structural modeling indicated broadening of the substrate access channel in the brain variant. The study demonstrates the presence of a unique cytochrome P-450 enzyme in human brain that is generated by alternate splicing. The presence of distinct cytochrome P-450 enzymes in human brain that are different from well-characterized hepatic forms indicates that metabolism of xenobiotics including drugs could occur in brain by pathways different from those known to occur in liver.
Adenosine, a neuromodulator of the CNS, activates inhibitory-A1 receptors and facilitatory-A2A receptors; its synaptic levels are controlled by the activity of bi-directional equilibrative nucleoside transporters. To study the relationship between the extracellular formation/inactivation of adenosine and the activation of adenosine receptors, we investigated how A1 and A2A receptor activation modifies adenosine transport in hippocampal synaptosomes. The A2A receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (30 nm), facilitated adenosine uptake through a PKC-dependent mechanism, but A1 receptor activation had no effect. CGS 21680 (30 nm) also increased depolarization-induced release of adenosine. Both effects were prevented by A2A receptor blockade. A2A receptor-mediated enhancement of adenosine transport system is important for formatting adenosine neuromodulation according to the stimulation frequency, as: (1) A1 receptor antagonist, DPCPX (250 nm), facilitated the evoked release of [(3)H]acetylcholine under low-frequency stimulation (2 Hz) from CA3 hippocampal slices, but had no effect under high-frequency stimulation (50 Hz); (2) either nucleoside transporter or A2A receptor blockade revealed the facilitatory effect of DPCPX (250 nm) on [3H]acetylcholine evoked-release triggered by high-frequency stimulation. These results indicate that A2A receptor activation facilitates the activity of nucleoside transporters, which have a preponderant role in modulating the extracellular adenosine levels available to activate A1 receptors.
Adult dentate neurogenesis is important for certain types of hippocampal-dependent learning and also appears to be important for the maintenance of normal mood and the behavioural effects of antidepressants. Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide neurotransmitter released by interneurons in the dentate gyrus, has important effects on mood, anxiety-related behaviour and learning and memory. We report that adult NPY receptor knock-out mice have significantly reduced cell proliferation and significantly fewer immature doublecortin-positive neurons in the dentate gyrus. We also show that the neuroproliferative effect of NPY is dentate specific, is Y1-receptor mediated and involves extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 activation. NPY did not exhibit any effect on cell survival in vitro but constitutive loss of the Y1 receptor in vivo resulted in greater survival of newly generated neurons and an unchanged total number of dentate granule cells. These results show that NPY stimulates neuronal precursor proliferation in the dentate gyrus and suggest that NPY-releasing interneurons may modulate dentate neurogenesis.
Compromised mitochondrial function in neurons and glia has been observed in several neurodegenerative disorders, including Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Chemical/hypoxic preconditioning may afford protection against subsequently more severe oxidative damages. In this study, we tested whether induction of hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) may exert cytoprotective effects against mitochondrial dysfunction caused by 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) in glial cells. Preconditioning of C6 astroglial cells with cobalt chloride, mimosine (MIM), and desferrioxamine (DFO), all of which known to activate HIF-1, significantly attenuated cytotoxicity induced by 3-NP, an irreversible inhibitor of mitochondrial complex II, and antimycin A, a mitochondrial complex III inhibitor. Application of cadmium chloride capable of neutralizing cobalt-induced HIF-1 activation, HIF-specific oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) decoy, and antisense phosphorothioate ODN against HIF-1alpha abolished the protective effect mediated by preconditioning with cobalt chloride. Preloading of C6 cells with SN50, PD98059, or SB202190, the respective inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), p44/p42 extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), failed to affect the protection afforded by cobalt preconditioning. Taken together, these results suggest that HIF-1 induction secondary to preconditioning with cobalt chloride or iron chelators may mediate the protective effects against metabolic insult induced by the mitochondrial inhibitor 3-NP in C6 astroglial cells.
15% of myasthenia gravis (MG) patients do not have antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Some of these &quot;seronegative&quot; MG patients have antibodies against muscle specific kinase (MuSK), and many have a non-IgG factor that acutely inhibits AChR function in a muscle-like cell line, CN21. Here we show, using mainly one plasma negative for both AChR and MuSK antibodies, that the inhibitory effect of the non-IgG fraction correlates well with the desensitisation caused by 100 microM nicotine, and is found also when AChRs are expressed in a non-muscle cell line (HEK). Moreover, a similar effect was seen with M3C7-a monoclonal antibody against human AChR. The results suggest that, rather than acting indirectly as previously proposed, the SNMG factor may bind directly to an allosteric site that induces or enhances AChR desensitisation.



Survivin, an inhibitor of apoptosis, is over-expressed in foetal tissues and human cancers, but it is almost undetectable in normal tissues. Here we have assessed the level of the survivin protein in some benign tumors of the nervous system: meningioma, schwannoma, low-grade ependymoma, pilocytic astrocytoma and pituitary adenoma. Using immuno-blot analysis we present evidence that these low-grade tumors are positive for survivin expression. In agreement, flow cytometrical analysis showed that both spontaneous and radiation-induced apoptosis levels are very low in these neoplasms. Using host cell reactivation assay we have also shown that these tumor cells are proficient in the repair of gamma-ray-induced DNA damage. However, they are deficient in the removal of ultraviolet (UV) light-induced DNA photolesions, especially the shwannoma- and the pituitary adenoma-derived cells. These results suggest that survivin overexpression may be an early event in the stepwise tumoregenesis and hence could be responsible for the onset as well as the growth advantage during tumoregenic progression of malignant as well as benign neoplasms.
Although evidence suggests that extensive cortical beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition is essential in Alzheimer disease (AD), it is also detected in nondemented elderly individuals with pathologic aging (PA). Given evidence that neutral endopeptidase (NEP) or neprilysin, a key enzyme for clearance of Abeta, is decreased in AD, the goal of the present study was to determine if NEP was also decreased in PA. We measured NEP immunoreactivity in frontal cortex of 12 AD and six PA cases and compared this with 10 normal (N) elderly individuals. None had any significant other pathology, and they were similar with respect to age, sex, and postmortem delay. In addition, Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), whereas tau, synaptophysin, and alpha-synuclein were measured on Western blots. The AD cases had more neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, higher Braak stage, and more tau immunoreactivity in frontal cortex than both PA and N. In contrast, both PA and AD had more senile plaques and Abeta1-42 than N. NEP immunoreactivity was decreased in AD but not in PA. The decrease was unlikely the result of neuronal or synaptic loss because NEP immunoreactivity in frontotemporal degeneration with comparable degrees of synaptic loss as the AD cases was not different from control subjects. Although NEP enzyme activity was decreased in approximately half the AD cases, on average, it was not decreased compared with N or PA. The results add further evidence that PA is distinct from AD and indicate that decreased Abeta degradation by NEP is unlikely to contribute significantly to amyloid deposition in PA or, in many cases, of AD.
Although bilateral fimbria-fornix (FF) lesioning impairs spatial performance in animals, the literature is equivocal regarding its effects on hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). We examined the effects of FF lesioning on LTP induction in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway in vivo with a protocol that delivered theta burst stimulation (TBS) trains of increasing length until a sufficient length was reached to induce LTP of the monosynaptic field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP). Experiments were performed in urethan-anesthetized Long-Evans rats either 4 or 12-16 wk after lesioning. In sham-operated controls, TBS trains ranging from 4 to 12 bursts were sufficient to induce robust LTP [170 +/- 10% (mean +/- SF) of control fEPSP slope; n = 8]. Four-week post -FF-lesioned animals also displayed clear LTP (167 +/- 12% of control fEPSP slope; n = 4) that did not differ from the shams (P &gt; 0.05). In contrast, animals in the 12- to 16-wk post-lesion group showed a highly significant deficit in LTP induction (95 +/- 3% of control fEPSP slope; n = 8; &lt; or =28 burst TBS trains tested; P &lt; 0.001 vs. sham- and 4-wk post-FF-lesion groups). Other quantitative measures of synaptic excitability (i.e., baseline fEPSP slope and input-output relation) did not differ between the sham- and the 12- to 16-wk post-FF-lesion groups. These results indicate that the FF lesion leads to an enduring defect in hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity that may relate mechanistically to the cognitive deficits characterized in this model.
A sizeable number of spinothalamic tract axons terminate in the posterior thalamus. The functional roles and precise areas of termination of these axons have been a subject of recent controversy. The goals of this study were to identify spinothalamic tract neurons (STT) within the cervical enlargement that project to this area, characterize their responses to mechanical and thermal stimulation of their receptive fields, and use microantidromic tracking methods to determine the nuclei in which their axons terminate. Forty-seven neurons were antidromically activated using low-amplitude (&lt; or =30 microA) current pulses in the contralateral posterior thalamus. The 51 points at which antidromic activation thresholds were lowest were surrounded by ineffective tracks indicating that the surrounded axons terminated within the posterior thalamus. The areas of termination were located primarily in the posterior triangular, medial geniculate, posterior and posterior intralaminar, and suprageniculate nuclei. Recording points were located in the superficial and deep dorsal horn. The mean antidromic conduction velocity was 6.4 m/s, a conduction velocity slower than that of other projections to the thalamus or hypothalamus in rats. Cutaneous receptive fields appeared to be smaller than those of neurons projecting to other areas of the thalamus or to the hypothalamus. Each of the examined neurons responded exclusively or preferentially to noxious stimuli. These findings indicate that the STT carries nociceptive information to several target nuclei within the posterior thalamus. We discuss the evidence that this projection provides nociceptive information that plays an important role in fear conditioning.
The larval neuromuscular synapse of Drosophila serves as an important model for genetic and molecular analysis of synaptic development and function. Further functional characterization of this synapse, as well as adult neuromuscular synapses, will greatly enhance the impact of this model system on our understanding of synaptic transmission. Here we describe a form of short-term synaptic depression observed at larval, but not adult, neuromuscular synapses and explore the underlying mechanisms. Larval neuromuscular synapses exhibited a form of short-term depression that was strongly dependent on stimulation frequency over a narrow range of low frequencies (0.1-1 Hz). This form of synaptic depression, referred to here as low-frequency short-term depression (LF-STD), results from an activity-dependent reduction in neurotransmitter release. However, in contrast to the predictions of depletion models, the degree of depression was independent of the initial level of neurotransmitter release over a range of extracellular calcium concentrations. This conclusion was confirmed in two temperature-sensitive (TS) paralytic mutants, cacophony and shibire, which exhibit reduced neurotransmitter release resulting from conditional disruption of presynaptic calcium channels and dynamin, respectively. Higher stimulation frequencies (40 or 60 Hz) produced two components of depression that appeared to include LF-STD as well as a more conventional component of short-term depression. These findings reveal novel properties of short-term synaptic depression and suggest that complementary genetic analysis of larval and adult neuromuscular synapses will further define the in vivo mechanisms of neurotransmitter release and short-term synaptic plasticity.
When we touch something with a tool, we feel the touch at the tip of the tool rather than at the hand that holds the tool. We reported previously that judging the temporal order of two successive stimuli delivered to the tips of straight sticks held in each hand was dramatically altered by crossing the sticks without changing hand position. The results suggested that tactile signals are referred to the tip of a tool held in the hand. Here we examined temporal order judgement using L-shaped sticks instead of straight ones to determine whether the shape of a tool affects the way tactile signals are referred. Subjects reported the order of stimuli correctly in most trials when the tip of each L-shaped stick occupied the hemispace ipsilateral to the anatomical laterality of the hand holding the L-shaped stick. The subjects, however, misreported the order of stimuli presented at moderately short intervals (&lt;300 ms) when the tip of the stick occupied the hemispace contralateral to the anatomical laterality of the hand holding it. The judgment reversal occurred irrespective of the number of physical crossings between the sticks and the arms (0, 1, and 3), as long as the tips of L-shaped tools were placed in the contralateral hemispace. Our results suggest that our brain refers tactile signals from the hand directly to the location of the tip without much accounting for the route that connects hand and tip.
Paroxysmal 5- to 12-Hz high-voltage rhythmic spike (HVRS) activities, which are accompanied by whisker twitching (WT), are found in Long Evans rats, but the function of these HVRS activities is still debated. In four major functional hypotheses of HVRS discharges, i.e., alpha tremor, attention/mu rhythm, idling/mu rhythm, and absence seizure, the first two hypotheses emphasize WT behavior in HVRS bouts. Whisker movement is primarily determined by activation of intrinsic and extrinsic muscles. To clarify the role of WT in HVRS activities, simultaneous recording of the activities from the cortex and intrinsic/extrinsic and neck muscles were performed. Most HVRS bouts (68.8%) revealed no time-locked WT behavior in a 2-h recording session. In addition, WT primarily arose from active protraction due to activation of intrinsic muscles followed by passive retraction. A small portion of WT resulted from activation of both vibrissae muscles with dynamic frequency-dependent phase shifts. Onset of the rhythmic vibrissae EMG significantly lagged behind HVRS onset, and the mean duration of vibrissae muscle activity was one-third to a one-half of a HVRS bout. Moreover, a greater number of HVRS bouts were associated with a longer HVRS duration and higher oscillation frequency. Oscillation frequencies of HVRS activities without WT behavior were significantly lower than those with WT. Under peripheral sensory/motor blockade by xylocaine injection, oscillation frequencies of HVRS bouts significantly decreased, but no remarkable changes in the number or duration of HVRS bouts were observed. Compared with vibrissa muscle activity during WT and exploratory whisking, the duration of muscular activity in each cycle was apparently longer during whisking bouts. Based on these results, overemphasis of the role of WT on HVRS activities might not be appropriate. Instead, HVRS discharges may be associated with absence seizure or idling state. In addition, peripheral inputs, including WT, may elevate the oscillation frequency of HVRS bouts. Moreover, different muscular controls may exist between WT and whisking.
In many passive visual tasks, human perceptual judgments are contrast dependent. To explore whether these contrast dependencies of visual perception also affect closed-loop manual control tasks, we examined visuomotor performance as humans actively controlled a moving luminance-defined line over a range of contrasts. Four subjects were asked to use a joystick to keep a horizontal line centered on a display as its vertical position was perturbed by a sum of sinusoids under two control regimes. The total root mean square (RMS) position error decreased quasi-linearly with increasing log contrast across the tested range (mean slope across subjects: -8.0 and -7.7% per log2 contrast, for the two control regimes, respectively). Frequency-response (Bode) plots showed a systematic increase in open-loop gain (mean slope: 1.44 and 1.30 dB per log2 contrast, respectively), and decrease in phase lag with increasing contrast, which can be accounted for by a decrease in response time delay (mean slope: 32 and 40 ms per log2 contrast, respectively). The performance data are well fit by a Crossover Model proposed by McRuer and Krendel, which allowed us to identify both visual position and motion cues driving performance. This analysis revealed that the position and motion cues used to support manual control under both control regimes appear equally sensitive to changes in stimulus contrast. In conclusion, our data show that active control of a moving visual stimulus is as dependent on contrast as passive perception and suggest that this effect is attributed to a shared contrast sensitivity early in the visual pathway, before any specialization for motion processing.
Roughly half of all ganglion cells in mammalian retina belong to the broad class, termed &quot;sluggish.&quot; Many of these cells have small receptive fields and project via lateral geniculate nuclei to visual cortex. However, their possible contributions to perception have been largely ignored because sluggish cells seem to respond weakly compared with the more easily studied &quot;brisk&quot; cells. By selecting small somas under infrared DIC optics and recording with a loose seal, we could routinely isolate sluggish cells. When a spot was matched spatially and temporally to the receptive field center, most sluggish cells could detect the same low contrasts as brisk cells. Detection thresholds for the two groups determined by an &quot;ideal observer&quot; were similar: threshold contrast for sluggish cells was 4.7 +/- 0.5% (mean +/- SE), and for brisk cells was 3.4 +/- 0.3% (Mann-Whitney test: P &gt; 0.05). Signal-to-noise ratios for the two classes were also similar at low contrast. However, sluggish cells saturated at somewhat lower contrasts (contrast for half-maximum response was 14 +/- 1 vs. 19 +/- 2% for brisk cells) and were less sensitive to higher temporal frequencies (when the stimulus frequency was increased from 2 to 4 Hz, the response rate fell by 1.6-fold). Thus the sluggish cells covered a narrower dynamic range and a narrower temporal bandwidth, consistent with their reported lower information rates. Because information per spike is greater at lower firing rates, sluggish cells may represent &quot;cheaper&quot; channels that convey less urgent visual information at a lower energy cost.
Arrays of closely spaced quartz-insulated, platinum-tungsten microelectrodes are widely used to obtain acute recordings from chronically prepared subjects. These electrodes have excellent recording characteristics and can be fabricated to a wide variety of tip specifications. Typically, in such experiments, electrodes are introduced into, and removed from, the brain on a daily basis and, over many months of study, hundreds of penetrations may be made through an intact dura. This procedure has benefits as well as problems and risks. For some experimental aims, it might be desirable to leave the microelectrodes within the brain so that the penetrations could be continued on subsequent days. This would allow a more thorough and systematic exploration of the neurons that lie along the trajectory of each of the closely aligned electrodes and would minimize risks and preparation time associated with daily electrode insertions. Here we present a means for achieving this aim using arrays of sharp, flexible Reitboeck electrodes of extremely fine diameter (40-microm shaft diameter, pulled and ground to a fine tip). We show that these electrodes retain their excellent recording characteristics and can remain under microdrive control within the brain for periods of many months and, in one remarkable case, for &gt;4 years.
We describe a new technique that uses the timing of neuronal and behavioral responses to explore the contributions of individual neurons to specific behaviors. The approach uses both the mean neuronal latency and the trial-by-trial covariance between neuronal latency and behavioral response. Reliable measurements of these values were obtained from single-unit recordings made from anterior inferotemporal (AIT) cortex and the frontal eye fields (FEF) in monkeys while they performed a choice reaction time task. These neurophysiological data show that the responses of AIT neurons and some FEF neurons have little covariance with behavioral response, consistent with a largely &quot;sensory&quot; response. The responses of another group of FEF neurons with longer mean latency covary tightly with behavioral response, consistent with a largely &quot;motor&quot; response. A very small fraction of FEF neurons had responses consistent with an intermediate position in the sensory-motor pathway. These results suggest that this technique is a valuable tool for exploring the functional organization of neuronal circuits that underlie specific behaviors.
Caspases are implicated in apoptotic cell death after spinal cord injury (SCI), but the relative contribution of these proteases to the secondary injury process has been only partially described. We examined the activation of caspases 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, and 9 from 1 hr to 7 days after moderate contusion injury induced by a weight-drop method in the rat. Tissue homogenates from a 1-cm segment of cord that contained the site of impact were processed by fluorometric enzymatic activity assays and/or immunoblotting methods. Caspases 3, 8, and 9 were activated from 1 to 72 hr after injury, whereas caspases 1, 2, and 6 were not. Double-label immunohistochemistry utilizing antibodies for CNS cell-type-specific markers and active subunits of caspases 3, 8, or 9 showed that, at 4 and 72 hr after injury, these caspases were primarily activated in neurons and oligodendrocytes, rather than in astrocytes. Active caspase subunits were present in neurons within the necrotic lesion core at 4 hr after injury and in cells more than several segments away at 4 or 72 hr after injury. Intrathecal injection of the pan-caspase inhibitor Boc-Asp (OMe)-fluoromethylketone (Boc-d-fmk) at 15 min after injury improved locomotor function 21 and 28 days later. Treatment with the selective caspase 3 inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone (z-DEVD-fmk) improved function at 21 days after injury. These data suggest that caspases 3, 8, and 9 may be differentially activated in white and gray matter after spinal cord trauma and that such activation may contribute to subsequent neurological dysfunction.
Injury to areas of the central nervous system can alter neurotrophin levels, which may influence postlesion neuronal survival and plasticity. To determine if sensorineural hearing loss induces such changes, we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in adult guinea pig brain stem auditory nuclei 3-60 days after a unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA). After UCA, which destroyed the cochlea and cochlear nerve on one side, NT-3 levels were usually depressed at 3 days by 22-44% but became elevated transiently at 7 days by 28-124%. BDNF levels were elevated transiently by 50% on the ablated side in the anteroventral (AVCN) and posteroventral (PVCN) cochlear nucleus at 3 days and may have signaled support for the survival of deafferented neurons. Coincident elevation at 3 and 7 days of BDNF or NT-3 and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 2 (ERK2-P) suggested a relationship to stimulated signal transduction activity. Elevated neurotrophin levels may have contributed to synaptogenesis in the AVCN and the superior olive and to changes in the synaptic biochemistry in the auditory nuclei after UCA. In contrast, deficiencies or failure to elevate neurotrophin levels within several days of the UCA correlated with upregulation of phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK-P), suggesting a relationship with stress-activated signal transduction and with the sparse degeneration of fibers observed in some of the auditory nuclei after UCA.
The mechanisms regulating the number of myelinating cells in the central nervous system are crucial for both normal development and repair in pathological conditions. Among relevant growth factors involved in this process, fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) induces oligodendrocyte progenitors (OLPs) to proliferate and stimulates mature oligodendrocytes (OLs) to reenter the S-phase of the cell cycle. S-phase entry is modulated by the formation of complexes between cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), on one hand, and by their interactions with cell cycle inhibitors (e.g., p18INK, p27Kip1, p21Cip1), on the other. Although the roles of cyclin E/CDK2 complexes and the inhibitor p27Kip1 have been extensively investigated relative to proliferation and differentiation in the OL lineage, less is known about the regulation of the formation of cyclin D1/CDK4 complexes and the role of p21Cip1 in these events. In this study, we show that the FGF2-mediated increase in bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation into OL progenitors and mature OLs occurs concomitantly with increase in the levels of p21Cip1 and the formation of p21Cip1/cyclin D1/CDK4 ternary complexes. These complexes are functionally active is indicated by the ensuing FGF2-dependent hyperphosphorylation of the downstream target Rb. In untreated mature OLs that do not incorporate BrdU, the levels of p21Cip1 are low, and the level of the inhibitor p18INK is high. Furthermore, p18INK sequesters CDK2 into binary complexes, precluding the formation of p21Cip1/cyclin D1/CDK4 ternary complexes in these cells. Therefore, we propose that p21Cip1 is acting as a positive regulator, rather than an inhibitor, of cell cycle entry by favoring the assembly of active cyclin D1/CDK4 complexes.
The authors describe a new extension of the use of neuroendoscopy beyond that which is ordinarily performed. The authors report on the resolution of acute, obstructive, triventricular hydrocephalus in a 42-year-old woman with hypertensive caudate hemorrhage that migrated into the ventricular system. The patient underwent emergency endoscopic removal of a third ventricular hematoma, which was obstructing the orifice of the aqueduct, and restoration of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow but no third ventriculostomy. The authors believe that this is the first such case to be reported. In selected cases of third ventricular hemorrhage, endoscopic removal of the intraventricular hematoma may represent a useful and effective treatment option even in emergency conditions as well as a better alternative to prolonged CSF external ventricular drainage. A reduction in the duration of hospitalization is a beneficial consequence. The authors assert that third ventriculostomy is not always needed.

Responses to traumatic injury in the immature spinal cord may be different from those in adults. We modified an adult model of weight-drop injury to characterize the histopathology and functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in rat pups at postnatal day 14-15. A 10-g weight was dropped from 2.5 or 5.0 cm at T8-T9. Hindlimb function was evaluated at 24 h and 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after injury using the Combined Behavioral Score that estimates overall hind limb sensorimotor function, and the BBB scale for open field locomotion. Histopathology was examined at 15 min, 24 h, and 4 weeks after SCI. The initial hemorrhagic lesion was similar to that seen in adults, but the time course of secondary loss of ventral horn motor neurons was extended. By 4 weeks, only a partial rim of white matter surrounding a central cavity was seen. The 5.0 cm injury group exhibited significantly less recovery of function at 4 weeks than the 2.5 cm group. In the latter, the degree of hindlimb deficit at 4 weeks was similar to that previously described for adults with 10 g x 2.5 cm SCI. However, pups in both injury groups exhibited a significantly faster rate of recovery than adults. Recovery was maximal by 1 week after SCI in pups as compared to 3-4 weeks in adults. The more rapid functional recovery observed in the pups suggests that this new model may be useful for studying mechanisms of functional plasticity after SCI.
A reciprocal rhythmic pattern of 2 afferent hormonal signals, anorexigenic leptin and orexigenic ghrelin, imparts rhythmicity to the neuropeptide Y (NPY) system, the final common pathway for appetite expression in the hypothalamus. We now show that leptin inhibits both the secretion of gastric ghrelin and the stimulation of feeding by ghrelin. We propose that this dual leptin restraint is the major regulatory arm of the feedback communication between the periphery and the hypothalamus for weight homeostasis, and disruption in the rhythmic communication at any locus in the leptin-ghrelin-NPY feedback loop impels loss of hypothalamic control, leading to abnormal weight gain and obesity.
The efficacy of gamma-secretase inhibitors in vivo has, to date, been generally assessed in transgenic mouse models expressing increased levels of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide thereby allowing the detection of changes in Abeta production. However, it is not clear whether the in vivo potency of gamma-secretase inhibitors is independent of the level of amyloid precursor protein expression. In other words, does a gamma-secretase inhibitor have the same effect in nontransgenic physiological animals versus transgenic overexpressing animals? In the present study, an immunoassay has been developed which can detect Abeta(40) in the rat brain, where concentrations are much lower than those seen in transgenic mice such as Tg2576 (c. 0.7 and 25 nM, respectively) and in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF, c. 0.3 nM). Using this immunoassay, the effects of the gamma-secretase inhibitor LY-411575 [N(2)-[(2S)-2-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-2-hydroxyethanoyl]-N(1)-[(7S)-5-methyl-6-oxo-6,7-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[b,d]azepin-7-yl]-L-alaninamide] were assessed and robust dose-dependent reductions in rat brain and CSF Abeta(40) levels were observed with ID(50) values of 1.3 mg/kg for both brain and CSF. These values were comparable with those calculated for LY-411575 in transgenic mice. Time course experiments using LY-411575 demonstrated comparable temporal reductions in rat brain and CSF Abeta(40), further suggesting these two pools of Abeta are related. Accordingly, when all the data for the dose-response curve and time course were correlated, a strong association was observed between the brain and CSF Abeta(40) levels. These data demonstrate the utility of the rat as a novel approach for assessing the effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors on central nervous system Abeta(40) levels in vivo.
Methamphetamine causes persistent damage to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. The mechanisms underlying its neurotoxicity are not fully understood, but considerable evidence points to oxidative stress as a probable mechanism. A recent microarray analysis of gene expression changes caused by methamphetamine revealed that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was induced along with its transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (Thomas DM, Francescutti-Verbeem DM, Liu X, and Kuhn DM, 2004). We report presently that methamphetamine increases striatal expression of COX-2 protein. Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) expression was not changed. Mice bearing a null mutation of the gene for COX-2 were resistant to methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. COX-1 knockouts, like wild-type mice, showed extensive dopamine nerve terminal damage. Selective inhibitors of COX-1 [5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3-trifluoromethyl pyrazole (SC-560)], COX-2 [N-[2-(cyclohexyloxy)-4-nitrophenyl] methanesulfonamide (NS-398), rofecoxib], or COX-3 (antipyrine) or a nonselective inhibitor of the COX-1/2 isoforms (ketoprofen) did not protect mice from neurotoxicity. Finally, methamphetamine did not change striatal prostaglandin E(2) content. Taken together, these data suggest that COX-2 is an obligatory factor in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. The functional aspect of COX-2 that contributes to drug-induced neurotoxicity does not appear to be its prostaglandin synthetic capacity. Instead, the peroxidase activity associated with COX-2, which can lead to the formation of reactive oxygen species and dopamine quinones, can account for its role.
The pharmacological profile of WAY-163909 [(7bR, 10aR)-1,2,3,4,8,9,10,10a-octahydro-7bH-cyclopenta-[b][1,4]diazepino[6,7,1hi]indole], a novel 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)(2C) (serotonin) receptor-selective agonist is presented. WAY-163909 displaced [(125)I]2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine binding from human 5-HT(2C) receptor sites, in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell membranes, with a K(i) value of 10.5 +/- 1.1 nM. Binding affinities determined for the human 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2B) receptor subtypes were 212 and 485 nM, respectively. In functional studies, WAY-163909 stimulated the mobilization of intracellular calcium in CHO cells stably expressing the human 5-HT(2C) receptor with an EC(50) value of 8 nM, and E(max) relative to 5-HT of 90%. WAY-163909 failed to stimulate calcium mobilization in cells expressing the human 5-HT(2A) receptor subtype (EC(50) &gt; 10muM) and was a 5-HT(2B) receptor partial agonist (EC(50) 185 nM, E(max) 40%). WAY-163909 exhibited negligible affinity (&lt;50% inhibition at 1 muM) for other receptor sites examined, including human 5-HT(1A), D2, and D3 receptors, and the 5-HT transporter binding site in rat cortical membranes. WAY-163909 exhibited weak affinity for the human D4 (245 nM) and 5-HT(7) (343 nM) receptor subtypes and the alpha1 binding site in rat cortical membranes (665 nM). WAY-163909 produced a dose-dependent reduction in food intake in normal Sprague-Dawley rats (ED(50) = 2.93 mg/kg), an effect blocked by a 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist but not by a 5-HT(2A) or 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonist. In addition, WAY-163909 decreased food intake in obese Zucker rats and diet-induced obese mice with ED(50) values of 1.4 and 5.19 mg/kg i.p., respectively, consistent with the potential utility of 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists as anti-obesity agents.
We evaluated the effects of 4-(5-chloro-2-hydroxyphenyl)-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-quinolin-2(1H)-one (BMS-223131), an opener of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (maxi-K) channels, on normal and stress-exacerbated colonic motility and visceral nociception in the rat. Fecal output was employed as an index of motility. Visceral nociception, in response to intracolonic balloon distension (10-90 mm Hg; 30 s duration), was evaluated using one of three indices: change in blood pressure, abdominal withdrawal, or myoelectrical activity. BMS-223131 (2, 6, or 20 mg/kg i.p.) produced a small but dose-dependent and significant reduction in cumulative 24-h fecal output. Fecal output in response to stress (1-h restraint plus bursts of air to the face) was markedly inhibited by BMS-223131, and moisture content was significantly reduced. With regard to visceral pain, the transient and distention-dependent reduction in arterial pressure in anesthetized animals was inhibited by BMS-223131 in a dose-dependent manner. Distension-induced abdominal withdrawal in conscious rats was also dose-dependently attenuated by BMS-223131. BMS-223131 at a dose of 20 mg/kg markedly attenuated the increase in myoelectrical activity evoked by balloon distention in conscious animals. BMS-223131 was also evaluated in viscerally hypersensitive rats (sensitized as neonates by intracolonic mustard oil) where it produced a robust dose-dependent attenuation of the abdominal withdrawal response. Compared with naive animals, BMS-223131 was more potent in the sensitized animals. Thus, BMS-223131 effectively reduced stress-induced colonic motility and visceral nociception supporting the potential utility of maxi-K channel openers for the treatment of bowel disorders involving dysfunctional motility and visceral sensitivity.
Despite new approaches, treatment options for malignant gliomas are still limited, calling for further development of therapeutic strategies. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)gamma, a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, represents a possible new target for neoplastic therapies. Synthetic PPARgamma agonists were developed and are already in clinical use for the treatment of type II diabetes, since PPARgamma plays a crucial role in lipid metabolism and regulation of insulin sensitivity. Beyond these metabolic effects, PPARgamma agonists exhibit antineoplastic effects in various malignant tumor cells. Here, we investigated the antineoplastic effects of the nonthiazolidinedione tyrosine-based PPARgamma ligand (S)-2-(1-carboxy-2-{4-[2-(5-methyl-2-phenyloxazol-4-yl)ethoxy]phenyl}ethylamino)benzoic acid methyl ester (GW7845) in rat and human glioma cells. GW7845 reduced cellular viability of rat C6 glioma and human glioma cells in a time-dependent manner. Analysis of GW7845-treated tumor cells revealed induction of apoptotic cell death as determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling staining and cleaved caspase-3 activation. Furthermore, GW7845 reduced proliferation of C6 glioma cells as measured by Ki-67 immunore-activity. There was also a reduction of migration and invasion, assessed by Boyden chamber and spheroid experiments. Together, these data indicate that the PPARgamma agonist GW7845 may be of potential use in treatment of malignant gliomas.
The present study explores the hypothesis that the new anti-epileptic drug levetiracetam (LEV) could interfere with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))-dependent release of intracellular Ca(2+) initiated by G(q)-coupled receptor activation, a process that plays a role in triggering and maintaining seizures. We assessed the effect of LEV on the amplitude of [Ca(2+)](i) response to bradykinin (BK) and ATP in single Fura-2/acetoxymethyl ester-loaded PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells, which express very high levels of LEV binding sites. LEV dose-dependently reduced the [Ca(2+)](i) increase, elicited either by 1 microM BK or by 100 microM ATP (IC(50), 0.39 +/- 0.01 microM for BK and 0.20 +/- 0.01 microM for ATP; Hill coefficients, 1.33 +/- 0.04 for BK and 1.38 +/- 0.06 for ATP). Interestingly, although the discharge of ryanodine stores by a process of calcium-induced calcium release also took place as part of the [Ca(2+)](i) response to BK, LEV inhibitory effect was mainly exerted on the IP(3)-dependent stores. In fact, the drug was still effective after the pharmacological blockade of ryanodine receptors. Furthermore, LEV did not affect Ca(2+) stored in the intracellular deposits since it did not reduce the amplitude of [Ca(2+)](i) response either to thapsigargin or to ionomycin. In conclusion, LEV inhibits Ca(2+) release from the IP(3)-sensitive stores without reducing Ca(2+) storage into these deposits. Because of the relevant implications of IP(3)-dependent Ca(2+) release in neuron excitability and epileptogenesis, this novel effect of LEV could provide a useful insight into the mechanisms underlying its antiepileptic properties.
In this article we describe how to dissect, set up and use the rat isolated vagus nerve in a 'grease gap' apparatus which provides a simple and practical method for measuring the effects of drugs on the membrane potential of axons in the nerve in vitro. Some discussion of the origins and development of the technique as well as the strengths and disadvantages of the preparation as a neuropharmacological tool are included. The vagus nerve conducts action potentials in at least three distinct types of axons that can be measured extracellularly as compound action potentials and distinguished on the basis of their conduction velocity and excitability. Activity in myelinated A fibres and unmyelinated C fibres can be measured separately easily. The axons express receptors for a wide range of putative neurotransmitter agents including 5-HT, GABA and ATP as well as other agents such as capsaicin, anandamide, bradykinin and prostanoids. Responses to all of these chemicals can be measured as a depolarization of the nerve fibres. The vagus nerve is an important target for a wide range of drugs and the isolated preparation provides a fairly simple preparation for studying their effects. The isolated vagus nerve is also a convenient system in which the effects of drugs that have been discovered using heterologous expression systems can be assayed on receptors and ion channels that are expressed in a native neural system.
The rodent optic nerve is a model tissue for the physiological investigation of axonal-glial interactions in a typical CNS white matter tract. There is strong evidence that nerve transmission is maintained by a considerable degree of dynamic signalling between axons and glia through a variety of mechanisms, such as regulation of the ionic environment, energy metabolism and calcium signalling. This review focuses on the methods used to examine axonal and glial functions and interactions, primarily in the rodent optic nerve. Techniques encompass intracellular microelectrodes, sucrose- and grease-gap recordings of membrane potentials, suction electrode to measure compound action potentials, the use of ion-sensitive electrodes, patch clamping and imaging. An overview of the advantages and drawbacks of each technique is given and the application of each to the understanding glial and axonal physiology is briefly discussed.
Sodium channels Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.6 are both normally expressed along premyelinated and myelinated axons at different stages of maturation and are also expressed in a subset of demyelinated axons, where coexpression of Na(v)1.6 together with the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger is associated with axonal injury. It has been difficult to distinguish the currents produced by Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.6 in native neurones, and previous studies have not compared these channels within neuronal expression systems. In this study, we have characterized and directly compared Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.6 in a mammalian neuronal cell background and demonstrate differences in their properties that may affect neuronal behaviour. The Na(v)1.2 channel displays more depolarized activation and availability properties that may permit conduction of action potentials, even with depolarization. However, Na(v)1.2 channels show a greater accumulation of inactivation at higher frequencies of stimulation (20-100 Hz) than Na(v)1.6 and thus are likely to generate lower frequencies of firing. Na(v)1.6 channels produce a larger persistent current that may play a role in triggering reverse Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange, which can injure demyelinated axons where Na(v)1.6 and the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger are colocalized, while selective expression of Na(v)1.2 may support action potential electrogenesis, at least at lower frequencies, while producing a smaller persistent current.
Mechanisms of pain-related plasticity in the amygdala, a key player in emotionality, were studied at the cellular and molecular levels in a model of arthritic pain. The influence of the arthritis pain state induced in vivo on synaptic transmission and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function was examined in vitro using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of neurones in the latero-capsular part of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), which is now defined as the 'nociceptive amygdala'. Synaptic transmission was evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents from the pontine parabrachial area (part of the spino-parabrachio-amygdaloid pain pathway) in brain slices from control rats and from arthritic rats. This study shows that pain-related synaptic plasticity is accompanied by protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated enhanced NMDA-receptor function and increased phosphorylation of NMDA-receptor 1 (NR1) subunits. Synaptic plasticity in the arthritis pain model, but not normal synaptic transmission in control neurones, was inhibited by a selective NMDA receptor antagonist. Accordingly, an NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic component was recorded in neurones from arthritic animals, but not in control neurones, and was blocked by inhibition of PKA but not protein kinase C (PKC). Exogenous NMDA evoked a larger inward current in neurones from arthritic animals than in control neurones, indicating a postsynaptic effect. Paired-pulse facilitation, a measure of presynaptic mechanisms, was not affected by an NMDA-receptor antagonist. Increased levels of phosphorylated NR1 protein, but not of total NR1, were measured in the CeA of arthritic rats compared to controls. Our results suggest that pain-related synaptic plasticity in the amygdala involves a critical switch of postsynaptic NMDA receptor function through PKA-dependent NR1 phosphorylation.
The mouse rotarod test of motor coordination/sedation is commonly used to predict clinical sedation caused by novel drugs. However, past experience suggests that it lacks the desired degree of sensitivity to be predictive of effects in humans. For example, the benzodiazepine, bretazenil, showed little impairment of mouse rotarod performance, but marked sedation in humans. The aim of the present study was to assess whether the mouse beam walking assay demonstrates: (i) an increased sensitivity over the rotarod and (ii) an increased ability to predict clinically sedative doses of benzodiazepines. The study compared the effects of the full benzodiazepine agonists, diazepam and lorazepam, and the partial agonist, bretazenil, on the mouse rotarod and beam walking assays. Diazepam and lorazepam significantly impaired rotarod performance, although relatively high GABA-A receptor occupancy was required (72% and 93%, respectively), whereas beam walking performance was significantly affected at approximately 30% receptor occupancy. Bretazenil produced significant deficits at 90% and 53% receptor occupancy on the rotarod and beam walking assays, respectively. The results suggest that the mouse beam walking assay is a more sensitive tool for determining benzodiazepine-induced motor coordination deficits than the rotarod. Furthermore, the GABA-A receptor occupancy values at which significant deficits were determined in the beam walking assay are comparable with those observed in clinical positron emission tomography studies using sedative doses of benzodiazepines. These data suggest that the beam walking assay may be able to more accurately predict the clinically sedative doses of novel benzodiazepine-like drugs.


We sought to evaluate the safety and feasibility of mild therapeutic hypothermia using an endovascular temperature management system in awake acute ischemic stroke patients. The Intravascular Cooling in the Treatment of Stroke (ICTuS) study was an uncontrolled, multicenter development and feasibility study of conscious patients (n = 18) presenting within 12 hours of onset of an acute ischemic stroke at 5 clinical sites in the United States. Enrolled patients were to undergo core temperature management using an endovascular cooling system to induce and maintain mild, therapeutic hypothermia (target temperature of 33.0 degrees C) for a period of either 12 or 24 hours, followed by controlled rewarming to 36.5 degrees C over the subsequent 12-hour period. Nine patients underwent 12 hours of cooling followed by 12 hours of controlled rewarming, and 6 patients underwent 24 hours of cooling followed by 12 hours of controlled rewarming. Three patients underwent &lt;1.5 hours of hypothermia due to clinical or technical issues. We also developed an antishivering regimen using buspirone and meperidine administered prophylactically to suppress shivering. The endovascular cooling catheter was well tolerated, with acceptable adverse event rates. Increasing the duration of hypothermia administration from 12 hours to 24 hours did not appear to increase the incidence or severity of adverse effects. Endovascular cooling with a proactive antishivering regimen can be accomplished in awake stroke patients. Further studies are needed to establish the safety and efficacy of this approach.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is an immune-mediated disorder characterised by slowly progressive, asymmetrical weakness of limbs without sensory loss. The clinical presentation of MMN mimics that of lower-motor-neuron disease, but in nerve-conduction studies of patients with MMN motor-conduction block has been found. By contrast with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, treatment with prednisolone and plasma exchange is generally ineffective in MMN and even associated with clinical worsening in some patients. Of the immunosuppressants, cyclophosphamide has been reported as effective but only anecdotally. Various open trials and four placebo-controlled trials have shown that treatment with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin leads to improvement of muscle strength in patients with MMN. Although clinical, pathological, imaging, immunological, and electrophysiological studies have improved our understanding of MMN over the past 15 years, further research is needed to elucidate pathogenetic disease mechanisms in the disorder.

We recently reported that fear extinction, a form of inhibitory learning, is selectively blocked by systemic administration of L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (LVGCC) antagonists, including nifedipine, in mice. We here replicate this finding and examine three reduced contingency effects after vehicle or nifedipine (40 mg/kg) administration. In the first experiment, contingency reduction was achieved by adding USs to the training protocol (degraded contingency), a phenomenon thought to be independent of behavioral inhibition. In the second experiment, contingency reduction was achieved by varying the percentage of CS-US pairing, a phenomenon thought to be weakly dependent on behavioral inhibition. In the third and fourth experiments, contingency reduction was achieved by adding CSs to the training protocol (partial reinforcement), a phenomenon thought to be completely dependent on behavioral inhibition. We found that none of these reduced contingency effects was impaired by nifedipine. In a final experiment, we found that extinction conducted 1 or 3 h post-acquisition, but not immediately, was LVGCC-dependent. Taken together, the results suggest that reduced contingency effects and extinction depend on different molecular mechanisms and that LVGCC dependence of behavioral inhibition develops with time after associative CS-US learning.
There is a growing body of evidence that the hippocampus is critical for context-dependent memory retrieval. In the present study, we used Pavlovian fear conditioning in rats to examine the role of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) in the context-specific expression of fear memory after extinction (i.e., renewal). Pre-training electrolytic lesions of the DH blunted the expression of conditional freezing to an auditory conditional stimulus (CS), but did not affect the acquisition of extinction to that CS. In contrast, DH lesions impaired the context-specific expression of extinction, eliminating the renewal of fear normally observed to a CS presented outside of the extinction context. Post-extinction DH lesions also eliminated the context dependence of fear extinction. These results are consistent with those using pharmacological inactivation of the DH and suggest that the DH is required for using contextual stimuli to regulate the expression of fear to a Pavlovian CS after extinction.
We tested the hypothesis that rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is important for complex associative learning by restricting rats from entering REM sleep for 4 h either immediately after training on an eight-box spatial task (0-4 REMr) or 4 h following training (4-8 REMr). Both groups of REM-restricted rats eventually reached the same overall performance level as did nonrestricted controls, but 0-4 REMr animals were delayed in their improvement in the first few days and lagged behind controls in the middle portion of the training period. More importantly, performance gains of 0-4 REMr rats depended more on simple local cues throughout the 15-d study since, unlike control and 4-8 REMr animals, their error rate increased after daily disruption of the relationship between local (intramaze) cues and the food reward. Thus, although overall performance was only subtly and transiently impaired, due to the ability to use alternate, nonspatial behavioral strategies, complex associative (spatial) learning was persistently impaired by restricting REM for a short critical period each day.
An RF excitation scheme is presented for anatomical imaging of occipital brain areas at 3T using the 3D modified driven equilibrium Fourier transform (MDEFT) sequence and a transmit-receive surface coil. Surface coils operated in the transmit mode usually display a high B(1) inhomogeneity. This causes variations of the flip angle and impairs fat saturation, resulting in blurring, signal losses, and artifacts due to high scalp intensities. A composite binomial pulse with one spectral component for water selective excitation and one spatial component for B(1) inhomogeneity compensation is presented. It is shown experimentally that the pulse prevents image blurring and reduces the scalp signal considerably. The total pulse duration of only 2.4 ms is compatible with the relatively short repetition times (TRs) required for MDEFT imaging. The method is particularly useful for certain applications in neuroimaging that require technical equipment that is too large for standard coils or should not be exposed to RF fields.

The work of Claude Fortier is linked to the history of neuroendocrinology. Through him and his pioneer work in Montreal with Hans Selye, the &lt; Man of stress &gt;, and at Laval University in Quebec City in his own laboratory, where all researchers involved in the study of the hypothalamo-hypophysial adrenal axis have been through, it is the whole saga of the search for the neuropeptide CRH (corticotropin releasing factor), and the harsh fight for the Nobel distinction that can be related. Among Claude Fortier's scientific discoveries, the feedback mechanisms of glucocorticoid hormones on brain and pituitary function, the presence of both mineralo and glucocorticoid receptors in some brain structures, and the introduction of computer science in biomedical research, can be cited. The consequences of these discoveries are illustrated in the pathologies linked to stress (anxiety, depression, addiction). Claude Fortier was not only a great figure in biomedical science, honored by several distinctions, but also an important personality in the policy of research in which he played a prominent role in Quebec medical research and allowed it to rank among the best in the world.
We surmise that opioid peptides, i.e., methionine enkephalin, first arose during evolution as modulators of cellular immune function given their immune actions and the presence of enkelytin, a potent antibacterial peptide, and its precursor proenkephalin in animals 500 million years divergent in evolution. Pain probably emerged from this perspective because of its association with proinflammatory events. Endogenous morphine appears to exert positive effects on homeostasis by limiting the degree of excitation. Supporting this view is the fact that the mu3 opiate receptor subtype, which is opioid peptide insensitive and morphine selective, is coupled to constitutive nitric oxide release, which also has this down regulating action in neural, immune, vascular and gastrointestinal tissues. Thus, morphine down regulates immune processes in addiction, an action/function that it appears to normally perform when the situation calls for this action and by so doing in this natural setting, sustains life.
Morphine-6beta-glucuronide (M6G), a metabolite of morphine that the brain can produce, is an opiate agonist that appears to have a greater analgesic potency than morphine. M6G has a 1-octanol/water partition coefficient 187 times lower than that of morphine and M6G has a blood brain barrier permeability 57 times lower than morphine. The brain uptake rate however is only 32 times lower, suggesting that an active transport mechanism might be present. Furthermore, evidence for a distinct receptor for M6G also appears to be emerging. Real time polymerase chain reactions allowed for the discovery of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP's) in the human mu opioid receptor gene. The most common SNP is a substitution at base118 where A is replaced with G (A118G). This SNP has a decreased potency for M6G in individuals possessing it whereas the potency of morphine is unaffected by this SNP. The possibility that a peripheral opiate signaling system, using M6G and its distinct receptor, exists seems plausible. Taken together, if a distinct M6G signaling mechanism does exist, the fact that morphine can be converted into a more water soluble compound that might be more potent would not be an accident.


The past 5 years have seen unprecedented advances in our knowledge about the neurobiology of depression. Significant breakthroughs have been made in genomics, imaging, and the identification of key neural systems involved in cognition, emotion, and behavior. In addition, novel targets have been identified for the development of new pharmacological and behavioral treatments. Genetic variations associated with most mental disorders are being identified, and reliable tests for early detection of risk and disease are now on the horizon. New neurobiological concepts have emerged, as they relate to these advances in mental health research such as the serotonin transporter receptor, a genetic variant of which doubles the risk of depression. Brain neurochemicals, including neurotropic factors (implicated in several mental disorders), and anatomical studies involving imaging of the amygdala and the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex are now at the forefront. Several brain neurotransmitters systems: glutamate, gamma -aminobutyric acid, serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine have been implicated in depression and mania. These transmitter systems, as well as other neurochemical systems such as membrane-bound signal transduction systems and intracellular signaling systems that modulate gene transcription and protein synthesis, play an important role in the etiology of depression. This new knowledge is expected to provide important clues for the development of selective pharmacological interventions. Neuroimaging studies of depressed patients have shown several abnormalities of regional cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism--a surrogate of neuronal function--in various brain regions, including the limbic cortex, the prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the anterior cingulate cortex. At this time, a considerable amount of new information is converging--derived from animal models of mood disorders, genetics, basic behavioral research, and neuroscience. It is inevitable that the next step in this progression will be the integration of these basic advances in clinical management and the application of this new information in the context of the depressed patient.
Proteins that constitute the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) are necessary for the sorting of proteins into multivesicular bodies (MVBs) and the budding of several enveloped viruses, including HIV-1. The first of these complexes, ESCRT-I, consists of three proteins: Vps28p, Vps37p, and Vps23p or Tsg101 in mammals. Here, we characterize a mutation in the Drosophila homolog of vps28. The dVps28 gene is essential: homozygous mutants die at the transition from the first to second instar. Removal of maternally contributed dVps28 causes early embryonic lethality. In such embryos lacking dVps28, several processes that require the actin cytoskeleton are perturbed, including axial migration of nuclei, formation of transient furrows during cortical divisions in syncytial embryos, and the subsequent cellularization. Defects in actin cytoskeleton organization also become apparent during sperm individualization in dVps28 mutant testis. Because dVps28 mutant cells contained MVBs, these defects are unlikely to be a secondary consequence of disrupted MVB formation and suggest an interaction between the actin cytoskeleton and endosomal membranes in Drosophila embryos earlier than previously appreciated.
It was recently shown that Bcl-2-associated athanogene 1 (BAG1) is a potent neuroprotectant as well as a marker of neuronal differentiation. Since there appears to exist an equilibrium within the cell between BAG1 binding to heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) and BAG1 binding to Raf-1 kinase, we hypothesized that changing BAG1 binding characteristics might significantly alter BAG1 function. To this end, we compared rat CSM14.1 cells and human SHSY-5Y cells stably overexpressing full-length BAG1 or a deletion mutant (BAGDeltaC) no longer capable of binding to Hsp70. Using a novel yellow fluorescent protein-based foldase biosensor, we demonstrated an upregulation of chaperone in situ activity in cells overexpressing full-length BAG1 but not in cells overexpressing BAGDeltaC compared to wild-type cells. Interestingly, in contrast to the nuclear and cytosolic localizations of full-length BAG1, BAGDeltaC was expressed exclusively in the cytosol. Furthermore, cells expressing BAGDeltaC were no longer protected against cell death. However, they still showed accelerated neuronal differentiation. Together, these results suggest that BAG1-induced activation of Hsp70 is important for neuroprotectivity, while BAG1-dependent modulation of neuronal differentiation in vitro is not.
Long-term potentiation or depression of synaptic function often requires Ca2+ influx via NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) and changes in the autophosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) at Thr286. Autophosphorylated CaMKII binds directly to NMDAR subunits, co-localizes with NMDARs in the postsynaptic density, and phosphorylates NR2B subunits at Ser1303. Here, we demonstrate that CaMKIIalpha enhances the extent and/or rate of desensitization of NMDA-induced macroscopic currents in HEK293 cells co-expressing NR2B with either the NR1(011) or NR1(101) splice variants, without significantly changing other current parameters. In contrast, the extent of desensitization of NMDARs containing NR2A in place of NR2B is significantly decreased by co-expression of CaMKIIalpha. Kinases harboring K42R (inactive kinase) or T286A (autophosphorylation-deficient) mutations are defective in enhancing the desensitization of NR1/NR2B channels. In addition, the CaMKII-dependent enhancement of NR1/NR2B channel desensitization is abrogated by intracellular loading with BAPTA. These data suggest a novel mechanism for Ca2+-dependent negative-feedback regulation of NR2B-containing NMDARs in a CaMKII activity- and autophosphorylation-dependent manner that may modulate NMDAR-mediated synaptic plasticity.
Microglial cells are the immune-competent elements of the brain. They not only express receptors for chemokines and cytokines but also for neurotransmitters such as GABA [Charles et al., Mol. Cell Neurosci. 24 (2003) 214], glutamate [Noda et al., J. Neurosci. 20 (2000) 251], and adrenaline [Mori et al., Neuropharmacology 43 (2002) 1026]. Here we report the functional expression of dopamine receptors in mouse and rat microglia, in culture and brain slices. Using the patch clamp technique as the functional assay we identified D1- and D2-like dopamine receptors using subtype-specific ligands. They triggered the inhibition of the constitutive potassium inward rectifier and activated potassium outward currents in a subpopulation of microglia. Chronic dopamine receptor stimulation enhanced migratory activity and attenuated the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitric oxide (NO) release similar as by stimulation of adrenergic receptors. While, however, noradrenaline attenuated the LPS-induced release of TNF-alpha and IL-6, dopamine was ineffective in modulating this response. We conclude that microglia express dopamine receptors which are distinct in function from adrenergic receptors.
The tripartite motif proteins TRIM-2 and TRIM-3 have been put forward as putative organizers of neuronal outgrowth and structural plasticity. Here, we identified a molluscan orthologue of TRIM-2/3, named L-TRIM, which is up-regulated during in vitro neurite outgrowth of central neurons. In adult animals, L-Trim mRNA is ubiquitously expressed at low levels in the central nervous system and in peripheral tissues. Central nervous system expression of L-Trim mRNA is increased during postnatal brain development and during in vitro and in vivo neuronal regeneration. In vitro double-stranded RNA knock-down of L-Trim mRNA resulted in a &gt;70% inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Together, our data establish a crucial role for L-TRIM in developmental neurite outgrowth and functional neuronal regeneration and indicate that TRIM-2/3 family members may have evolutionary conserved functions in neuronal differentiation.
Type IV pili (Tfp) play central roles in prokaryotic cell biology and disease pathogenesis. As dynamic filamentous polymers, they undergo rounds of extension and retraction modelled as pilin subunit polymerization and depolymerization events. Currently, the molecular mechanisms and components influencing Tfp dynamics remain poorly understood. Using Neisseria gonorrhoeae as a model system, we show that mutants lacking any one of a set of five proteins sharing structural similarity to the pilus subunit are dramatically reduced in Tfp expression and that these defects are suppressed in the absence of the PilT pilus retraction protein. Thus, these molecules are not canonical assembly factors but rather act as effectors of pilus homeostasis by promoting extension/polymerization events in the presence of PilT. Furthermore, localization studies support the conclusion that these molecules form a Tfp-associated complex and influence levels of PilC, the epithelial cell adhesin, in Tfp-enriched shear fractions. This is the first time that the step at which individual pilin-like proteins impact on Tfp expression has been defined. The findings have important implications for understanding Tfp dynamics and fundamental Tfp structure/function relationships.
In this work, we show that beta-carbolines, which are known negative allosteric modulators of GABA(A) receptors, inhibit glycine-induced currents of embryonic mouse spinal cord and hippocampal neurons. In both cell types, beta-carboline-induced inhibition of glycine receptor (GlyR)-mediated responses decreases with time in culture. Single-channel recordings show that the major conductance levels of GlyR unitary currents shifts from high levels (&gt; or = 50 pS) in 2 to 3 days in vitro (DIV) neurons to low levels (&lt;50 pS) in 11 to 14 DIV neurons, assessing the replacement of functional homomeric GlyR by heteromeric GlyR. In cultured spinal cord neurons, the disappearance of beta-carboline inhibition of glycine responses and high conductance levels is almost complete in mature neurons, whereas a weaker decrease in beta-carboline-evoked glycine response inhibition and high conductance level proportion is observed in hippocampal neurons. To confirm the hypothesis that the decreased sensitivity of GlyR to beta-carbolines depends on beta subunit expression, Chinese hamster ovary cells were permanently transfected either with GlyR alpha2 subunit alone or in combination with GlyR beta subunit. Single-channel recordings revealed that the major conductance levels shifted from high levels (&gt; or = 50 pS) in GlyR-alpha2-transfected cells to low levels (&lt;50 pS) in GlyR-alpha2+beta-containing cells. Consistently, both picrotoxin- and beta-carboline-induced inhibition of glycine-gated currents were significantly decreased in GlyR-alpha2+beta-transfected cells compared with GlyR-alpha2-containing cells. In summary, we demonstrate that the incorporation of beta subunits in GlyRs confers resistance not only to picrotoxin but also to beta-carboline-induced inhibition. Furthermore, we also provide evidence that hippocampal neurons undergo in vitro a partial maturation process of their GlyR-mediated responses.
We have used site-directed mutagenesis of amino acids located within the S1 and S2 ligand binding domains of the NR2A N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit to explore the nature of ligand binding. Wild-type or mutated NR1/NR2A NMDA receptors were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and studied using two electrode voltage clamp. We investigated the effects of mutations in the S1 and S2 regions on the potencies of the agonists L-glutamate, L-aspartate, (R,S)-tetrazol-5yl-glycine, and NMDA. Mutation of each of the corresponding residues found in the NR2A receptor subunit, suggested to be contact residues in the GluR2 alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit, caused a rightward shift in the concentration-response curve for each agonist examined. None of the mutations examined altered the efficacy of glutamate as assessed by methanethiosulfonate ethylammonium potentiation of agonist-evoked currents. In addition, none of the mutations altered the potency of glycine. Homology modeling and molecular dynamics were used to evaluate molecular details of ligand binding of both wild-type and mutant receptors, as well as to explore potential explanations for agonist selectivity between glutamate receptor subtypes. The modeling studies support our interpretation of the mutagenesis data and indicate a similar binding strategy for L-glutamate and NMDA when they occupy the binding site in NMDA receptors, as has been proposed for glutamate binding to the GluR2 AMPA receptor subunit. Furthermore, we offer an explanation as to why &quot;charge conserving&quot; mutations of two residues in the binding pocket result in nonfunctional receptor channels and suggest a contributing molecular determinant for why NMDA is not an agonist at AMPA receptors.
The superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is one of the largest and most studied families of proteins. We created Hidden Markov Models derived from sorted groups of GPCRs from our previous detailed phylogenetic classification of human GPCRs and added several other models derived from receptors not found in mammals. We used these models to search entire Genscan data sets from 13 species whose genomes are nearly completely sequenced. We found more than 5000 unique GPCRs that were divided into 15 main groups, and the largest one, the Rhodopsin family, was subdivided into 13 subclasses. The results show that the main families in the human genome, Glutamate, Rhodopsin, Adhesion, Frizzled, and Secretin, arose before the split of nematodes from the chordate lineage. Moreover, several of the subgroups of the Rhodopsin family arose before the split of the linage leading to vertebrates. We also searched expressed sequence tag (EST) databases and identified more than 20,000 sequences that match GPCRs. Although the GPCRs represent typically 1 to 2% of the Genscan predictions, the ESTs that match GPCRs are typically only 0.01 to 0.001%, indicating that GPCRs in most of the groups are expressed at low levels. We also provide searchable data sets that may be used for annotation and further detailed analysis of the GPCR family. This study provides an extensive overview of the expansion of the gene repertoire for families and subgroups of GPCRs.
Trace amines, such as tyramine, beta-phenylethylamine, tryptamine, and octopamine, are present in trace levels in nervous systems and bind a specific family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), but the function or origin of this system is not well understood. We searched the genomes of several eukaryotic species for receptors similar to the mammalian trace amine (TA) receptor subfamily. We identified 18 new receptors in rodents that are orthologous to the previously known TA-receptors. Remarkably, we found 57 receptors (and 40 pseudogenes) of this type in the zebrafish (Danio rerio), while fugu (Takifugu rubripes) had only eight receptors (and seven pseudogenes). We mapped 47 of the zebrafish TA-receptors on chromosomes using radiation hybrid panels and meiotic mapping. The results, together with the degree of conservation and phylogenetic relationships displayed among the zebrafish receptors suggest that the family arose through several different mechanisms involving tetraploidization, block duplications, and local duplication events. Interestingly, these vertebrate TA-receptors do not show a close evolutionary relationship to the invertebrate TA-binding receptors in fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster), indicating that the ability to bind TA have evolved at least twice in animal evolution. We collected in total over 100 vertebrate TA-receptor sequences, and our phylogenetic analysis shows that several TA-receptors have evolved rapidly with remarkable species variation and that the common ancestor of vertebrate TA-receptors arose before the split of the ray-finned and lobe-finned fishes. The evolutionary history of the TA-receptors is more complex than for most other GPCR families and here we suggest a mechanism by which they may have arisen.
Niemann-Pick A disease (NPA) is a fatal lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency in acid sphingomyelinase (ASM) activity. The lack of functional ASM results in cellular accumulation of sphingomyelin and cholesterol within distended lysosomes throughout the brain. In this study, we investigated the potential of AAV-mediated expression of ASM to correct the brain pathology in an ASM knockout (ASMKO) mouse model of NPA. An AAV serotype 2 vector encoding human ASM (AAV2-hASM) was injected directly into the adult ASMKO hippocampus of one hemisphere. This resulted in expression of human ASM in all major cell layers of the ipsilateral hippocampus for at least 15 weeks postinjection. Transduced cells were also present in the entorhinal cortex, medial septum, and contralateral hippocampus in a pattern consistent with retrograde axonal transport of AAV2. There was a substantial reduction of distended lysosomes and an almost complete reversal of cholesterol accumulation in all areas of the brain that were targeted by AAV2-hASM. These findings show that the ASMKO brain is responsive to ASM replacement and that retrograde transport of AAV2 functions as a platform for widespread gene delivery and reversal of pathology in affected brain.
Canavan disease is an early onset leukodystrophy associated with psychomotor retardation, seizures, and premature death. This disorder is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme aspartoacylase (ASPA). Normally, ASPA is enriched in oligodendrocytes and ASPA deficiency results in elevated levels of its substrate molecule, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), brain edema, and dysmyelination. Using adeno-associated virus, we permanently expressed ASPA in CNS neurons of the tremor rat, a genetic model of Canavan disease, and examined the efficacy of the treatment by monitoring NAA metabolism, myelination, motor behavior, and seizures. Assessment of ASPA protein and enzyme activity in whole brain hemispheres showed restoration to normal levels as long as 6 months after treatment. This finding correlated with a reduction of NAA levels, along with a rescue of the seizure phenotype. However, gross brain pathology, such as dilated ventricles and spongiform vacuolization, was unchanged. Moreover, hypomyelination and motor deficits were not resolved by ASPA gene transfer. Our data suggest that NAA-mediated neuronal hyperexcitation but not oligodendrocyte dysfunction can be compensated for by neuronal ASPA expression.
Short-segment nerve conduction studies were performed in 17 limbs with clinical features suggestive of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. Recording from flexor carpi ulnaris yielded 93% sensitivity, compared with 71.4% when recording from abductor digiti minimi. The rationale underlying the technique is discussed. This approach should be of value as a diagnostic adjunct in technically challenging cases of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow.
Antigen presentation to T cells by MHC molecules is essential for adaptive immune responses. To determine the exact position of a gene affecting expression of MHC molecules, we finely mapped a previously defined rat quantitative trait locus regulating MHC class II on microglia in an advanced intercross line. We identified a small interval including the gene MHC class II transactivator (Mhc2ta) and, using a map over six inbred strains combined with gene sequencing and expression analysis, two conserved Mhc2ta haplotypes segregating with MHC class II levels. In humans, a -168A --&gt; G polymorphism in the type III promoter of the MHC class II transactivator (MHC2TA) was associated with increased susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and myocardial infarction, as well as lower expression of MHC2TA after stimulation of leukocytes with interferon-gamma. We conclude that polymorphisms in Mhc2ta and MHC2TA result in differential MHC molecule expression and are associated with susceptibility to common complex diseases with inflammatory components.
Cholinergic neuron loss is a cardinal feature of Alzheimer disease. Nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates cholinergic function, improves memory and prevents cholinergic degeneration in animal models of injury, amyloid overexpression and aging. We performed a phase 1 trial of ex vivo NGF gene delivery in eight individuals with mild Alzheimer disease, implanting autologous fibroblasts genetically modified to express human NGF into the forebrain. After mean follow-up of 22 months in six subjects, no long-term adverse effects of NGF occurred. Evaluation of the Mini-Mental Status Examination and Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subcomponent suggested improvement in the rate of cognitive decline. Serial PET scans showed significant (P &lt; 0.05) increases in cortical 18-fluorodeoxyglucose after treatment. Brain autopsy from one subject suggested robust growth responses to NGF. Additional clinical trials of NGF for Alzheimer disease are warranted.
One of the most clinically advanced forms of experimental disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer disease is immunization against the amyloid beta protein (Abeta), but how this may prevent cognitive impairment is unclear. We hypothesized that antibodies to Abeta could exert a beneficial action by directly neutralizing potentially synaptotoxic soluble Abeta species in the brain. Intracerebroventricular injection of naturally secreted human Abeta inhibited long-term potentiation (LTP), a correlate of learning and memory, in rat hippocampus in vivo but a monoclonal antibody to Abeta completely prevented the inhibition of LTP when injected after Abeta. Size fractionation showed that Abeta oligomers, not monomers or fibrils, were responsible for inhibiting LTP, and an Abeta antibody again prevented such inhibition. Active immunization against Abeta was partially effective, and the effects correlated positively with levels of antibodies to Abeta oligomers. The ability of exogenous and endogenous antibodies to rapidly neutralize soluble Abeta oligomers that disrupt synaptic plasticity in vivo suggests that treatment with such antibodies might show reversible cognitive deficits in early Alzheimer disease.
Increased Abeta42 production has been linked to the development of Alzheimer disease. We now identify a number of compounds that raise Abeta42. Among the more potent Abeta42-raising agents identified are fenofibrate, an antilipidemic agent, and celecoxib, a COX-2-selective NSAID. Many COX-2-selective NSAIDs tested raised Abeta42, including multiple COX-2-selective derivatives of two Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs. Compounds devoid of COX activity and the endogenous isoprenoids FPP and GGPP also raised Abeta42. These compounds seem to target the gamma-secretase complex, increasing gamma-secretase-catalyzed production of Abeta42 in vitro. Short-term in vivo studies show that two Abeta42-raising compounds increase Abeta42 levels in the brains of mice. The elevations in Abeta42 by these compounds are comparable to the increases in Abeta42 induced by Alzheimer disease-causing mutations in the genes encoding amyloid beta protein precursor and presenilins, raising the possibility that exogenous compounds or naturally occurring isoprenoids might increase Abeta42 production in humans.
The potential for human neuroimaging to read out the detailed contents of a person's mental state has yet to be fully explored. We investigated whether the perception of edge orientation, a fundamental visual feature, can be decoded from human brain activity measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using statistical algorithms to classify brain states, we found that ensemble fMRI signals in early visual areas could reliably predict on individual trials which of eight stimulus orientations the subject was seeing. Moreover, when subjects had to attend to one of two overlapping orthogonal gratings, feature-based attention strongly biased ensemble activity toward the attended orientation. These results demonstrate that fMRI activity patterns in early visual areas, including primary visual cortex (V1), contain detailed orientation information that can reliably predict subjective perception. Our approach provides a framework for the readout of fine-tuned representations in the human brain and their subjective contents.
Humans can experience aftereffects from oriented stimuli that are not consciously perceived, suggesting that such stimuli receive cortical processing. Determining the physiological substrate of such effects has proven elusive owing to the low spatial resolution of conventional human neuroimaging techniques compared to the size of orientation columns in visual cortex. Here we show that even at conventional resolutions it is possible to use fMRI to obtain a direct measure of orientation-selective processing in V1. We found that many parts of V1 show subtle but reproducible biases to oriented stimuli, and that we could accumulate this information across the whole of V1 using multivariate pattern recognition. Using this information, we could then successfully predict which one of two oriented stimuli a participant was viewing, even when masking rendered that stimulus invisible. Our findings show that conventional fMRI can be used to reveal feature-selective processing in human cortex, even for invisible stimuli.
Many of the behavioral consequences of stress are mediated by the activation of the glucocorticoid receptor by stress-induced high levels of glucocorticoid hormones. To explore the molecular mechanisms of these effects, we combined in vivo and in vitro approaches. We analyzed mice carrying a brain-specific mutation (GR(NesCre)) in the glucocorticoid receptor gene (GR, also called Nr3c1) and cell lines that either express endogenous glucocorticoid receptor or carry a constitutively active form of the receptor (DeltaGR) that can be transiently induced. In the hippocampus of the wild-type [corrected] mice after stress, as well as in the cell lines, activation of glucocorticoid receptors greatly increased the expression and enzymatic activity of proteins in the MAPK signaling pathway and led to an increase in the levels of both Egr-1 mRNA and protein. In parallel, inhibition of the MAPK pathway within the hippocampus abolished the increase in contextual fear conditioning induced by glucocorticoids. The present results provide a molecular mechanism for the stress-related effects of glucocorticoids on fear memories.
There is a stark contrast between our attitudes to sleep and those of the pre-industrial age. In Shakespeare's Julius Caesar we are told to &quot;Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber&quot;. There seems little chance of this today, as we crave more, work more and expect more, and, in the process, abandon sleep. Our occupation of the night is having unanticipated costs for both our physical and mental health, which, if continued, might condemn whole sectors of our society to a dismal future.
Cortical neurons show irregular but structured spike trains. This has been interpreted as evidence for 'temporal coding', whereby stimuli are represented by precise spike-timing patterns. Here, we suggest an alternative interpretation based on the older concept of the cell assembly. The dynamic evolution of assembly sequences, which are steered but not deterministically controlled by sensory input, is the proposed substrate of psychological processes beyond simple stimulus-response associations. Accordingly, spike trains show a temporal structure that is stimulus-dependent and more variable than would be predicted by strict sensory control. We propose four signatures of assembly organization that can be experimentally tested. We argue that many observations that have been interpreted as evidence for temporal coding might instead reflect an underlying assembly structure.
This article provides a review of recent findings in the cognitive neurosciences on antisocial personality disorders. There is accumulating evidence that the subtype of psychopathy is characterized by emotional dysfunction not only on the behavioral level but also by structural and functional abnormalities of the brain. Although the findings are not yet conclusive, they are already being discussed controversially with respect to the question of accountability of persons with psychopathy. False conclusions dominating these considerations are discussed and corrected. The findings open a new discussion of the relevance of emotional function and dysfunction for accountability.
Stability of intrinsic electrical activity and modulation of input-output gain are both important for neuronal information processing. It is therefore of interest to define biologically plausible parameters that allow these two features to coexist. Recent experiments indicate that in some biological neurons, the stability of spontaneous firing can arise from coregulated expression of the electrophysiologically opposing I(A) and I(H) currents. Here, I show that such balanced changes in I(A) and I(H) dramatically alter the slope of the relationship between the firing rate and driving current in a Hodgkin-Huxley-type model neuron. Concerted changes in I(A) and I(H) can thus control neuronal gain while preserving intrinsic activity.
Since the early studies of human behavior, emotion has attracted the interest of researchers in many disciplines of Neurosciences and Psychology. More recently, it is a growing field of research in computer science and machine learning. We are exploring how the expression of emotion is perceived by listeners and how to represent and automatically detect a subject's emotional state in speech. In contrast with most previous studies, conducted on artificial data with archetypal emotions, this paper addresses some of the challenges faced when studying real-life non-basic emotions. We present a new annotation scheme allowing the annotation of emotion mixtures. Our studies of real-life spoken dialogs from two call center services reveal the presence of many blended emotions, dependent on the dialog context. Several classification methods (SVM, decision trees) are compared to identify relevant emotional states from prosodic, disfluency and lexical cues extracted from the real-life spoken human-human interactions.
While artificial neural networks are regularly employed in modeling the perception of facial and vocal emotion expression as well as in automatic expression decoding by artificial agents, this approach is yet to be extended to the modeling of emotion elicitation and differentiation. In part, this may be due to the dominance of discrete and dimensional emotion models, which have not encouraged computational modeling. This situation has changed with the advent of appraisal theories of emotion and a number of attempts to develop rule-based models can be found in the literature. However, most of these models operate at a high level of conceptual abstraction and rarely include the underlying neural architecture. In this contribution, an appraisal-based emotion theory, the Component Process Model (CPM), is described that seems particularly suited to modeling with the help of artificial neural network approaches. This is due to its high degree of specificity in postulating underlying mechanisms including efferent physiological and behavioral manifestations as well as to the possibility of linking the theoretical assumptions to underlying neural architectures and dynamic processes. This paper provides a brief overview of the model, suggests constraints imposed by neural circuits, and provides examples on how the temporal unfolding of emotion can be conceptualized and experimentally tested. In addition, it is shown that the specific characteristics of emotion episodes can be profitably explored with the help of non-linear dynamic systems theory.
Ageing is characterized by deficits in learning and memory and by a deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampus. Several age-related changes, including dysfunction of calcium homeostatic mechanisms and upregulation of inflammatory processes are likely to contribute to these deficits. Here we exploited the fact that aged rats fall into a subgroup which fail to sustain LTP in perforant path granule cell synapses as a result of tetanic stimulation, and a subgroup which sustains LTP in a manner indistinguishable from young rats, in an effort to identify differential changes in the two subgroups. The age-related increase in IL-1beta concentration and IL-1beta-induced signalling was more profound in aged rats which failed to sustain LTP. We demonstrate that functional IL-4 receptors are expressed in rat hippocampus and that age is associated with a decrease in IL-4 concentration accompanied by a decrease in phosphorylation of JAK-1 and STAT-6. We propose that the imbalance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the aged brain significantly contributes to age-related deficits in synaptic function.
Accumulation of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is a fundamental feature of certain human brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome and also of the skeletal muscle disorder inclusion body myositis (IBM). Emerging evidence suggests that the steady-state levels of Abeta are determined by the balance between production and degradation. Although the proteolytic processes leading to Abeta formation have been extensively studied, less is known about the proteases that degrade Abeta, which include insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) and neprilysin (NEP). Here we measured the steady-state levels of these proteases as a function of age and brain/muscle region in mice and humans. In the hippocampus, which is vulnerable to AD pathology, IDE and NEP steady-state levels diminish as function of age. By contrast, in the cerebellum, a brain region not marked by significant Abeta accumulation, NEP and IDE levels either increase or remain unaltered during aging. Moreover, the steady-state levels of IDE and NEP are significantly higher in the cerebellum compared to the cortex and hippocampus. We further show that IDE is more oxidized in the hippocampus compared to the cerebellum of AD patients. In muscle, we find differential levels of IDE and NEP in fast versus slow twitch muscle fibers that varies with aging. These findings suggest that age- and region-specific changes in the proteolytic clearance of Abeta represent a critical pathogenic mechanism that may account for the susceptibility of particular brain or muscle regions in AD and IBM.
Increased anxiety may occur in up to 70% of AD patients during the course of their illness. Here we show that human apoE isoforms, which differ in AD risk, have differential effects on measures of anxiety in adult Apoe-/- male mice expressing human apoE3 or apoE4 in their brains and male probable AD (PRAD) patients. Compared with wild-type mice, Apoe-/- mice without human apoE or with apoE4, but not apoE3, showed increased measures of anxiety. These behavioral alterations were associated with reduced microtubule-associated protein 2-positive neuronal dendrites in the central nucleus of the amygdala. Consistent with the mouse data, male and female PRAD patients with epsilon4/epsilon4 showed higher anxiety scores than those with epsilon3/epsilon3. We conclude that human apoE isoforms have differential effects on measures of anxiety.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive decline in memory and other cognitive domains, accompanied by early loss of presynaptic terminals, amyloid-bearing neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles containing hyperphosphorylated tau. The mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration are not completely understood, however, recent evidence suggests that alterations in p59Fyn kinase, an Src family tyrosine kinase, might contribute to AD pathogenesis. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to investigate the relationship between Fyn protein levels and the neurological and neuropathological alterations in AD. We found, by quantitative immunoblotting, that in AD, Fyn levels were increased in the insoluble fraction and decreased in the soluble fraction. Soluble Fyn levels were directly correlated with the cognitive scores and levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and inversely correlated with neurofibrillary tangle counts in the frontal cortex. Consistent with these findings, the immunocytochemical analysis showed that in AD cases, Fyn levels were decreased in the synapses and increased in the neuronal cell bodies where it was colocalized with neurofibrillary tangles. Taken together, these findings suggest that alterations in Fyn localization might be associated with neurofibrillary pathology and synapse loss in AD.
In this event-related fMRI study, brain activity patterns were compared in extensive groups of young (N=25) and older (N=38) adults, while they were performing a word stem completion priming task. Based on behavioral findings, we tested the hypothesis that aging affects only the lexical/semantic, but not the perceptual component of word stem priming. To this end, we distinguished between priming-related activity reductions in posterior regions involved in visual processing, and regions associated with lexical/semantic retrieval processes, i.e., left lateral temporal and left prefrontal regions. Both groups revealed significant priming-related response time reductions. However, in accordance with earlier findings, a larger priming effect was found in the group of young participants. In line with previous imaging studies, the groups showed common priming-related activity reductions in the anterior cingulate, and the left inferior prefrontal cortex extending into the anterior portion of the left superior temporal gyrus, and at lower thresholds also in the right occipital lobe. However, when directly comparing the groups, greater priming-related reductions were found for the young group in the left anterior superior temporal gyrus and the right posterior occipital lobe. These findings suggest that, converse to current psychological views, aging affects both perceptual and lexical/semantic components of repetition priming.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subunit specific receptor antagonism has potential therapeutic application for multiple CNS pathologies. MERCK 1, MERCK 2, and MERCK 3 are novel NR2B subtype selective NMDA receptor antagonists. The affinity and the kinetic mechanism of inhibition by these antagonists and ifenprodil were investigated using the whole-cell configuration of the patch clamp technique, calcium flux, and radioligand binding on a mouse cell line L(tk-) expressing recombinant human heteromeric NMDA receptors consisting of NR1a/NR2B subunit combinations. The rank order of potency, as determined by electrophysiology, was ifenprodil&lt;MERCK 2&lt;MERCK 1&lt;MERCK 3 with K(D)'s 79+/-8, 2.4+/-1.1, 1.3+/-0.9, and approximately 0.16+/-0.02 nM, respectively. The apparent dissociation rate constants among these compounds differed by as much as 394-fold whereas the apparent association constants varied less than 3-fold. Higher affinities were a result of slower drug dissociation kinetics of receptor unbinding. Maximal inhibition was not voltage-dependent and was not statistically different at saturating concentrations by these compounds. These results provide the first detailed functional analysis of the kinetic mechanism of MERCK 1, MERCK 2, and MERCK 3 inhibition of NMDA receptors.
The molecular mechanism of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), a Parkinsonism-inducing neurotoxin, has been studied in PC12 cells. The cells treated with MPP+ (100 microM) induced a rapid increase in phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of several proteins, including synaptophysin, a major 38 kDa synaptic vesicle protein implicated in exocytosis. An accelerated release of dopamine by MPP+ correlated with phosphorylation of synaptophysin. Exposing the cells to MPP+ triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation within 60 min of treatment and the said effect was blocked by mazindol, a dopamine uptake blocker. In addition, pretreatment with 50-100 microM of selegiline, a selective MAO-B inhibitor, significantly suppressed MPP+-mediated ROS generation. These effects of MPP+ result in the generation of ROS, which may be involved in neuronal degeneration seen in Parkinson's disease.
cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) is a major modulator of synaptic transmission likely to be involved in molecular and cellular events leading to epileptogenesis, but little is known about how it affects the onset of acute epileptic seizures. In this study, we determined PKA enzymatic activity in the rat hippocampus during picrotoxin-induced seizures, using H-9 dihydrochloride, a PKA inhibitor, to investigate the in vivo effects of this enzyme on seizures induced by picrotoxin microdialysis in the rat hippocampus. No significant modifications were found in PKA activity during seizures as compared to control rats, but H-9 dihydrochloride microperfusion (100 microM) prevented picrotoxin seizures in 50% of the animals and significantly reduced the mean number of seizures and mean seizure duration. These results suggest that acute picrotoxin-induced seizures occur without an increase in hippocampal PKA activity, but reduced PKA-mediated phosphorylation protects against picrotoxin seizures, probably by increasing the inhibitory potential of GABA(A) receptors. The possibility of other targets for H-9 dihydrochloride, such as PKC, PKG or CAMKII, however, cannot be ruled out.
To determine whether still digital images of neurosurgical specimens sent by e-mail are an effective and safe way of obtaining an emergency pathological diagnosis, representative images from 48 neurosurgical smear specimens were digitized, compressed and sent by electronic mail to our consultant neuropathologist with relevant clinical and radiological information. The time to select, digitize, compress and send the images for each case was recorded. Comparison was made between diagnosis made from digital images (DI) and historical smear (HS) using the original permanent section (PS) diagnosis as the gold standard. A diagnosis of normal vs. abnormal, neoplastic vs. non-neoplastic, primary vs. secondary and tumor grade was made in each case. The mean time for selection and digitalization of each case was 9.51 minutes. The number of correct pathological diagnosis was 41/48 using DI and 48/48 using HS, giving an accuracy rate of 85.4% and 100% respectively. DI was 100% sensitive in recognizing neoplastic tissue but only 98% specific. Most inaccuracies were in grading and caused by problems with field selection and familiarity with the technique. We conclude that static digital images are reliable and safe method of interpreting tissue during neurosurgical procedures. This corresponds with the findings of previous studies.
Detection of genetic relatedness (i.e. kinship) impacts the social, parental, and sexual behavior of many species. In humans, self-referent phenotype matching based on facial resemblance may indicate kinship. For example, faces that resemble ours are perceived as more trustworthy and attractive. Sex differences in behavioral reactions to facial resemblance among children have also been demonstrated and are consistent with evolutionary theory suggesting that resemblance might serve as a paternity cue. Using event-related fMRI, we show that specific regions of the brain are implicated in processing facial resemblance and a sex difference in cortical response to facial resemblance expressed in children. We found a consistent activation in the fusiform gyrus across all face conditions, which is consistent with previous research on face processing. There were no sex differences in overall response to faces in the fusiform gyrus, and also to faces that did not resemble subjects. When resemblance was not modeled, females showed greater activation to child faces than males. Consistent with parental investment theory and theories of sexual selection, males showed greater cortical activity than females in response to children's faces that resembled them. These data suggest natural selection may have crafted a sexually differentiated neuro-sensory module implicated in detection of facial resemblance that may serve as a kin detection and paternity cue. This process may capitalize on neural substrates involved in self-referent processing and familiarity detection.
Correlating the activation foci identified in functional imaging studies of the human brain with structural (e.g., cytoarchitectonic) information on the activated areas is a major methodological challenge for neuroscience research. We here present a new approach to make use of three-dimensional probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps, as obtained from the analysis of human post-mortem brains, for correlating microscopical, anatomical and functional imaging data of the cerebral cortex. We introduce a new, MATLAB based toolbox for the SPM2 software package which enables the integration of probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps and results of functional imaging studies. The toolbox includes the functionality for the construction of summary maps combining probability of several cortical areas by finding the most probable assignment of each voxel to one of these areas. Its main feature is to provide several measures defining the degree of correspondence between architectonic areas and functional foci. The software, together with the presently available probability maps, is available as open source software to the neuroimaging community. This new toolbox provides an easy-to-use tool for the integrated analysis of functional and anatomical data in a common reference space.
Attending to a relevant item in a visual display is thought to require not only selective attention to this item, but also active inhibition of surrounding distractor items. As a consequence of this spatial inhibition, selection of a relevant item in a previous distractor location is slowed (i.e., the spatial inhibition effect). The goal of this study is to identify brain regions that are involved in this spatial inhibition effect using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Subjects had to select a target from a display which also included a distractor, while that target was presented in either a new location (control) or in a location previously occupied by a distractor (spatial inhibition). A region of interest analysis revealed decreased activation in the superior parietal lobe (SPL), but increased activation in the motor areas (supplementary motor area, putamen) when the target was presented in a previously inhibited compared to a new location. We take these results to suggest that presenting a target in a previously inhibited location negatively biases the selection of that target in favor of an accompanying distractor. This may result in an initially more efficient selection process, resulting in lower activation in the SPL. Counteracting this perceptual bias possibly requires additional motor activation. This study provides evidence for the notion that to make selection more efficient, prior information concerning an item is used. When this prior information conflicts with the current stimulus demands, compensatory motor actions are taken to correct this perceptual bias.
Both specific and non-specific factors may play a role in acupuncture therapy for pain. We explored the cerebral consequences of needling and expectation with real acupuncture, placebo acupuncture and skin-prick, using a single-blind, randomized crossover design with 14 patients suffering from painful osteoarthritis, who were scanned with positron emission tomography (PET). The three interventions, all of which were sub-optimal acupuncture treatment, did not modify the patient's pain. The insula ipsilateral to the site of needling was activated to a greater extent during real acupuncture than during the placebo intervention. Real acupuncture and placebo (with the same expectation of effect as real acupuncture) caused greater activation than skin prick (no expectation of a therapeutic effect) in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and midbrain. These results suggest that real acupuncture has a specific physiological effect and that patients' expectation and belief regarding a potentially beneficial treatment modulate activity in component areas of the reward system.
Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a widely used and powerful tool for studying brain function, the quantitative interpretation of fMRI measurements for basic neuroscience and clinical studies can be complicated by inter-subject and inter-session variability arising from modulation of the baseline vascular state by disease, aging, diet, and pharmacological agents. In particular, recent studies have shown that the temporal dynamics of the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) responses to stimulus are modulated by changes in baseline CBF induced by various vasoactive agents and by decreases in vascular compliance associated with aging. These effects are not readily explained using current models of the CBF and BOLD responses. We present here a second-order nonlinear feedback model of the evoked CBF response in which neural activity modulates the compliance of arteriolar smooth muscle. Within this model framework, the baseline vascular state affects the dynamic response by changing the relative contributions of an active smooth muscle component and a passive connective tissue component to the overall vessel compliance. Baseline dependencies of the BOLD signal are studied by coupling the arteriolar compliance model with a previously described balloon model of the venous compartment. Numerical simulations show that the proposed model describes to first order the observed dependence of CBF and BOLD responses on the baseline vascular state.
Recent advances in endovascular interventional therapies have revolutionized the management of acute ischemic stroke. For patients who present with occluded circle of Willis vessels, timely and successful arterial recanalization is the best predictor of clinical improvement. Diagnostic neuroimaging has advanced noninvasive tools--namely, transcranial Doppler, CT angiography, and MR angiography--to screen individuals with acute neurologic syndromes rapidly for arterial occlusion, and hence to exclude from treatment those who are unlikely to benefit from or could be harmed by arterial recanalization strategies. Intra-arterial thrombolysis has been proven to be of benefit in large clinical trials. Moreover, the US Food and Drug Administration has recently approved the use of a mechanical clot retrieval device for acute embolic stroke, and a number of other similar strategies are under various stages of investigation. This article reviews the diagnostic and interventional approach to the management of large vessel embolic stroke.
In the setting of acute stroke evaluation, CT is accessible, versatile, available, inexpensive, and, most importantly, fast. Its use extends beyond that of identifying intracranial hemorrhage. We have emphasized the importance of clinical assessment, supported by a systematic approach to unenhanced CT interpretation using the Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score for determining the extent of early ischemic change. The use of CT bolus techniques (providing vascular CT angiography, CT angiography source images, and quantitative CT perfusion maps) can augment the clinical information obtained from unenhanced CT. CT is likely to remain the workhorse of acute stroke imaging for some time to come.
It has become increasingly evident that the field of neurotoxicology is not only rapidly growing but also rapidly evolving, especially over the last 20 years. As the number of drugs and environmental and bacterial/viral agents with potential neurotoxic properties has grown, the need for additional testing has increased. Only recently has the technology advanced to a level that neurotoxicologic studies can be performed without operating in a &quot;black box.&quot; Examination of the effects of agents that are suspected of being toxic can occur on the molecular (protein-protein), cellular (biomarkers, neuronal function), and genetic (polymorphisms) level. Together, these areas help to elucidate the potential toxic profiles of unknown (and in some cases, known) agents. The area of proteomics is one of the fastest growing areas in science and particularly applicable to neurotoxicology. Lubec et al, provide a review of the potential and limitations of proteomics. Proteomics focuses on a more comprehensive view of cellular proteins and provides considerably more information about the effects of toxins on the CNS. Proteomics can be classified into three different focuses: post-translational modification, protein-expression profiling, and protein-network mapping. Together, these methods represent a more complete and powerful image of protein modifications following potential toxin exposure. Cellular neurotoxicology involves many cellular processes including alterations in cellular energy homeostasis, ion homeostasis, intracellular signaling function, and neurotransmitter release, uptake, and storage. The greatest hurdle in cellular neurotoxicology has been the discovery of appropriate biomarkers that are reliable, reproducible, and easy to obtain. There are biomarkers of exposure effect, and susceptibility. Finding the appropriate biomarker for a particular toxin is a daunting task. The appropriate biomarker for a particular toxin is a daunting task. The advantage to biomarker/toxin combinations is they can be detected and measured shortly following exposure and before overt neuroanatomic damage or lesions. Intervention at this point, shortly following exposure, may prevent or at least attenuate further damage to the individual. The use of peripheral biomarkers to assess toxin damage in the CNS has numerous advantages: time-course analysis may be performed, ethical concerns with the use of human subjects can partially be avoided, procedures to acquire samples are less invasive, and in general, peripheral studies are easier to perform. Genetic neurotoxicology comprises two focuses--toxin-induced alterations in genetic expression and genetic alterations that affect toxin metabolism, distribution, and clearance. These differences can be beneficial or toxic. Polymorphisms have been shown to result in altered metabolism of certain toxins (paraoxonase and paraoxon). Conversely, it is possible that some polymorphisms may be beneficial and help prevent the formation of a toxic by-product of an exogenous agent (resistance to ozone-induced lung inflammation). It has also become clear that interactions of potential toxins are not straightforward as interactions with DNA, causing mutations. There are numerous agents that cause epigenetic responses (cellular alterations that are not mutagenic or cytotoxic). This finding suggests that many agents that may originally have been thought of as nontoxic should be re-examined for potential &quot;indirect&quot; toxicity. With the advancement of the human genome project and the development of a human genome map, the effects of potential toxins on single or multiple genes can be identified. Although collectively, the field of neurotoxicology has recently come a long way, it still has a long way to go reach its full potential. As technology and methodology advances continue and cooperation with other disciplines such as neuroscience, biochemistry, neurophysiology, and molecular biology is improved, the mechanisms of toxin action will be further elucidated. With this increased understanding will come improved clinical interventions to prevent neuronal damage following exposure to a toxin.
Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) has a prevalence of 0.1-0.2 per thousand and an incidence ranging from about 4-5/100,000/year up to 20/100,000/year after age 60. The female-to-male ratio is about 3:2. A review of several case series shows that pain is more predominant on the right side, but the difference is not statistically significant. TN is significantly associated with arterial hypertension, Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy, glossopharyngeal neuralgia (GN) and multiple sclerosis. GN has an incidence of 0.7/100,000/year and epidemiological studies have shown it to be less severe than previously thought. Post-herpetic neuralgia has a comparable incidence to idiopathic TN. The epidemiology of the central causes of facial pain is still unclear, but it is known that persistent idiopathic facial pain is a widespread, not easily manageable problem.




Glycosylation defects of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) cause various muscular dystrophies. We performed clinical, pathological and genetic analyses of 62 Japanese patients with congenital muscular dystrophy, whose skeletal muscle showed deficiency of glycosylated form of alpha-DG. We found, the first Japanese patient with congenital muscular dystrophy 1C with a novel compound heterozygous mutation in the fukutin-related protein gene. Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy was genetically confirmed in 54 of 62 patients. Two patients with muscle-eye-brain disease and one Walker-Warburg syndrome were also genetically confirmed. Four patients had no mutation in any known genes associated with glycosylation of alpha-DG. Interestingly, the molecular mass of alpha-DG in the skeletal muscle was similar and was reduced to approximately 90 kDa among these patients, even though the causative gene and the clinico-pathological severity were different. This result suggests that other factors can modify clinical features of the patients with glycosylation defects of alpha-DG.
Alpha-dystroglycan is a cell surface peripheral membrane protein which binds to the extracellular matrix (ECM), while beta-dystroglycan is a type I integral membrane protein which anchors alpha-dystroglycan to the cell membrane via the N-terminal extracellular domain. The complex composed of alpha-and beta-dystroglycan is called the dystroglycan complex. We reported previously a matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity that disrupts the dystroglycan complex by cleaving the extracellular domain of beta-dystroglycan. This MMP creates a characteristic 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan that is detected by the monoclonal antibody 43DAG/8D5 directed against the C-terminus of beta-dystroglycan. We also reported that the 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan was increased in the skeletal and cardiac muscles of cardiomyopathic hamsters, the model animals of sarcoglycanopathy, and that this resulted in the disruption of the link between the ECM and cell membrane via the dystroglycan complex. In this study, we investigated the proteolysis of beta-dystroglycan in the biopsied skeletal muscles of various human muscular diseases, including sarcoglycanopathy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), Becker muscular dystrophy, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, Miyoshi myopathy, LGMD2A, facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy and dermatomyositis/polymyositis. We show that the 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan is increased significantly in sarcoglycanopathy and DMD, but not in the other diseases. We propose that the proteolysis of beta-dystroglycan may contribute to skeletal muscle degeneration by disrupting the link between the ECM and cell membrane in sarcoglycanopathy and DMD.
Intrauterine inflammation is a major risk for offspring neurodevelopmental brain damage and may result in cognitive limitations and poor cognitive and perceptual outcomes. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, stimulated during inflammatory response, have a pleotrophic effect on neurons and glia cells. They act in a dose-dependent manner, activate cell-death pathways and also act as trophic factors. In the present study, we have examined in mice the effect of short, systemic maternal inflammation on fetal brain development. Maternal inflammation, induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at gestation day 17, did not affect morphogenic parameters and reflex development during the first month of life. However, maternal inflammation specifically increased the number of pyramidal and granular cells in the hippocampus, as well as the shrinkage of pyramidal cells, but not of the granular cells. No additional major morphological differences were observed in the cerebral cortex or cerebellum. In accordance with the morphological effects, maternal inflammation specifically impaired distinct forms of learning and memory, but not motor function or exploration in the adult offspring. The specific deficiency observed, following maternal inflammation, may suggest particular sensitivity of the hippocampus and other associated brain regions to inflammatory factors during late embryonic development.
The role of the brain 5-HT1A receptor in cognition was examined in the water maze (WM) and passive avoidance (PA) tasks in the male rat. Pre-training administration of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT impaired WM performance and facilitated PA retention at low doses (0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg) and impaired PA retention at higher doses (0.1-1.0 mg/kg). The 5-HT1A receptor antagonist NAD-299 produced a dose-dependent facilitation of PA retention. In contrast, the 5-HT1A receptor antagonists NAD-299 and WAY-100635 failed to alter acquisition and retention in the WM. The impairments in WM and PA (but not facilitation in PA) induced by 8-OH-DPAT were blocked by NAD-299. Furthermore, NAD-299 prevented the PA impairments induced by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine or the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. In contrast, NAD-299 and WAY-100635 failed to attenuate the WM impairment induced by scopolamine, probably due to the failure of 5-HT1A receptor blockade to attenuate the sensorimotor disturbances induced by scopolamine. These results indicate that 5-HT1A receptor stimulation and blockade result in opposite effects in two types of cognitive tasks in the rat, and that 5-HT1A receptor blockade can facilitate some aspects of cognitive function, probably via modulation of cholinergic and glutamatergic transmissions. This suggests that 5-HT1A receptor antagonists may have a potential role in the treatment of human degenerative disorders associated with cognitive deficits.
The purpose of the present studies was to investigate the behavioral and convulsant effects produced by the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). Administered i.c.v. to mice, (S)-3,5-DHPG produced a behavioral syndrome consisting of scratching and/or facial grooming, tremors, slow forelimb clonus, rearing, and falling that increased over the dose range of 10-400 nmol. The full syndrome, produced by 400 nmol of (S)-3,5-DHPG, was antagonized by the selective mGlu1 receptor antagonist LY456236 but not by the mGlu5 receptor antagonist MPEP or the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist LY341495. The behaviors induced by the 400 nmol dose were not blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, but were attenuated by the non-NMDA receptor antagonists GYKI 52466 and NBQX, and the Ca2+ mobilization inhibitor dantrolene, but at motor-impairing doses. The scratching behaviors produced by 30 nmol of (S)-3,5-DHPG were antagonized by LY456236 but not by MPEP, LY341495 or MK-801. GYKI 52466 and dantrolene, but not NBQX, inhibited scratching at motor-impairing doses. Both 400 and 30 nmol of (S)-3,5-DHPG produced a generalized seizure as recorded by surface EEG electrodes. LY456236 blocked the seizures produced by 30 nmol but not by 400 nmol; dantrolene was ineffective in blocking seizures produced by either dose. The present findings suggest that (S)-3,5-DHPG produces an increase in excitation that is mediated by mGlu1 and non-NMDA receptors.
The authors of this study investigated task switching following cerebellar damage. The study group consisted of 7 children and adolescents (M age=13.8 years) who underwent surgical removal of a benign posterior fossa tumor. They were tested at a sufficient interval after surgery (M lag=6.13 years) for restoration of normal cognitive skills and intelligence. Although all showed normal learning of the task compared with control participants, when rapid behavioral changes were required (short preparation time), they exhibited behavioral rigidity manifested by enhanced switching cost. These results are in line with another study on serial reaction time with the same patients (A. Berger et al., in press). They have important implications for our understanding of the cognitive sequelae of early cerebellar damage as well as the involvement of the cerebellum in task switching.
In 2 experiments involving patients with semantic dementia, the authors investigated the impact of semantic memory loss on both true and false recognition. Experiment 1 involved recognition memory for categories of everyday objects that shared a predominantly semantic relationship. The patients showed preserved item-specific recollection for the pictorial stimuli but, compared with control participants, exhibited significantly reduced utilization of gist information regarding the categories of objects. The latter result is consistent with the patients' degraded semantic knowledge. Experiment 2 involved categories of abstract objects that were related to one another perceptually rather than semantically. Patients with semantic dementia obtained item-specific recollection and gist memory scores that were indistinguishable from those of control participants. These results suggest that the reduction in gist memory in semantic dementia is largely specific to semantic representations and cannot be attributed to general difficulty with abstracting and/or utilizing gistlike commonalities between stimuli.
In a previous study, systemic administration of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, R-(+)-baclofen (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) blocked acute amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced rearing and neuropeptide (preprodynorphin (PPD), preprotachykinin (PPT), preproenkephalin (PPE), and secretogranin II (SGII)) mRNA expression in the striatum (Zhou et al, 2004). The purpose of the present study was to investigate the site(s) of action of these baclofen effects in the dorsal and ventral striatal circuitries. Infusion of baclofen (75 ng/side) into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), substantia nigra (SN), nucleus accumbens (NA), caudate-putamen (Cpu), or medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) had no effect on behavioral activity in saline-treated rats habituated to a photocell apparatus. However, intra-VTA infusion of baclofen (75 ng/side) completely blocked, whereas intra-NA and intra-SN infusion of baclofen attenuated, amphetamine-induced vertical activity without affecting amphetamine-induced total distance traveled. In contrast, intramedial PFC and intra-CPu infusion of baclofen had no effect on behavioral activity in amphetamine-treated rats. Infusion of baclofen into the VTA, NA, or SN decreased amphetamine-induced neuropeptide gene expression in the striatum. These results indicate that GABA(B) receptor stimulation within the ventral striatal circuitry is involved in mediating acute amphetamine-induced behaviors and neuropeptide gene expression in the dorsal and ventral striatum. The present study provides information on the potential targets in the brain for baclofen in the initial behavioral and genomic response to amphetamine.
Norms of reaction (NoRs) represent the phenotypic values of genotypes as functions of environmental parameters and permit the visualization of differences in phenotypic response of different genotypes. NoR graphs can be used to analyze interactions between genotypic and environmental factors during development to produce phenotypes in inbred strains of rats and mice. We describe the main features of NoRs, the history of their use in this context, and discuss several applications in behavioral neuroscience. In addition, we give a test for determining whether distinct strains have different NoRs.
Abnormalities in emotion processing and in structure of the amygdala have consistently been documented in schizophrenia. A major question is whether amygdala abnormalities reflect a genetic vulnerability for the disease. In the present paper, we reviewed Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) studies that reported amygdala measures in several high-risk populations: subjects from the general population with subclinical schizophrenia symptoms and relatives of schizophrenia patients. In addition, we reviewed the evidence regarding Klinefelter syndrome (characterised by an additional X-chromosome), which has also been related to an increased risk for schizophrenia. Overall, the evidence points to structural abnormalities of the amygdala in individuals at increased risk for schizophrenia. Although the genetic basis of amygdala deficits remains unclear, abnormalities (of genes) on the X-chromosome might play a role as suggested by the evidence from individuals with sex chromosome aneuploidies. We propose that amygdala abnormalities are an endophenotype in schizophrenia and may account for subtle emotional processing deficits that have been described in these high-risk groups.
Strong tetanization induces synchronous membrane potential oscillations (seizure-like afterdischarge) in mature pyramidal cells of the hippocampal CA1 region. To investigate whether local networks in other brain regions can generate such an afterdischarge independently, we studied the inducibility of afterdischarge in individual 'isolated slices' of the rat hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions, dentate gyrus (DG), entorhinal cortex (EC), and temporal cortex (TC) using intracellular and extracellular recordings. The strong tetanization constantly induced afterdischarges in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells as well as in the EC and TC superficial principal cells. However, parameters of the afterdischarges, such as the frequency and duration of afterdischarges, varied among the regions. A mixture of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptor antagonists or a GABA(A) receptor antagonist completely blocked the afterdischarges. Local GABA application during the afterdischarge elicited depolarization, rather than hyperpolarization. Moreover, reversal potentials of the afterdischarge were around -40 mV. In contrast, the tetanization resulted in occasional afterdischarge-like activities in DG slices, which were blocked by the non-NMDA or GABA(A) receptor antagonist. These findings suggest that the afterdischarges mediated through the excitatory GABAergic and glutamatergic transmissions might be common to, but be modulated differently by individual local networks in the hippocampus and cortex.
It has previously been suggested that exogenous growth hormone (GH) affect quality of life and higher brain functions through the endogenous opioid system. Recently, we showed that GH down-regulate 72 and 48 kDa delta opioid receptor (DOR) proteins in the adult rat cerebral cortex and cerebellum. In the present study, we found that an antiserum raised against the N-terminus of the DOR also recognizes a 36 kDa protein, not recognized by a C-terminus-directed antiserum. We aimed to investigate the identity of the 72, 48 and 36 kDa proteins and to further study the effects of GH on their expression in different brain regions. The expression was studied in hypophysectomized (Hx) and untreated normal female rats. One subgroup of Hx rats received GH as a daily subcutaneous injection for 19 days. Our data show that treatment with GH in Hx rats normalized the expression of the 72 kDa protein in the cerebral cortex, whereas no significant effect were observed for the 48 or 36 kDa proteins. However, GH significantly reduced the ratio between the 72 and 36 kDa proteins in different brain regions of Hx rats. Our data suggest that GH reduces the levels of a 72 kDa DOR that likely represents a dimeric form of a 36 kDa DOR post-translationally truncated at the C-terminus, and that altered receptor dimerization may be involved in GH induced effects in the central nervous system.





Dietary n-3 fatty acid (FA) deficiencies during development can cause learning and memory impairments, but the functional effects of dietary n-6 FA deficiencies, reflected in a lowered n-6/n-3 ratio, are less clear. We investigated the effects of maternal diets containing fish oils, resulting in lowered n-6/n-3 ratios, on a spatial working memory task in their offspring. Starting on gestational day 6, Sprague-Dawley timed-pregnant rats were placed on one of three experimental diets: control (unadulterated powdered rat chow), Pacific Ocean (PO) fish (powdered rat chow containing 20% (w/w) lyophilized PO salmon), or PO oil (powdered rat chow containing 6% (w/w) oil extracted from PO salmon). The 6% oil dose was selected because it is equivalent to the amount of oil in the 20% lyophilized fish diet. The experimental diets were fed until weaning on postnatal day (PND) 21, at which time all pups were placed on the rat chow diet. Starting on approximately PND77, one male and one female from each litter began a cognitive test battery using 2-lever operant chambers. PO groups failed to reach the same level of performance as the controls on the delayed spatial alternation (DSA) task and also showed decreased performance on delay trials. FA analyses of the diets found that the n-6/n-3 ratios for the PO fish and oil groups were reduced to 2.5 and 3.2, respectively, vs. 6.9 for controls. Analysis of brain tissue taken from pups on PND21 confirmed that the n-6/n-3 ratios within the brain were significantly reduced from 1.18 for controls to 0.87 and 0.90 for PO fish and oil groups, respectively. Specifically, the PO diets significantly increased long-chain n-3 FAs (20:5 n-3 and 22:6 n-3) and decreased long-chain n-6 FAs (20:4 n-6 and 22:4 n-6) in the brain. Thus, the observed delayed spatial alternation impairments in rats fed PO fish and fish oil are hypothesized to have resulted from the altered n-6/n-3 FA ratios.
A one and a half day workshop on behavioral testing was conducted in order to discuss experimental procedures and practices that may help enhance the utility of behavioral data as a reliable index of neurotoxicity and in the safety evaluation of chemical substances. The workshop was open to participation by all sectors of the neuroscience community including academia, government, testing laboratories, and industry. The level of confidence with which changes in behavior can reliably signal adverse effects on the nervous system depends, in part, on the scientific quality of the data generated. With an emphasis on education and problem solving, the workshop focused on the practical aspects and scientific rationale underlying valid and high quality testing. In behavioral testing, there are numerous experimental factors that may impact on the quality of data. These include such elements as experimental design, selection of test methods, the care and precision in the conduct of behavioral testing, procedures to minimize bias and potential confounds, appropriateness of statistical analyses, and data interpretation. In plenary session investigators experienced in behavioral testing discussed the significance of these various experimental factors to data quality, outlined problematic issues, and presented a synopsis of approaches for addressing each of the factors as outlined in a draft of a primer developed by the Interagency Committee on Neurotoxicology (ICON). During the remainder of the workshop, open discussions in small breakout groups were used to address the problematic issues identified by the plenary speakers and explore alternative approaches for dealing with them. Finally, all workshop participants were reconvened in plenary session for summation of breakout group discussions and final recommendations. Information from the workshop was used to form the basis of this manuscript and will be used to help finalize a behavioral test methods primer being drafted by the ICON. The overall conclusions from the workshop were that consensus can be reached on the fundamentals of behavioral assessment, and that aspects of behavioral assessment including experimental design, test method selection, training, validation, control of confounds, data variability, data analysis, and data interpretation need to be carefully considered in the planning and conduct of behavioral safety assessments.
In the literature on the effects of early exposure to neurotoxic agents on infant and child development, considerable attention has been devoted to two important issues--ascertainment of exposure and spurious correlation. In this paper, we review these research challenges and focus on three additional issues that, in our view, warrant more attention than they have received to date--multiple comparisons, effect modifiers, and clinical significance. Alternatives to the Bonferroni approach to multiple comparisons, which entails an unacceptably high risk of Type II error, include the designation of a limited number of primary endpoints for hypothesis testing, an evaluation of the consistency of effects across multiple related endpoints, and replication. Effect modifiers are important for understanding the marked individual differences in vulnerability that characterize most neurodevelopmental exposures. In evaluating effect modification, separate analyses comparing high and low risk groups provide an alternative to statistical interaction terms, which are underpowered in most longitudinal field studies. Because the small effect sizes that emerge in most large sample studies understate the impact of an exposure on the most vulnerable individuals, it is important to evaluate the functional significance of the impairment on such individuals directly in order to assess its true public health impact.



This study describes the preliminary positron emission tomography (PET) evaluation of a dopamine D(2)-like receptor agonist, (R)-2-(11)CH(3)O-N-n-propylnorapomorphine ([(11)C]MNPA), as a potential new radioligand for in vivo imaging of the high-affinity state of the dopamine D(2) receptor (D(2)R). MNPA is a selective D(2)-like receptor agonist with a high affinity (K(i)=0.17 nM). [(11)C]MNPA was successfully synthesized by direct O-methylation of (R)-2-hydroxy-NPA using [(11)C]methyl iodide and was evaluated in cynomolgus monkeys. This study included baseline PET experiments and a pretreatment study using unlabeled raclopride (1 mg/kg). High uptake of radioactivity was seen in regions known to contain high D(2)R, with a maximum striatum-to-cerebellum ratio of 2.23+/-0.21 at 78 min and a maximum thalamus-to-cerebellum ratio of 1.37+/-0.06 at 72 min. The pretreatment study demonstrated high specific binding to D(2)R by reducing the striatum-to-cerebellum ratio to 1.26 at 78 min. This preliminary study indicates that the dopamine agonist [(11)C]MNPA has potential as an agonist radioligand for the D(2)-like receptor and has potential for examination of the high-affinity state of the D(2)R in human subjects and patients with neuropsychiatric disorders.

Anti-dieting sentiment has grown in recent years. Critics of restrained eating suggest that it evokes counter-regulatory responses that render it ineffective or even iatrogenic. However, restrained eaters are not in negative energy balance and overweight individuals show reduced eating problems when losing weight by dieting. A distinction is often drawn between physiological and psychological hunger, and neuroscience research has shown that there is a neurophysiological reality underlying this distinction. The brain has a homeostatic system (activated by energy deficits) and a hedonic system (activated by the presence of palatable food). The omnipresence of highly palatable food in the environment may chronically activate the hedonic appetite system, producing a need to actively restrain eating not just to lose weight but to avoid gaining it. Just as restricting energy intake below homeostatic needs produces physiological deprivation, restricting intake of palatable foods may produce &quot;perceived deprivation&quot; despite a state of energy balance. In summary, the motivation to eat more than one needs appears to be every bit as real, and perhaps every bit as powerful, as the motivation to eat when energy deprived.
As part of a study on subjects with convergence insufficiency (CI), their vertical and horizontal vergence adaptation was assessed and compared with age matched controls in order to investigate whether the horizontal adaptation system can be regarded as being independent of the vertical adaptation system. Using a flashed Maddox rod technique horizontal vergence adaptation was found to be reduced in CI subjects whereas no difference could be found in vertical adaptation. These results confirm that the vertical and horizontal adaptation systems can be treated as independent mechanisms.
It is well known that in convergence insufficiency (CI) prism adaptation is reduced in response to base-out (BO) prisms at near. There have also been some suggestions in the literature that adaptation is reduced at other distances as well. The present data show that in CI adaptation is not only reduced in response to BO at near, but also in response to base-in (BI) at near and for both BI and BO at distance. This raises the interesting question whether distance adaptation becomes reduced because of reduced near adaptation or whether these subjects have a generally reduced horizontal adaptation mechanism.
The role of oxidation in the development of age-related eye disease has prompted interest in the use of nutritional supplementation for prevention of onset and progression. Our aim is to highlight possible contraindications and adverse reactions of isolated or high dose ocular nutritional supplements. Web of Science and PubMed database searches were carried out, followed by a manual search of the bibliographies of retrieved articles. Vitamin A should be avoided in women who may become pregnant, in those with liver disease, and in people who drink heavily. Relationships have been found between vitamin A and reduced bone mineral density, and beta-carotene and increased risk of lung cancer in smoking males. Vitamin E and Ginkgo biloba have anticoagulant and anti-platelet effects respectively, and high doses are contraindicated in those being treated for vascular disorders. Those patients with contraindications or who are considered at risk of adverse reactions should be advised to seek specialist dietary advice via their medical practitioner.
The aim of this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial was to determine the efficacy of a combination of acetyl-L-carnitine, n-3 fatty acids, and coenzyme Q10 (Phototrop) on the visual functions and fundus alterations in early age-related macular degeneration (AMD). One hundred and six patients with a clinical diagnosis of early AMD were randomized to the treated or control groups. The primary efficacy variable was the change in the visual field mean defect (VFMD) from baseline to 12 months of treatment, with secondary efficacy parameters: visual acuity (Snellen chart and ETDRS chart), foveal sensitivity as measured by perimetry, and fundus alterations as evaluated according to the criteria of the International Classification and Grading System for AMD. The mean change in all four parameters of visual functions showed significant improvement in the treated group by the end of the study period. In addition, in the treated group only 1 out of 48 cases (2%) while in the placebo group 9 out of 53 (17%) showed clinically significant (&gt;2.0 dB) worsening in VFMD (p = 0.006, odds ratio: 10.93). Decrease in drusen-covered area of treated eyes was also statistically significant as compared to placebo when either the most affected eyes (p = 0.045) or the less affected eyes (p = 0.017) were considered. These findings strongly suggested that an appropriate combination of compounds which affect mitochondrial lipid metabolism, may improve and subsequently stabilize visual functions, and it may also improve fundus alterations in patients affected by early AMD.
We recently reported that hyperalgesia induced by the inflammatory mediator prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) requires intact alpha1, alpha3 and beta1 integrin subunit function, whereas epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia depends on alpha5 and beta1. PGE(2)-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by protein kinase A (PKA), while epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by a combination of PKA, protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon) and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK). We hypothesized that inflammatory mediator-induced hyperalgesia involves specific interactions between different subsets of integrin subunits and particular second messenger species. In the present study, function-blocking anti-integrin antibodies and antisense oligodeoxynucleotides were used to elucidate these interactions in rat. Hyperalgesia produced by an activator of adenylate cyclase (forskolin) depended on alpha1, alpha3 and beta1 integrins. However, hyperalgesia induced by activation of the cascade at a point farther downstream (by cAMP analog or PKA catalytic subunit) was independent of any integrins tested. In contrast, hyperalgesia induced by a specific PKCepsilon agonist depended only on alpha5 and beta1 integrins. Hyperalgesia induced by agonism of MAPK/ERK depended on all four integrin subunits tested (alpha1, alpha3, alpha5 and beta1). Finally, disruption of lipid rafts antagonized hyperalgesia induced by PGE(2) and by forskolin, but not that induced by epinephrine. Furthermore, alpha1 integrin, but not alpha5, was present in detergent-resistant membrane fractions (which retain lipid raft components). These observations suggest that integrins play a critical role in inflammatory pain by interacting with components of second messenger cascades that mediate inflammatory hyperalgesia, and that such interaction with the PGE(2)-activated pathway may be organized by lipid rafts.
Bone cancer pain can be difficult to control, as it appears to be driven simultaneously by inflammatory, neuropathic and tumorigenic mechanisms. As nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to modulate inflammatory and neuropathic pain states, we focused on a novel NGF sequestering antibody and demonstrated that two administrations of this therapy in a mouse model of bone cancer pain produces a profound reduction in both ongoing and movement-evoked bone cancer pain-related behaviors that was greater than that achieved with acute administration of 10 or 30 mg/kg of morphine. This therapy also reduced several neurochemical changes associated with peripheral and central sensitization in the dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord, whereas the therapy did not influence disease progression or markers of sensory or sympathetic innervation in the skin or bone. Mechanistically, the great majority of sensory fibers that innervate the bone are CGRP/TrkA expressing fibers, and if the sensitization and activation of these fibers is blocked by anti-NGF therapy there would not be another population of nociceptors, such as the non-peptidergic IB4/RET-IR nerve fibers, to take their place in signaling nociceptive events.
Activated glial cells (microglia and astroglia) in the spinal cord play a major role in mediating enhanced pain states by releasing proinflammatory cytokines and other substances thought to facilitate pain transmission. In the present study, we report that intrathecal administration of minocycline, a selective inhibitor of microglial cell activation, inhibits low threshold mechanical allodynia, as measured by the von Frey test, in two models of pain facilitation. In a rat model of neuropathic pain induced by sciatic nerve inflammation (sciatic inflammatory neuropathy, SIN), minocycline delayed the induction of allodynia in both acute and persistent paradigms. Moreover, minocycline was able to attenuate established SIN-induced allodynia 1 day, but not 1 week later, suggesting a limited role of microglial activation in more perseverative pain states. Our data are consistent with a crucial role for microglial cells in initiating, rather than maintaining, enhanced pain responses. In a model of spinal immune activation by intrathecal HIV-1 gp120, we show that the anti-allodynic effects of minocycline are associated with decreased microglial activation, attenuated mRNA expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-1beta-converting enzyme, TNF-alpha-converting enzyme, IL-1 receptor antagonist and IL-10 in lumbar dorsal spinal cord, and reduced IL-1beta and TNF-alpha levels in the CSF. In contrast, no significant effects of minocycline were observed on gp120-induced IL-6 and cyclooxygenase-2 expression in spinal cord or CSF IL-6 levels. Taken together these data highlight the importance of microglial activation in the development of exaggerated pain states.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common intestinal ailment of which the pathophysiological mechanisms are not well understood. Most IBS patients demonstrate enhanced perception, visceral hypersensitivity, in response to distension of the gut lumen but there are conflicting results about changes in somatic sensitivity. This study focused on the possible contribution of abnormal pain sensitization due to positive feedback (vicious pain cycle) that affects somatic tissues due to viscero-somatic convergence. The specific objectives were to measure cutaneous thermal pain sensitivity along the segmental axis, including in dermatomes that are remote from the visceral pain focus. Pain sensitivity was probed with cutaneous thermal stimulation to the lower and upper extremities and the face in nine diarrhea-predominant IBS patients (diagnosed with ROME II criteria) and 12 healthy female controls. The stimuli were administered with a contact thermode, assuring that size of the stimulated area and stimulus duration were clearly defined and identical in all locations. Sensitization of IBS patients was not limited to symptomatic dermatomes (calf) but extended evenly across the body, including to the face (no sensitization gradient from foot to face). Also, the difference between IBS and control groups did not depend on the evoked pain intensity level, i.e. the degree of sensitization of IBS patients was similar near threshold (10% on the visual analog scale) and at higher intensities. Lastly, no correlation was found between IBS subjects' pain sensitivity of any of the three test sites and their ratings of spontaneous pain.
Epitheloid hemangiomas are benign vascular lesions composed of epitheloid endothelial-cell-lined channels. We report an unusual case of a purely extradural non-osseous spinal epitheloid hemangioma presenting with quadriparesis. A 5-year-old boy presented with neck pain and quadriparesis following a trivial fall. MRI revealed a mixed intensity extradural lesion compressing the cervico-thoracic spinal cord posteriorly. At surgery the lesion consisted of vascular granulation tissue admixed with blood clots without abnormal vessels. Bone was normal. Histopathology revealed it to be an epitheloid hemangioma. The case and relevant literature is reviewed.
Visibility of a central target Gabor element often improves in the presence of collinear flankers. Such lateral interactions may reflect fundamental mechanisms underlying the perceptual integration of contours in early vision. We recently reported (Freeman, Sagi, &amp; Driver, 2001) attentional modulation of these interactions. Here, we test whether this modulation is task dependent. Subjects had to detect a near-threshold central target while performing a secondary discrimination task on one pair of flankers that could appear with another distractor pair (one pair collinear with the target, the other orthogonal). Central target thresholds were lowered when collinear flankers were judged for the secondary task, but only when this task concerned the global spatial relationship between these flankers (discrimination of their Vernier offset or global orientation). Other secondary tasks involving discriminating the local orientations, contrasts, or colors of the relevant flanker pair produced no such attentional modulation. However, this task-dependent modulation was observed only when two flanker pairs were present, not for displays with only a single flanker pair. Top-down modulation of lateral interactions may function to select between overlapping potential contours whenever the global spatial properties of one are task relevant.
It has often been suggested that Gestalt-like visual grouping processes may operate preattentively, but Mack and Rock (1998) suggested that no visual grouping takes place under &quot;inattention.&quot; We introduced a new method to assess this. While participants performed a demanding change-detection task on a small matrix at fixation, task-irrelevant background elements were arranged by color sinilarity into columns, rows, or pseudorandomly. Independent of any change in the target matrix, background grouping could also change or remain the same on each trial. This influenced accuracy of change judgments for the central task, even though background grouping or its change usually could not be explicitly reported when probed with surprise questions as in Mack and Rock. This suggests that visual grouping may arise implicitly under inattention and provides a new method for testing the boundaries of this processing. Here we extended the initial result to changes in background grouping remote from the target and to those occurring across an intervening saccade.
The loose-patch-clamp technique was used with multiple-pulse protocols to study the frequency dependence of currents from the surface of the intact rat neurohypophysis (NH) and hypothalamus. In the NH, but not in the corresponding supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus, an initial, single pulse of 3-8 ms duration (long pulse) potentiated a secondary pulse response starting 20-50 ms after the initial pulse. Potentiation was abolished by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), but not by tetraethylammonium (TEA) chloride or tetrandrine, indicating the participation of A-type potassium currents. Potentiation was also abolished by CdCl2, CoCl2 or 1 microM nicardipine, indicating the participation of calcium currents. The potentiation was reduced significantly in the presence of 4-6 mM extracellular CaCl2, indicating that the potentiation is not due to calcium influx. An initial train with as few as two pulses, each of 0.3-0.7 ms duration (short pulses) at 64-1,100 Hz also potentiated the secondary short pulse response significantly. We conclude that voltage-gated channels underlie this potentiation, which is due to interstitial calcium and potassium homeostasis changes induced by action potential activity and occurs only in the intact NH. A model is proposed for the participation of calcium and potassium channels in the burst patterning that is optimal for secretion from the NH.
Methamphetamine (METH) use results in depletion of monoamines in the striatum. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relation between the degree of METH-induced monoamine depletion in the striatum and impairment on a striatally-dependent learning task in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received four injections of METH (10 mg/kg) or saline at 2-h intervals. METH treatment produced a 38.5% (+/-5.6) and 46.7% (+/-6.7) dopamine (DA) depletion in the medial and lateral striatum, respectively. Serotonin (5-HT) was depleted 15.6% (+/-10.4) and 21.1% (+/-8.2) in the medial and lateral striatum, respectively. One month after treatment, rats were trained on a sequential-memory task on an 8-arm radial maze. METH-treated rats made significantly fewer direct movements between arms in the maze sequence across days of trials. The learning impairment was significantly correlated with the degree of DA depletion in the medial striatum, as well as serotonin tissue content in striatum. Only rats with a greater than 40% DA depletion in medial striatum showed significant impairments. These results provide additional evidence for METH-induced learning impairments and suggest that this impairment is dependent on the striatal monoamine loss, in general, and the degree of DA loss in medial striatum, in particular.
In the present study, we evaluated delayed treatment effects of the proteasome inhibitor and anti-inflammatory agent MLN519 (initiated 10 h post-injury) to improve recovery following ischemic brain injury in rodents. Male rats were exposed to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated with MLN519 (1.0 mg/kg, i.v. @ 10, 24, and 48 h post-occlusion) or vehicle. By 2 weeks post-injury, 60% (6/10) of vehicle animals survived, which was improved (although non-significantly) to 78% (7/9) following MLN519 treatment. The percent loss of tissue in the ipsilateral brain hemisphere (at 2 weeks) was significantly reduced from 27+/-4% (vehicle) to 15+/-4% (MLN519). MLN519 treated animals also lost significantly less body weight (39%) and showed significant improvement in overall neurological function across the 2-week recovery period. However, no significant treatment effects were observed to reduce foot-fault deficits (balance beam) or improve recovery of operant performance (active avoidance test). Overall, delayed treatment with MLN519 provided significant improvement in 3 of 6 test metrics (histopathology, body weight, and neurological dysfunction) supporting improved outcome for brain-injured subjects.
Ephedrine is a central nervous system stimulant that has a pharmacological profile similar to amphetamines. Ephedrine induces hyperactivity after acute administration to rats and locomotor sensitization develops to ephedrine with repeated administration. Recent research suggests that nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) play a role in the development of locomotor sensitization to d-amphetamine and the goal of the present study was to determine if nAChRs similarly mediate the effects of ephedrine after acute and repeated drug injection. On 12 consecutive days, rats were pretreated with the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) or saline followed by (-)-ephedrine (10-30 mg/kg) or saline injection and locomotor activity was measured. Ephedrine produced a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity, and sensitization to ephedrine developed with repeated injection. Mecamylamine pretreatment attenuated the hyperactivity and sensitization produced by repeated, but not acute, ephedrine (10 mg/kg) injection. The inhibitory effect of mecamylamine was overcome at the higher ephedrine dose (30 mg/kg). The present results indicate that nAChRs play a mediating role in the development of locomotor sensitization to ephedrine.
It has been shown that nifedipine, as a calcium channel blocker, can attenuate the development of tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine; however, the role of HPA axis on this action has not been elucidated. We examined the effect of nifedipine on morphine analgesic tolerance in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) rats and on HPA activity induced by morphine. Adult male rats were rendered tolerant to morphine by daily injection of morphine (15 mg/kg i.p.) for 8 days. To determine the effect of nifedipine on the development of morphine tolerance, nifedipine (1, 2 and 5 mg/kg i.p.) was injected concomitant with morphine. The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold, before and 30 min after morphine administration in days 1, 3, 5 and 8. Our results showed that despite the demonstration of tolerance in both ADX and sham operated rats, nifedipine in ADX rats prevented morphine tolerance development at a lower dose (2 mg/kg) than in sham operated rats, however corticosterone replacement prevented nifedipine effect in ADX rats. Acute administration of morphine produced significant increase in plasma corticosterone level, and with repeated injection, a tolerance to this neurosecretory effect was developed. Nifedipine (5 mg/kg) attenuated the acute effect of morphine, but could not block its neurosecretory tolerance.
Xyloglucan endotransglucosylases/hydrolases (XTHs) are a class of enzymes capable of catalyzing the molecular grafting between xyloglucans and/or the endotype hydrolysis of a xyloglucan molecule. They are encoded by 33 genes in Arabidopsis. Whereas recent studies have revealed temporally and spatially specific expression profiles for individual members of this family in plants, their biological roles are still to be clarified. To identify the role of each member of this gene family, we examined phenotypes of mutants in which each of the Arabidopsis XTH genes was disrupted. This was undertaken using a reverse genetic approach, and disclosed two loss-of-function mutants for the AtXTH27 gene, xth27-1 and xth27-2. These exhibited short-shaped tracheary elements in tertiary veins, and reduced the number of tertiary veins in the first leaf. In mature rosette leaves of the mutant, yellow lesion-mimic spots were also observed. Upon genetic complementation by introducing the wild-type XTH27 gene into xth27-1 mutant plants, the number of tertiary veins was restored, and the lesions disappeared completely. Extensive expression of the pXTH27::GUS fusion gene was observed in immature tracheary elements in the rosette leaves. The highest level of AtXTH27 mRNA expression in the rosette leaves was observed during leaf expansion, when the tracheary elements were elongating. These findings indicate that AtXTH27 plays an essential role during the generation of tracheary elements in the rosette leaves of Arabidopsis.
The plant cell wall is of supermolecular architecture, and is composed of various types of heterogeneous polymers. A few thousand enzymes and structural proteins are directly involved in the construction processes, and in the functional aspects of the dynamic architecture in Arabidopsis thaliana. Most of these proteins are encoded by multigene families, and most members within each family share significant similarities in structural features, but often exhibit differing expression profiles and physiological functions. Thus, for the molecular dissection of cell wall dynamics, it is necessary to distinguish individual members within a family of proteins. As a first step towards characterizing the processes involved in cell wall dynamics, we have manufactured a gene-specific 70-mer oligo microarray that consists of 765 genes classified into 30 putative families of proteins that are implicated in the cell wall dynamics of Arabidopsis. By using this array system, we identified several sets of genes that exhibit organ preferential expression profiles. We also identified gene sets that are expressed differentially at certain specific growth stages of the Arabidopsis inflorescence stem. Our results indicate that there is a division of roles among family members within each of the putative cell wall-related gene families.
Sleep is a poorly understood behavior that predominates during infancy but is studied almost exclusively in adults. One perceived impediment to investigations of sleep early in ontogeny is the absence of state-dependent neocortical activity. Nonetheless, in infant rats, sleep is reliably characterized by the presence of tonic (i.e., muscle atonia) and phasic (i.e., myoclonic twitching) components; the neural circuitry underlying these components, however, is unknown. Recently, we described a medullary inhibitory area (MIA) in week-old rats that is necessary but not sufficient for the normal expression of atonia. Here we report that the infant MIA receives projections from areas containing neurons that exhibit state-dependent activity. Specifically, neurons within these areas, including the subcoeruleus (SubLC), pontis oralis (PO), and dorsolateral pontine tegmentum (DLPT), exhibit discharge profiles that suggest causal roles in the modulation of muscle tone and the production of myoclonic twitches. Indeed, lesions in the SubLC and PO decreased the expression of muscle atonia without affecting twitching (resulting in &quot;REM sleep without atonia&quot;), whereas lesions of the DLPT increased the expression of atonia while decreasing the amount of twitching. Thus, the neural substrates of infant sleep are strikingly similar to those of adults, a surprising finding in light of theories that discount the contribution of supraspinal neural elements to sleep before the onset of state-dependent neocortical activity.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus is an integration centre between the central and peripheral autonomic nervous systems. It is involved in numerous functions from feeding, metabolic balance, blood pressure and heart rate, to erectile function and sexual behaviour. In particular, a group of oxytocinergic neurons originating in this nucleus and projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas (e.g., hippocampus, medulla oblongata and spinal cord) control penile erection in male rats. Activation of these neurons by dopamine and its agonists, excitatory amino acids (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) or oxytocin itself, or by electrical stimulation leads to penile erection, while their inhibition by gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) and its agonists or by opioid peptides and opiate-like drugs inhibits this sexual response. The activation of these neurons is secondary to the activation of nitric oxide synthase, which produces nitric oxide. Nitric oxide in turn causes, by a mechanism that is as yet unidentified, the release of oxytocin in extra-hypothalamic brain areas. Other compounds recently identified that facilitate penile erection by activating central oxytocinergic neurons are peptide analogues of hexarelin, a growth hormone releasing peptide, pro-VGF-derived peptides, endogenous peptides that may be released by neuronal nerve endings impinging on oxytocinergic cell bodies, SR 141716A, a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, and, less convincingly, adrenocorticotropin-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (ACTH-MSH)-related peptides. Paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons and similar mechanisms are also involved in penile erection occurring in physiological contexts, namely noncontact erections that occur in male rats in the presence of an inaccessible receptive female, and during copulation. These findings show that the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus plays an important role in the control of erectile function and sexual activity. As the male rat is a model of sexual behaviour and penile physiology, which has largely increased in the last years our knowledge of peripheral and central mechanisms controlling erectile function (drugs that induce penile erection in male rats usually do so also in man), the above results may have great significance in terms of a human perspective for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.
This study examined gray matter (GM) volume abnormalities in first-episode, antipsychotic-nave Indian schizophrenia patients. Magnetic resonance images of 18 schizophrenia patients and 18 matched healthy comparison subjects were analyzed by optimized voxel-based morphometry. Schizophrenia patients had significantly smaller global GM and greater global CSF volumes and smaller regional GM volume in superior frontal, inferior frontal, cingulate, post-central, superior temporal and parahippocampal gyri, inferior parietal lobule, insula, caudate nuclei, thalamus and cerebellum. Findings suggest limbic, heteromodal cortical, striatal, thalamic and cerebellar abnormalities in schizophrenia.

Retinal detachment, the separation of the neural retina from the retinal pigmented epithelium, starts a cascade of events that results in cellular changes throughout the retina. While the degeneration of the light sensitive photoreceptor outer segments is clearly an important event, there are many other cellular changes that have the potential to significantly effect the return of vision after successful reattachment. Using animal models of detachment and reattachment we have identified many cellular changes that result in significant remodeling of the retinal tissue. These changes range from the retraction of axons by rod photoreceptors to the growth of neurites into the subretinal space and vitreous by horizontal and ganglion cells. Some neurite outgrowths, as in the case of rod bipolar cells, appear to be directed towards their normal presynaptic target. Horizontal cells may produce some directed neurites as well as extensive outgrowths that have no apparent target. A subset of reactive ganglion cells all fall into the latter category. Muller cells, the radial glia of the retina, undergo numerous changes ranging from proliferation to a wholesale structural reorganization as they grow into the subretinal space (after detachment) or vitreous after reattachment. In a few cases have we been able to identify molecular changes that correlate with the structural remodeling. Similar changes to those observed in the animal models have now been observed in human tissue samples, leading us to conclude that this research may help us understand the imperfect return of vision occurring after successful reattachment surgery. The mammalian retina clearly has a vast repertoire of cellular responses to injury, understanding these may help us improve upon current therapies or devise new therapies for blinding conditions.














Patients with gastric cancer considered amenable to a curative surgical procedure on the basis of a conventional preoperative workup (N=98) answered health-related quality-of-life questionnaires and completed a psychiatrist's interview before the intervention. All patients were blinded to the type of surgical procedure that would ultimately be performed; 64 patients eventually received a potentially curative resection, and 34 had palliative surgery. The curative resection group reported significantly more hopelessness before the operation than the palliative surgery group. The latter group had more eating dysfunction but minimized their distress to a greater degree than those with a more limited tumor burden. Eating dysfunction, hopelessness, and the tendency to minimize distress were independent predictors of prognosis. The findings highlight the need for careful medical interviewing to enhance patient-physician communication about symptoms and signs of malignant diseases.
Observing a face with averted eyes results in a reflexive shift of attention to the gazed-at location. Here we present results that show that this effect is weaker in males than in females (Experiment 1). This result is predicted by the 'extreme male brain' theory of autism (Baron-Cohen, 2003), which suggests that males in the normal population should display more autism-like traits than females (e.g., poor joint attention). Indeed, participants' scores on the Autism-Spectrum Quotient (Baron-Cohen, Wheelwright, Stott, Bolton, &amp; Goodyear, 2001) negatively correlated with cueing magnitude. Furthermore, exogenous orienting did not differ between the sexes in two peripheral cueing experiments (Experiments 2a and 2b). However, a final experiment showed that using nonpredictive arrows instead of eyes as a central cue also revealed a large gender difference. This demonstrates that reduced orienting from central cues in males generalizes beyond gaze cues. These results show that while peripheral cueing is equivalent in the male and female brains, the attention systems of the two sexes treat noninformative symbolic cues very differently.
Many studies have demonstrated the role of psychosocial and behavioural risk factors in the aetiology and pathogenesis of cardiovascular disorders. Recently, a new personality construct, the type D or 'distressed' personality, has been proposed. Type D behaviour is characterized by the joint tendency to experience negative emotions and to inhibit these emotions while avoiding social contacts with others. The observation that cardiac patients with type D personality are at increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality underlines the importance of examining both acute (e.g. major depression) and chronic (e.g. certain personality features) factors in patients at risk for coronary events. Both type D dimensions (negative affectivity and social inhibition) are associated with greater cortisol reactivity to stress. Elevated cortisol may be a mediating factor in the association between type D personality and the increased risk for coronary heart disease and, possibly, other medical disorders. Studies of the effect of age on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function in healthy humans have produced inconsistent results. This may relate to a different prevalence of type D individuals in study samples (i.e. some type D individuals may have alterations within the HPA axis that are similar to HPA axis changes in depressed patients). Further studies of the psychological and biological features of type D individuals may help develop treatment approaches to improve the psychological and physical health of individuals with type D personality.

Advances in our knowledge on eye movements over the last 25 years are reviewed, focusing on the author's experience. First, the advantages of binocular frontal vision, which is a common characteristic of all predator mammals, are compared to those of lateral vision, characterizing their preys. Binocular frontal vision implies a perfect parallelism of both eyes, which is ensured in the pons by means of the abducens nucleus, controlling abduction as well as adduction. The pathological example of the &quot;one-and-a-half&quot; syndrome, in which the abducens nucleus and the adjacent medial longitudinal fasciculus are simultaneously impaired, is described. The main brainstem syndromes involving vertical eye movements are also reviewed: in particular, the third nerve nucleus syndrome, in which both ipsilateral third nerve paralysis and contralateral superior rectus paralysis (with hypotropia) result from a unilateral third nerve nucleus lesion. A case of upbeat nystagmus (in the primary position of gaze) due to a small upper pontine lesion, probably affecting the ventral tegmental tract (VTT) is also reported. This is an opportunity to emphasize that, although a number of cases of upbeat nystagmus due to focal brainstem lesions affecting the upward vestibular pathway (UVP)--either at the upper pontine (VTT) or caudal medullary level--exist in the literature, no convincing cases with downbeat nystagmus (in the primary position of gaze) due to a focal brainstem lesion have been reported. Downbeat nystagmus could result from a UVP hyperactivity (secondary to a floccular lesion) and the notion that this pathway is physiologically predominant compared to the downward pathway, maybe due to gravity, is developed. A new hypothesis about the role of the caudal medulla in UVP is also proposed. Next, the cortical control of saccadic eye movements is reviewed, with a reminder that reflexive saccades are mainly triggered by the parietal eye field whereas intentional saccades depend upon the frontal eye field. The inhibition of reflexive saccades is mainly controlled by the dorsolateral frontal cortex (DLPFC), i.e. area 46 of Brodmann. A few examples of the use of saccades as a research tool and model in cognitive neurosciences are given. The use of memory-guided saccades allowed us to study spatial memory and led us to propose a relatively original conception of the cortical control of spatial memory in which the DLPFC, the parahippocampal cortex and the hippocampal formation could be involved successively according to specific periods of time. An experiment using functional magnetic resonance imaging in a paradigm studying decision is described, again with the involvement of the DLPFC in the decisional process. Lastly, the usefulness of eye movements in clinical neuro-ophthalmology at the bedside as well as in neurophysiological or even neuropsychological research in the laboratory is emphasized.








The superficial temporal artery to middle artery bypass is a technique that allows the blood supply from the extracranial carotid circulation to be routed to the distal middle cerebral artery branches. The procedure allows blood flow to bypass proximal lesions of the intracranial vasculature. The performance of this bypass requires specialized microvascular training and the use of microvascular techniques. The techniques involved in performing these procedures include microdissection of the superficial temporal artery in the scalp, microdissection of the recipient middle cerebral artery branches near the sylvian fissure, and anastomosis techniques using either microvascular sutures or a microanastomotic device. The successful completion of the bypass and subsequent patency requires meticulous attention to technical details.
The experiments in conscious non-immobilized rabbits showed that cessation of the reactions without reinforcement (elaboration of the internal inhibition) is accompanied by an enhanced phasic state, by alternation of activation and inhibition of neuron firing, and by the corresponding slow potential oscillation (SPO). These changes can be either localized, predominantly in the structures of conditioned stimulus, or, under enhancement of the inhibitory state, generalized in the brain structures. On the basis of our experience and published data, it is concluded that the above event results from relative enhancement of the inhibitory hyperpolarizing processes due to increase in reactivity of the inhibitory systems to stimulus, which acquires inhibitory properties during learning. Changes in the excitability and reactivity of neuron populations appearing during enhancement of the hyperpolarizing inhibition, and differing in the various brain structures, play an active role in the execution of the main function of the internal inhibition: limitation of excitation transmission to the effectors. An inhibitory mediator gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) is of great importance in inhibiting the excitation in response to the stimulus which lost its biological significance. These experimental data and their interpretation in the light of published data give the basis for the development of the hyperpolarization theory of internal inhibition.




Several recent reports show that the cerebral cortex in humans and animals with altered expressions of Wnt/cadherin network-associate molecules display cytoarchitectural abnormalities reminiscent of cortical dysplasias seen in some (mouse-, rat-, and monkey-based) animal models of prenatal cocaine exposure. Therefore, we employed oligo microarrays followed by real-time RT-PCR to compare expressions of genes involved in Wnt and cadherin systems in the cerebral wall of 18-day-old (E18) fetuses from cocaine-treated (20 mg/kg cocaine, s.c., b.i.d., E8-18) and drug-naive (saline, s.c.) mice. The pregnant mice chronically treated with cocaine in the above-described manner represent one of the animal models producing offspring with widespread cortical dysplasias. Out of more than 150 relevant genes in the arrays, 32 were upregulated and 9 were downregulated in cocaine-exposed fetuses. The majority of these genes (30 out of 41) were similarly affected in the frontal and occipital regions of the cerebral wall. We also used Western immunoblotting to examine the ability of cocaine to regulate the protein levels of beta-catenin, the key functional component of both Wnt and cadherin systems. While the total cell levels of beta-catenin were increased throughout the cerebral wall of cocaine-exposed fetuses, its nuclear (gene-transcription driving) levels remained unaltered. This suggests a transcription-unrelated role for cocaine-induced upregulation of this protein. Overall, our findings point to an intriguing possibility that that cerebral cortical dysplasias observed in several animal models of prenatal cocaine exposure may be at least in part related to alterations in the Wnt/cadherin molecular network.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) is a plasma membrane transport protein expressed exclusively within a small subset of CNS neurons. It plays a crucial role in controlling dopamine-mediated neurotransmission and a number of associated behaviors. This review focuses on recent data elucidating the role of the dopamine transporter in neurotoxicity and a number of CNS disorders, including Parkinson disease, drug abuse, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
In a recent paper, Chee et al. report differences in the patterns of brain activation and deactivation in bilinguals with different levels of proficiency in their second language. Most intriguingly, this research addressed the issue of the neural basis of phonological working memory (PWM), which is crucial in language acquisition, in subjects who were under comparable social pressure to be bilinguals. The results led the authors to suggest that a more readily available working memory system might correlate with the attainment of superior proficiency in a second language.
This Opinion deals with the apparent paradox between the 'immune privileged' status of the central nervous system (CNS) and its propensity to act as a B-cell fostering environment in a variety of neurological disorders. Evidence will be reviewed that: (i) molecules regulating B-cell homing and survival are produced in the CNS, (ii) in different neuroinflammatory diseases, B cells can undergo a local recapitulation of the differentiation occurring in secondary lymphoid organs and (iii) ectopic lymphoid follicles develop in the meninges of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.
Neuronal circuits are essential components of the nervous system and determine various body functions. To understand how neuronal circuits operate it is necessary to identify the participating neuronal subpopulations and to dissect the function of the neurons at the molecular level. The locomotor central pattern generator that coordinates body movements is well suited for elucidating the assembly and identity of the participating neurons. Remarkable advances in the field of genetics are making studies in neuroscience more efficient and precise so that now, using nematode worms, fruit flies, zebrafish and mice as model organisms, a genetic approach can be used to identify molecules and neurons crucial for locomotor network functionality.
Learning, memory and brain development are associated with long-lasting modifications of synapses that are guided by specific patterns of neuronal activity. Such modifications include classical Hebbian plasticities (such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression), which are rapid and synapse-specific, and others, such as synaptic scaling and metaplasticity, that work over longer timescales and are crucial for maintaining and orchestrating neuronal network function. The cellular mechanisms underlying Hebbian plasticity have been well studied and involve rapid changes in the trafficking of highly mobile AMPA receptors. An emerging concept is that activity-dependent alterations in NMDA receptor trafficking contribute to homeostatic plasticity at central glutamatergic synapses.
Trace amines (TAs) are endogenous compounds that are related to biogenic amine neurotransmitters and are present in the mammalian nervous system in trace amounts. Although their pronounced pharmacological effects and tight link to major human disorders such as depression and schizophrenia have been studied for decades, the understanding of their molecular mode of action remained incomplete because of the apparent absence of specialized receptors. However, the recent discovery of a novel family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that includes individual members that are highly specific for TAs indicates a potential role for TAs as vertebrate neurotransmitters or neuromodulators, although the majority of these GPCRs so far have not been demonstrated to be activated by TAs. The unique pharmacology and expression pattern of these receptors make them prime candidates for targets in drug development in the context of several neurological diseases. Current research focuses on dissecting their molecular pharmacology and on the identification of endogenous ligands for the apparently TA-insensitive members of this receptor family.
Visual systems break scenes down into individual features, processed in distinct channels, and then selectively recombine those features according to the demands of particular behavioral tasks. In primates, for example, there are distinct pathways for motion and form processing. While form vision utilizes color information, motion pathways receive input from only a subset of cone photoreceptors and are generally colorblind. To explore the link between early channeling of visual information and behavioral output across vertebrate species, we measured the chromatic inputs to the optomotor response of larval zebrafish. Using cone-isolating gratings, we found that there is a strong input from both red and green cones but not short-wavelength cones, which nevertheless do contribute to another behavior, phototaxis. Using a motion-nulling method, we measured precisely the input strength of gratings that stimulated cones in combination. The fish do not respond to gratings that stimulate different cone types out of phase, but have an enhanced response when the cones are stimulated together. This shows that red and green cone signals are pooled at a stage before motion detection. Since the two cone inputs are combined into a single 'luminance' channel, the response to sinusoidal gratings is colorblind. However, we also find that the relative contributions of the two cones at isoluminance varies with spatial frequency. Therefore, natural stimuli, which contain a mixture of spatial frequencies, are likely to be visible regardless of their chromatic composition.
The 'colour-shading effect' describes the phenomenon whereby chromatic variations affect the magnitude of perceived shape-from-shading in luminance patterns. A previous study showed that in mixed colour-plus-luminance sine-wave plaids, impressions of depth in the luminance component were enhanced by non-aligned chromatic components, and suppressed by aligned chromatic components [Nature Neuroscience 6 (2003) 641-644]. Here we examine the chromatic determinants of these effects. Colour contrast was defined along the cardinal axes of colour space in order to isolate the L-M and S-(L+M) post-receptoral chromatic mechanisms. We found no difference in the potency of L-M-only and S-(L+M)-only gratings, either for enhancing or suppressing perceived depth. Moreover, the magnitude of depth-suppression was no different for any combination of depth-enhancing and depth-suppressing cardinal directions. Finally we tested whether the visual system carried the assumption that natural shading is tinged with blue, by measuring perceived depth in a colour-plus-luminance grating that was made to appear either bright-yellow/dark-blue or bright-blue/dark-yellow. However there was no difference in the magnitude of depth-suppression between conditions, suggesting that the visual system does not make any assumption about the colour of natural shading. Taken together, the results suggest that while the colour-shading effect is highly sensitive to colour contrast, it is agnostic with respect to colour direction.
We determined the structures of long (L)-wavelength-sensitive and middle (M)-wavelength-sensitive opsin gene array of 58 male chimpanzees and we investigated relative sensitivity to red and green lights by electroretinogram flicker photometry. One subject had protanomalous color vision, while others had normal color vision. Unlike in humans, a polymorphic difference in the copy number of the genes and a polymorphic base substitution at amino acid position 180 were not frequently observed in chimpanzees.
Despite the well-described attention and short-term memory enhancing effects of H3 receptor antagonists, and evidence to suggest a close relationship between central histaminergic and cholinergic systems, there is a paucity of evidence for a role for H3 receptor blockade in spatial learning. To address this, we investigated two H3 receptor antagonists in a visual discrimination water maze in rats, and in a Barnes circular maze in mice. Thioperamide and ciproxifan significantly attenuated a scopolamine-induced deficit in the water maze task, while only ciproxifan showed a modest attenuation in the Barnes maze. Taken together, these data suggest a role for H3 receptors in spatial learning that appears to be task-dependent.
Hamsters repeatedly exposed to cocaine throughout adolescence display highly escalated offensive aggression compared to saline-treated littermates. The current study investigated whether adolescent cocaine exposure activated neurons in areas of hamster forebrain implicated in aggressive behavior by examining the expression of FOS, i.e., the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos shown to be a reliably sensitive marker of neuronal activation. Adolescent cocaine-treated hamsters and saline-treated littermates were scored for offensive aggression and then sacrificed 1 day later and examined for the number of FOS immunoreactive (FOS-ir) cells in regions of the hamster forebrain important for aggression control. When compared with non-aggressive, saline-treated controls, aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed persistent increases in the number of FOS-ir cells in several aggression regions, including the anterior hypothalamus, nucleus circularis, lateral hypothalamus (i.e., the hypothalamic attack area), lateral septum, and medial and corticomedial amygdaloid nuclei. Conversely, aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed a significant decrease in FOS-ir cells in the medial supraoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and central amygdala when compared with controls. However, no differences in FOS-ir cells were found in other areas implicated in aggression such as the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, or in a number of non-aggression areas. These results suggest that adolescent cocaine exposure may constitutively activate neurons in select forebrain areas critical for the regulation of aggression in hamsters. A model for how persistent activation of neurons in one of these brain regions (i.e., the hypothalamus) may facilitate the development of the aggressive phenotype in adolescent cocaine-exposed animals is presented.
Freezing and suppression are measures of conditioned fear that correlate in unlesioned animals. Both the basolateral (BLA) and central (CeN) nuclei of the amygdala are required for conditioned freezing, though there can be recovery with overtraining. The neuroanatomical substrates of conditioned suppression are less clear, with evidence both for a specific requirement of the CeN and for disruption by BLA lesions. The present study investigated the impact of selective excitotoxic lesions of the BLA and CeN upon the acquisition and expression of conditioned fear, measured by freezing and both on-baseline and off-baseline conditioned suppression in the same rats. BLA and CeN lesions both abolished all measures of conditioned fear after 9 trials of fear conditioning. However, when conditioning was extended to 33 trials, whereas rats with combined lesions of both the BLA and CeN continued to show no conditioned fear responses, there was a pattern of recovery observed after selective lesions. There was a partial recovery of freezing with both lesions, and full recovery of conditioned suppression, except for off-baseline suppression in CeN lesioned rats. These results indicate that with few conditioning trials, both the BLA and CeN are required in a serial manner for conditioned fear responses, but that overtraining can mitigate such impairments, likely involving parallel pathways in and through the amygdala.
Morphological alterations in microvasculature occur as a common finding in the brains of non-demented aged persons and patients with Alzheimer's disease. Quantifying the extent of this vascular pathology, however, has been complicated by systematic error (bias) associated with the applications of assumption- and model-based morphometric techniques to human and animal tissues. The current study used novel assumption- and model-free stereological approaches to quantify capillary parameters in the corpus callosum of a double amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 transgenic murine model of Alzheimer's disease. The results revealed significant reductions in the total number of capillary segments in white matter of transgenic mice compared to non-transgenic littermates, with no differences in total capillary length. These findings support the view that the expression of mutant human genes for beta-amyloid peptides alters the normal architecture of cerebral capillary vessels in the white matter of mouse brain, which may model microvasculature changes reported in Alzheimer's disease.
Rizatriptan represents a major advance in the treatment of migraine attack: inhibition of peripheral trigeminal nerve and constriction of intracranial extracerebral blood vessels have been proposed as its main antimigraine mechanisms of action. Although many studies may suggest that rizatriptan causes highly selective vasoconstriction within intracranial extracerebral vessels (i.e., meningeal arteries), no literature data are available to date on possible cerebral hemodynamic changes in humans after treatment with rizatriptan. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of rizatriptan on cerebral blood flow velocity performing transcranial Doppler during spontaneous attacks of migraine without aura. Fourteen patients suffering from migraine without aura were monitored to evaluate mean flow velocity changes on both middle cerebral arteries during migraine attack 30 min before and 120 min after oral administration of rizatriptan 10mg. Monitoring was repeated for 30 min during the pain-free period. All patients turned out to be drug responders and no significant mean flow velocity changes were observed between the pain-free period and pre-treatment phase; besides no significant difference in mean flow velocity value have been detected between the periods after the drug administration during the attack versus both pre-treatment period and pain-free phase. These findings indicate that the antimigraine action of rizatriptan is not associated with clear intracranial cerebral hemodynamic changes and may support its cerebrovascular safety.
The cellular heterogeneity of brain tissue presents a challenge to gene expression profiling of specific neuronal cell types. The present study employed a fluorescent neural tracer to specifically label midbrain dopamine neurons and non-dopamine cortical neurons. The labeled cells were then used to visually guide harvesting of the cells by laser capture microdissection (LCM). RNA extracted from the two populations of harvested cells was then amplified, labeled and co-hybridized to high density cDNA microarrays for two-color differential expression profiling. Many of the genes most highly enriched in the dopamine neurons were found to be genes previously known to define the dopamine neuronal phenotype. However, results from the microarray were only partially validated by quantitative RT-PCR analysis. The results indicate that LCM harvesting of specific neuronal phenotypes can be effectively guided in a complex cellular environment by specific pre-labeling of the target cell populations and underlie the importance of independent validation of microarray results.
The synthesis of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor occurs in different compartments within the ER. We have previously shown that GPI anchor intermediates including GlcNAc-PI and GlcN-(acyl)PI are present in Triton insoluble membranes (TIMs), believed to be derived from lipid rafts. The present study was initiated to determine if GPI anchor intermediates move to raft-like domains after their synthesis or if these domains represent another ER compartment for GPI anchor synthesis. We determined that in transfected cells Pig-Ap and Pig-Lp, two proteins involved in the synthesis of GlcNAc-PI and GlcN-PI, respectively, are present in TIMs. In addition, we detected GlcNAc-PI synthase, GlcNAc-PI deacetylase, and GlcN-PI acyltransferase activities in TIMs isolated from untransfected cells. These results lend support to the possibility of additional GPI biosynthetic compartments in the ER and to the notion that GPI anchor intermediates produced in and outside raft-like domains may have a different fate.
A recently described triple-transgenic mouse model (3xTg, PS1(M146V), APP(Swe), and tau(P301L)) develops a neuropathology similar to the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients including progressive deposits of plaques and tangles [Neuron 39 (2003) 409]. These mice also show age-related deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity that occurs before the development of plaques and tangles. Here we report unchanged synaptic vesicle recycling, as measured by FM1-43 release, in the hippocampal neurons of the 3xTg mice. Expression levels of presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle recycling including AP180, dynamin I, and synaptotagmin I also remain unaffected. These data suggest that the synaptic deficits observed in the 3xTg neurons may not arise from the preserved synaptic vesicle recycling.
The circadian expression patterns of genes encoding for proteins that make up the core of the circadian clock were measured in rat retina using real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR). Transcript levels of several genes previously used for normalization of qPCR assays were determined and the effect of ischemia-reperfusion on the expression of clock genes was studied. Statistically significant circadian changes in transcript levels were found for: Per2, Per3, Cry2, Bmal1, Rora, Rorb, and Rorc with changes ranging between 1.6- and 2.6-fold. No changes were found for Per1, Cry1, Clock, Rev-erb alpha, and Rev-erb beta. Significant differences in transcript levels were observed for several candidate reference genes: HPRT, GAPDH, rhodopsin, and Thy1 and, consequently, the use of these genes for normalization purposes in qPCR or Northern blots may lead to erroneous conclusions. Ischemia-reperfusion leads to a persistent decrease of Per1 and Cry2, which may be related to the selective degeneration of amacrine and ganglion cells. We conclude that while all clock genes are expressed in the retina, only a few show a clear circadian pattern.
gamma-Secretase, which is responsible for the intramembranous cleavage of Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein and the signaling receptor Notch, is a multiprotein complex consisting of at least four components: presenilin (PS); nicastrin (Nct); APH-1 (anterior pharynx-defective-1); and presenilin enhancer-2 (PEN-2). Presenilin 1 (PS1) is known to be essential for the stability, interaction, and trafficking of the other PS1/gamma-secretase components. However, the precise functions of the other components remain elusive. Here, we investigated the functions of Nct within the PS1/gamma-secretase complex. We demonstrated that the loss of Nct expression in the embryonic fibroblast cells (Nct KO cells) results in dramatically decreased levels of APH-1, PEN-2, and PS1 fragments accompanied by a significant accumulation of full-length PS1. In the absence of Nct, PEN-2 and full-length PS1 are subjected to proteasome-mediated degradation, whereas the degradation of APH-1 is mediated by both proteasomal and lysosomal pathways. Unlike the case of wild type cells in which the gamma-secretase complex mainly locates in the trans-Golgi network, the majority of residual PEN-2, APH-1, and the uncleaved full-length PS1 in Nct KO cells reside in the endoplasmic reticulum, which remain associated with each other in the absence of Nct. Interestingly, significant amounts of full-length PS1 and PEN-2, but not APH-1, are detected on the plasma membrane in Nct KO cells, suggesting the Nct-independent cell surface delivery of the PEN-2.PS1. Finally, the diminished PEN-2 protein level in Nct-deficient cells can be partially restored by overexpression of exogenous PS1, APH-1, or PEN-2 individually or collectively, indicating a dispensable role for Nct in controlling PEN-2 level. Taken together, our study demonstrates a critical role of Nct in the stability and proper intracellular trafficking of other components of the PS1/ gamma-secretase complex but not in maintaining the association of PEN-2, APH-1, and full-length PS1.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the tumor suppressor PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted from chromosome 10), the antagonist of the phosphosphoinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling cascade, is susceptible to H2O2-dependent oxidative inactivation. This study describes the use of redox-engineered cell lines to identify PTEN as sensitive to oxidative inactivation by mitochondrial H2O2. Increases in the steady state production of mitochondrial derived H2O2, as a result of manganese superoxide dismutase (Sod2) overexpression, led to PTEN oxidation that was reversed by the coexpression of the H2O2-detoxifying enzyme catalase. The accumulation of an oxidized inactive fraction of PTEN favored the formation of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate at the plasma membrane, resulting in increased activation of Akt and modulation of its downstream targets. PTEN oxidation in response to mitochondrial H2O2 enhanced PI3K signaling, leading to increased expression of the key regulator of angiogenesis, vascular endothelial growth factor. Overexpression of PTEN prevented the H2O2-dependent increase in vascular endothelial growth factor promoter activity and immunoreactive protein, whereas a mutant PTEN (G129R), lacking phosphatase activity, did not. Furthermore, mitochondrial generation of H2O2 by Sod2 promoted endothelial cell sprouting in a three-dimensional in vitro angiogenesis assay that was attenuated by catalase coexpression or the PI3K inhibitor LY2949002. Moreover, Sod2 overexpression resulted in increased in vivo blood vessel formation that was H2O2-dependent as assessed by the chicken chorioallantoic membrane assay. Our findings provide the first evidence for the involvement of mitochondrial H2O2 in regulating PTEN function and the angiogenic switch, indicating that Sod2 can serve as an alternative physiological source of the potent signaling molecule, H2O2.
The effect of PD-168077 (N-methyl-4-(2-cyanophenyl)piperazynil-3-methylbenzamide maleate), a selective D4 dopamine receptor agonist, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on penile erection was studied in male rats. PD-168077 (1-200 ng) induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner. The minimal effective dose was 50 ng, while the maximal response was found with 200 ng of the compound, which increased penile erection episodes from 0.3+/-0.03 to 1.7+/-0.21. The proerectile effect of PD-168077 was reduced almost completely by L-745,870 (3-(4-[chlorophenyl]piperazin-1-yl)-methyl-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-B]pyridine trihydrochloride), a selective D4 dopamine receptor antagonist, (1 microg) given into the paraventricular nucleus before the D4 dopamine agonist, and by other nonselective dopamine receptor antagonists, such as haloperidol (1 microg) and clozapine (1 microg), which block all dopamine receptor subtypes. The pro-erectile effect of PD-168077 was also reduced by the NO synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester (25 microg), but not by the oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin (1 microg), when given into the paraventricular nucleus. In spite of its inability to prevent the pro-erectile effect of PD-168077 when given in the paraventricular nucleus, d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin (1 microg) reduced almost completely PD-168077-induced penile erection when given into the lateral ventricles. The present results show that D4 dopamine receptors present in the paraventricular nucleus may influence penile erection by modulating the activity of paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons mediating erectile function.
This year, the field of neuroscience celebrates the 50th anniversary of Mountcastle's discovery of the cortical column. In this review, we summarize half a century of research and come to the disappointing realization that the column may have no function. Originally, it was described as a discrete structure, spanning the layers of the somatosensory cortex, which contains cells responsive to only a single modality, such as deep joint receptors or cutaneous receptors. Subsequently, examples of columns have been uncovered in numerous cortical areas, expanding the original concept to embrace a variety of different structures and principles. A &quot;column&quot; now refers to cells in any vertical cluster that share the same tuning for any given receptive field attribute. In striate cortex, for example, cells with the same eye preference are grouped into ocular dominance columns. Unaccountably, ocular dominance columns are present in some species, but not others. In principle, it should be possible to determine their function by searching for species differences in visual performance that correlate with their presence or absence. Unfortunately, this approach has been to no avail; no visual faculty has emerged that appears to require ocular dominance columns. Moreover, recent evidence has shown that the expression of ocular dominance columns can be highly variable among members of the same species, or even in different portions of the visual cortex in the same individual. These observations deal a fatal blow to the idea that ocular dominance columns serve a purpose. More broadly, the term &quot;column&quot; also denotes the periodic termination of anatomical projections within or between cortical areas. In many instances, periodic projections have a consistent relationship with some architectural feature, such as the cytochrome oxidase patches in V1 or the stripes in V2. These tissue compartments appear to divide cells with different receptive field properties into distinct processing streams. However, it is unclear what advantage, if any, is conveyed by this form of columnar segregation. Although the column is an attractive concept, it has failed as a unifying principle for understanding cortical function. Unravelling the organization of the cerebral cortex will require a painstaking description of the circuits, projections and response properties peculiar to cells in each of its various areas.
This article concerns the nature of evoked brain responses and the principles underlying their generation. We start with the premise that the sensory brain has evolved to represent or infer the causes of changes in its sensory inputs. The problem of inference is well formulated in statistical terms. The statistical fundaments of inference may therefore afford important constraints on neuronal implementation. By formulating the original ideas of Helmholtz on perception, in terms of modern-day statistical theories, one arrives at a model of perceptual inference and learning that can explain a remarkable range of neurobiological facts.It turns out that the problems of inferring the causes of sensory input (perceptual inference) and learning the relationship between input and cause (perceptual learning) can be resolved using exactly the same principle. Specifically, both inference and learning rest on minimizing the brain's free energy, as defined in statistical physics. Furthermore, inference and learning can proceed in a biologically plausible fashion. Cortical responses can be seen as the brain's attempt to minimize the free energy induced by a stimulus and thereby encode the most likely cause of that stimulus. Similarly, learning emerges from changes in synaptic efficacy that minimize the free energy, averaged over all stimuli encountered. The underlying scheme rests on empirical Bayes and hierarchical models of how sensory input is caused. The use of hierarchical models enables the brain to construct prior expectations in a dynamic and context-sensitive fashion. This scheme provides a principled way to understand many aspects of cortical organization and responses. The aim of this article is to encompass many apparently unrelated anatomical, physiological and psychophysical attributes of the brain within a single theoretical perspective. In terms of cortical architectures, the theoretical treatment predicts that sensory cortex should be arranged hierarchically, that connections should be reciprocal and that forward and backward connections should show a functional asymmetry (forward connections are driving, whereas backward connections are both driving and modulatory). In terms of synaptic physiology, it predicts associative plasticity and, for dynamic models, spike-timing-dependent plasticity. In terms of electrophysiology, it accounts for classical and extra classical receptive field effects and long-latency or endogenous components of evoked cortical responses. It predicts the attenuation of responses encoding prediction error with perceptual learning and explains many phenomena such as repetition suppression, mismatch negativity (MMN) and the P300 in electroencephalography. In psychophysical terms, it accounts for the behavioural correlates of these physiological phenomena, for example, priming and global precedence. The final focus of this article is on perceptual learning as measured with the MMN and the implications for empirical studies of coupling among cortical areas using evoked sensory responses.
We review here a new approach to mapping the human cerebral cortex into distinct subdivisions. Unlike cytoarchitecture or traditional functional imaging, it does not rely on specific anatomical markers or functional hypotheses. Instead, we propose that the unique activity time course (ATC) of each cortical subdivision, elicited during natural conditions, acts as a temporal fingerprint that can be used to segregate cortical subdivisions, map their spatial extent, and reveal their functional and potentially anatomical connectivity. We argue that since the modular organisation of the brain and its connectivity evolved and developed in natural conditions, these are optimal for revealing its organisation. We review the concepts, methodology and first results of this approach, relying on data obtained with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) when volunteers viewed traditional stimuli or a James Bond movie. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to identify voxels belonging to distinct functional subdivisions, based on their differential spatio-temporal fingerprints. Many more regions could be segregated during natural viewing, demonstrating that the complexity of natural stimuli leads to more differential responses in more functional modules. We demonstrate that, in a single experiment, a multitude of distinct regions can be identified across the whole brain, even within the visual cortex, including areas V1, V4 and V5. This differentiation is based entirely on the differential ATCs of different areas during natural viewing. Distinct areas can therefore be identified without any a priori hypothesis about their function or spatial location. The areas we identified corresponded anatomically across subjects, and their ATCs showed highly area-specific inter-subject correlations. Furthermore, natural conditions led to a significant de-correlation of interregional ATCs compared to rest, indicating an increase in regional specificity during natural conditions. In contrast, the correlation between ATCs of distant regions of known substantial anatomical connections increased and reflected their known anatomical connectivity pattern. We demonstrate this using the example of the language network involving Broca's and Wernicke's area and homologous areas in the two hemispheres. In conclusion, this new approach to brain mapping may not only serve to identify novel functional subdivisions, but to reveal their connectivity as well.

The capacity to generate and analyze mental visual images is essential for many cognitive abilities. We combined triple-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (tpTMS) and repetitive TMS (rTMS) to determine which distinct aspect of mental imagery is carried out by the left and right parietal lobe and to reveal interhemispheric compensatory interactions. The left parietal lobe was predominant in generating mental images, whereas the right parietal lobe was specialized in the spatial comparison of the imagined content. Furthermore, in case of an rTMS-induced left parietal lesion, the right parietal cortex could immediately compensate such a left parietal disruption by taking over the specific function of the left hemisphere.

Cytochromes P450 (P450), a family of heme-containing proteins, is involved in the oxidative metabolism of both foreign and endogenous compounds. Although liver is quantitatively the major organ involved in the metabolism of most xenobiotics, there is increasing evidence that these enzymes are present in extrahepatic tissues, such as lung, kidney, brain, etc and they may contribute to the in situ metabolism of xenobiotics in these organs. The possible relationship between genetic polymorphism seen in P4502D6 and incidence of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, has prompted the characterization of P4502D enzymes in rat brain. In the present study, we demonstrate that P4502D1 (the rat homologue of human P4502D6) is constitutively expressed in rat brain and the mRNA and protein are localized predominantly in neuronal cell population in the olfactory bulb, cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampus. An alternate spliced transcript of CYP2D1 having exon 3 deletion was detected in rat brain but not in liver. Deletion of exon 3 causes frame shift and generates a stop codon at 391 bp relative to the start codon ATG leading to premature termination of translation. Thus, Northern blotting and in situ hybridization represent contributions from functional transcripts and alternate spliced variants that do not translate into functional protein. Further, the splice variant having partial inclusion of intron 6 detected in human brain was not detected in rat brain indicating that alternate spliced gene products of P450 enzymes are generated in species-specific and tissue-specific manner.
Chicken retina contains circadian oscillators that drive rhythmic transcription of several genes expressed in photoreceptor cells. To determine if gap junctions assist in coordinating these transcript rhythms, we examined the effects of two compounds, 18alpha-glycyrrhetnic acid-3-hemisuccinate (ACO) and 18beta-glycyrrhetnic acid (18beta-GA), on photoreceptor iodopsin and arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT) transcript rhythms in embryonic chicken retinal explant cultures that were maintained under different lighting conditions. Both compounds, whose actions include reversibly block gap junction permeability, produced rapid and sustained reductions in iodopsin and AANAT mRNA levels, but did not alter the levels of guanylate cyclase activating protein-1 (GCAP1) mRNA, a noncircadian-regulated, photoreceptor-specific gene. The iodopsin and AANAT mRNA rhythms re-emerged in the cultured retinas within 24 h of removal of the compounds. These results show that the effects of ACO and 18beta-GA on iodopsin and AANAT mRNA levels were not due to generalized suppression of gene transcription. The dramatic reduction in the levels of iodopsin and AANAT mRNA induced by these compounds suggests a mechanism of action that directly affects the synthesis and/or degradation of these transcripts rather than the synchronization or function of the retinal oscillators that drive transcription of these genes.
Microglia with increased expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR; c-fms) are found surrounding plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in mouse models for AD and after ischemic or traumatic brain injury. Increased expression of M-CSFR causes microglia to adopt an activated state that results in proliferation, release of cytokines, and enhanced phagocytosis. To determine whether M-CSFR-induced microglial activation affects neuronal survival, we assembled a coculture system consisting of BV-2 microglia transfected to overexpress the M-CSFR and hippocampal organotypic slices treated with NMDA. Twenty-four hours after assembly of the coculture, microglia overexpressing M-CSFR proliferated at a higher rate than nontransfected control cells and exhibited enhanced migration toward NMDA-injured hippocampal cultures. Surprisingly, coculture with c-fms-transfected microglia resulted in a dramatic reduction in NMDA-induced neurotoxicity. Similar results were observed when cocultures were treated with the teratogen cyclophosphamide. Biolistic overexpression of M-CSFR on microglia endogenous to the organotypic culture also rescued neurons from excitotoxicity. Furthermore, c-fms-transfected microglia increased neuronal expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), the M-CSFR, and neurotrophin receptors in the NMDA-treated slices, as determined with laser capture microdissection. In the coculture system, direct contact between the exogenous microglia and the slice was necessary for neuroprotection. Finally, blocking expression of the M-CSF ligand by exogenous c-fms-transfected microglia with a hammerhead ribozyme compromised their neuroprotective properties. These results demonstrate a protective role for microglia overexpressing M-CSFR in our coculture system and suggest under certain circumstances, activated microglia can help rather than harm neurons subjected to excitotoxic and teratogen-induced injury.
here is considerable evidence that dopamine D2 receptors can modulate AMPA receptor-mediated neurotoxicity. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this process remains essentially unclear. Here we report that D2 receptors inhibit AMPA-mediated neurotoxicity through two pathways: the activation of phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI-3K) and downregulation of AMPA receptor plasma membrane expression, both involving a series of protein-protein coupling/uncoupling events. Agonist stimulation of D2 receptors promotes the formation of the direct protein-protein interaction between the third intracellular loop of the D2 receptor and the ATPase N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) while uncoupling the NSF interaction with the carboxyl tail (CT) of the glutamate receptor GluR2 subunit of AMPA receptors. Previous studies have shown that full-length NSF directly couples to the GluR2CT and facilitates AMPA receptor plasma membrane expression. Furthermore, the CT region of GluR2 subunit is also responsible for several other intracellular protein couplings, including p85 subunit of PI-3K. Therefore, the direct coupling of D2-NSF and concomitant decrease in the NSF-GluR2 interaction results in a decrease of AMPA receptor membrane expression and an increase in the interaction between GluR2 and the p85 and subsequent activation of PI-3K. Disruption of the D2-NSF interaction abolished the ability of D2 receptor to attenuate AMPA-mediated neurotoxicity by blocking the D2 activation-induced changes in PI-3K activity and AMPA receptor plasma membrane expression. Furthermore, the D2-NSF-GluR2-p85 interactions are also responsible for the D2 inhibition of ischemia-induced cell death. These data may provide a new avenue to identify specific targets for therapeutics to modulate glutamate receptor-governed diseases, such as stroke.
The mechanism by which physiological synaptic NMDA receptor activity promotes neuronal survival is not well understood. Here, we show that that an episode of synaptic activity can promote neuroprotection for a long time after that activity has ceased. This long-lasting or &quot;late phase&quot; of neuroprotection is dependent on nuclear calcium signaling and cAMP response element (CRE)-mediated gene expression. In contrast, neuroprotection evoked acutely by ongoing synaptic activity relies solely on the activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. This &quot;acute phase&quot; does not require nuclear calcium signaling and is independent of activation of the CRE-binding protein (CREB) family of transcription factors. Thus, activity-dependent neuroprotection comprises two mechanistically distinct phases that differ in their spatial requirements for calcium and in their reliance on the CREB family.
In view of the increasing interest in mucosal vaccination, we investigated whether type I IFN could act as adjuvant of an intranasally administered influenza vaccine. A single intranasal administration of IFNalphabeta-adjuvanted vaccine in anesthetized C3H/HeN mice was capable of protecting the totality of animals against virus challenge, while vaccine alone was only partially effective. To mimic intranasal vaccine administration in man and to limit vaccine delivery strictly to nasal mucosa, we used a second method of vaccination based on vaccine fractionation in six doses and intranasal instillation in non-anesthetized mice. By using this vaccination schedule, IFNalphabeta-adjuvanted vaccine also prevented mice from disease development and induced an efficient long lasting immune response. Further experiments showed that IFNalphabeta increased the percentage of antigen-associated phagocytes in the nasal mucus layer, thus suggesting a new possible mechanism of action for type I IFN as an adjuvant.
Neuronal activity can rapidly flip-flop between stable states. Although these semi-stable states can be generated through interactions of neuronal networks, it is now known that they can also occur in vivo through intrinsic ionic currents.
Stroke neurologists are commonly asked to review patients who require coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) but who also have comorbid severe carotid stenosis; such patients may be offered simultaneous carotid endarterectomy (CEA). In Canada, 0.51% of CABG procedures were combined CEA-CABG. The adjusted stroke and death rate was 2.67-fold greater in the combined CEA-CABG group compared to CABG alone. Randomized trials of the combined procedure are needed.
Presynaptic and postsynaptic differentiation occurs at axodendritic contacts between CNS neurons. Synaptic adhesion mediated by synaptic cell adhesion molecule (SynCAM) and beta-neurexins/neuroligins triggers presynaptic differentiation. The signals that trigger postsynaptic differentiation are, however, unknown. Here we report that beta-neurexin expressed in nonneuronal cells induced postsynaptic density (PSD)-95 clustering in contacting dendrites of hippocampal neurons. The effect is specific to beta-neurexin and was not observed with other synaptic cell adhesion molecules such as N-cadherin or SynCAM. NMDA receptors, but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors (AMPARs), were recruited to this beta-neurexin-induced PSD-95 scaffold. Remarkably, AMPARs were inserted into this scaffold upon glutamate application or expression of a constitutively active form of calmodulin kinase II in neurons. Expression of a dominant-negative neuroligin-1 in cultured neurons markedly reduced the sizes and densities of PSD-95 puncta and AMPAR clusters. In addition, excitatory, but not inhibitory, synaptic functions were impaired in these neurons, confirming that PSD-95/neuroligin-1 interaction is involved in postsynaptic assembly at glutamatergic synapses. These results demonstrate that postsynaptic assembly of the glutamatergic synapse may be initiated by presynaptic beta-neurexin and that glutamate release also is required for maturation of synapses.
Many sensory systems adapt their input-output relationship to changes in the statistics of the ambient stimulus. Such adaptive behavior has been measured in a motion detection sensitive neuron of the fly visual system, H1. The rapid adaptation of the velocity response gain has been interpreted as evidence of optimal matching of the H1 response to the dynamic range of the stimulus, thereby maximizing its information transmission. Here, we show that correlation-type motion detectors, which are commonly thought to underlie fly motion vision, intrinsically possess adaptive properties. Increasing the amplitude of the velocity fluctuations leads to a decrease of the effective gain and the time constant of the velocity response without any change in the parameters of these detectors. The seemingly complex property of this adaptation turns out to be a straightforward consequence of the multidimensionality of the stimulus and the nonlinear nature of the system.
Tight junctions (TJ) are intercellular seals that regulate the passage of ions and molecules through the paracellular pathway. This property allows epithelial and endothelial sheets to function as barriers between different body compartments. Although TJ were identified by electron microscopy since the 1950's, the analysis in recent years of their molecular composition, has depicted TJ as signaling complexes involved in a wide spectrum of physiological and pathological processes, such as cell growth and differentiation, cancer and metastasis, and pathogen interaction. This new knowledge has in turn given rise to novel strategies for enhancing the paracellular flux of poorly absorbed therapeutics.

18-Methoxycoronaridine, a synthetic iboga alkaloid congener, has been previously shown to attenuate several signs of morphine withdrawal in rats. The recently discovered action of 18-methoxycoronaridine to block alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors may be responsible for this effect. To test this hypothesis the effects of non-selective alpha3beta4 receptor antagonists, dextromethorphan, mecamylamine, bupropion, and their combinations, were assessed on of acute naltrexone-precipitated (1 mg/kg i.p.) morphine withdrawal in rats. Dextromethorphan (5-40 mg/kg, s.c.), mecamylamine (0.25-4 mg/kg, i.p.) and bupropion (10-30 mg/kg, i.p.) alone produced variable effects on signs of withdrawal. However, two low-dose combinations, i.e., dextromethorphan (5 mg/kg, s.c.) and mecamylamine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.), mecamylamine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) and bupropion (10 mg/kg, i.p.) as well as the three-drug combination significantly attenuated diarrhea and weight loss; none of the agents administered alone had these effects. The results of the present study provide evidence that alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors are involved in the expression of at least two signs of opioid withdrawal.
The role of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and P2Y(1) nucleotide receptor in potentiating agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregation is being demonstrated in a co-culture system of NG108-15 cell, a mouse neuroblastoma X rat glioma hybrid cell line that resembles spinal motor neuron, with C2C12 myotube. In the co-cultures, antagonized P2Y(1) receptors showed a reduction in NG108-15 cell-induced AChR aggregation. Parallel to this observation, cultured NG108-15 cell secreted ATP into the conditioned medium in a time-dependent manner. Enhancement of ATP release from the cultured NG108-15 cells by overexpression of active mutants of small GTPases increased the aggregation of AChRs in co-culturing with C2C12 myotubes. In addition, ecto-nucleotidase was revealed in the co-culture, which rapidly degraded the applied ATP. These results support the notion that ATP has a role in directing the formation of post-synaptic apparatus in vertebrate neuromuscular junctions.
Abnormally nitrated tau has been found recently in the neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, whether and how nitration of tau is involved in AD pathology is not known. Herein, we found that in vitro incubation of peroxynitrite with recombinant tau resulted in nitration and oligomerization of tau in a dosage-dependent manner. Moreover, the nitrated tau showed a significantly decreased binding activity to taxol-stabilized microtubulesin in vitro. Further study demonstrated that peroxynitrite also induced tau nitration in neuroblastoma N2a cell line, and the nitrated tau was accumulated in the cells. We conclude that abnormal nitration of tau contributes to the impaired biological activity of tau in binding to the microtubules and the aggregation of tau, implying a novel mechanism responsible for the neurodegeneration seen in AD brain.
Dystroglycan is a central component of dystrophin-glycoprotein complex that links extracellular matrix and cytoskeleton in skeletal muscle. Although dystrophic chicken is well established as an animal model of human muscular dystrophy, the pathomechanism leading to muscular degeneration remains unknown. We show here that glycosylation and laminin-binding activity of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) are defective in dystrophic chicken. Extensive glycan structural analysis reveals that Galbeta1-3GalNAc and GalNAc residues are increased while Siaalpha2-3Gal structure is reduced in alpha-DG of dystrophic chicken. These results implicate aberrant glycosylation of alpha-DG in the pathogenesis of muscular degeneration in this model animal of muscular dystrophy.
CMKLR1 (chemoattractant-like receptor 1) is a G-protein-coupled receptor implicated in cartilage and bone development and is expressed in organs like the parathyroid gland, brain, and lung. The receptor is also expressed in dendritic cells and in macrophages where it acts as a co-receptor for entry of HIV/SIV isolates into human CD4(+) cells. Recently, a protein named &quot;chemerin&quot; (also known as TIG2) was isolated from human inflammatory fluids and hemofiltrate and found to be the endogenous ligand for CMKLR1. We have previously described the genomic organization of the cmklr1 gene and characterized its promoter in mouse neuroblastoma NB4 1A3 cells. In the present study we identify a second transcript, cmklr1b, in mouse microglia BV2 cells. Cmklr1b is transcribed from an alternative promoter with a transcription start site located 6780 bp downstream of the previously identified exon 1 (cmklr1a). The cmklr1b promoter lacks a TATA box but contains two CCAAT boxes in opposite directions. 5' Deletion analysis of the promoter region in BV2 cells using a luciferase reporter gene assay indicates two regions, between 623-755 bp and 56-125 bp upstream of transcription start site, to be important for promoter function. The proximal promoter region includes both CCAAT boxes, and site-directed mutagenesis separately within these elements revealed that only the forward CCAAT element was important for transcription. Although the forward CCAAT element is essential for transcription electrophoretic mobility shift and super-shift assays demonstrated that both CCAAT elements actually bind nuclear proteins from BV2 cells and identified the binding factor as NFY. Real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR experiments of cmklr1b expression in all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)- stimulated BV2 cells showed strong up-regulation of receptor transcript. Luciferase reporter gene assay of the promoter in ATRA-stimulated BV2 cells confirmed that transcriptional activity of the cmklr1b promoter is increased by ATRA. However, deletion analysis could not identify an ATRA-responsive element within the promoter region suggesting that gene activation is likely to occur through alternative mechanisms. The results emphasise a possible role of cmklr1 in bone modelling.
Naked mole-rats (Heterocephalus glaber) have a large cortical representation of their behaviorally important front teeth, accounting for 30% of primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Here we investigated the plasticity of this dental representation after the extraction of a single lower tooth. The representation of the contralateral lower incisor normally accounts for approximately 15% of somatosensory cortex in mole-rats. In five mole-rats the lower right incisor was extracted on either postnatal day 7 or 21. After 5-8 months the deprived tooth zone in S1 was investigated with multiunit microelectrode recordings. The results revealed a dramatic reorganization of the orofacial representation in SI. Neurons in the cortical lower tooth representation were responsive to tactile inputs from surrounding orofacial structures, including the contralateral upper incisor, ipsilateral lower incisor, tongue, chin, gums, and buccal pad. Neurons in the former lower tooth zone had complex receptive fields that often encompassed multiple sensory surfaces surrounding the extracted tooth in the periphery. These results suggest that the representation of the dentition in mammals is capable of significant reorganization after the loss of sensory inputs from the teeth. These data parallel findings in the somatosensory hand area of primates after deafferentation where cortex can become activated by a mixture of widely spaced surrounding sensory surfaces (e.g., chin and upper arm).
Musical processing can be decomposed into the appreciation of global and local elements. This global/local dissociation was investigated with the processing of contour-violated and interval-violated melodies. Performance of a group of 16 children with Williams syndrome and a group of 16 control children were compared in a same-different task. Control participants were more accurate in detecting differences in the contour-violated than in the interval-violated condition while Williams syndrome individuals performed equally well in both conditions. This finding suggests that global precedence may occur at an early perceptual stage in normally developing children. In contrast, no such global precedence is observed in the Williams syndrome population. These data are discussed in the context of atypical cognitive profiles of individuals with Williams syndrome.
Direct sequencing of the human cyclooxygenase-2 gene promoter revealed a common single nucleotide substitution, cyclooxygenase-2-765G--&gt;C, in 24.5% of the populations analyzed. This change introduced a 20 base pair polypyrimidine/polypurine element and a partial recognition feature for RXRalpha, the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor, into the polymorphic promoter. Cyclooxygenase-2-765G--&gt;C constructs, when transfected into human neural cells, exhibited a 1.4-fold higher level of basal expression, while the proinflammatory factors interleukin-1beta and 9-cis retinoic acid synergistically induced polymorphic promoter activity 2.4-fold over wild type. These results suggest that under specific conditions of cellular stress, a common variation in cyclooxygenase-2 promoter structure may enhance cyclooxygenase-2 transcription, and this may contribute to the proliferation of an inflammatory response in brain cells.
Magnetic responses to periodic complex sounds with equivalent acoustic parameters except for two different fundamental frequencies (F0) and 12 different spectral envelopes of vocal, instrumental, and linear shapes were recorded to determine the cortical representation of timbre categorization in humans. Responses at approximately 100 ms (N1m) to vocal and instrumental (nonlinear) sounds were localized significantly anterior to linear sound responses. N1m source strength for nonlinear sounds was significantly larger than that for linear sounds, and this difference was more marked in the left hemisphere than in the right. N1m peak latency only for vocal sounds was not affected by F0. Perceptual categorization was reflected in N1m source strength and location (linear or nonlinear), and in N1m latency (vocal or nonvocal).
Ectopic spontaneous activity originated from the injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in rats was recorded through single dorsal root fiber. The firing patterns induced by veratridine and aconitine, inhibitors of inactivation gate of sodium channel operating on different binding sites, were compared. In the same neuron, veratridine (1.5 approximately 5.0 micromol/L) caused slow wave oscillations of interspike intervals (ISIs), while aconitine (10 approximately 200 micromol/L) caused tonic firing. Moreover, even if the background firing patterns were various and the reagent concentrations used were different, veratridine and aconitine still induced slow wave oscillations and tonic firing patterns, respectively. The results suggest that veratridine and aconitine induce different firing patterns in injured DRG neurons, which may relate to their inhibitory effects on different binding sites of the sodium channel.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on radial-maze learning and hippocampal neuroanatomy, particularly the sizes of the intra- and infrapyramidal mossy fiber (IIPMF) terminal fields, in three inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6J, BALB/cJ, and DBA/2J). RESULTS: Although we anticipated a modification of both learning and IIPMF sizes, no such effects were detected. Prenatal alcohol exposure did, however, interfere with reproduction in C57BL/6J animals and decrease body and brain weight (in interaction with the genotype) at adult age. CONCLUSION: Prenatal alcohol exposure influenced neither radial maze performance nor the sizes of the IIPMF terminal fields. We believe that future research should be pointed either at different targets when using mouse models for Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (e.g. more complicated behavioral paradigms, different hippocampal substructures, or other brain structures) or involve different animal models.
Behavioral and Brain Functions (BBF) is an Open Access, peer-reviewed, online journal considering original research, review, and modeling articles in all aspects of neurobiology or behavior, favoring research that relates to both domains. Behavioral and Brain Functions is published by BioMed Central. The greatest challenge for empirical science is to understand human behavior; how human behavior arises from the myriad functions such as attention, language, memory and emotion; how these functions are reflected in brain structures and functions; and how the brain and behavior are altered in disease. Behavioral and Brain Functions covers the entire area of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience - an area where animal studies traditionally play a prominent role. Behavioral and Brain Functions is published online, allowing unlimited space for figures, extensive datasets to allow readers to study the data for themselves, and moving pictures, which are important qualities assisting communication in modern science.
2-Aminoethyl diphenylborinate was recently identified as a chemical activator of TRPV1, TRPV2, and TRPV3, three heat-gated members of the transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) ion channel subfamily. Here we demonstrated that two structurally related compounds, diphenylboronic anhydride (DPBA) and diphenyltetrahydrofuran (DPTHF), can also modulate the activity of these channels. DPBA acted as a TRPV3 agonist, whereas DPTHF exhibited prominent antagonistic activity. However, all three diphenyl-containing compounds promoted some degree of channel activation or potentiation, followed by channel block. Strong TRPV3 activation by DPBA often leads to the appearance of a secondary, enhanced, current phase. A similar biphasic response was observed during TRPV3 heat stimulation; an initial, gradually sensitizing phase (I(1)) was followed by an abrupt transition to a secondary phase (I(2)). I(2) was characterized by larger current amplitude, loss of outward rectification, and alterations in the following properties: permeability among cations; ruthenium red and DPTHF sensitivity; temperature dependence; and voltage-dependent gating. The I(1) to I(2) transition depended strongly on TRPV3 current density. Removal of extracellular divalent cations resulted in heat-evoked currents resembling I(2), whereas mutation of a putative Ca(2+)-binding residue in the pore loop domain, aspartate 641, facilitated detection of the I(1) to I(2) transition, suggesting that the conversion to I(2) resulted from the agonist- and time-dependent loss of divalent cationic inhibition. Primary keratinocytes overexpressing exogenous TRPV3 also exhibited biphasic agonist-evoked currents. Thus, strong activation by either chemical or thermal stimuli led to biphasic TRPV3 signaling behavior that may be associated with changes in the channel pore.
In human myometrial cells, the promiscuous coupling of the oxytocin receptors (OTRs) to G(q) and G(i) leads to contraction. However, the activation of OTRs coupled to different G protein pathways can also trigger opposite cellular responses, e.g. OTR coupling to G(i) inhibits, whereas its coupling to G(q) stimulates, cell proliferation. Drug analogues capable of promoting a selective receptor-G protein coupling may be of great pharmacological and clinical importance because they may target only one specific signal transduction pathway. Here, we report that atosiban, an oxytocin derivative that acts as a competitive antagonist on OTR/G(q) coupling, displays agonistic properties on OTR/G(i) coupling, as shown by specific (35)S-labeled guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio) trisphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding. Moreover, atosiban, by acting on a G(i)-mediated pathway(,) inhibits cell growth of HEK293 and Madin-Darby canine kidney cells stably transfected with OTRs and of DU145 prostate cancer cells expressing endogenous OTRs. Notably, atosiban leads to persistent ERK1/2 activation and p21(WAF1/CIP1) induction, the same signaling events leading to oxytocin-mediated cell growth inhibition via a G(i) pathway. Finally, atosiban exposure did not cause OTR internalization and led to only a modest decrease (20%) in the number of high affinity cell membrane OTRs, two observations consistent with the finding that atosiban did not lead to any desensitization of the oxytocin-induced activation of the G(q)-phospholipase C pathway. Taken together, these observations indicate that atosiban acts as a &quot;biased agonist&quot; of the human OTRs and thus belongs to the class of compounds capable of selectively discriminating only one among the multiple possible active conformations of a single G protein-coupled receptor, thereby leading to the selective activation of a unique intracellular signal cascade.
Calpain has been implicated in excitotoxic neurode-generation, but its mechanism of action particularly in adult brains remains unclear. We generated mutant mice lacking or overexpressing calpastatin, the only solely calpain-specific inhibitor ever identified or synthesized. Modulation of calpastatin expression caused no defect in the mice under normal conditions, indicating that calpastatin functions as a negative regulator of calpain only under pathological conditions. Kainate-evoked excitotoxicity in hippocampus resulted in proteolytic activation of a proapoptotic Bcl-2 subfamily member (Bid), nuclear translocation of mitochondria-derived DNA fragmentation factors (apoptosis-inducing factor and endonuclease G), DNA fragmentation, and nuclear condensation in pyramidal neurons. These apoptotic responses were significantly augmented by calpastatin deficiency. Consistently calpastatin overexpression suppressed them. No evidence of caspase-3 activation was detected. Our results demonstrated that calpain mediates excitotoxic signals through mobilization of proapoptotic factors in a caspase-independent manner. These mutant mice will serve as useful tools for investigating calpain involvement in various diseases.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterised by the proteolytic production of N-terminal fragments of huntingtin containing polyglutamine repeats that forms intracellular ubiquitinated aggregates in the affected neurons. Using cellular and transgenic mice model of HD, we report here that BAG-1 co-immunoprecipitates with the polyglutamine-expanded truncated N-terminal huntingtin (tNhtt) and associates with their aggregates through its interaction with the chaperones Hsc70/Hsp70. We further demonstrate that the over expression of BAG-1 protects polyglutamine-expanded tNhtt induced cell death. Since, BAG-1 is essential for cell survival, its association with tNhtt aggregates might disrupt its normal function and thereby promote polyglutamine-expanded tNhtt-induced cell death.

Advances in understanding of both the causes and consequences of epilepsy have been paralleled by a number of recent reports and clinical guidelines highlighting the complexities involved in both diagnosing and treating epilepsy. We review recent developments, including comments on the evolution of clinical guidelines, anti-epileptic drugs, epilepsy surgery and new treatment approaches in development. Epilepsy genetics and emerging evidence on mechanisms of drug resistance in epilepsy will also be discussed. Issues with respect to pregnancy and epilepsy are considered, together with more recently identified dilemmas including bone health in epilepsy and whether seizures themselves cause brain damage. Imaging in epilepsy has recently been reviewed elsewhere, and will not be discussed.
Several plumage types are found in feral pigeons (Columba livia), but one type imparts a clear survival advantage during attacks by the swiftest of all predators--the peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus). Here we use quantitative field observations and experiments to demonstrate both the selective nature of the falcon's choice of prey and the effect of plumage coloration on the survival of feral pigeons. This plumage colour is an independently heritable trait that is likely to be an antipredator adaptation against high-speed attacks in open air space.
Synapse formation and elimination occur throughout life, but the magnitude of such changes at distinct developmental stages remains unclear. Using transgenic mice overexpressing yellow fluorescent protein and transcranial two-photon microscopy, we repeatedly imaged dendritic spines on the apical dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal neurons. In young adolescent mice (1-month-old), 13%-20% of spines were eliminated and 5%-8% formed over 2 weeks in barrel, motor, and frontal cortices, indicating a cortical-wide spine loss during this developmental period. As animals mature, there is also a substantial loss of dendritic filopodia involved in spinogenesis. In adult mice (4-6 months old), 3%-5% of spines were eliminated and formed over 2 weeks in various cortical regions. Over 18 months, only 26% of spines were eliminated and 19% formed in adult barrel cortex. Thus, after a concurrent loss of spines and spine precursors in diverse regions of young adolescent cortex, spines become stable and a majority of them can last throughout life.
A reorganization of cortical representations is postulated as the basis for functional recovery following many types of nervous system injury. Neuronal mechanisms underlying this form of cortical plasticity are poorly understood. The present study investigated the hypothesis that the basal forebrain cholinergic system plays an essential role in enabling the cortical reorganization required for functional recovery following brain injury. The results demonstrate that functional recovery following cortical injury requires basal forebrain cholinergic mechanisms and suggest that the basis for this recovery is the cholinergic-dependent reorganization of motor representations. These findings raise the intriguing possibility that deficits in cholinergic function may limit functional outcomes following nervous system injury.
The Eph receptor tyrosine kinases and their ephrin ligands play a pivotal role during axon pathfinding and neural circuitry formation. A prominent way in which Eph receptors sculpt cellular morphology is by remodeling the actin cytoskeleton and the surrounding plasma membrane through the regulation of Rho family GTPases. Two articles in this issue of Neuron (Sahin et al. and Cowan et al.) shed light on how Eph receptors recruit guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rho family GTPases to modulate growth cone dynamics.
Sleep deprivation is accompanied by the progressive development of an irresistible need to sleep, a phenomenon whose mechanism has remained elusive. Here, we identified for the first time a reflection of that phenomenon in vitro by showing that, after a short 2 h period of total sleep deprivation, the action of noradrenaline on the wake-promoting hypocretin/orexin neurons changes from an excitation to an inhibition. We propose that such a conspicuous modification of responsiveness should contribute to the growing sleepiness that accompanies sleep deprivation.
The present study investigated whether thrombin, a potent microglial activator, can induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation through activation of microglial NADPH oxidase and if this may contribute to oxidative damage and consequent neurodegeneration. Seven days after intrahippocampal injection of thrombin, Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry using the neuronal-specific nuclear protein NeuN revealed a significant loss in hippocampal CA1 neurons. In parallel, thrombin-activated microglia, assessed by OX-42 and OX-6 immunohistochemistry, and ROS production, assessed by hydroethidine histochemistry, were observed in the hippocampal CA1 area in which degeneration of hippocampal neurons occurred. Reverse transcription-PCR at various time points after thrombin administration demonstrated an early and transient expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and several proinflammatory cytokines. Western blot analysis and double-label immunohistochemistry showed an increase in the expression of and the localization of iNOS within microglia. Additional studies demonstrated that thrombin induced the upregulation of membrane (gp91(phox)) and cytosolic (p47(phox) and p67(phox)) components, translocation of cytosolic proteins (p47(phox), p67(phox), and Rac1) to the membrane, and p67(phox) expression of the NADPH oxidase in microglia in the hippocampus in vivo, indicating the activation of NADPH oxidase. The thrombin-induced oxidation of proteins and loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons were partially inhibited by an NADPH oxidase inhibitor and by an antioxidant. To our knowledge, the present study is the first to demonstrate that thrombin-induced neurotoxicity in the hippocampus in vivo is caused by microglial NADPH oxidase-mediated oxidative stress. This suggests that thrombin inhibition or enhancing antioxidants may be beneficial for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, that are associated with microglial-derived oxidative damage.
Mammalian central synapses commonly specialize in one fast neurotransmitter, matching the content of their presynaptic vesicles with the appropriate receptors in their postsynaptic membrane. Here, I show that hippocampal cultures contain autaptic glutamatergic synapses that contravene this rule: in addition to postsynaptic glutamate receptors, they also express clusters of functional postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors yet lack presynaptic GABA. Hence, these synapses are presynaptically silent with respect to GABA. They can be unsilenced by loading GABA into presynaptic vesicles by endocytosis, after which a postload IPSC appears. This IPSC is similar to native IPSCs recorded from GABAergic interneurons in the same cultures. Thus, these &quot;mistargeted&quot; GABA(A) receptors, which apparently lack a signal that confers synaptic specificity, function almost normally. After GABA loading, glutamatergic miniature postsynaptic currents acquire a slow tail that is mediated by GABA(A) receptors, showing that synaptic vesicles can accommodate both the usual concentration of native glutamate and a saturating concentration of loaded GABA. After brief Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, endocytosis of GABA can proceed in low-Ca(2+) external solution. The amplitude of the postload IPSC declines exponentially with repetitive stimulation as the endocytosed GABA passes through the presynaptic vesicle cycle and is depleted. Hence, by using GABA as an exogenous but physiological tracer, the properties of these presynaptically silent synapses can provide novel insights into the content and cycling of vesicles in presynaptic terminals.
The emergence of eye-specific axonal projections to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) is a well established model system for exploring the mechanisms underlying afferent targeting during development. Using modern tract tracing methods, we examined the development of this feature in the macaque, an Old World Primate with a visual system similar to that of humans. Cholera toxin beta fragment conjugated to Alexa 488 was injected into the vitreous of one eye, and CTbeta conjugated to Alexa 594 into the other eye of embryos at known gestational ages. On embryonic day 69 (E69), which is approximately 100 d before birth, inputs from the two eyes were extensively intermingled in the dLGN. However, even at this early age, portions of the dLGN were preferentially innervated by the right or left eye, and segregation is complete within the dorsalmost layers 5 and 6. By E78, eye-specific segregation is clearly established throughout the parvocellular division of the dLGN, and substantial ocular segregation is present in the magnocellular division. By E84, segregation of left and right eye axons is essentially complete, and the six eye-specific domains that characterize the mature macaque dLGN are clearly discernable. These findings reveal that targeting of eye-specific axonal projections in the macaque occurs much earlier and more rapidly than previously reported. This segregation process is completed before the reported onset of ganglion cell axon loss and retino-dLGN synapse elimination, suggesting that, in the primate, eye-specific targeting occurs independent of traditional forms of synaptic plasticity.
How do developmental mechanisms evolve to control changing skeletal morphology, the shapes and sizes of individual bones? We address this question with studies of the opercle (OP), a large facial bone that has undergone marked morphological evolution in the ray-finned fish. Attributes for developmental analysis motivated us to examine how OP shape and size evolve and develop in threespine sticklebacks, a model system for understanding vertebrate evolution. We find that when Alaskan anadromous fish take up permanent residence in lakes, they evolve smaller and reshaped OPs. The change is a reduction in the amount of bone laid down along one body axis, and it arises at or shortly after the onset of OP development. A quantitative trait locus is present on linkage group 19 that contributes in a major way to this phenotype.
We examined the distribution of orexin/hypocretin immunoreactive neurons and projections throughout the brain of the green treefrog (Hyla cinerea). Orexin A and B neurons were located in a single population centered on the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Orexin A and B fibers were visible across the brain, with the highest density within the preoptic area and hypothalamus. Our data suggest different distributions of orexin neurons but not projections between families of amphibians.
Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) are members of the superfamily of G-protein coupled receptors that initiate intracellular signaling by the proteolytic activity of extracellular serine proteases. Three member of this family (PAR-1, PAR-3, and PAR-4) are considered thrombin receptors, whereas PAR-2 is activated by trypsin and tryptase. Recently, activation of PAR-2 signal was identified as a pro-inflammatory factor that mediates peripheral sensitization of nociceptors. Activation of PAR-1 in the periphery is also considered to be a neurogenic mediator of inflammation that is involved in peptide release. Here, we investigated the expression of these four members of PARs in the adult rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) using radioisotope-labeled in situ hybridization histochemistry. We detected mRNA for all subtypes of PARs in the DRG. Histological analysis revealed the specific expression patterns of the PARs. PAR-1, PAR-2, and PAR-3 mRNA was expressed in 29.0+/-4.0%, 16.0+/-3.2%, and 40.9+/-1.3% of DRG neurons, respectively. In contrast, PAR-4 mRNA was mainly observed in non-neuronal cells. A double-labeling study of PARs with NF-200 and alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) also revealed the distinctive expression of PARs mRNA in myelinated or nociceptive neurons. This study shows the precise expression pattern of PARs mRNA in the DRG and indicates that the cells in DRG can receive modulation with different types of proteinase-activated receptors.
We have investigated to what extent microinjected beta-endorphin could migrate from the rat brain parenchyma into the CSF compartment. Exogenous rat beta-endorphin (0.1 nmol) was microinjected into the left striatum 1 mm from the lateral ventricle in anesthetized male rats. CSF samples were collected at different time points up to 2 h post-injection from a catheter affixed to the atlanto-occipital membrane of the cisterna magna. Radioimmunoassay and mass spectrometry were performed on the CSF samples, and brain sections were immunostained for beta-endorphin and mu-opioid receptors. The beta-endorphin injected rats showed a marked increase in beta-endorphin immunoreactive (IR) material in the CSF, with a peak at 30-45 min post-injection, and this beta-endorphin-IR material existed mainly as the intact beta-endorphin peptide. The immunohistochemistry results revealed the appearance of distinct beta-endorphin-IR cell bodies in the globus pallidus and the bed nucleus of stria terminalis supracapsular part, regions distant from the injection site, at 2 h post-injection of exogenous beta-endorphin. The beta-endorphin-IR in several of the globus pallidus cell bodies colocalized with the mu-opioid receptor-IR at the cell surface. These findings show that upon delivery of synthetic beta-endorphin, there is a significant intracerebral spread of the injected peptide, reaching regions far from the site of injection via diffusion in the extracellular space and flow in the cerebrospinal fluid. This may be of relevance when interpreting studies based on intracerebral injections of peptides, and advances our knowledge regarding the migration of compounds within the brain.
The link between the state of energy balance and reproductive function is well known. Thus, signals denoting negative energy balance and the accompanying hyperphagic drive are likely to be factors in the suppression of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) activity. We have previously found that appetite-regulating systems, such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the arcuate nucleus (ARH) and orexin in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), send fiber projections that come in close apposition with GnRH neurons. Furthermore, the appropriate receptors, NPY Y5 and OR-1, respectively, are coexpressed on GnRH neurons, providing neuroanatomical evidence for a direct link between the NPY and orexin systems and GnRH neurons. Therefore, these orexigenic neuropeptide systems are potential candidates that convey information about energy balance to GnRH neurons. The current studies focused on melanin concentrating hormone (MCH), another orexigenic neuropeptide system located in the LHA that is sensitive to energy balance. The results showed that MCH fiber projections came in close apposition with approximately 85-90% of GnRH cell bodies throughout the preoptic area and anterior hypothalamic area in the rat. In addition, the MCH receptor (MCHR1) was coexpressed on about 50-55% of GnRH neurons. These findings present evidence for a possible direct neuroanatomical pathway by which MCH may play a role in the regulation of GnRH neuronal function. Thus, MCH is another potential signal that may serve to integrate energy balance and reproductive function.

An increasing demand for polycistronic vectors that express multiple genes simultaneously has arisen in recent years to obtain an efficient gene therapy. Armed with the knowledge that the expression of transgene in mammalian cells often requires tight control, we constructed in this study a tetracycline-regulated double-gene adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector carrying green and red fluorescent protein genes and expressed it in PC12 cells. When detected by fluorescence microscope and fluorescence-activated cell sorting, gene expression was induced by 44-66-fold and could be reversibly controlled by doxycycline. This double-gene AAV vector may be useful for regulated expression of two genes or a marker to monitor transgene expression.
Within the field of cognitive neuroscience, it has become widely accepted to distinguish between declarative and nondeclarative memory, with different neurobiological substrates subserving these memory structures. This distinction has been inferred from the study of amnesic patients, including those suffering from Korsakoff's syndrome. It is commonly agreed that Korsakoff patients demonstrate intact memory for motor and perceptual skills (nondeclarative) whereas memory of various forms of factual knowledge (declarative) is severely impaired. In the present study, Korsakoff patients and a group of age-matched controls learned a new bimanual motor skill whereby performance was assessed in the presence and absence of augmented visual information feedback. Findings demonstrated that Korsakoff patients were able to learn and retain this skill when directive augmented information feedback was provided while no learning occurred at all in the absence of this information. These observations shed new light on the conditions required for preserved memory in amnesic patients and challenge the classic view that nondeclarative memory is invariably preserved. Instead, the quality of memory across both motor and cognitive dimensions appears to depend on the availability of task-specific information to guide performance, presumably allowing amnesic patients to bypass affected brain areas. This prompts for a reevaluation of current notions about procedural memory capacity in Korsakoff patients.
By injecting a single 60 microg dose of corticosterone into the eggs of domestic chicks on day 18 of incubation, we have shown that elevated levels of this hormone affect the development of asymmetry in the visual projections from the thalamus to the Wulst regions in the left and right hemispheres of the forebrain. In vehicle-treated (control) embryos this visual pathway develops asymmetry in response to light stimulation during the final stages of incubation, when the embryo is oriented so that its left eye is occluded by its body and its right eye can be stimulated by light entering through the egg shell. Pre-hatching exposure to light leads to more projections from the left side of the thalamus to the right Wulst than from the right side of the thalamus to the left Wulst, as confirmed here by injection of the tracers Fluorogold and Rhodamine into the left and right Wulst followed by counting the number of labelled cell bodies in the thalamus (asymmetry greater in males than females). The chicks injected with corticosterone pre-hatching did not develop any group bias for asymmetry in response to light exposure before hatching. They were random with respect to presence/absence of lateralization and, when present, the lateralization was not as strong as in the controls and its direction was random. The corticosterone-treated group had fewer projections from the left side of the thalamus to the right Wulst than did the controls. The results are considered with respect to maternal deposits of the hormone in the yolk and pre-hatching stress of the embryo.
Previous findings in our laboratory indicate that food availability and/or the balance of metabolic fuels may play a role in the production of undirected song in singly housed adult male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). In this study, 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) or 2,5-anhydro-d-mannitol (2,5-AM) were used to attenuate the circadian shift from lipid to carbohydrate metabolism, which normally occurs at the onset of the light phase in free-feeding, singly housed zebra finches, in order to evaluate the possibility that carbohydrate metabolism influences the production of undirected song. Food intake was also measured. Both drugs (which block carbohydrate metabolism and increase reliance on lipid metabolism) produced dose-dependent reductions in undirected singing, while food intake was not altered. Our results suggest that undirected singing (and possibly other voluntary and/or social behaviors) is sensitive to the availability of dietary fuels, whereas, food intake may show a greater regulation by the availability of stored fuels.
Previous studies have suggested that exercise in a running wheel can be neuroprotective, perhaps due to, among others, gene-expression changes after exercise, increases in trophic proteins and/or enhanced cardiovascular responsivity. Here we ask whether physical exercise or environmental enrichment provide protection after brain damage, especially in terms of recovery of cognitive function. To evaluate the neuroprotective effect of these conditions, we used the kainic acid (KA) model of neuronal injury. Systemically-administered KA induces excitotoxicity by overstimulation of glutamate receptors, resulting in neuronal death by necrosis and apoptosis. Our results show that exercise, but not enriched environment, prior to KA-induced brain damage, improved behavioural performance in both Morris watermaze and object exploration tasks. However, prior exercise did not decrease to control levels the hyperactivity normally seen in KA-treated animals, as measured by ambulation in the open field. Furthermore, both exercise and enriched environment did not protect against neuron loss in CA1, CA2 and CA3 areas of the hippocampus, despite a substantial increase in brain-derived neutrophic factor (BDNF) levels in dentate gyrus of the exercise and KA-treated animals.
Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), one of the three most common human apoE (h-apoE) isoforms, is a major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease and for cognitive deficits associated with aging. The biological mechanisms involving apoE in learning and memory processes are unclear. A potential isoform-dependent effect of h-apoE on cognitive performance was studied in gene-targeted mice, which show physiological expression levels and distribution of h-apoE3 or h-apoE4. Male and female h-apoE3 and h-apoE4, apoE-deficient and C57BL/6J mice (4-5 months) were subjected to tasks evaluating spatial memory and avoidance conditioning. Female h-apoE4 mice did not detect changes in the spatial configuration of objects as opposed to female h-apoE3 mice. Female h-apoE3 mice failed to improve their performance during training in a reference memory version of the spatial water-maze task, but performed well during the probe trial 24 h after the last training trial. Memory retention performances of h-apoE4 mice were impaired during this probe trial. Both h-apoE3 and h-apoE4 mice did not improve their performance in a water-maze delayed matching to place task. Finally, h-apoE3 mice showed mild perturbations in a Y-maze active avoidance task, whereas both h-apoE mouse lines performed well in a passive avoidance task. Thus, spatial memory performances appeared particularly sensitive to h-apoE-isoform-dependent effects. Deficits occurred predominantly in female h-apoE4 mice, which support the hypothesis that humans carrying h-apoE4, especially women, have impaired spatial memory compared to those carrying h-apoE3.
Myotilin is a sarcomeric protein mutated in two forms of muscle disease, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1A and myofibrillar myopathy. Myotilin is expressed late during human myofibrillogenesis and localizes to Z-discs in mature sarcomere. It interacts with alpha-actinin, actin, and filamin C, and has strong F-actin-bundling activity. These features suggest an important role for myotilin in sarcomere organization. In our effort towards the construction of a genetic model for myotilin-related muscle disorders, we have cloned mouse myotilin, including its promoter region, and studied the expression in various tissues. Mouse myotilin is 90% identical with the human orthologue. Northern blot analysis revealed strong mRNA transcripts in skeletal and cardiac muscle, and weak expression in liver and lung tissue. Western blot and RT-PCR analysis showed the presence of one major product in mouse tissues. Analysis of the 5'-flanking region revealed a number of putative regulatory elements that drive expression in differentiating myoblasts. Finally, endogenous myotilin is induced at later stages of Z-disc assembly in C(2)C(12) cells indicating conservation between mouse and human promoter region.
The ERK (extracellular-signal regulated-kinase)/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway can regulate transcription, proliferation, migration and apoptosis. The small DED (death-effector domain) protein PEA-15 (phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes-15) binds ERK and targets it to the cytoplasm. Other DED-containing proteins including cFLIP and DEDD can also regulate signal transduction events and transcription in addition to apoptosis. In the present study, we report the identification of a novel DED-containing protein called Vanishin. The amino acid sequence of Vanishin is closest in similarly to PEA-15 (61% identical). Vanishin mRNA is expressed in several mouse tissues and in both mouse and human cell lines. Interestingly, Vanishin is regulated by ubiquitinylation and subsequent degradation by the 26 S proteasome. The ubiquitinylation is complex and occurs at both the internal lysine residues and the N-terminus. We further show that Vanishin binds ERK/MAPK but not the DED proteins Fas-associated death domain, caspase 8 or PEA-15. Vanishin is present in both the nucleus and Golgi on overexpression and forces increased ERK accumulation in the nucleus in the absence of ERK stimulation. Moreover, Vanishin expression inhibits ERK activation and ERK-dependent transcription in cells, but does not alter MAPK/ERK activity. Therefore Vanishin is a novel regulator of ERK that is controlled by ubiquitinylation.
In the present study, the abilities of cyclooxygenated derivatives of 1-arachidonoylglycerol and related compounds to prevent the metabolism of [3H]2-oleoylglycerol and [3H]anandamide by cytosolic and membrane fractions, respectively, have been investigated. For each compound, nine concentrations (range 0.2-100 microM) were tested. 1-Arachidonoylglycerol inhibited the hydrolysis of [3H]2-oleoylglycerol with a pI50 value of 5.17+/-0.04 (maximum attainable inhibition 88%). In contrast, the 1-glyceryl esters of prostaglandin D2, E2 and F2alpha were very weak inhibitors of this hydrolysis. Similarly, prostaglandin D2, prostaglandin D2 ethanolamide and prostaglandin D2 serinol amide produced &lt;20% inhibition of [3H]2-oleoylglycerol metabolism at any concentration tested, in contrast to previous data with arachidonic acid, anandamide and arachidonoyl serinol which are all able to inhibit metabolism of this substrate under the assay conditions used here. A similar pattern was seen for all the compounds with respect to the inhibition of [3H]anandamide hydrolysis by the membrane fractions. Thus, cyclooxygenation of the arachidonoyl side chain greatly reduces the ability of 1-arachidonoylglycerol and related compounds to inhibit the hydrolysis of [3H]2-oleoylglycerol and [3H]anandamide.
We report nine new members of the Rhodopsin family of human G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) found by searches in the genome databases. BLAST searches and phylogenetic analyses showed that only four of the receptors are closely related to previously characterised GPCRs, GPR150 and GPR154 to oxytocin/vasopressin receptors, GPR152 to CRTH2/FPRs and GPR165 to GPR72/NPYR. Four of the receptors, GPR139, GPR146, GPR153 and GPR162, have one other orphan GPCRs as close relative while GPR148 lacks close relatives. We have identified in total 37 orthologues for the new receptors, primarily from rat, mouse, chicken, fugu and zebrafish. GPR162 and GPR139 are remarkably well conserved while GPR148 seems to be evolving rapidly. Analyses using expressed sequence tags (ESTs) indicate that all the new receptors except GPR153 have the CNS as a major site of expression.

In mammals, endogenous estrogens are crucial for sexual differentiation during the perinatal period, and the modulation in adulthood of many neuroendocrine and behavioral functions involved in reproduction. In rats, the estrogenic environment during pregnancy and lactation affects directly maternal behavior. This experiment was aimed to test whether the exposure to the estrogenic compound bisphenol-A (BPA; 0.040 mg/kg/die, orally) of adult female rats, from mating to weaning of the pups, could alter maternal behavior. An appropriate methodology was applied to reveal differences in the behavior of dams directed to male and female pups, testing the dams on postnatal days 3-4 and 8-9. Results show different maternal behavioral patterns towards male and female pups of control mothers, with more ano-genital licking to males than to females. Exposure of mothers to BPA modified their behavior, reducing specific components of maternal behavior, both active and passive, irrespective of the sex of pups and the period of observation. This experiment shows that maternal behavior is affected by a prolonged exposure to a low dose of BPA during pregnancy and lactation, thus suggesting an effect on neural circuits in adulthood.
Estrogenic endocrine disruptors are hormonally active compounds that can bind to estradiol receptors. Central dopamine pathways have been reported to be affected by early developmental exposure to estrogenic endocrine disruptors. In the present study, pregnant female CD-1 mice were allowed to drink spontaneously either oil or environmentally relevant low doses of two estrogenic compounds, methoxychlor (20 microg/kg) or bisphenol-A (10 microg/kg) during gestation days 11-18. Their adult offspring were assessed for conditioned place preference produced by D-amphetamine (0, 1 or 2 mg/kg). Interestingly, prenatal treatment effects were sex-dependent and no changes in conditioned place preference emerged for the male offspring. Conversely, a clear-cut profile of D-amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference was only shown by oil-exposed females, whereas exposure to bisphenol-A or methoxychlor resulted in little or no place conditioning. Locomotor effects of acute d-amphetamine were not affected by prenatal exposure to bisphenol-A or methoxychlor. As a whole, prenatal exposure to estrogenic endocrine disruptors affected some steps in the organization of the brain dopaminergic systems in the female offspring, thus leading to long-term alterations in neurobehavioral function. These data confirm that exposure to weak environmental estrogens in the period of brain sexual differentiation can influence adult behavior.
Phytoestrogens have received increased investigative attention due to their potential protective effects in connection to age-related diseases and hormone-dependent cancers. Phytoestrogens appear to be an effective treatment during perimenopause where symptoms, such as hot flashes are reduced. However, little is known about the influence of phytoestrogens on core body temperature during various hormonal conditions. This study examined the effects of dietary phytoestrogens on core body temperature during estrous cycles or pregnancy by feeding Long-Evans rats either a diet rich in phytoestrogens (Phyto-600) versus a diet relatively low in phytoestrogens (Phyto-free). Independent of treatments, body temperature was highest at proestrus and declined during estrus and diestrus. Moreover, the consumption of the Phyto-600 diet moderately decreased body temperature during proestrus, estrus and diestrus versus Phyto-free-fed animals. During pregnancy, independent of treatments, core body temperature decreased as a function of increasing gestational length. Phyto-600-fed rats displayed significantly decreased body temperatures (by approximately 0.5 degrees C) from gestation days 6 to 19, compared to Phyto-free values. The results from this study indicate that consumption of dietary phytoestrogens alters the neuroendocrine mechanism of core body temperature regulation that may help explain, in part, the beneficial effects of phytoestrogens for hot flashes.
Because of their protective effects in age-related diseases and hormone-dependent cancers, the use of phytoestrogens (isoflavones) as 'natural' remedies has gained prominence. Isoflavones are estrogen mimics that bind estrogen receptors and act like natural selective estrogen receptors modulators. However, limited data exists regarding the influence of soy-derived dietary isoflavones in brain. This brief review will address these topics and examine the influence of dietary isoflavones on sexually dimorphic hypothalamic nuclei. We have observed that altering the isoflavone content within diet significantly affects both the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (a structure that is larger in males than in females) and the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (a structure that is larger in females than in males). Specifically, when animals were switched from phytoestrogen-rich to a phytoestrogen-free diet the volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area was decreased in males (no alterations were detected in females). Conversely, when the anteroventral periventricular nucleus was examined, volume changes were recorded in males and females opposite to the patterns observed for the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area. Given the practical limitations of examining the effects of dietary phytoestrogens in the human brain, it is important to establish comparative data sets to elucidate phytoestrogen's hormone action and potentially its beneficial brain health effects.
This paper provides an introduction to a special issue dedicated to the action of environmental estrogens on neural circuits and behavior. The problem of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), i.e. chemicals that have the capacity to interfere with the endocrine system, has gained increasing attention as it has become clear that these environmental contaminants may be active in humans, as well as in wildlife and domestic animal species. The majority of the early investigations were aimed at the discovery of the toxicological effects of the EDCs, but biomedical observations were among some of the first indications that estrogenic compounds may exert deleterious effects, even some time after exposure. The data derived from women exposed prenatally to diethylstilbesterol provided powerful evidence for long-term effects and endocrine disruption associated with selected compounds. The examination of wild animal populations exposed to industrial chemicals showed that the chemical exposure, though nonlethal, left the individual impaired or even incapable of reproducing. Among the multiple targets of the action of EDCs, several researches performed in recent years have investigated subtle modifications of the animal behaviors (reproductive, aggressive) that are likely to be related to alterations of specific neural pathways. We have, therefore, focused here on the behavioral studies as one of the more powerful tools to investigate EDCs effects on specific neural circuits.

In cerebral ischemic insults, activated inflammatory cells such as microglia and macrophages may be implicated in the pattern and degree of ischemic injury by producing various bioactive mediators. In the present study, we provide the evidence that activated microglia/macrophages accelerate cerebral ischemic injury by overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). To activate microglia/macrophages, a potent inflammation inducer lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 5 microg/5 microl) was microinjected into rat corpus callosum. Isolectin B4-positive microglia/macrophages were abundantly observed in ipsilateral hemisphere at 1 day after LPS injection. RT-PCR showed that LPS injection induced iNOS mRNA expression mostly in microglia/macrophages, peaking in intensity at 15 h after LPS injection. While ischemic injury was little evoked in control rats by 2-h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) followed by 3-h reperfusion, it was markedly increased in rats pre-injected with LPS 1 day before MCAO. However, no significant difference between control and LPS-pretreated groups was observed after 24-h reperfusion. The increased ischemic injury in LPS-treated rats was well correlated with iNOS level expressed over 3 orders of magnitude than in LPS-untreated rats. Immunohistochemical studies showed that iNOS- and nitrotyrosine (a peroxynitrite marker)-positive cells were prominent throughout the infarct area. NOS inhibitors aminoguanidine or N(G)-nitro-L-arginine, simultaneously injected with LPS, reduced the iNOS immunoreactivity and infarct volume, especially in penumbra regions. Total glutathione levels in ischemic regions were decreased more in LPS pre-injected rats than in control ones. Further defining the role of NO in cerebral ischemic insults would provide the rationale for new therapeutic strategies based on modulation of microglial and macrophageal NO production in the brain.
We have examined the expression of glutamate transporters in primary and immortalized glial precursors (GRIPs). We subsequently transduced these cells with the GLT1 glutamate transporter and examined the ability of these cells to protect motor neurons in an organotypic spinal cord culture. We show that glial restricted precursors and GRIP-derived astrocytes predominantly express glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT1. Oligodendrocyte differentiation of GRIPs results in downregulation of all glutamate transporter subtypes. Having identified these precursor cells as potential vectors for delivering glutamate transporters to regions of interest, we engineered a line of GRIPS that overexpress the glutamate transporter GLT1. These cells (G3 cells) have a nearly fourfold increase in glutamate transporter expression and at least a twofold increase in the V(max) for glutamate transport. To assess whether G3 seeding can protect motor neurons from chronic glutamate neurotoxicity, G3s were seeded onto rat organotypic spinal cord cultures. These cultures have previously been used extensively to understand pathways involved in chronic glutamate neurotoxicity of motor neurons. After G3 seeding, cells integrated into the culture slice and resulted in levels of glutamate transport sufficient to enhance total glutamate uptake. To test whether neuroprotection was related to glutamate transporter overexpression, we isolated GRIPS from the GLT1 null mouse to serve as controls. The seeding of G3s resulted in a reduction of motor neuron cell death. Hence, we believe that these cells may potentially play a role in cell-based neuroprotection from glutamate excitotoxicity.
To gain insights into the role of purinergic receptors in oligodendrocyte development, we characterized the expression and functional activity of P2 receptors in cultured rat oligodendrocyte progenitors and investigated the effects of ATP and its breakdown products on the migration and proliferation of this immature glial cell population. Using Western blot analysis, we show that oligodendrocyte progenitors express several P2X (P2X(1,2,3,4,7)) and P2Y (P2Y(1,2,4)) receptors. Intracellular Ca(2+) recording by Fura-2 video imaging allowed to determine the rank potency order of the P2 agonists tested: ADPbetaS = ADP = Benzoyl ATP &gt; ATP &gt; ATPgammaS &gt; UTP, alpha,beta-meATP ineffective. Based on the above findings, on pharmacological inhibition by the antagonists oxATP and MRS2179, and on the absence of alpha,betameATP-induced inward current in whole-cell recording, P2X(7) and P2Y(1) were identified as the main ionotropic and metabotropic P2 receptors active in OPs. As a functional correlate of these findings, we show that ATP and, among metabotropic agonists, ADP and the P2Y(1)-specific agonist ADPbetaS, but not UTP, induce oligodendrocyte progenitor migration. Moreover, ATP and ADP inhibited the proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitors induced by platelet-derived growth factor, both in purified cultures and in cerebellar tissue slices. The effects of ATP and ADP on cell migration and proliferation were prevented by the P2Y(1) antagonist MRS2179. By confocal laser scanning microscopy, P2Y(1) receptors were localized in NG2-labeled oligodendrocyte progenitors in the developing rat brain. These data indicate that ATP and ADP may regulate oligodendrocyte progenitor functions by a mechanism that involves mainly activation of P2Y(1) receptors.
Neuroglobin (Ngb), a recently discovered intracellular respiratory globin in neurons, may play a crucial role in oxygen homeostasis in the brain. We report preliminary findings indicating the presence of functional neuroglobin in primary cultures of cerebral cortical astrocytes. Reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction (RRT-PCR) and immunostaining confirmed such presence in cultured astrocytes isolated from newborn mouse brain. Ngb antisense treatment increased apoptosis in ischemic astrocytes. The discovery of Ngb in astrocytes may provide some insight into how oxygen homeostasis is regulated in the brain.
L-Alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) is a chemopreventive agent for colon cancer in clinical trials. Yet, the drug produces an across-frequency elevation of the hearing threshold, suggesting that DFMO may affect a common trait along the cochlear spiral. The mechanism for the ototoxic effects of DFMO remains uncertain. The cochlear duct is exclusively endowed with endocochlear potential (EP). EP is a requisite for normal sound transduction, as it provides the electromotive force that determines the magnitude of the receptor potential of hair cells. EP is generated by the high throughput of K(+) across cells of the stria vascularis, conferred partly by the activity of Kir4.1 channels. Here, we show that the ototoxicity of DFMO may be mediated by alteration of the inward rectification of Kir4.1 channels, resulting in a marked reduction in EP. These findings are surprising given that the present model for EP generation asserts that Kir4.1 confers the outflow of K(+) in the stria vascularis. We have proposed an alternative model. These findings should also enable the rational design of new pharmaceuticals devoid of the untoward effect of DFMO.
Enzymatic proteolysis has been implicated in diverse neuropathological conditions, including acute/subacute ischemic brain injuries and chronic neurodegeneration such as Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease. Calcium-dependent proteases, calpains, have been intensively analyzed in relation to these pathological conditions, but in vivo experiments have been hampered by the lack of appropriate experimental systems for a selective regulation of the calpain activity in animals. Here we have generated transgenic (Tg) mice that overexpress human calpastatin, a specific and the only natural inhibitor of calpains. In order to clarify the distinct roles of these cell death-associated cysteine proteases, we dissected neurodegenerative changes in these mice together with Tg mice overexpressing a viral inhibitor of caspases after intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid (KA), an inducer of neuronal excitotoxicity. Immunohistochemical analyses using endo-specific antibodies against calpain- and caspase-cleaved cytoskeletal components revealed that preclusion of KA-induced calpain activation can rescue the hippocampal neurons from disruption of the neuritic cytoskeletons, whereas caspase suppression has no overt effect on the neuritic pathologies. In addition, progressive neuronal loss between the acute and subacute phases of KA-induced injury was largely halted only in human calpastatin Tg mice. The animal models and experimental paradigm employed here unequivocally demonstrate their usefulness for clarifying the distinct contribution of calpain and caspase systems to molecular mechanisms governing neurodegeneration in adult brains, and our results indicate the potentials of specific calpain inhibitors in ameliorating excitotoxic neuronal damages.
The detection of sweet-tasting compounds is mediated in large part by a heterodimeric receptor comprised of T1R2+T1R3. Lactisole, a broad-acting sweet antagonist, suppresses the sweet taste of sugars, protein sweeteners, and artificial sweeteners. Lactisole's inhibitory effect is specific to humans and other primates; lactisole does not affect responses to sweet compounds in rodents. By heterologously expressing interspecies combinations of T1R2+T1R3, we have determined that the target for lactisole's action is human T1R3. From studies with mouse/human chimeras of T1R3, we determined that the molecular basis for sensitivity to lactisole depends on only a few residues within the transmembrane region of human T1R3. Alanine substitution of residues in the transmembrane region of human T1R3 revealed 4 key residues required for sensitivity to lactisole. In our model of T1R3's seven transmembrane helices, lactisole is predicted to dock to a binding pocket within the transmembrane region that includes these 4 key residues.

High-speed chronoamperometry was used to determine the kinetics of clearance of exogenously applied serotonin (5-HT) in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), dentate gyrus, CA3 region of the hippocampus or corpus callosum of anesthetized rats. Maximal velocity (Vmax) for 5-HT clearance was greatest in the DRN &gt; dentate gyrus &gt; CA3 &gt; corpus callosum. Apparent affinity (K(T)) of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) was similar in DRN and CA3 but greater in dentate gyrus and corpus callosum. A 90% loss of norepinephrine transporters (NET) produced by 6-hydroxydopamine pretreatment, resulted in a two-fold reduction in Vmax and a 30% decrease in K(T) in the dentate gyrus, but no change in kinetic parameters in the CA3 region. Pretreatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine that resulted in a 90% reduction in 5-HTT density, modestly reduced Vmax in dentate gyrus but not in CA3. The same treatment had no effect on K(T) in the dentate gyrus but increased K(T) two-fold in the CA3. Neurotoxin treatments had no effect on 5-HT clearance in the corpus callosum. In hippocampal regions of intact rats, local application of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluvoxamine, inhibited 5-HT clearance most robustly when the extracellular concentration of 5-HT was less than the K(T) value. By contrast, the NET antagonist, desipramine, significantly inhibited 5-HT clearance when extracellular concentrations of 5-HT were greater than the K(T) value. These data indicate that hippocampal uptake of 5-HT may be mediated by two processes, one with high affinity but low capacity (i.e. the 5-HTT) and the other with low affinity but a high capacity (i.e. the NET). These data show for the first time in the whole animal that 5-HT clearance in brain is regionally distinct with regard to rate and affinity.
Herein we describe how the rotating disk electrode voltammetric technique can be used to examine the mechanism(s) of the inward transport of dopamine by the neuronal transporter for dopamine (DAT). The usefulness of making measurements kinetically resolving dopamine transport, interpretations of changes in Km and Vmax, approaches to defining pre-steady-state binding of dopamine to DAT, interactions between competing inhibitors, chemical modification of functional groups within DAT, and a presentation of a hypothetical multi-state model of dopamine transport are presented and discussed.
Photoaffinity labeling is a positive function approach that has been used in an effort to identify the cocaine-binding site on the dopamine transporter (DAT). Radioactive and non-radioactive analogs of cocaine and other dopamine uptake blockers are used to irreversibly label the DAT ligand-binding site and the protein is subjected to chemical or enzymatic treatments that cleave at specific amino acid residues. Analysis of cleavage products from radioactively photolabeled DAT using epitope-specific immunoprecipitation, gel electrophoresis, and autoradiography has identified the site of origin in the primary sequence of labeled fragments as small as 4 kDa. More precise localization of the site of labeling is done by subjecting photolabeled DAT to parallel or serial digestion with multiple cleavage methods, followed by analysis of radiolabeled peptides by reverse-phase HPLC. Fragment retention times are compared to calculated retention times of predicted digest peptides and to chemically or photochemically labeled synthetic peptides. The presence of authentic DAT sequence in HPLC fractions of digests from DAT labeled with non-radioactive ligands is further supported by MALDI and nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry. Using these methods we have identified two distinct regions of DAT that interact with multiple structurally related and diverse irreversible ligands, suggesting that these regions may be involved in the formation of ligand binding sites.
We used a knock-in strategy to generate two lines of mice expressing Cre recombinase under the transcriptional control of the dopamine transporter promoter (DAT-cre mice) or the serotonin transporter promoter (SERT-cre mice). In DAT-cre mice, immunocytochemical staining of adult brains for the dopamine-synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase and for Cre recombinase revealed that virtually all dopaminergic neurons in the ventral midbrain expressed Cre. Crossing DAT-cre mice with ROSA26-stop-lacZ or ROSA26-stop-YFP reporter mice revealed a near perfect correlation between staining for tyrosine hydroxylase and beta-galactosidase or YFP. YFP-labeled fluorescent dopaminergic neurons could be readily identified in live slices. Crossing SERT-cre mice with the ROSA26-stop-lacZ or ROSA26-stop-YFP reporter mice similarly revealed a near perfect correlation between staining for serotonin-synthetic enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase and beta-galactosidase or YFP. Additional Cre expression in the thalamus and cortex was observed, reflecting the known pattern of transient SERT expression during early postnatal development. These findings suggest a general strategy of using neurotransmitter transporter promoters to drive selective Cre expression and thus control mutations in specific neurotransmitter systems. Crossed with fluorescent-gene reporters, this strategy tags neurons by neurotransmitter status, providing new tools for electrophysiology and imaging.
Pre-synaptic norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) transporters (NET and DAT) terminate catecholamine synaptic transmission through reuptake of released neurotransmitter. Recent studies reveal that NET and DAT are tightly regulated by receptor and second messenger-linked signaling pathways. Common approaches for studying these transporters involve use of radiolabeled substrates or antagonists, methods possessing limited spatial resolution and that bear limited opportunities for repeated monitoring of living preparations. To circumvent these issues, we have explored two novel assay platforms that permit temporally resolved quantitation of transport activity and transporter protein localization. To monitor the binding and transport function of NET and DAT in real-time, we have investigated the uptake of the fluorescent organic compound 4-(4-diethylaminostyryl)-N-methylpyridinium iodide (ASP+). We have extended our previous single cell level application of this substrate to monitor transport activity via high-throughput assay platforms. Compared to radiotracer uptake methods, acquisition of ASP+ fluorescence is non-isotopic and allows for continuous, repeated transport measurements on both transfected and native preparations. Secondly, we have extended our application of small-molecule-conjugated fluorescent CdSe/ZnS nanocrystals, or quantum dots (Qdots), to utilize antibody and peptide ligands that can identify surface expressed transporters, receptors and other membrane proteins in living cell systems. Unlike typical organic fluorophores, Qdots are highly resistant to bleaching and can be conjugated to multiple ligands. They can also be illuminated by conventional light sources, yet produce narrow, gaussian emission spectra compatible with multiple target visualization (multiplexing). Together, these approaches offer novel opportunities to investigate changes in transporter function and distribution in real-time with superior spatial and temporal resolution.

Disorders with Lewy body (LB) formation, such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), are characterized by alpha-synuclein accumulation in the neuronal cell body. Recent studies have suggested that in addition to LBs, alpha-synuclein might accumulate more widely throughout the neurons and their processes, leading to neurodegeneration and functional impairment. The precise patterns of alpha-synuclein accumulation in vivo, however, and its relationship with subcellular neuronal alterations such as lysosomal pathology are not completely clear. To this end, we developed transgenic (tg) in vivo and in vitro models expressing a stable enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) tagged in the C-terminal site of a human (h)alpha-synuclein construct under the regulatory control of the platelet-derived growth factor-beta (PDGFbeta) promoter and carried out confocal, ultrastructural, and biochemical studies. In tg mice, confocal studies demonstrated a wide distribution of halpha-synuclein-eGFP in the neuronal cell bodies, axons, and presynaptic terminals. In several neuronal cell bodies and their neurites, halpha-synuclein-eGFP was found not only as inclusions but also as discrete granular structures that in double-labeling studies colocalized with antibodies against halpha-synuclein and the lysosomal marker cathepsin D. Consistent with these findings, ultrastructural analysis showed that halpha-synuclein-eGFP overexpression resulted in the accumulation of electrodense inclusions and laminated bodies suggestive of lysosomal pathology, and that the halpha-synuclein-eGFP protein was more abundant in the lysosomal fractions of the tg animals. Taken together, these findings support the notion that enhanced visualization of alpha-synuclein utilizing a hybrid eGFP molecule reveals a more widespread accumulation of this molecule in several neuronal compartments, promoting lysosomal dysfunction. Furthermore, the PDGFbeta-halpha-synuclein-eGFP tg model might be a valuable tool in testing new treatments for LBD in a fast and reliable manner.
Extracellular-signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) were described originally as critical regulators of cell growth and differentiation. ERKs have received increasing attention as important regulators of neuronal function, especially in synaptic plasticity and memory. We found a group of phospho-ERK1/2 (pERK1/2)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata of adult rats. In the pre-Botzinger complex (pre-BotC) region, identified by neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R) immunoreactivity, the distribution of pERK1/2-ir neurons seemed to overlap with that of NK1R-ir neurons. A detailed study combining immunofluorescence and immunogold-silver staining was designed to determine whether ERK-ir neurons were NK1R-ir and related to respiratory function in the pre-BotC. The pERK1/2 immunoreactivity was present mainly in somas and processes of small- to medium-sized neurons. Of pERK1/2-ir neurons in the pre-BotC, 19.7% were NK1R-ir. Some of the small, fusiform, NK1R-ir neurons, the putative rhythmogenic neurons, were also pERK1/2-ir. Under the electron microscope, immunogold particles indicative of pERK1/2 immunoreactivity were found in somas and dendrites in pre-BotC neurons. They were associated mainly with rough endoplasmic reticula and ribosomes. Immunogold particles could also be found in nuclei, but were absent from nucleoli. The existence of pERK1/2 in a subtype of NK1R-ir pre-BotC neurons implies that the pERK cascade may play a role in normal respiratory activity in adult rats. The pERK cascade may also participate in sympathoexcitatory activity, given that 42.2% of pERK1/2-ir neurons expressed tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of C1 adrenergic neurons in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata.
To investigate the mechanism of the age-related failure of regeneration of transected axons, nigrostriatal dopaminergic axons were unilaterally transected in the lateral hypothalamus in adult mice and in immature mice aged postnatal days 7, 14, and 21. Ten days after the transection, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons had regenerated from caudally to rostrally across the lesion site in mice transected at postnatal day 7, whereas they stopped and did not extend across the lesion site in mice transected at postnatal day 14 or older. Reactive astrocytes bearing chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans were observed around the lesion in mice transected at all ages. However, a fibrotic scar containing type IV collagen-immunoreactive deposits, which was consistently formed at the lesion site in mice transected at postnatal day 14 or older, was not formed in mice lesioned at postnatal day 7. When 2,2'-dipyridyl, an inhibitor of collagen synthesis, was injected into the lesion site at the time of transection in both postnatal day 14 and adult mice, the deposition of type IV collagen and the formation of a fibrotic scar were completely prevented, and large numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons extended across the lesion and reinnervated the striatum. These results imply that the fibrotic scar formed in the lesion site is a crucial impediment to the regeneration of ascending dopaminergic axons in adult mice and suggest that type IV collagen is required for the development of the fibrotic response to adult brain injury.
The objective of the present study was to assess the spatiotemporal scenario of brain activity associated with sensory stimulation of the abductor pollicis brevis muscle. Spatiotemporal dipole models, using realistic individual boundary element head models, were built from somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs; 64 Ch. EEG) to nonpainful and painful intramuscular electrostimulation (IMES) as well as to cutaneous electrostimulation delivered to the distal phalanx of the thumb. Nonpainful and painful muscle stimuli resulted in activation of the same brain regions. In temporal order, these were: the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex, contralateral dorso-lateral premotor area (PM), bilateral operculo-insular cortices, caudal cingulate motor area (CMA), and posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus. Brain processing induced by muscle sensory input showed a characteristic pattern in contrast to cutaneous sensory input, namely: (1) no early SEP components to IMES; (2) an initial IMES component likely generated by proprioceptive input is not present for digit stimulation; (3) one source was located in the PM only for IMES. This source was unmasked by the lower stimulus intensity; (4) a source for IMES was located in the contralateral caudal CMA rather than being located in the cingulate gyrus. Cerebral sensory processing of input from the muscle involved several sensory and motor areas and likely occurs in two parallel streams subserving higher order somatosensory processing as well as sensory-motor integration. The two streams might on one hand involve sensory discrimination via SI and SII and on the other hand integration of sensory feedback for further motor processing via MI, lateral PM area, and caudal CMA.
Abnormal central dopamine (DA) neurotransmission has been implicated in the impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We hypothesized that a pharmacological challenge with methylphenidate (MP) at a therapeutic dose increases extracellular DA concentrations in proportion to the severity of these specific ADHD symptoms. To test this hypothesis, we measured by PET the effect of acute challenge with MP on the availability of striatal binding sites for [11C]raclopride (pB), an index of altered interstitial DA concentration, in nine unmedicated adolescents (1 female, 8 males; age 13.7 +/- 1.8 years) with a current diagnosis of ADHD. We estimated the pB of [11C]raclopride for brain dopamine D2/3 receptors first in a baseline resting condition, and again after an acute challenge with MP (0.3 mg/kg, p.o.), and calculated the percentage change in (%DeltapB) in left and right striatum. On another day, measurements of impulsivity and inattention were performed using a computerized continuous performance test. There was a significant correlation between the magnitude of %DeltapB in the right striatum and the severity of inattention and impulsivity. MP-evoked %DeltapB correlated with standard scores for impulse control (r = 0.68; P = 0.02), attention (r = 0.81; P = 0.005), information processing (r = 0.66; P = 0.02), and consistency of attention, or variability (r = 0.60; P = 0.04). In conclusion, the results link inattention and impulsivity with sensitivity of brain DA receptor availability to an MP challenge, corroborating the hypothesis that MP serves to potentiate decreased DA neurotransmission in ADHD.
Application of fMRI to studies of cognitive development is of growing interest because of its sensitivity and non-invasive nature. However, interpretation of fMRI results in children is presently based on vascular dynamics that have been studied primarily in healthy adults. Comparison of the neurological basis of cognitive development is valid to the extent that the neurovascular responsiveness between children and adults is equal. The present study was designed to detect age-related vascular differences that may contribute to altered BOLD fMRI signal responsiveness. We examined BOLD signal changes in response to breath holding, a global, systemic state change in brain oxygenation. Children exhibited greater percent signal changes than adults in grey and white matter, and this was accompanied by an increase in noise. Consequently, the volume of activation exceeding statistical threshold was reduced in children. The reduced activation in children was well modeled by adding noise to adult data. These findings raise the possibility that developmental differences in fMRI findings between children and adults could, under some circumstances, reflect greater noise in the BOLD response in the brains of children than adults. BOLD responses varied across brain regions, but showed similar regional variation in children and adults.
The aim of this work was to investigate the mechanisms that shape evoked electroencephalographic (EEG) and magneto-encephalographic (MEG) responses. We used a neuronally plausible model to characterise the dependency of response components on the models parameters. This generative model was a neural mass model of hierarchically arranged areas using three kinds of inter-area connections (forward, backward and lateral). We investigated how responses, at each level of a cortical hierarchy, depended on the strength of connections or coupling. Our strategy was to systematically add connections and examine the responses of each successive architecture. We did this in the context of deterministic responses and then with stochastic spontaneous activity. Our aim was to show, in a simple way, how event-related dynamics depend on extrinsic connectivity. To emphasise the importance of nonlinear interactions, we tried to disambiguate the components of event-related potentials (ERPs) or event-related fields (ERFs) that can be explained by a linear superposition of trial-specific responses and those engendered nonlinearly (e.g., by phase-resetting). Our key conclusions were; (i) when forward connections, mediating bottom-up or extrinsic inputs, are sufficiently strong, nonlinear mechanisms cause a saturation of excitatory interneuron responses. This endows the system with an inherent stability that precludes nondissipative population dynamics. (ii) The duration of evoked transients increases with the hierarchical depth or level of processing. (iii) When backward connections are added, evoked transients become more protracted, exhibiting damped oscillations. These are formally identical to late or endogenous components seen empirically. This suggests that late components are mediated by reentrant dynamics within cortical hierarchies. (iv) Bilateral connections produce similar effects to backward connections but can also mediate zero-lag phase-locking among areas. (v) Finally, with spontaneous activity, ERPs/ERFs can arise from two distinct mechanisms: For low levels of (stimulus related and ongoing) activity, the systems response conforms to a quasi-linear superposition of separable responses to the fixed and stochastic inputs. This is consistent with classical assumptions that motivate trial averaging to suppress spontaneous activity and disclose the ERP/ERF. However, when activity is sufficiently high, there are nonlinear interactions between the fixed and stochastic inputs. This interaction is expressed as a phase-resetting and represents a qualitatively different explanation for the ERP/ERF.
Neuropsychological research has consistently demonstrated that spatial attention can be anchored in one of several coordinate systems, including those defined with respect to an observer (viewer-centered), to the gravitational vector (environment-centered), or to individual objects (object-centered). In the present study, we used hemodynamic correlates of brain function to investigate the neural systems that mediate attentional control in two competing reference frames. Healthy volunteers were cued to locations defined in either viewer-centered or object-centered space to discriminate the shape of visual targets subsequently presented at the cued locations. Brain responses to attention-directing cues were quantified using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. A fronto-parietal control network was activated by attention-directing cues in both reference frames. Voluntary shifts of attention produced increased neural activity bilaterally in several cortical regions including the intraparietal sulcus, anterior cingulate cortex, and the frontal eye fields. Of special interest was the observation of hemispheric asymmetries in parietal cortex; there was significantly greater activity in left parietal cortex than in the right, but this asymmetry was more pronounced for object-centered shifts of attention, relative to viewer-centered shifts of attention. Measures of behavioral performance did not differ significantly between the two reference frames. We conclude that a largely overlapping, bilateral, cortical network mediates our ability to orient spatial attention in multiple coordinate systems, and that the left intraparietal sulcus plays an additional role for orienting in object-centered space. These results provide neuroimaging support for related claims based on findings of deficits in object-based orienting in patients with left parietal lesions.
The aim of this note is to revisit the analysis of conjunctions in imaging data. We review some conceptual issues that have emerged from recent discussion (Nichols, T., Brett, M., Andersson, J., Wager, T., Poline, J.-B., 2004. Valid Conjunction Inference with the Minimum Statistic.) and reformulate the conjunction of null hypotheses as a conjunction of k or more effects. Analyses based on minimum statistics have typically used the null hypothesis that k = 0. This enables inferences about one or more effects (k &gt; 0). However, this does not provide control over false-positive rates (FPR) for inferences about a conjunction of k = n effects, over n tests. This is the key point made by Nichols et al., who suggest a procedure based on supremum P values that provides an upper bound on FPR for k = n. Although valid, this is a very conservative procedure, particularly in the context of multiple comparisons. We suggest that an inference on a conjunction of k = n effects is generally unnecessary and distinguish between congruent contrasts that test for the same treatment and incongruent contrasts of the sort used in cognitive conjunctions. For congruent contrasts, the usual inference, k &gt; 0, is sufficient. With incongruent contrasts it is sufficient to infer a conjunction of k &gt;u effects, where u is the number of contrasts that share some uninteresting effect. The issues highlighted by Nichols et al., have important implications for the design and analysis of cognitive conjunction studies and have motivated a change to the SPM software, that affords a test for the more general hypothesis k &gt;u. This more general conjunction test is described.
Throughout his illustrious career, Percival Bailey made numerous contributions to the fields of neurology, neuroanatomy, psychiatry, neuropathology, and, of course, neurosurgery. His expertise, his curiosity about the nervous system, and his desire to examine it from all angles were unique. With the exception of Harvey Cushing, Dr. Bailey made some of the greatest contributions in the area of neuro-oncology at the turn of the last century. In this essay the authors summarize the key episodes of Bailey's life and discuss his impact on the classification and treatment of human brain tumors.
The extraordinary improvement of patient outcome after surgical treatment for vestibular schwannomas is relatively recent and has occurred mainly over the last 30 years. The introduction of microsurgical techniques has resulted in increasing degrees of precise anatomical and functional preservation of the facial and cochlear nerves. An expanded microsurgical technique accompanied by continuous electrophysiological monitoring has resulted in marked changes in the primary goals for this surgery. Whereas in the past the primary goal of vestibular schwannoma management was to preserve the patient's life, the objective in vestibular schwannoma treatment today is to preserve neurological function. Long-term follow-up examinations show negligible recurrence rates, indicating that the aim of preservation of nerve function does not limit the completeness of tumor removal with modern neurosurgical techniques. Despite these advances in preserving the anatomical integrity of, for example, the cochlear nerve, losses of function and even deafness may occur postoperatively in some cases. Current biological and technical research in experimental and clinical settings addresses these problems. In this article, the authors report in detail the developments achieved in vestibular schwannoma surgery and the great clinicians to whom these results can be credited.
The brain has been known to be the center of voluntary movement, sensation, and intelligence for centuries. Nevertheless, it was not until the latter third of the 19th century that the functions of its different areas were discovered. It was the labor of several key men that made possible the accurate localization and, furthermore, the resection of brain neoplasms.
siRNA oligonucleotides for protein phosphatase 5 (PP5) were designed and transfected into mouse corticotroph AtT20 cells to induce lower PP5 expression levels. PP5-siRNA transfections (at 3 days) produced a approximately 50% down-regulation in targeted protein levels. PP5-underexpressing cells released significantly more ir-ACTH (10-12-fold) relative to baseline levels and promoted POMC release into the media. Neither CRF-mediated ACTH release nor dexamethasone-induced ACTH repression were affected in PP5-siRNA transfected cells. In summary, our observations suggest that endogenous PP5 can exert a negative modulatory effect on basal ACTH release in neurosecretion-competent AtT20 cells through a mechanism as yet unknown but which does not directly involve regulated CRF or glucocorticoid receptor-dependent pathways. However, PP5 may cause mis-sorting of POMC and POMC-derived peptides at the constitutive-like secretory pathway level in an unregulated manner. Such a missorting could lead to impaired processing of POMC.
The remarkable efficacy of L-dopa on the akinesia, tremor and rigidity of Parkinson's disease is incontestable. It is responsible for the functional improvement and the regained quality of life. Unfortunately, after this classical &quot;honeymoon&quot; appear the &quot;motor complications of dopamine therapy&quot; (MCD), motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. Even more frequent and severe when the patient is young, it compromises the patient's autonomy. Certainly, the manipulation of L-dopa, the modification of its metabolism, and its association with an agonist permit amelioration but this is inconstant, imperfect and brief. The pulsatility of dopaminergic stimulation is the determinant physiopathological element in the genesis of MCD. New strategies of anti-Parkinsonian treatment find there within their justification. Some of them aim to treat the MCD: the high frequency electric stimulation of the sub-thalamic core is the most recent example. The criteria of selection for the electric stimulation should be respected in order to ensure its efficacy. These symptomatic treatments however, have no influence on the natural history of the disease and/or the affect on other dopaminergic systems. Perhaps hope should rather be placed in neuroprotection.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is known to promote neuronal survival and differentiation and to guide axon extension both in vitro and in vivo. The BDNF-induced chemo-attraction of axonal growth cones requires Ca2+ signalling, but how Ca2+ is regulated by BDNF at the growth cone remains largely unclear. Extracellular application of BDNF triggers membrane currents resembling those through TRPC (transient receptor potential canonical) channels in rat pontine neurons and in Xenopus spinal neurons. Here, we report that in cultured cerebellar granule cells, TRPC channels contribute to the BDNF-induced elevation of Ca2+ at the growth cone and are required for BDNF-induced chemo-attractive turning. Several members of the TRPC family are highly expressed in these neurons, and both Ca2+ elevation and growth-cone turning induced by BDNF are abolished by pharmacological inhibition of TRPC channels, overexpression of a dominant-negative form of TRPC3 or TRPC6, or downregulation of TRPC3 expression via short interfering RNA. Thus, TRPC channel activity is essential for nerve-growth-cone guidance by BDNF.
Ion channels formed by the TRP (transient receptor potential) superfamily of proteins act as sensors for temperature, osmolarity, mechanical stress and taste. The growth cones of developing axons are responsible for sensing extracellular guidance factors, many of which trigger Ca2+ influx at the growth cone; however, the identity of the ion channels involved remains to be clarified. Here, we report that TRP-like channel activity exists in the growth cones of cultured Xenopus neurons and can be modulated by exposure to netrin-1 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, two chemoattractants for axon guidance. Whole-cell recording from growth cones showed that netrin-1 induced a membrane depolarization, part of which remained after all major voltage-dependent channels were blocked. Furthermore, the membrane depolarization was sensitive to blockers of TRP channels. Pharmacological blockade of putative TRP currents or downregulation of Xenopus TRP-1 (xTRPC1) expression with a specific morpholino oligonucleotide abolished the growth-cone turning and Ca2+ elevation induced by a netrin-1 gradient. Thus, TRPC currents reflect early events in the growth cone's detection of some extracellular guidance signals, resulting in membrane depolarization and cytoplasmic Ca2+ elevation that mediates the turning of growth cones.

Receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) are required for appropriate growth of axons during nervous system development in Drosophila. In the vertebrate, type IIa RPTPs [protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-delta, PTP-sigma, and LAR (leukocyte common-antigen-related)] and the type III RPTP, PTP receptor type O (PTPRO), have been implicated in the regulation of axon growth, but their roles in developmental axon guidance are unclear. PTPRO, PTP-delta, and PTP-sigma are each expressed in chick motor neurons during the period of axonogenesis. To examine potential roles of RPTPs in axon growth and guidance in vivo, we used double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) interference combined with in ovo electroporation to knock down RPTP expression levels in the embryonic chick lumbar spinal cord. Although most branches of the developing limb nerves appeared grossly normal, a dorsal nerve identified as the anterior iliotibialis was clearly affected by dsRNA knock-down of RPTPs. In experimental embryos treated with dsRNA targeting PTP-delta, PTP-sigma, or PTPRO, this nerve showed abnormal fasciculation, was reduced in size, or was missing entirely; interference with PTPRO produced the most severe phenotypes. Control embryos electroporated with vehicle, or with dsRNA targeting choline acetyltransferase or axonin-1, did not exhibit this phenotype. Surprisingly, embryos electroporated with dsRNA targeting PTP-delta together with PTPRO, or all three RPTPs combined, had less severe phenotypes than embryos treated with PTPRO alone. This result suggests that competition between type IIa and type III RPTPs can regulate motor axon outgrowth, consistent with findings in Drosophila. Our results indicate that RPTPs, and especially PTPRO, are required for axon growth and guidance in the developing vertebrate limb.
A diversity of ion channels contributes to the active properties of neuronal dendrites. From the apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, we recorded inwardly rectifying K+ channels with a single-channel conductance of 33 pS. The inwardly rectifying K+ channels were constitutively active at the resting membrane potential. The amount of constitutive channel activity was significantly larger in the apical dendrites than in the soma. Activities of these inwardly rectifying K+ channels were inhibited by Ba2+ (200 microM) and tertiapin (10 nM), both of which are believed to block G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels. Intracellularly applied GTPgammaS (20 microM) during dual dendritic recordings significantly increased constitutive channel activity. Baclofen (20 microM), an agonist for the G-protein-coupled GABA(B) receptor, also significantly increased the level of channel activity. Therefore, these channels are GIRK channels, which are constitutively active at rest in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons and can be further activated via G-protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptors.
Neurotrophin signaling has been implicated in the processes of synapse formation and plasticity. To gain additional insight into the mechanism of BDNF and TrkB influence on synapse formation and synaptic plasticity, we generated a conditional knock-out for TrkB using the cre/loxp system. Using three different cre-expressing transgenic mice, three unique spatial and temporal configurations of TrkB deletion were obtained with regard to the hippocampal Schaffer collateral synapse. We compare synapse formation in mutants in which TrkB is ablated either in presynaptic or in both presynaptic and postsynaptic cells at early developmental or postdevelopmental time points. Our results indicate a requirement for TrkB at both the presynaptic and postsynaptic sites during development. In the absence of TrkB, synapse numbers were significantly reduced. In vivo ablation of TrkB after synapse formation did not affect synapse numbers. In primary hippocampal cultures, deletion of TrkB in only the postsynaptic cell, before synapse formation, also resulted in deficits of synapse formation. We conclude that TrkB signaling has a cell-autonomous role required for normal development of both presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the Schaffer collateral synapse.
Psychostimulants including amphetamine and cocaine induce locomotion and stereotypy and suppress eating. Studies of the biobehavioral actions of psychostimulants commonly focus on locomotion and less commonly on feeding, and only rarely are these measures considered in conjunction within the same animal. Inasmuch as hyperactivity induced by a psychostimulant may compete with other motor behaviors, including eating, it would be important to concurrently assess changes in eating and locomotion after psychostimulant treatment. The present paper describes a modification of an automated activity chamber in which minute-by-minute recordings of food consumption are gathered in parallel with an assessment of locomotion. The present experiment illustrates the method by characterizing the temporal changes in locomotion and eating produced by administration of hypophagic doses of nicotine tartrate (0.28 mg/kg (as the base), IP) or cocaine hydrochloride (7.5 mg/kg, IP). At these doses, nicotine suppressed eating and locomotion, whereas cocaine suppressed eating, but facilitated forward locomotion. These outcomes support the viability of this apparatus and the concurrent method for the dissociation of feeding and locomotion.
Axonal transport is required for the elaboration and maintenance of synaptic morphology and function. Liprin-alphas are scaffolding proteins important for synapse structure and electrophysiology. A reported interaction with Kinesin-3 (Kif1a) suggested Liprin-alpha may also be involved in axonal transport. Here, at the light and ultrastructural levels, we discover aberrant accumulations of synaptic vesicle markers (Synaptotagmin and Synaptobrevin-GFP) and clear-core vesicles along Drosophila Liprin-alpha mutant axons. Analysis of presynaptic markers reveals reduced levels at Liprin-alpha synapses. Direct visualization of Synaptobrevin-GFP transport in living animals demonstrates a decrease in anterograde processivity in Liprin-alpha mutants but also an increase in retrograde transport initiation. Pull-down assays reveal that Liprin-alpha interacts with Drosophila Kinesin-1 (Khc) but not dynein. Together, these findings suggest that Liprin-alpha promotes the delivery of synaptic material by a direct increase in kinesin processivity and an indirect suppression of dynein activation. This work is the first to use live observation in Drosophila mutants to demonstrate the role of a scaffolding protein in the regulation of bidirectional transport. It suggests the synaptic strength and morphology defects linked to Liprin-alpha may in part be due to a failure in the delivery of synaptic-vesicle precursors.







Eye-transfer tests, external noise manipulations, and observer models were used to systematically characterize learning mechanisms in judging motion direction of moving objects in visual periphery (Experiment 1) and fovea (Experiment 2) and to investigate the degree of transfer of the learning mechanisms from trained to untrained eyes. Perceptual learning in one eye was measured over 10 practice sessions. Subsequent learning in the untrained eye was assessed in five transfer sessions. We characterized the magnitude of transfer of each learning mechanism to the untrained eye by separately analyzing the magnitude of subsequent learning in low and high external noise conditions. In both experiments, we found that learning in the trained eye reduced contrast thresholds uniformly across all of the external noise levels: 47 +/- 10% and 62 +/- 8% in experiments 1 and 2, respectively. Two mechanisms, stimulus enhancement and template retuning, accounted for the observed performance improvements. The degree of transfer to the untrained eye depended on the amount of external noise added to the signal stimuli: In high external noise conditions, learning transferred completely to the untrained eye in both experiments. In low external noise conditions, there was only partial transfer of learning: 63% in experiment 1 and 54% in experiment 2. The results suggest that template retuning, which is effective in high external noise conditions, is mostly binocular, whereas stimulus enhancement, which is effective in low external noise displays, is largely monocular. The two independent mechanisms underlie perceptual learning of motion direction identification in monocular and binocular motion systems.
A fundamental goal of cognitive neuroscience is to explain how mental decisions originate from basic neural mechanisms. The goal of the present study was to investigate the neural correlates of perceptual decisions in the context of emotional perception. To probe this question, we investigated how fluctuations in functional MRI (fMRI) signals were correlated with behavioral choice during a near-threshold fear detection task. fMRI signals predicted behavioral choice independently of stimulus properties and task accuracy in a network of brain regions linked to emotional processing: posterior cingulate cortex, medial prefrontal cortex, right inferior frontal gyrus, and left insula. We quantified the link between fMRI signals and behavioral choice in a whole-brain analysis by determining choice probabilities by means of signal-detection theory methods. Our results demonstrate that voxel-wise fMRI signals can reliably predict behavioral choice in a quantitative fashion (choice probabilities ranged from 0.63 to 0.78) at levels comparable to neuronal data. We suggest that the conscious decision that a fearful face has been seen is represented across a network of interconnected brain regions that prepare the organism to appropriately handle emotionally challenging stimuli and that regulate the associated emotional response.
Deficient serotonin neurotransmission in suicide is indicated by reduced brainstem serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), fewer 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors and reduced cortical serotonin transporter binding in suicide victims. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of 5-HT, and alterations in TPH could explain some of these findings. We sought to determine the amount of TPH immunoreactivity (TPH-IR) in the dorsal (DRN) and median (MRN) raphe nuclei in suicides and controls. Brainstems of suicide victims and controls (n = 11 pairs) were collected at autopsy, matched for age, sex and postmortem interval, frozen and sectioned (20 microm). Immunoautoradiography, using an antibody to label TPH, was performed, slides exposed to film and autoradiograms quantified by a computer-based image analysis system. We examined sections every 1000 microm throughout the whole length of the nucleus, performing statistical analysis only on those subjects for whom the raphe was complete (n = 8 pairs). TPH-IR (microCi/g) was higher in suicides than controls (S: 300.8 +/- 70.8 vs. C: 259.6 +/- 40.7, t = 2.57, df = 7, P = 0.04) in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), and not different between suicides and controls (S: 251.3 +/- 44.2 vs. C: 235.9 +/- 27.4, t = 1.49, df = 7, P = 0.18) in the MRN. DRN TPH-IR was higher in male suicide victims (MS) compared to male controls (MC; MS: 318.4 +/- 54.4 vs. MC: 271.9 +/- 22.5, t = 2.66, df = 6, P = 0.03). The analysis of TPH-IR area and density at each DRN rostrocaudal levels showed higher area and density in suicides compared to controls in the rostral DRN and lower area and density in the caudal DRN. TPH-IR, an index of the amount of TPH enzyme, in the DRN is higher in depressed suicides. More TPH may be an upregulatory homeostatic response to impaired serotonin release or less autoreceptor activation. Alternatively, the serotonin impairment in suicide may be due to hypofunctional serotonin-synthesizing enzyme.
The 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives: 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine (ANR 82), 8-ethoxy- 9-ethyladenine (ANR 94), and 8-furyl-9-ethyladenine (ANR 152) have been characterized in vitro as adenosine receptor antagonists. Adenosine is deeply involved in the control of motor behaviour and substantial evidences indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists improve motor deficits in animal models of Parkinson's disease. On this basis, the efficacy of ANR 82, ANR 94, and ANR 152 in rat models of Parkinson's disease was evaluated. All compounds tested reversed the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. However, in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, only ANR 94 and ANR 152 potentiated l-dihydroxy-phenylalanine (l-DOPA) effect on turning behaviour and induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats sensitised to l-DOPA. Taken together the results of this study indicate that some 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives ameliorate motor deficits in rat models of Parkinson's disease, suggesting a potential therapeutic role of these compounds.
The Na(v)1.6 voltage-gated sodium channel has been implicated in the generation of resurgent currents in cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Our data show that resurgent sodium currents are produced by some large diameter dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from wild-type mice, but not from Na(v)1.6-null mice; small DRG neurons do not produce resurgent currents. Many, but not all, DRG neurons transfected with Na(v)1.6 produce resurgent currents. These results demonstrate for the first time the intrinsic ability of Na(v)1.6 to produce a resurgent current, and also show that cell background is critical in permitting the generation of these currents.
Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter that is involved in modulation of sensory, motor, and higher functions in many species. In the crayfish, which has been developed as a model for nervous system function for over a century, serotonin modulates several identified circuits. Although the cellular and circuit effects of serotonin have been extensively studied, little is known about the receptors that mediate these signals. Physiological data indicate that identified crustacean cells and circuits are modulated via several different serotonin receptors. We describe the detailed immunocytochemical localization of the crustacean type 1 serotonin receptor, 5-HT1crust, throughout the crayfish nerve cord and on abdominal superficial flexor muscles. 5-HT1crust is widely distributed in somata, including those of several identified neurons, and neuropil, suggesting both synaptic and neurohormonal roles. Individual animals show very different levels of 5-HT1crust immunoreactivity (5-HT(1crust)ir) ranging from preparations with hundreds of labeled cells per ganglion to some containing only a handful of 5-HT(1crust)ir cells in the entire nerve cord. The interanimal variability in 5-HT(1crust)ir is great, but individual nerve cords show a consistent level of labeling between ganglia. Quantitative RT-PCR shows that 5-HT1crust mRNA levels between animals are also variable but do not directly correlate with 5-HT(1crust)ir levels. Although there is no correlation of 5-HT1crust expression with gender, social status, molting or feeding, dominant animals show significantly greater variability than subordinates. Functional analysis of 5-HT1crust in combination with this immunocytochemical map will aid further understanding of this receptor's role in the actions of serotonin on identified circuits and cells.
TRPV1, the capsaicin receptor, is expressed not only in nociceptive neurons, but also in other locations, including the hypothalamus. Studies involving systemic or intrahypothalamic capsaicin administration have suggested a role for TRPV1 in body temperature control. To explore this possibility, we examined thermoregulatory responses in TRPV1-/- mice. These mutant animals exhibited no obvious changes in circadian body temperature fluctuation, tolerance to increased (35 degrees C) or decreased (4 degrees C) ambient temperature or ethanol-induced hypothermia. In contrast, fever production in response to the bacterial pyrogen, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was significantly attenuated in TRPV1-/- mice. Despite this finding, we detected no significant differences between TRPV1-/- and control mice in the extent of LPS-induced c-Fos expression in numerous fever-related brain subregions. These results suggest that TRPV1 participates in the generation of polyphasic fever, perhaps at sites outside the brain.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a powerful method for suppressing the expression of a gene of interest, and can be induced by 21-25 nucleotide small interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes homologous to the silenced gene, which function as sequence-specific RNAi mediators in RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs). In the previous study, it was shown that fork-siRNA duplexes, whose sense-stranded siRNA elements carried a few nucleotide mismatches at the 3'-ends against the antisense-stranded siRNA elements, could enhance RNAi activity more than conventional siRNA duplexes in cultured mammalian cells. In this study, we further characterized fork-siRNA duplexes using reporter plasmids carrying target sequences complementary to the sense- or antisense-stranded siRNA elements in the untranslated region of Renilla luciferase. The data presented here suggest that nucleotide mismatches at either the 3'- or 5'-end of the sense-stranded siRNA elements in fork-siRNA duplexes could influence assembly of not only the antisense-stranded siRNA elements but also the sense-stranded elements into RISCs. In addition, we further suggest the possibility that there could be a positional effect of siRNA duplex on RNAi activity.

Huntington's disease is a neurodegenerative disease resulting from a CAG (glutamine) trinucleotide expansion in exon 1 of the Huntingtin (Htt) gene. The role of the striatum-enriched A2A adenosine receptor (A2A-R) in Huntington's disease has attracted much attention lately. In the present study, we found that expression of mutant Htt with expanded poly(Q) significantly reduced the transcript levels of the endogenous A2A-R in PC12 cells and primary striatal neurons. Cotransfection of various promoter constructs of the A2A-R gene and an expression construct of poly(Q)-expanded Htt revealed that the Htt mutant suppressed the core promoter activity of the A2A-R gene. Stimulation of the A2A-R using CGS21680, forskolin, and a constitutively active cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) mutant elevated the reduced promoter activity of the A2A-R gene by mutant Htt. Moreover, the effect of CGS was blocked by an A2A-R-selective antagonist (CSC), two inhibitors of protein kinase A, and two dominant negative mutants of (CREB). The protein kinase A/CREB pathway therefore is involved in regulating A2A-R promoter activity. Consistently, an atypical CRE site (TCCAGG) is located in the core promoter region of the A2A-R gene. Electrophoretic gel mobility shift assay and mutational inactivation further demonstrated the functional binding of CREB to the core promoter region and showed that expression of poly(Q)-expanded Htt abolished the binding of CREB to this site. Stimulation of the A2A-R restored the reduced CREB binding caused by the mutant and concurrently reduced mutant Htt aggregation. Collectively, the poly(Q)-expanded mutant Htt suppressed expression of the A2A-R by inhibiting its core promoter at least partially by preventing CREB binding.
Processing of the recycling proteoglycan glypican-1 involves the release of its heparan sulfate chains by copper ion- and nitric oxide-catalyzed ascorbate-triggered autodegradation. The Alzheimer disease amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its paralogue, the amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2), contain copper ion-, zinc ion-, and heparan sulfate-binding domains. We have investigated the possibility that APP and APLP2 regulate glypican-1 processing during endocytosis and recycling. By using cell-free biochemical experiments, confocal laser immunofluorescence microscopy, and flow cytometry of tissues and cells from wild-type and knock-out mice, we find that (a) APP and glypican-1 colocalize in perinuclear compartments of neuroblastoma cells, (b) ascorbate-triggered nitric oxidecatalyzed glypican-1 autodegradation is zinc ion-dependent in the same cells, (c) in cell-free experiments, APP but not APLP2 stimulates glypican-1 autodegradation in the presence of both Cu(II) and Zn(II) ions, whereas the Cu(I) form of APP and the Cu(II) and Cu(I) forms of APLP2 inhibit autodegradation, (d) in primary cortical neurons from APP or APLP2 knock-out mice, there is an increased nitric oxide-catalyzed degradation of heparan sulfate compared with brain tissue and neurons from wild-type mice, and (e) in growth-quiescent fibroblasts from APLP2 knock-out mice, but not from APP knock-out mice, there is also an increased heparan sulfate degradation. We propose that the rate of autoprocessing of glypican-1 is modulated by APP and APLP2 in neurons and by APLP2 in fibroblasts. These observation identify a functional relationship between the heparan sulfate and copper ion binding activities of APP/APLP2 in their modulation of the nitroxyl anion-catalyzed heparan sulfate degradation in glypican-1.
Alternative splicing of transcripts encoding the RET kinase receptor leads to isoforms differing in their cytoplasmic tail. Although in vitro studies have demonstrated a higher transforming activity of the long RET isoform (RET51), only the short isoform (RET9) can rescue the effects of a RET null mutation in the enteric nervous system and kidney development. The molecular basis underlying the distinct functions of the two RET isoforms is not understood. Here we demonstrated that activated RET51 associated more strongly with the ubiquitin ligase Cbl than did RET9, leading to increased ubiquitylation and faster turnover of RET51. The association of Cbl with RET was indirect and was mediated through Grb2. A constitutive complex of Grb2 and Cbl could be recruited to both receptor isoforms via docking of Shc to phosphorylated Tyr-1062 in RET. A mutant Shc protein unable to recruit the Grb2.Cbl complex decreased the turnover and prolonged the half-life of RET9, thus ascribing a previously unknown negative role to the Shc adaptor molecule. In addition, phosphorylation of Tyr-1096, which is present in RET51 but absent in RET9, endowed the longer isoform with a second route to recruit the Grb2.Cbl complex. These findings establish a mechanism for the differential down-regulation of RET9 and RET51 signaling that could explain the apparently paradoxical activities of these two RET isoforms. More generally, these results illustrate how alternative splicing can regulate the half-life and function of a growth factor receptor.
The microtubule-associated protein tau is implicated in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, including fronto-temporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), in which both RNA splicing and amino acid substitution mutations in tau cause dominantly inherited early onset dementia. RNA-splicing FTDP-17 mutations alter the wild-type approximately 50:50 3-repeat (3R) to 4-repeat (4R) tau isoform ratio, usually resulting in an excess of 4R tau. To examine further how splicing mutations might cause dysfunction by misregulation of microtubule dynamics, we used video microscopy to determine the in vitro behavior of individual microtubules stabilized by varying amounts of human 4R and 3R tau. At low tau:tubulin ratios (1:55 and 1:45), all 3R isoforms reduced microtubule growth rates relative to the no-tau control, whereas all 4R isoforms increased them; however, at a high tau:tubulin ratio (1:20), both 4R and 3R tau increased the growth rates. Further analysis revealed two distinct subpopulations of growing microtubules in the absence of tau. Increasing concentrations of both 4R and 3R tau resulted in an increase in the size of the faster growing subpopulation of microtubules; however, 4R tau caused a redistribution to the faster growing subpopulation at lower tau:tubulin ratios than 3R tau. This modulation of discrete growth rate subpopulations by tau suggests that tau causes a conformational shift in the microtubule resulting in altered dynamics. Quantitative and qualitative differences observed between 4R and 3R tau are consistent with a &quot;microtubule misregulation&quot; model in which abnormal tau isoform expression results in the inability to properly regulate microtubule dynamics, leading to neuronal death and dementia.
Activation of the p75 neurotrophin receptor leads to a variety of effects within the nervous system, including neuronal apoptosis. Both c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the tumor suppressor p53 have been reported to be critical for this receptor to induce cell death; however, the mechanisms by which p75 activates these pathways is undetermined. Here we report that the neurotrophin receptor interacting factor (NRIF) is necessary for p75-dependent JNK activation and apoptosis. Upon nerve growth factor withdrawal, nrif-/- sympathetic neurons underwent apoptosis, whereas p75-mediated death was completely abrogated. The lack of cell death correlated with a lack of JNK activation in the nrif-/- neurons, suggesting that NRIF is a selective mediator for p75-dependent JNK activation and apoptosis. Moreover, we document that NRIF expression is sufficient to induce cell death through a mechanism that requires p53. Taken together, these results establish NRIF as an essential component of the p75 apoptotic pathway.
Recent experiments have demonstrated early target minus nontarget differences in the human event-related potential (ERP) during visual object recognition tasks. It is unclear whether these differences reflect high-level visual processes, effectively indexing the speed of object recognition, or whether they arise from postsensory decision processes, leaving the actual time of object recognition uncertain. Here we report three sets of ERP experiments designed to determine what processes underlie the target minus nontarget difference signals seen in visual cued-target paradigms. We demonstrate that the same difference signals are present when the target match is made to word stimuli as well as to object stimuli, suggesting that the disparate mechanisms involved in letter string and object processing are not directly responsible for the signals. We also find that the amplitude of these signals can be reduced by increasing trial difficulty in three different ways: image difficulty, level of semantic categorization, and overall task demands. In many respects, the difference signal is similar to the postrecognition P300. Together, these results suggest that the target minus nontarget difference does not reflect object recognition per se, but rather postsensory decision processes.

The striatum receives rich dopaminergic and more moderate serotonergic innervation. After vesicular release, dopamine and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) signaling is controlled by transporter-mediated reuptake. Dopamine is taken up by dopamine transporters (DATs), which are expressed at the highest density in the striatum. Although DATs also display a low affinity for 5-HT, that neurotransmitter is normally efficiently taken up by the 5-HT transporters. We found that when extracellular 5-HT is elevated by exogenous application or by using antidepressants (e.g., fluoxetine) to inhibit the 5-HT transporters, the extremely dense striatal DATs uptake 5-HT into dopamine terminals. Immunohistochemical results and measurements using fast cyclic voltammetry showed that elevated 5-HT is taken up by DATs into striatal dopamine terminals that subsequently release 5-HT and dopamine together. These results suggest that antidepressants that block serotonin transporters or other factors that elevate extracellular 5-HT alter the temporal and spatial relationship between dopamine and 5-HT signaling in the striatum.
Trk tyrosine kinases are receptors for members of the neurotrophin family and are crucial for growth and survival of specific populations of neurons. Yet, the functions of neurotrophin-Trk signaling in postnatal development as well as maintenance and plasticity of the adult nervous system are less clear. We report here the generation of mice harboring Trk knockin alleles that allow for pharmacological control of Trk kinase activity. Nanomolar concentrations of either 1NMPP1 or 1NaPP1, derivatives of the general kinase inhibitor PP1, inhibit NGF and BDNF signaling in TrkA(F592A) and TrkB(F616A) neurons, respectively, while no such Trk inhibition is observed in wild-type neurons. Moreover, oral administration of 1NMPP1 leads to specific inhibition of TrkA(F592A), TrkB(F616A), and TrkC(F167A) signaling in vivo. Thus, Trk knockin mice provide valuable tools for selective, rapid, and reversible inhibition of neurotrophin signaling in vitro and in vivo.
Ca2+-dependent activator protein for secretion (CAPS) is an evolutionarily conserved secretory protein that was previously thought to mediate Ca2+-triggered fusion of dense-core vesicles. In an elegant study of CAPS1-deficient mice, Speidel et al. (this issue of Neuron) now show that CAPS function may have been misunderstood. CAPS appears to act upstream of fusion in the biogenesis or maintenance of mature secretory vesicles, raising the possibility of a completely new type of function for an essential component of the secretory machinery.
Statistical reconstruction methods offer possibilities for improving image quality as compared to analytical methods, but current reconstruction times prohibit routine clinical applications in x-ray computed tomography (CT). To reduce reconstruction times, we have applied (under) relaxation to ordered subset algorithms. This enables us to use subsets consisting of only single projection angle, effectively increasing the number of image updates within an entire iteration. A second advantage of applying relaxation is that it can help improve convergence by removing the limit cycle behaviour of ordered subset algorithms, which normally do not converge to an optimal solution but rather a suboptimal limit cycle consisting of as many points as there are subsets. Relaxation suppresses the limit cycle behaviour by decreasing the stepsize for approaching the solution. A simulation study for a 2D mathematical phantom and three different ordered subset algorithms shows that all three algorithms benefit from relaxation: equal noise-to-resolution trade-off can be achieved using fewer iterations than the conventional algorithms, while a lower minimal normalized mean square error (NMSE) clearly indicates a better convergence. Two different schemes for setting the relaxation parameter are studied, and both schemes yield approximately the same minimal NMSE.
The Schwann cell basal lamina (BL) is required for normal myelination. Loss or mutations of BL constituents, such as laminin-2 (alpha2beta1gamma1), lead to severe neuropathic diseases affecting peripheral nerves. The function of the second known laminin present in Schwann cell BL, laminin-8 (alpha4beta1gamma1), is so far unknown. Here we show that absence of the laminin alpha4 chain, which distinguishes laminin-8 from laminin-2, leads to a disturbance in radial sorting, impaired myelination, and signs of ataxia and proprioceptive disturbances, whereas the axonal regenerative capacity is not influenced. In vitro studies show poor axon growth of spinal motoneurons on laminin-8, whereas it is extensive on laminin-2. Schwann cells, however, extend longer processes on laminin-8 than on laminin-2, and, in contrast to the interaction with laminin-2, solely use the integrin receptor alpha6beta1 in their interaction with laminin-8. Thus, laminin-2 and laminin-8 have different critical functions in peripheral nerves, mediated by different integrin receptors.
Astrocytes promote the formation and function of excitatory synapses in the CNS. However, whether and how astrocytes modulate inhibitory synaptogenesis are essentially unknown. We asked whether astrocytes regulate the formation of inhibitory synapses between hippocampal neurons during maturation in vitro. Neuronal coculture with astrocytes or treatment with astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) increased the number of inhibitory presynaptic terminals, the frequency of miniature IPSCs, and the number and synaptic localization of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) clusters during the first 10 d in vitro. We asked whether neurotrophins, which are potent modulators of inhibitory synaptic structure and function, mediate the effects of astrocytes on inhibitory synapses. ACM from BDNF- or tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB)-deficient astrocytes increased inhibitory presynaptic terminals and postsynaptic GABA(A)R clusters in wild-type neurons, suggesting that BDNF and TrkB expression in astrocytes is not required for these effects. In contrast, although the increase in the number of inhibitory presynaptic terminals persisted, no increase was observed in postsynaptic GABA(A)R clusters after ACM treatment of hippocampal neurons lacking BDNF or TrkB. These results suggest that neurons, not astrocytes, are the relevant source of BDNF and are the site of TrkB activation required for postsynaptic GABA(A)R modulation. These data also suggest that astrocytes may modulate postsynaptic development indirectly by stimulating Trk signaling between neurons. Together, these data show that astrocytes modulate inhibitory synapse formation via distinct presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms.
Modulation of synaptic activity is critical for neural circuit function and behavior. The semaphorins are a large, phylogenetically conserved protein family with important roles in neural development. However, semaphorin function in the adult brain has yet to be determined. Here, we show that the coreceptors for secreted semaphorins, the neuropilins, are found at synapses and localize to molecular layers of the adult mouse hippocampus and accessory olfactory cortex. Moreover, application of the secreted semaphorin Sema3F to acute hippocampal slices modulates both the frequency and amplitude of miniature EPSCs in granule cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons of CA1. Finally, we show that mice lacking Sema3F are prone to seizures. These results suggest a novel role for semaphorins as synaptic modulators and illustrate the diverse repertoire of these guidance cues in both the formation and function of neural circuits.
Several lines of evidence point to a role for dopamine in mood disorders and, in particular, in bipolar disorders. In line with a considerable amount of evidence, the dopamine D1 receptor gene (DRD1) is considered to be a good candidate gene for bipolar disorders. Several studies did not find any association between bipolar 1 patients and DRD1. In this study, we investigate a possible association between BP disorder and -48A/G polymorphism of the DRD1. We genotyped 107 bipolar 1 patients and 129 healthy control subjects of exclusively Sardinian descent. A statistically significant difference in genotype (chi2 = 6.29, df = 2, P = 0.042) and allele (chi2 = 5.46, df=1, P = 0.019; OR = 1.53, 95% CI = 1.08-2.16) frequencies was found, suggesting an association between the DRD1 gene and bipolar I disorder (BP I) in the Sardinian population.
It has been suggested that genes involved in dopamine neurotransmission contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. However, reported associations of the disorder with genetic markers in dopaminergic genes have yielded inconsistent results. Possible explanations are differences in phenotyping, genetic heterogeneity, low marker informativity, and the use of small sample sizes. Here, we present a two-stage analysis of 12 dopaminergic genes in a large sample of Dutch schizophrenic patients. To reduce genetic heterogeneity, only patients with at least three Caucasian grandparents of Dutch ancestry were ascertained. An efficient genotyping strategy was used, in which polymorphic microsatellite markers were first screened for association in DNA pools. Promising results were followed up by individual genotyping in an extended sample. The pooled samples consisted of 208 schizophrenic patients and 288 unmatched control individuals. For each of the genes, more than one microsatellite marker was selected where possible, either intragenic or close to the gene. After correcting for multiple testing, significantly different allele frequencies were detected for DRD5 marker D4S615. Subsequently, we individually genotyped this particular marker and another DRD5 marker, as well as a DRD3 marker that could not be analyzed using the pooling strategy. This was done in an extended sample of 282 schizophrenic patients and a control sample of 585 individuals. In this second stage of the study, we found no association between these three markers and schizophrenia. The results of our comprehensive analysis provide no evidence for association between schizophrenia and 12 dopaminergic genes in a large Dutch sample.
Bipolar disorder (BP) is a psychiatric illness with both genetic and environmental components occurring with a prevalence of slightly more than 1%. Our previous linkage and case/control studies have pointed to a susceptibility locus for BP in the 12q24.31 chromosomal region. Here, we investigated the possible involvement of the SMRT/N-CoR2 gene, which encodes for the nuclear receptor co-repressor 2. SMRT/N-CoR2 was retained as a candidate gene for BP because of its location within our candidate gene region and its interactions with thyroid hormone receptors. We screened SMRT/N-CoR2 for the presence of polymorphism/mutation in coding sequences and exon-intron junctions. Four non-synonymous SNPs and a polyglutamine tract (CAG repeat) in the coding exon 14 were analyzed in a case/control sample from the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean (SLSJ) area of Quebec (213 cases and 214 controls). Our data indicated no significant allelic/genotypic association between any of the five mutations and bipolar phenotype when they were considered either individually or as haplotypes. Finally, the CAG repeat observed in SMRT/N-CoR2 did not demonstrate allelic instability and consequently it is unlikely that this polymorphism could be involved in the anticipation phenomenon reported for BP.
Thermoregulatory mechanisms are remarkably efficient, ensuring minimal temperature variation within the core of the human body under physiological conditions. Diverse afferent and efferent neural pathways contribute to the monitoring of core and skin temperature, generation of heat, and control of thermal exchange with the external environment. We have investigated the cortical, thalamic, and hypothalamic responses to cooling and warming by using positron-emission tomography activation imaging of subjects clad in a water-perfused suit, which enabled rapid change of their skin-surface temperature. Human brain regions that respond to changes in skin temperature have been identified in the somatosensory cortex, insula, anterior cingulate, thalamus, and hypothalamus, with evidence that the hypothalamic response codes for the direction of temperature change. We conclude that signals from thermosensors in the skin providing crucial afferent information to the brain are integrated with signals from central thermosensors, resulting in thermoregulatory responses that maintain core temperature within a remarkably narrow range.
Motor neurons (MNs) are the principal neurons in the mammalian spinal cord whose activities cause muscles to contract. In addition to their peripheral axons, MNs have central collaterals that contact inhibitory Renshaw cells and other MNs. Since its original discovery &gt;60 years ago, it has been a general notion that acetylcholine is the only transmitter released from MN synapses both peripherally and centrally. Here, we show, using a multidisciplinary approach, that mammalian spinal MNs, in addition to acetylcholine, corelease glutamate to excite Renshaw cells and other MNs but not to excite muscles. Our study demonstrates that glutamate can be released as a functional neurotransmitter from mammalian MNs.
Local protein synthesis in neuronal dendrites is one of the mechanisms that may mediate a rapid and synapse-specific mobilization of proteins from the resident mRNAs. A great deal of effort has been made in analyzing the dynamic state of protein synthesis in the living cells chiefly by quantifying protein level. However, the protein level cannot mirror the spatiotemporal alteration of translation because it can be affected, not only by protein synthesis, but also by other factors, like degradation. Therefore, it is problematic to visualize the dynamic state of translation by the present methods. To solve the problem, we applied fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) technique to in situ detection of the assembly and disassembly cycle among a pair of translation initiation factors [eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs)], thereby showing that BDNF and ephrin could potentiate local protein synthesis in the dendrites of hippocampal neurons.
The protein transduction domain (PTD) from the HIV-1 TAT protein has been widely utilized to deliver biologically active macromolecules, including full-length proteins, into a variety of cell types in vitro and in vivo. Without additional targeting signals, the intracellular localization of the proteins delivered in this fashion appears to be cytoplasmic, nuclear or, as recently reported, endosomal. In this study, we show that the presence of the mitochondrial targeting signal (MTS) from hMnSOD on the N-terminus of TAT-fusion proteins directs them into mitochondria of breast cancer cells. We generated and purified fusion proteins containing GFP (MTS-GFP-TAT) or Exonuclease III (MTS-ExoIII-TAT) from Escherichia coli. The results of Western blots of subcellular fractions and fluorescent microscopic analyses revealed efficient protein transduction and mitochondrial localization of the fusion proteins. Specific exonuclease activity was found in the mitochondrial extracts isolated from MTS-ExoIII-TAT transduced cells. This increased exonuclease activity reduced the repair of mtDNA damage following oxidative stress. This diminished mtDNA repair led to a decrease in survival of breast cancer cells. Thus, the present study demonstrates the applicability of this new approach for intramitochondrial targeting of TAT-fusion proteins capable of modulating mitochondrial function and cell survival.
Dementia and depression are clinical symptoms commonly associated in patients. Emerging evidence suggests that the two diseases share many profiles in their development and underlying neural/molecular mechanisms. Thus, interest is raised in developing new classes of antidepressant agents with activity of cognitive enhancement. Here, we show that bryostatin-1, a protein kinase C substrate activator, at bilateral intracerebroventricular doses of 0.64 or 2 pmol/site, significantly enhanced learning and memory of rats in a spatial water maze task. When applied at the doses at which it exhibits memory-enhancing activity, bryostatin-1 showed a significant antidepressant activity, as determined in an open space swim test. Both effects were not observed when a smaller dose was administered and were largely eliminated by co-administration of 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7), a protein kinase C inhibitor. These results support the hypothesis that memory processing and mood regulation share common neural mechanisms. Restoring impaired mood regulation with antidepressant agents that also exhibit memory-enhancing activity may represent one of the new strategies in the fight against depression associated with memory impairments.
Inhibition of RhoA has been shown to enhance axonal regeneration following spinal cord injury. Here we mapped mRNA expression patterns of RhoA, B, and C, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 in spinal cord, sensory ganglia, and sensorimotor cortex in uninjured rats, and following spinal cord injury or sham laminectomy. In the intact spinal cord, neurons displayed high levels of Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA hybridization signal. GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes expressed primarily RhoB and Rac1, while oligodendrocyte-like cells expressed RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42. Injury caused profound, long-lasting upregulation of RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA in the spinal cord, while RhoB was modestly increased and RhoC did not change. GFAP-immunoreactive reactive astrocytes exhibited a dramatic increase of RhoA mRNA expression along with increases of Rac1 and Cdc42. Injury also led to elevation of RhoA, Cdc42, and Tc10 in neurons and modest increases of RhoA, Rac1, and Tc10 in oligodendrocyte-like cells. Laminectomy caused similar, but less pronounced alterations of investigated mRNA species. In dorsal root ganglia neuronal RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA levels were increased similarly by spinal cord injury and sham surgery. The CST pyramidal cells expressed Tc10 mRNA and the CST itself was Tc10-immunoreactive. Tc10-immunoreactivity disappeared distal to injury. We conclude that there are gene-specific patterns of expression of the six different Rho-GTPases in normal spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, and that specific changes of temporal and spatial expression patterns occur in response to spinal cord injury, suggesting different roles of these GTPases in the cellular sequelae of CNS injury.
Potassium channels are key determinants of neuronal excitability. We recently identified KChIPs as a family of calcium binding proteins that coassociate and colocalize with Kv4 family potassium channels in mammalian brain (An et al. [2000] Nature 403:553). Here, we used light microscopic immunohistochemistry and multilabel immunofluorescence labeling, together with transmission electron microscopic immunohistochemistry, to examine the subcellular distribution of KChIPs and Kv4 channels in adult rat cerebellum. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry was performed on 40-microm free-floating sections using a diaminobenzidine labeling procedure. Multilabel immunofluorescence staining was performed on free-floating sections and on 1-microm ultrathin cryosections. Electron microscopic immunohistochemistry was performed using an immunoperoxidase pre-embedding labeling procedure. By light microscopy, immunoperoxidase labeling showed that Kv4.2, Kv4.3, and KChIPs 1, 3, and 4 (but not KChIP2) were expressed at high levels in cerebellar granule cells (GCs). Kv4.2 and KChIP1 were highly expressed in GCs in rostral cerebellum, whereas Kv4.3 was more highly expressed in GCs in caudal cerebellum. Immunofluorescence labeling revealed that KChIP1 and Kv4.2 are concentrated in somata of cerebellar granule cells and in synaptic glomeruli that surround synaptophysin-positive mossy fiber axon terminals. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that KChIP1 and Kv4.2 immunoreactivity is concentrated along the plasma membrane of cerebellar granule cell somata and dendrites. In synaptic glomeruli, KChIP1 and Kv4.2 immunoreactivity is concentrated along the granule cell dendritic membrane, but is not concentrated at postsynaptic densities. Taken together, these data suggest that A-type potassium channels containing Kv4.2 and KChIP1, and perhaps also KChIP3 and 4, play a critical role in regulating postsynaptic excitability at the cerebellar mossy-fiber/granule cell synapse.
The plant flavonol fisetin is a common dietary component that has a variety of established biological effects, one of which is the inhibition of the enzyme DNA topoisomerase II (topo II). Compounds that inhibit topo II can exert genotoxic effects such as DNA double strand breaks, which can lead to the induction of kinetochore- or CREST-negative micronuclei. Despite reports that fisetin is an effective topoisomerase II inhibitor, its genotoxic effects have not yet been well characterized. Genotoxicity testing of fisetin was conducted in TK6 and HL60 cell lines and the cells were analyzed for malsegregating chromosomes as well as for the induction of micronuclei. Using the cytokinesis-blocked CREST micronucleus assay to discriminate between micronuclei formed from chromosomal breakage (CREST-negative) and chromosomal loss (CREST-positive), a statistically significant increase in CREST-positive micronuclei was seen for all doses tested in both cell lines. CREST-negative micronuclei, however, were significantly increased at the higher test concentrations in the TK6 cell line. These data indicate that at low concentrations fisetin is primarily exerting its genotoxic effects through chromosomal loss and that the induction of DNA breaks is a secondary effect occurring at higher doses. To confirm these results, the ability of fisetin to inhibit human topoisomerase II-alpha was verified in an isolated enzyme system as was its ability to interfere with chromosome segregation during the anaphase and telophase periods of the cell cycle. Fisetin was confirmed to be an effective topo II inhibitor. In addition, significant increases in the number of mis-segregating chromosomes were observed in fisetin-treated cells from both cell lines. We conclude that fisetin is an aneugen at low concentrations capable of interfering with proper chromosomal segregation and that it is also an effective topo II inhibitor, which exerts clastogenic effects at higher concentrations.
Bone marrow stromal cells are multipotent stem cells that have the potential to differentiate into bone, cartilage, fat and muscle. Recently, bone marrow stromal cells have been shown to have the capacity to differentiate into neurons under specific experimental conditions, using chemical factors. We now describe how bone marrow stromal cells can be induced to differentiate into neuron-like cells when they are co-cultured with Schwann cells. When compared with chemical differentiation, expression of neuronal differentiation markers begins later, but one week after beginning co-culture, most bone marrow stromal cells showed a typical neuronal morphology. Our present findings support the transdifferentiation of bone marrow stromal cells, and the potential utility of these cells for the treatment of degenerative and acquired disorders of the nervous system.
The prevailing hierarchical model of sensory processing in the brain holds that different modalities of sensory information emanating from a single object are analyzed extensively during passage through their respective unisensory processing streams before they are combined in higher-order 'multisensory' regions of the cortex. Because of this view, multisensory interactions that have been found at early, putatively 'unisensory' cortical processing stages during hemodynamic imaging studies have been assumed to reflect feedback modulations that occur subsequent to multisensory processing in the higher-order multisensory areas. In this paper, we consider findings that challenge an exclusively feedback interpretation of early multisensory integration effects. First, high-density electrical mapping studies in humans have shown that multisensory convergence and integration effects can occur so early in the time course of sensory processing that purely feedback mediation becomes extremely unlikely. Second, direct neural recordings in monkeys show that, in some cases, convergent inputs at early cortical stages have physiological profiles characteristic of feedforward rather than feedback inputs. Third, damage to higher-order integrative regions in humans often spares the ability to integrate across sensory modalities. Finally, recent anatomic tracer studies have reported direct anatomical connections between primary visual and auditory cortex. These findings make it clear that multisensory convergence at early stages of cortical processing results from feedforward as well as feedback and lateral connections, thus using the full range of anatomical connections available in brain circuitry.
Mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI), or concussion, is one of the least understood injuries facing the neuroscience and sports medicine community today. The notion of transient dysfunction and rapid symptom resolution is misleading since symptom resolution is not indicative of injury resolution. Our working hypothesis is that there are residual postural and EEG abnormalities in concussed individuals that could be reliably assessed using appropriate research methodology. This paper presents combined postural and electroencephalographic (EEG) findings suggesting the persistent functional deficits in athletes suffering from MTBI. Twelve concussed athletes and twelve normal controls participated in the study. There was a decrease in EEG power in all bandwidths studied in concussed subjects, especially in standing postures. This was accompanied by sustained postural instability especially under the no vision testing condition. Overall, this study demonstrated the presence of long-term functional abnormalities in individuals suffering from mild traumatic brain injury.


In this case report, a 49-year-old woman developed subarachnoid hemorrhage in the right cerebellopontine angle cistern and blood into the fourth ventricle from a ruptured peripheral aneurysm of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) located at the meatal loop. Concomitantly, a contralateral peripheral aneurysm was found in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). A second peripheral aneurysm, not identified by previous angiography, was found in the caudomedial branch of AICA. We describe this diagnostic dilemma, management, and review the clinical presentation and location of 84 other peripheral AICA aneurysms reported in the literature.



Although the anatomical configuration of the amygdala has been studied a great deal, very little research has been conducted on understanding the precise mechanism by which this emotional regulatory center exerts its control on emotional and sexual behavior. By applying research methodology from the Neuroscience Research Institute, State University of New York, College at Old Westbury, we intended to demonstrate that much of the mediated effects of the amygdala, specifically the regulation of the male and female sexual response cycles, as well as related emotional considerations, exert their effects coupled to nitric oxide (NO) release. Furthermore, by using current anatomical and histological data, we demonstrated that amygdalar tissue rich in endocannabinoid and opiate, as well as catecholamine, receptors could exert its neurochemical effects within an NO-mediated paradigm. This paradigm, together with the existence of estrogen and androgen signaling within the amygdala, further lends credence to our theoretical framework. We begin with a brief anatomical and functional review of amygdalar function, and then proceed to demonstrate its relationship with NO.

Sarcopenia, loss of skeletal muscle mass, is a hallmark of aging commonly attributed to a decreased capacity to maintain muscle tissue in senescence, yet the mechanism behind the muscle wasting remains unresolved. To address these issues we have explored a rodent model of sarcopenia and age-related sensorimotor impairment, allowing us to discriminate between successfully and unsuccessfully aged cohort members. Immunohistochemistry and staining of cell nuclei revealed that senescent muscle has an increased density of cell nuclei, occurrence of aberrant fibers and fibers expressing embryonic myosin. Using real-time PCR we extend the findings of increased myogenic regulatory factor mRNA to show that very high levels are found in unsuccessfully aged cohort members. This pattern is also reflected in the number of embryonic myosin-positive fibers, which increase with the degree of sarcopenia. In addition, we confirm that there is no local down-regulation of IGF-I and IGF-IR mRNA in aged muscle tissue; on the contrary, the most sarcopenic individuals showed significantly higher local expression of IGF-I mRNA. Combined, our results show that the initial drive to regenerate myofibers is most marked in cases with the most advanced loss of muscle mass, a pattern that may have its origin in differences in the rate of tissue deterioration and/or that regenerating myofibers in these cases fail to mature into functional fibers. Importantly, the genetic background is a determinant of the pace of progression of sarcopenia.












From a twenty-first century partnership between bioethics and neuroscience, the modern field of neuroethics is emerging, and technologies enabling functional neuroimaging with unprecedented sensitivity have brought new ethical, social and legal issues to the forefront. Some issues, akin to those surrounding modern genetics, raise critical questions regarding prediction of disease, privacy and identity. However, with new and still-evolving insights into our neurobiology and previously unquantifiable features of profoundly personal behaviors such as social attitude, value and moral agency, the difficulty of carefully and properly interpreting the relationship between brain findings and our own self-concept is unprecedented. Therefore, while the ethics of genetics provides a legitimate starting point--even a backbone--for tackling ethical issues in neuroimaging, they do not suffice. Drawing on recent neuroimaging findings and their plausible real-world applications, we argue that interpretation of neuroimaging data is a key epistemological and ethical challenge. This challenge is two-fold. First, at the scientific level, the sheer complexity of neuroscience research poses challenges for integration of knowledge and meaningful interpretation of data. Second, at the social and cultural level, we find that interpretations of imaging studies are bound by cultural and anthropological frameworks. In particular, the introduction of concepts of self and personhood in neuroimaging illustrates the interaction of interpretation levels and is a major reason why ethical reflection on genetics will only partially help settle neuroethical issues. Indeed, ethical interpretation of such findings will necessitate not only traditional bioethical input but also a wider perspective on the construction of scientific knowledge.
Autosomal dominant parkinsonism has been attributed to pathogenic amino acid substitutions in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2). By sequencing multiplex families consistent with a PARK8 assignment, we identified a novel heterozygous LRRK2 mutation. A referral sample of 248 affected probands from families with autosomal dominant parkinsonism was subsequently assessed; 7 (2.8%) were found to carry a heterozygous LRRK2 6055G--&gt;A transition (G2019S). These seven patients originate from the United States, Norway, Ireland, and Poland. In samples of patients with idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD) from the same populations, further screening identified six more patients with LRRK2 G2019S; no mutations were found in matched control individuals. Subsequently, 42 family members of the 13 probands were examined; 22 have an LRRK2 G2019S substitution, 7 with a diagnosis of PD. Of note, all patients share an ancestral haplotype indicative of a common founder, and, within families, LRRK2 G2019S segregates with disease (multipoint LOD score 2.41). Penetrance is age dependent, increasing from 17% at age 50 years to 85% at age 70 years. In summary, our study demonstrates that LRRK2 G2019S accounts for parkinsonism in several families within Europe and North America. Our work highlights the fact that a proportion of clinically typical, late-onset PD cases have a genetic basis.

The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of topically applied triiodothyronine (T(3)) and thyroxine (T(4)) on the arterioles of hamster cheek pouch microcirculation in vivo. Microvessels were visualized using a fluorescent microscopy technique. Topical application of T(3) (3.08, 30.8, 61.5, 307, 615, and 6,150 nM/l) consistently induced dose-dependent dilation of arterioles within 2.0 +/- 0.5 min of administration. The application of T(4) (150, 257, 514, and 5,140 nM/l) caused different dose-dependent effects: dilation at the three lower doses within 16 +/- 2 min and rhythmic diameter changes at the highest dose. Aging of hamsters did not alter the arteriolar responses to T(3) and T(4). T(3)-induced dilation was countered by the inhibition of nitric oxide synthase with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester or N(G)-nitro-L-arginine. Iopanoic acid (IPA), which inhibits types I and II 5'-deiodinase, abolished the dilation elicited by 514 nM T(4) but did not affect T(3)-dependent dilation. 6-Propyl-2-thiouracil (PTU), which inhibits type I 5'-deiodinase only, did not affect the dilation induced by T(4). IPA and PTU did not impair arteriolar dilation induced by acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside. These results indicate that T(3) induces arteriolar dilation, likely through nitric oxide release. The local conversion of T(4) to T(3) appears to be crucial for the dilation induced by T(4).
Leptin is a hormone secreted into the systemic blood primarily by white adipose tissue. However, leptin also is synthesized and stored by cells in the gastric mucosa. Because gastric mucosal leptin is secreted in response to ingestion of a meal, we hypothesized that it might contribute to satiation (meal termination) by acting on gastrointestinal vagal afferent neurons. To test whether leptin is capable of acutely reducing short-term food intake, we measured consumption of a liquid meal (15% sucrose) following low-dose leptin administration via the celiac artery, which perfuses the upper gastrointestinal tract. Leptin (1, 3, 10 mug) was infused via a chronically implanted, nonocclusive celiac arterial catheter or via a jugular vein catheter with its tip in the right cardiac atrium. Fifteen percent sucrose intake was then measured for 30 min. We found that leptin dose dependently inhibited sucrose intake when infused through the celiac catheter but not when infused into the general circulation via a jugular catheter. Plasma leptin concentrations in the general circulation following celiac arterial or jugular leptin infusions were not significantly different. Celiac arterial leptin infusion did not reduce meal size in vagotomized or capsaicin-treated rats. Finally, we also found that reduction of meal size by celiac leptin infusion was markedly enhanced when coinfused with cholecystokinin, a gastrointestinal satiety peptide whose action depends on vagal afferent neurons. Our results support the hypothesis that leptin contributes to satiation by a mechanism dependent on gastrointestinal vagal afferent innervation of the upper gastrointestinal tract.
Functional and histological evidence for the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) innervation of white adipose tissue (WAT) exists for several species; however, its sensory innervation has only been shown in laboratory rats, and its function is unclear. We tested the effects of sensory and SNS innervation of Siberian hamster epididymal and inguinal WAT (EWAT and IWAT) by assessing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity (ir), respectively. Next, we tested the role of the sensory innervation of WAT on growth and cellularity because WAT surgical denervation increases pad mass via selective increases in fat cell number, an effect ascribed to SNS denervation but that could be due to the accompanying surgical disruption of WAT sensory innervation. Sensory denervation was accomplished via multiple local microinjections of capsaicin into WAT, and its effects were compared with those of surgical denervation. Surgically denervated IWAT and EWAT showed significantly decreased tyrosine hydroxylase-ir and CGRP-ir, whereas capsaicin-treated WAT had only significantly decreased CGRP-ir. Surgically denervated pad masses were significantly increased; this was accompanied by increased total fat cell number in IWAT, with no change in fat cell size. EWAT only showed a significant increase in the number of small- to medium-sized adipocytes (75-125 mum diameter). By contrast, sensory-denervated pad masses were unchanged, but IWAT showed significantly increased average fat cell size. Collectively, these data provide immunohistochemical evidence for sensory and SNS innervation of WAT in Siberian hamsters and differential control of WAT cellularity by these innervations, as well as the ability of locally applied capsaicin to selectively reduce WAT sensory innervation.
Social cues may interact with photoperiod to regulate seasonal adaptations in photoperiod-responsive rodents. Specifically, photoperiod-induced adjustments (e.g., reproduction and immune function) may differ among individuals in heterosexual pairs, same-sex pairs, or isolation. Heterosexual cues may be more influential, based on their potential fitness value, than same-sex cues or no social cues. The present study examined the effects of pair (with a male or female) or individual housing on reproductive and immune responses in male white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) maintained in long or short photoperiods. Female pairing did not affect reproductive responses in short-day males. In long days, however, the presence of a female increased both testosterone concentrations and testes mass compared with individually housed and male-paired mice, respectively. Short-day, individually housed males enhanced delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses compared with single-housed mice in long days, but all paired groups decreased DTH responses regardless of photoperiod. The lack of enhanced DTH response in male mice paired with females coincided with reduced circulating corticosterone concentrations in both photoperiod treatments. Together, these results suggest that social environment may have important modulatory effects on photoperiod-regulated immune responses in male white-footed mice.


Detour behaviour is the ability of an animal to reach a goal stimulus by moving round any interposed obstacle. It has been widely studied and has been proposed as a test of insight learning in several species of mammals, but few data are available in birds. A comparative study in three species of birds, belonging to different eco-ethological niches, allows a better understanding of the cognitive mechanism of such detour behaviour. Young quails (Coturnix sp.), herring gulls (Larus cachinnans) and canaries (Serinus canaria), 1 month old, 10-25 days old and 4-6 months old, respectively, were tested in a detour situation requiring them to abandon a clear view of a biologically interesting object (their own reflection in a mirror) in order to approach that object. Birds were placed in a closed corridor, at one end of which was a barrier through which the object was visible. Four different types of barrier were used: vertical bar, horizontal bar, grid and transparent. Two symmetrical apertures placed midline in the corridor allowed the birds to adopt routes passing around the barrier. After entering the apertures, birds could turn either right or left to re-establish social contact with the object in the absence of any local sensory cues emanating from it. Quails appeared able to solve the task, though their performance depended on the type of barrier used, which appeared to modulate their relative interest in approaching the object or in exploring the surroundings. Young herring gulls also showed excellent abilities to locate spatially the out-of-view object, except when the transparent barrier was used. Canaries, on the other hand, appeared completely unable to solve the detour task, whatever barrier was in use. It is suggested that these species differences can be accounted for in terms of adaptation to a terrestrial or aerial environment.
The National Institute of Neurologic Disorders and Stroke supports a broad spectrum of research in the diagnosis and treatment of neurologic disease. Emergency medicine is increasingly involved in clinical research for patients with neurologic emergencies. Independent data and safety monitoring are critical components of clinical trials to ensure the protection of patients and the scientific integrity of the research. We review National Institute of Neurologic Disorders and Stroke principles of data and safety monitoring and provide examples to illustrate key concepts.

We have used sequence information and gene location to identify NPY family genes in the pufferfish, Takifugu rubripes (fugu), and zebrafish. Fugu has two copies of NPY, presumably resulting from the ray-fin fish tetraploidization. Zebrafish has probably lost one of the copies. Both species have two copies of PYY, the second of which was previously named PY. The two fugu NPY genes are predominantly expressed in brain. The two PYY genes are expressed in a broad range of tissues including brain and gonads. Thus, the NPY system appears to be more complex in teleosts than in tetrapods.
The melanocortin (MC) receptors are found in five subtypes in mammals and chicken, while recent studies have shown that the Fugu (Takifugu rubripes) genome has only four MC receptors and the zebrafish genome has six subtypes. The MC3 receptor seems to be missing from the two closely related pufferfishes, Fugu and Tetraodon (Tetraodon nigroviridis). The MC2 and MC5 receptors in the pufferfish have introns. Moreover, these two receptors are found in a tandem that is remarkably conserved in several vertebrate species. Here, we speculate about the genomic origin of the MC receptors.
The ancestral vertebrate repertoire for neuropeptide Y receptor genes of the Y1 subfamily probably included four subtypes: Y1, Y4, Y6, and Y8. There was probably a single gene in the Y5 category. Both Y1 and Y5 stimulate food intake in mammals. As the genome seems to have duplicated during the evolution of ray-finned fishes, we have investigated the gene repertoire in species that diverged prior to the appearance of teleosts, as well as a basal teleost and a shark. Our results show that the genes Y1, Y5, and Y6, which are missing in many teleosts, are present in basal actinopterygians. These dramatic alterations of the teleost receptor repertoire may be related to the tetraploidization in a teleost ancestor.
The aim of this study was to outline the sequence of events that gave rise to the members of the insulin gene family in chordates. As part of our research, we looked for the chromosomal localization of insulin family members in the human genome.
The melanocortin (MC) receptors belong to the family of G-protein-coupled receptors and have five subtypes (MC1-5) in mammals and chicken. We have expressed the chicken MC1-5 (cMC1-5) receptors and seven allelic variants of the cMC1 receptor and performed pharmacological characterization of these receptors. Three variants of the cMC1 receptor, all sharing a Glu to Lys mutation in position 92, are associated with dark feather coloration, and these were pharmacologically described as constitutively active. The pharmacological characterization of the cMC1-5 receptors provides insight of how this receptor family has evolved and useful information for the use of chicken in physiological experiments.
The two neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors Y1 and Y5 stimulate feeding in mammals, but are missing in the euteleosts, zebrafish and pufferfish (Takifugu rubripes). Both species have five other subtypes called Y2, Y7, Ya, Yb, and Yc. RT-PCR studies in pufferfish show that all five are expressed in the brain and may mediate NPY effects on feeding. Y2, Ya, and Yb are also broadly expressed in peripheral organs. These results reveal interesting differences in the NPY system of teleosts and mammals that may have arisen in the genetic turmoil involving the basal ray-fin fish tetraploidization.
The prolactin-releasing hormone (PRLH) is implicated in food intake and is expressed in several parts of the mammalian brain. The origin of the peptide precursor (PRH) has been unclear, and the only feature resembling other known human neuropeptide sequences is the C-terminal RF-motif, also present in the neuropeptide FF and the neuropeptide RF amide-related peptide families (RFRP). We have recently found sequences of PRH and the closely related precursor C-RF amide in chicken, shedding light on the PRH ancestry.
We performed an intensive search on sequence databases to identify orthologues of ASIP and AGRP peptides in a number of different species, revealing a number of genomic fragments coding for the C-terminal part of agouti-related motifs, different from annotated peptide sequences, including one fragment from chicken, two from zebrafish, two from Fugu (Takifugu rubripes), and three from Tetraodon (Tetraodon nigroviridis). We have thus shown for the first time that both AGRP and ASIP genes exist in many species in &quot;lower vertebrates&quot; and were most probably present in early stages of vertebrate evolution.
We have studied differential expression of genes using cDNA arrays in the hypothalamic region of two divergent chicken lines, which differ in body weight and feeding behavior. Several transcripts from genes in metabolic networks as well as from retroviruses were differentially expressed.
The acute stress response is a key regulatory system for the maintenance of homeostatic equilibrium that is activated upon an imminent or ongoing disturbance of the &quot;milieu interieur&quot;. In general, the stress response in bony fish is similar to that of mammals. The recent cloning and characterization of corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRH-BP) in carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) reflects the conservation of the CRH signaling system throughout vertebrates. Now, we can start to investigate the processes that are mediated by the factors that make up this system. The stress response is only one of these processes.
The melanocortin (MC) receptor subtypes have distinctive characteristic binding profiles. We found that the trout and Fugu MC4 receptors have similar affinity for alpha-MSH and beta-MSH and a much higher affinity for ACTH than does the human MC4 receptor. The Fugu MC1 and the trout and Fugu MC5 receptors also have higher affinity for ACTH-derived peptides than alpha-, beta-, or gamma-MSH. It is tempting to speculate that ACTH-derived peptides may have played an important role as &quot;original&quot; ligands at the MC receptors, while the specificity of the different subtypes for the alpha-, beta-, and gamma-MSH peptides may have appeared at later stages during vertebrate evolution.
Using a variety of search strategies, we obtained the complete or nearly complete repertoire of trace amine receptors from humans, mice, rats, zebrafish, pufferfish, and a number of invertebrates. We found that the number of functional receptors varies from 5 to 50 in each genome, showing that this family of GPCRs has a very dynamic gene repertoire. We show that the previously cloned and characterized GPCRs from insects and mollusks are more closely related to mammalian serotonin, dopamine, and adrenalin receptors than to mammalian TA receptors. This suggests that the ability to bind TAs has arisen independently in different developmental lineages.
Ligand interactions of a zebrafish bradykinin (BK) receptor expressed in vitro were characterized by measuring inositol phosphate accumulation. The ligands were analogues of zebrafish BK. Substitutions of Arg1, Gly4, Ser6, Pro7, Leu8, and Arg9 caused greatly reduced potency and maximum response. The Pro3 to Ala analogue had higher potency, but lower maximum response. These and other differences show that the zebrafish BK receptor has a ligand-interaction profile that is distinct from mammalian B1 and B2 receptors and from the previously characterized BK receptor in trout stomach. The results increase our understanding of the evolution of BK receptors and their ligands.
Searches in genomic databases for human, mouse, zebrafish, and pufferfish genes resulted in the identification of more than 180 protein predictions belonging to the glutamate family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Comparison of data sets from the different species showed that most of the receptor subgroups that form the glutamate family are present in both mammalian and bony fish lineage. This finding indicates that these groups share a phylogenetically ancient origin. The present study also shows that the pheromone-receptor subgroup has undergone independent expansions in three of the four species, leaving the human genome completely deprived of all pheromone receptors.
We have used sequence hidden Markov models to identify and classify all G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) from 13 eukaryotic genomes. We found that the 5 main families found in mammals are present before the divergence of nematodes. We also found that several classes of GPCRs are not present within the vertebrate lineage, whereas they are present in several other taxa. The superfamily of GPCRs has a very dynamic gene repertoire, as evidenced by the several lineage-specific expansions of various families of GPCRs that we found. Further, the number of GPCRs has gradually increased with increased complexity of the organism.
The Cervico-ocular reflex (COR), which depends on proprioceptive afferents from neck muscles to the vestibular nucleus, makes little contribution to the stabilization of gaze in humans. If labyrinthine function is lost because of disease, however, the COR may increase in gain and assume greater importance in generating compensatory eye rotations during natural head movements. We tested the COR, i.e., eye movement responses to rotation of the trunk about the earth fixed head (swinging test with fixed head STFH). If the vestibular function is intact, normally there should be no nystagmus. A total of 88 labyrinthine defective patients and 78 controls were studied. Of the 166 subjects evaluated, 88 presented some kind of alteration (either central or peripheral) and had STFH results showing &quot;no inhibition&quot; in 85 patients. Therefore, the STFH's sensibility is 96.6%. The remaining 3.4% were false negatives (i.e., pathology that could not be detected by the test). Of the 166 subjects evaluated, 78 had normal results and normal STFH. Therefore, STFH's specificity was 100%. We conclude that the study of the COR through STFH is a simple, useful, and clinically reliable test which should improve our knowledge of the interesting relationship between VOR and COR.
The analysis of saccades offers an opportunity to study a number of different cognitive processes, such as visuospatial attention, working memory, and volitional conflict. A study of saccades in patients with visuospatial hemineglect, who performed a visual search task, showed repeated fixations on targets previously discovered, yet they often failed to retain the information that a particular target had previously been discovered. High-resolution structural brain scanning showed that this abnormality was due either to a lesion in the right intraparietal sulcus or the right inferior frontal lobe. Detailed analysis of the scanpaths suggested that the former location was associated with an accumulating impairment in remapping target locations across saccades or impaired memory of previously inspected target locations, whereas the latter location was more consistent with a failure to inhibit responses to rightward locations. When combined with a spatial bias to the right, such deficits might explain why many neglect patients often reexamine rightward targets, at the expense of items to their left. The functions of the supplementary eye field (SEF), in the medial frontal lobe, in relation to saccade generation are controversial. A series of studies in a patient with a focal lesion of the right SEF has indicated an important role for the SEF in the rapid self-control of saccadic eye movements and in set-switching (i.e., implementing control in situations of response conflict when ongoing saccadic plans have to be changed rapidly), rather than monitoring errors. In a recent fMRI study of normal subjects, it was shown that the SEF is involved in implementing the resolution of any volitional conflict, whereas other presupplementary motor areas are involved in the generation of volitional plans and processing volitional conflict.
A new technique is introduced to measure linear and angular vestibulo-ocular responses in three dimensions. Using a three-dimensional motion platform, human subjects underwent whole-body rotations and translations. Eye movements were measured with an infrared video recording device and/or with scleral search coils. Subjects were tested with sinusoidal stimulation and impulses under light and dark conditions. The results show that for sinusoidal stimulation, torsion compensatory eye movements (roll stimulation) have a low gain compared to horizontal (yaw) and vertical (pitch) compensatory eye movements. With impulses, we reliably assessed gain and delay for rotations in yaw, pitch, and roll. Under this stimulus condition the gain for roll (torsion eye movements) was also low compared to yaw and pitch (horizontal and vertical eye movements). For translations, the gain of eye-movement responses varied between 0.7 and 1 in the light. In the dark, responses were lower and more variable.
Pure hereditary spastic paraplegias are characterized by isolated and progressive spasticity in the lower limbs. We mapped the spastic paraplegia 28 (SPG28) locus to chromosome 14q21.3-q22.3 in a Moroccan family with autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia. Affected patients experienced development of progressive spastic gait during childhood and required help walking in their early 40s. Nine additional hereditary spastic paraplegia families were not linked to this locus, demonstrating further genetic heterogeneity. No mutations were found in exons of GCH1 and SPG3A, two genes from the candidate region involved in movement disorders.

We used [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography to determine a discrete cerebral pattern of abnormal glucose utilization in dopa-responsive dystonia. Network analysis demonstrated that dopa-responsive dystonia is associated with a specific pattern of regional metabolic covariation, characterized by increases in the dorsal midbrain, cerebellum, and supplementary motor area, as well as reductions in motor and lateral premotor cortex and in the basal ganglia. This pattern was not expressed in mutation carriers for primary torsion dystonia. Dopa-responsive dystonia has a unique metabolic architecture that differs from other inherited forms of dystonia.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the adjuvanticity of the cholera toxin B (CTB) subunit was correlated with its immunogenicity in young orally immunised chickens. Thirteen 15-day-old chickens were orally immunised with bovine serum albumin (BSA) glutaraldehyde coupled to CTB. The chicken antibody (IgG) concentrations against BSA and CTB, respectively, were quantified by ELISA. A significant positive correlation (r=0.66, n=39, p&lt;0.001) between the concentrations of immunospecific antibodies with specificities against BSA and CTB, respectively, demonstrated that the adjuvanticity of CTB is correlated with its immunogenicity.







Efforts to bridge emotion theory with neurobiology can be facilitated by dynamic systems (DS) modeling. DS principles stipulate higher-order wholes emerging from lower-order constituents through bidirectional causal processes--offering a common language for psychological and neurobiological models. After identifying some limitations of mainstream emotion theory, I apply DS principles to emotion-cognition relations. I then present a psychological model based on this reconceptualization, identifying trigger, self-amplification, and self-stabilization phases of emotion-appraisal states, leading to consolidating traits. The article goes on to describe neural structures and functions involved in appraisal and emotion, as well as DS mechanisms of integration by which they interact. These mechanisms include nested feedback interactions, global effects of neuromodulation, vertical integration, action-monitoring, and synaptic plasticity, and they are modeled in terms of both functional integration and temporal synchronization. I end by elaborating the psychological model of emotion-appraisal states with reference to neural processes.
The article analyzes the neural and functional grounding of language skills as well as their emergence in hominid evolution, hypothesizing stages leading from abilities known to exist in monkeys and apes and presumed to exist in our hominid ancestors right through to modern spoken and signed languages. The starting point is the observation that both premotor area F5 in monkeys and Broca's area in humans contain a &quot;mirror system&quot; active for both execution and observation of manual actions, and that F5 and Broca's area are homologous brain regions. This grounded the mirror system hypothesis of Rizzolatti and Arbib (1998) which offers the mirror system for grasping as a key neural &quot;missing link&quot; between the abilities of our nonhuman ancestors of 20 million years ago and modern human language, with manual gestures rather than a system for vocal communication providing the initial seed for this evolutionary process. The present article, however, goes &quot;beyond the mirror&quot; to offer hypotheses on evolutionary changes within and outside the mirror systems which may have occurred to equip Homo sapiens with a language-ready brain. Crucial to the early stages of this progression is the mirror system for grasping and its extension to permit imitation. Imitation is seen as evolving via a so-called simple system such as that found in chimpanzees (which allows imitation of complex &quot;object-oriented&quot; sequences but only as the result of extensive practice) to a so-called complex system found in humans (which allows rapid imitation even of complex sequences, under appropriate conditions) which supports pantomime. This is hypothesized to have provided the substrate for the development of protosign, a combinatorially open repertoire of manual gestures, which then provides the scaffolding for the emergence of protospeech (which thus owes little to nonhuman vocalizations), with protosign and protospeech then developing in an expanding spiral. It is argued that these stages involve biological evolution of both brain and body. By contrast, it is argued that the progression from protosign and protospeech to languages with full-blown syntax and compositional semantics was a historical phenomenon in the development of Homo sapiens, involving few if any further biological changes.
Infant rats cycle rapidly between periods of high muscle tone (indicative of wakefulness) and periods of atonia (indicative of sleep). Here, the influence of air temperature on sleep in 8-day-old rats was examined by testing pups at thermoneutrality (35 degrees C) and during moderate (28 degrees C) and extreme (20 degrees C) cold challenge; also, pups were tested 1, 4, and 8 hr after infusion of milk to assess the effects of food deprivation on sleep. Whereas moderate cooling slightly reduced sleep durations and altered the temporal patterning of myoclonic twitching, extreme cooling substantially decreased sleep durations and inhibited twitching. In contrast, food deprivation had little effect. Therefore, thermoregulatory mechanisms engaged during moderate cooling sustain sleep, whereas extreme cooling overwhelms these mechanisms, thereby promoting arousal.
Distinct neural regions may be engaged during acquisition and maintenance of some memories. In delay classical conditioning of the eyeblink response, the cerebellum is necessary for acquisition and expression of the conditioned response (CR), but loci of long-term memory storage are not known. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were trained, overtrained, and given either 30 additional days of training or 30 days of rest. Half the subjects in the rest group were given a reminder training session. Subjects then received either reversible inactivation of the cerebellar interpositus nucleus (muscimol) or permanent electrolytic lesions. In all cases, inactivation and lesions of the interpositus completely abolished the CR. The site of memory formation in the interpositus nucleus also appears to be the site of long-term memory storage.
The authors examined discrimination rule learning and extradimensional set-shifting ability in rats given systemic or intracranial injections of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801. Pretraining systemic injections of MK801 impaired both the acquisition of the initial discrimination rule (Set 1) and the shift to the 2nd rule (Set 2). Pretraining intramedial prefrontal cortical (mPFC) administration of MK801 did not impair Set 1 acquisition. Intra-mPFC injection of MK801 was previously found to impair Set 2 acquisition. Impaired Set 2 performance was due to increased cognitive perseveration. The data suggest that discrimination learning in naive subjects requires NMDA receptors outside the mPFC, whereas NMDA receptors within the mPFC are selectively involved in the modification of previous knowledge and/or the inhibition of previously learned responses.
Drugs and other forms of experience (e.g., complex housing) share the ability to alter the dendritic fields of cortical and subcortical neurons. Although such modifications are typically considered advantageous, recent research has demonstrated that psychomotor stimulants (cocaine and amphetamine) block subsequent experience-dependent structural plasticity in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and parietal neocortex. The authors investigated whether these findings generalize to another commonly used stimulant (nicotine) and further asked whether prior experience blocks subsequent nicotine-related structural plasticity. Rats were given daily injections of nicotine (or saline) for 14 days either before (Experiment 1) or after (Experiment 2) 2.5-3.0 months of complex (or standard) housing. Nicotine blocked housing-related increases in dendritic branching, length, spine density, and total spines in NAcc; however, complex housing did not block the effects of nicotine. The findings indicate that there are important differences in the capacity of drugs and experience to influence subsequent modifications in dendritic structure.
The anti-inflammatory effect of retinoic acid (RA) has been investigated for several decades. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this effect are largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that 9-cis-RA (cRA) and all-trans-RA (tRA) inhibit interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced inflammatory responses in astrocytes. In primary cultured rat brain astrocytes and C6 astroglioma cells, both cRA and tRA decreased IFN-gamma-induced expression of interferon regulatory factor-1. Both RA isoforms also reduced IFN-gamma-induced activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)1, STAT3, Janus kinase (JAK)1, and JAK2. This inhibitory effect was significant when cells were pre-treated with RA prior to IFN-gamma. Furthermore, the effect of pre-treated RA was abolished in the presence of cycloheximide, indicating a requirement for de novo protein synthesis. Suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS), which are negative regulators of the JAK/STAT pathway, may be candidate mediators of the anti-inflammatory function of RA. Both cRA and tRA induced SOCS3 mRNA expression. These results suggest that RA induces an anti-inflammatory effect by suppressing the activation of the JAK/STAT pathway in IFN-gamma-treated astrocytes. SOCS3 may be at least one of the mechanisms that mediate the anti-inflammatory roles of RA.

Cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) are thought to play an essential role in the high sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity of the hearing organ by generating forces that amplify the vibrations of this organ at frequencies up to several tens of kHz. This tuning process depends on the mechanical properties of the cochlear partition, which OHC activity has been proposed to modulate on a cycle-by-cycle basis. OHCs have a specialized shell-core ultrastructure believed to be important for the mechanics of these cells and for their unique electromotility properties. Here we use atomic force microscopy to investigate the mechanical properties of isolated living OHCs and to show that indentation mechanics of their membrane is consistent with a shell-core organization. Indentations of OHCs are also found to be highly nonhysteretic at deformation rates of more than 40 microm/s, which suggests the OHC lateral wall is a highly elastic structure, with little viscous dissipation, as would appear to be required in view of the very rapid changes in shape and mechanics OHCs are believed to undergo in vivo.

A rare case of unilateral benign essential tremor is presented that responded to surgical excision of a posterior fossa arachnoid cyst.
We evaluated the ability of cannabidiol (CBD) to impair the migration of tumor cells stimulated by conditioned medium. CBD caused concentration-dependent inhibition of the migration of U87 glioma cells, quantified in a Boyden chamber. Since these cells express both cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors in the membrane, we also evaluated their engagement in the antimigratory effect of CBD. The inhibition of cell was not antagonized either by the selective cannabinoid receptor antagonists SR141716 (CB1) and SR144528 (CB2) or by pretreatment with pertussis toxin, indicating no involvement of classical cannabinoid receptors and/or receptors coupled to Gi/o proteins. These results reinforce the evidence of antitumoral properties of CBD, demonstrating its ability to limit tumor invasion, although the mechanism of its pharmacological effects remains to be clarified.
Opioids have been shown to provide symptomatic relief from dysaesthesias and motor symptoms in restless legs syndrome (RLS). However, the mechanisms by which endogenous opioids contribute to the pathophysiology of RLS remain unknown. We have studied opioid receptor availability in 15 patients with primary RLS and 12 age-matched healthy volunteers using PET and [11C]diprenorphine, a non-selective opioid receptor radioligand. Ligand binding was quantified by generating parametric images of volume of distribution (V(d)) using a plasma-derived input function. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was used to localize mean group differences between patients and controls and to correlate ligand binding with clinical scores of disease severity. There were no mean group differences in opioid receptor binding between patients and controls. However, we found regional negative correlations between ligand binding and RLS severity (international restless legs scale, IRLS) in areas serving the medial pain system (medial thalamus, amygdala, caudate nucleus, anterior cingulate gyrus, insular cortex and orbitofrontal cortex). Pain scores (affective component of the McGill Pain Questionnaire) correlated inversely with opioid receptor binding in orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus. Our findings suggest that, the more severe the RLS, the greater the release of endogenous opioids within the medial pain system. We therefore discuss a possible role for opioids in the pathophysiology of RLS with respect to sensory and motor symptoms.
Functional neuroimaging studies in normal humans suggest that dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) plays an important role in cognitive control. This brain area is reliably activated when tasks require the ongoing adjustment of the allocation of attention. The dACC has come to occupy a central role in theories of attention and cognitive control, which hold that dACC either monitors response conflict, signalling the need for adjustments in cognitive processes, or directly mediates such adjustments. However, functional imaging results cannot establish that a brain area is necessary for a particular cognitive process. This requires evidence from loss-of-function studies. Here we assessed cognitive control in four human subjects with damage to dACC and 12 age- and education-matched control subjects using several measures drawn from the functional imaging literature. All four subjects with dACC damage showed normal adjustments in performance following manipulation of response conflict in both Stroop and go-no go tasks. Furthermore, damage to the dACC did not impair the phenomenon of post-error slowing, nor alter the ability to adjust performance in response to explicit speed or accuracy instructions. Thus, cognitive control, as assessed by four different measures in two different tasks, appears to be intact in these subjects, arguing against a necessary role for dACC in this process.
The diagnosis of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is based on clinical and laboratory results and on features of demyelination found in nerve conduction studies. The criteria that are currently used to reveal demyelinative slowing in CIDP have several limitations. These criteria were only determined in lower arm and lower leg nerve segments, were not defined with respect to nerve temperature, and the relationship with distal compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitudes is unclear. The aim of our study was to determine criteria for demyelinative slowing for lower arm and leg segments as well as for upper arm and shoulder segments at a temperature of 37 degrees C, and to assess whether criteria have to be modified when the distal CMAP is decreased. Included were 73 patients with lower motor neuron disease (LMND), 45 patients with CIDP and 36 healthy controls. The arms and legs were warmed in water at 37 degrees C for at least 30 min prior to an investigation and thereafter kept warm with infrared heaters. The proposed criteria for demyelinative slowing were based on the maximum conduction slowing that may occur as a consequence of axonal degeneration and consisted of the upper boundary (99%) or the lower boundary (1%) of conduction values in LMND. In LMND, the maximum conduction slowing was different for arm and leg nerves and for segments within the arm nerves. Moreover, distal motor latency and motor conduction velocity were slower in nerves with distal CMAP amplitudes below 1 mV than in nerves with distal CMAP amplitudes above 1 mV. For these reasons, separate criteria were proposed for arm nerves, for leg nerves and for different segments within arm nerves, and more stringent criteria were proposed for distal motor latency and motor conduction velocity when the distal CMAP amplitude was below 1 mV. The diagnostic yield in CIDP was assessed using the nerve, and not the patient, as the unit of measurement. Thus, whether demyelinative slowing was present was determined for each nerve. Compared with other criteria, our criteria increased the specificity without affecting sensitivity. We conclude that the present criteria, based on the maximum slowing that may occur as a result of axonal degeneration, allow more accurate detection of demyelinative slowing in CIDP compared with other criteria. It should be emphasized that the proposed criteria can only be applied if the method of warming in water at 37 degrees C for at least 30 min is adopted.
Wallerian degeneration in the CNS and PNS consists of degradation and phagocytosis of axons and their myelin sheath distal to the site of injury. This process of degeneration, which requires an effective macrophage response, occurs rapidly in peripheral nerves but is slow in the CNS. Rapid Wallerian degeneration in peripheral nerves may contribute to subsequent axonal regeneration. We show that there is a marked increase in mRNA expression of three pro-inflammatory molecules, the chemokines monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), and the cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), in the mouse sciatic nerve but not in the spinal cord undergoing Wallerian degeneration. Neutralizing MCP-1, MIP-1alpha and IL-1beta in the lesioned sciatic nerve with function-blocking antibodies suppressed macrophage responses and myelin clearance. Injecting recombinant MCP-1, MIP-1alpha or IL-1beta into the normal, uninjured spinal cord triggered the expression of a number of chemokines and cytokines. Furthermore, injecting recombinant MCP-1/MIP-1alpha or IL-1beta into the dorsal column of the spinal cord undergoing Wallerian degeneration triggered rapid macrophage/microglial activation and myelin clearance. These findings provide direct evidence that MCP-1, MIP-1alpha and IL-1beta are important regulators of macrophage responses that lead to rapid myelin breakdown and clearance in Wallerian degeneration.
Focal hand dystonia (FHD) has been suggested to be a maladaptive response of the brain to repetitive performance of stereotyped and attentionally demanding hand movements. However, not all patients with FHD have a strict history of excessive hand use; for example, patients with musician's dystonia (MD) spend many hours per day with their attention focused on instrumental practice, whereas many patients with writer's cramp (WC) have a history of average hand use. The present experiments test whether seven MD and six WC patients have different pathophysiological deficits by examining the spatial pattern of sensorimotor organization in the motor cortex. Two control groups were used, eight healthy non-musicians and eight healthy musicians. The latter served to control for physiological adaptation of the brain to musical training. We used focal vibration of a single hand muscle to produce sensory input whilst the excitability of corticospinal outputs to the vibrated and other hand muscles was evaluated with transcranial magnetic stimulation. In healthy non-musicians, vibration increases the amplitude of motor-evoked potentials and decreases the short-latency intracortical inhibition (SICI) in the vibrated muscle, whilst having the opposite effect on the non-vibrated hand muscles. The pattern of sensorimotor interaction was abnormal in both patient groups. However, the nature of the deficit differed between them. While vibration had little effect on cortical excitability in WC, it strongly reduced SICI in all hand muscles irrespective of spatial organization in MD. In the healthy musicians we found an organization intermediate between that of healthy non-musicians and MD. The data are consistent with a model in which musical practice in healthy musicians leads to beneficial changes in organization of the motor cortex, but in MD these progress too far and begin to interfere with movement rather than assist it. The fact that sensory input had no effect on motor output in patients with WC suggests that sensory information from the hand may play a smaller role in provoking pathological changes in WC than in MD.
The role of emotion in complex decision-making can be assessed on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a widely used neuropsychological measure that may tap a different aspect of executive function than that assessed by conventional measures. Most notably, the 'feeling' about which decks are good or bad, often described in relation to IGT performance, seems reminiscent of decision-making based on intuition-linked to a long history of research in decision-making contrasting the 'intuition' versus 'reasoning' styles of problem solving. To test the claim that the performance on the IGT relies more on emotion-based learning than conventional executive resources for normal performance, a group of participants completed the IGT simultaneously with one of two secondary-tasks, one of which (random number generation) is known to load executive resources. A third group performed the IGT with no secondary-task. If performance on the IGT requires the properties associated with intuitive operations, then participants should either show no disruption when completing a secondary-task, or at least show no selective disruption on a secondary-task that loads for executive function. The rate of learning in the three groups was not significantly different. This suggests that the sorts of cognitive resources loaded by traditional executive tasks such as random number generation do not overlap, in the cognitive architecture, with the emotion-based learning skills that are required for Iowa Gambling Task performance. The findings of the present study are also consistent with a previous claim of the Iowa group that emotion-based learning and working memory resources are doubly dissociable.
This study addresses continuing controversies concerning the nature of semantic impairment in early dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and the relationship between conceptual knowledge and picture naming. A series of analyses of fine-grained feature knowledge data show that: (1) distinctive features of concepts were more vulnerable than shared; (2) the amount of attribute knowledge about a concept was associated reliably, and in a graded fashion, with the ability to name a picture of that item; (3) sensory features were differentially important in naming; and (4) the degree of disruption to different types of attribute knowledge did not vary between items from living and nonliving domains. These findings are discussed in the context of contemporary cognitive and computational models of semantic memory organisation.
The biosynthesis of oxygenated arachidonic acid messengers triggered by cerebral ischemia-reperfusion is preceded by an early and rapid phospholipase A2 activation reflected in free arachidonic and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) accumulation. These fatty acids are released from membrane phospholipids. Both fatty acids are derived from dietary essential fatty acids; however, only DHA, the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acyl chain, is concentrated in phospholipids of various cells of brain and retina. Synaptic membranes and photoreceptors share the highest content of DHA of all cell membranes. DHA is involved in memory formation, excitable membrane function, photoreceptor cell biogenesis and function, and neuronal signaling, and has been implicated in neuroprotection. In addition, this fatty acid is required for retinal pigment epithelium cell (RPE) functional integrity. Here we provide an overview of the recent elucidation of a specific mediator generated from DHA that contributes at least in part to its biological significance. In oxidative stress-challenged human RPE cells and rat brain undergoing ischemia-reperfusion, 10,17S-docosatriene (neuroprotectin D1, NPD1) synthesis evolves. In addition, calcium ionophore A23187, IL-1beta, or the supply of DHA enhances NPD1 synthesis. A time-dependent release of endogenous free DHA followed by NPD1 formation occurs, suggesting that a phospholipase A2 releases the mediator's precursor. When NPD1 is infused during ischemia-reperfusion or added to RPE cells during oxidative stress, apoptotic DNA damage is down-regulated. NPD1 also up-regulates the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins Bcl-2 and BclxL and decreases pro-apoptotic Bax and Bad expression. Moreover, NPD1 inhibits oxidative stress-induced caspase-3 activation. NPD1 also inhibits IL-1beta-stimulated expression of COX-2. Overall, NPD1 protects cells from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Because photoreceptors are progressively impaired after RPE cell damage in retinal degenerative diseases, understanding of how these signals contribute to retinal cell survival may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies. Moreover, NPD1 bioactivity demonstrates that DHA is not only a target of lipid peroxidation, but rather is the precursor to a neuroprotective signaling response to ischemia-reperfusion, thus opening newer avenues of therapeutic exploration in stroke, neurotrauma, spinal cord injury, and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer disease, aiming to up-regulate this novel cell-survival signaling.
Adult-onset dominant leukodystrophies are a heterogeneous group of rare disorders, whose etiology, pathogenesis and molecular background are still unknown. We report the neuropathological and biochemical investigations of the brains and their myelin proteins components in 2 members of an Italian family affected by an adult-onset autosomal dominant leukoencephalopathy. Clinical signs included spastic paraparesis, pseudobulbar syndrome, action tremor of head and hands, and moderate memory impairment. No mental deterioration or neuropathy was present. Onset was subacute (range 42-53 years) and progression spanned 4 to 7 years. The neuropathological phenotype overlapped that of orthochromatic leukodystrophies. The biochemical analysis revealed an abnormal myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG); the defect was localized at the C-terminal domain of the L-MAG isoform, resulting in a protein approximately 5 kDa shorter than the normal counterpart. No mutation in the MAG gene-coding regions was uncovered, and linkage analysis formally excluded the entire MAG locus. We show that the identified MAG protein alteration is probably due to an abnormal post-translational event. Considering MAG function in the maintenance of myelin, the abnormal protein may have a role in the pathogenesis of this disease. This is the first report of a possible pathogenetic role of MAG in a hereditary disease affecting the central white matter.
The extracellular deposition of amyloid (A) peptides in plaques, and neurofibrillary tangles are the two characteristic pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Plaques are surrounded by activated astrocytes and microglia, to study the relation between amyloid neuropathology and inflammation, we examined the changes in amyloid pathology in the hippocampus following three different treatments aimed at reducing the amyloid burden. (1) To investigate the effects of long-term cholinergic deafferentation, we lesioned the fimbria-fornix pathway in our AD-model mice at 7 months of age, and 11 months post-lesion the mice were sacrificed for histopathological analysis. The fimbria-fornix transection resulted in a substantial depletion of cholinergic markers in the hippocampus, but the lesion did not result in an alteration in hippocampal A deposition and inflammation (i.e., numbers or staining density of astrocytes and microglia). (2) To investigate the effects of estrogen, we ovariectomized mice and treated them with estrogen (sham-lesion, zero dose, low dose, and high dose) and studied the pathology at different postsurgery intervals. Estrogen depletion (i.e., ovariectomy) or estrogen replacement did not affect A deposition or inflammation at any time point. (3) In the final studies, we treated mice with flurbiprofen and an NO-donating derivative of flurbiprofen (HCT 1026) for several months (from 6 till 14 months of age), and studied the A pathology and inflammation in the brain. Sham treatment, flurbiprofen, and the low-dose HCT 1026 did not affect pathology; however, a higher dose of HCT 1026 reduced both A load and amount of microglial activation surrounding plaques.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is an ubiquitous receptor-like molecule involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease that generates beta-amyloid peptides and causes plaque formation. APP and some of its C-terminal proteolytic fragments (CTFs) have also been shown to be in the center of a complex protein-protein network, where selective phosphorylation of APP C-terminus may regulate the interaction with cytosolic phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain or Src homology 2 (SH2) domain containing proteins involved in cell signaling. We have recently described an interaction between tyrosine-phosphorylated CTFs and ShcA adaptor protein which is highly enhanced in AD brain, and a new interaction between APP and the adaptor protein Grb2 both in human brain and in neuroblastoma cultured cells. These data suggest a possible role in cell signaling for APP and its CTFs, in a manner similar to that previously reported for other receptors, through a tightly regulated coupling with intracellular adaptors to control the signaling of the cell. In this review, we discuss the significance of these novel findings for AD development.
In chronic neurodegenerative diseases, microglial activation is an early sign that often precedes neuronal death. Increasing evidence indicates that in these chronic pathologies activated microglia sustain a local inflammatory response. Nonetheless, the potential detrimental or protective roles of such reaction remain to date not fully understood, mainly because of the lack of direct evidence of the functional properties acquired by microglia in the course of chronic diseases. Purified microglial cultures have been extensively used to investigate microglial functions associated with activation, but they are often criticized for some experimental constrains, including the abrupt addition of activators, the limited time of stimulation, and the absence of interactions with neurons or other elements of brain parenchyma. To limit these confounding factors, we developed in vitro models in which microglial cells were repeatedly challenged with lipopolysaccharide or co-cultured with healthy, apoptotic, or necrotic neuronal cells. We found that chronic stimulation and interaction with phosphatidylserine-expressing apoptotic cells induced microglial cells to release immunoregulatory and neuroprotective agents (prostaglandin E(2), transforming growth factor-beta, and nerve growth factor), whereas the synthesis of pro-inflammatory molecules (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and nitric oxide) was inhibited. These findings suggest that signals that are relevant to chronic diseases lead to a progressive down-regulation of pro-inflammatory microglial functions and may help in understanding the atypical microglial activation that begins to be recognized in some chronic neuropathologies.
The first part of this paper summarizes some of the key observations from experimental work in animals that support a role of microglia as neuroprotective cells after acute neuronal injury. These studies point towards an important role of neuronal-microglial crosstalk in the facilitation of neuroprotection. Conceptually, injured neurons are thought to generate rescue signals that trigger microglial activation and, in turn, activated microglia produce trophic or other factors that help damaged neurons recover from injury. Against this background, the second part of this paper summarizes recent work from postmortem studies conducted in humans that have revealed the occurrence of senescent, or dystrophic, microglial cells in the aged and Alzheimer's disease brain. These findings suggest that microglial cells become increasingly dysfunctional with advancing age and that a loss of microglial cell function may involve a loss of neuroprotective properties that could contribute to the development of aging-related neurodegeneration.
Spontaneous neural tissue repair occurs in patients affected by inflammatory and degenerative disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). However, this process is not robust enough to promote a functional and stable recovery of the CNS architecture. The development of cell-based therapies aimed at promoting brain repair, through damaged cell-replacement, is therefore foreseen. Several experimental cell-based strategies aimed at replacing damaged neural cells have been developed in the last 30 years. Although successful in promoting site-specific repair in focal CNS disorders, most of these therapeutic approaches have failed to foster repair in multifocal CNS diseases where the anatomical and functional damage is widespread. Stem cell-based therapies have been recently proposed and might represent in the near future a plausible alternative strategy in these disorders. However, before envisaging any human applications of stem cell-based therapies in neurological diseases, we need to consider some preliminary and still unsolved issues: (i) the ideal stem cell source for transplantation, (ii) the most appropriate route of stem cell administration, and, last but not least, (iii) the best approach to achieve an appropriate, functional, and long-lasting integration of transplanted stem cells into the host tissue.
Extracellular nucleotides act as potent signaling molecules in the neuron-glia and glia-glia communication, via the activation of specific ligand-gated P2X and G-protein-coupled metabotropic P2Y receptors. Most of the data available about the effects of P2 receptor activation in the CNS concern astrocytes, microglia, and neurons. To gain insights into the role of purinergic receptors in oligodendrocyte development, we characterized the expression and functional activity of P2 receptors in rat oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPs) and investigated the effects of ATP and its breakdown products on their functions. We describe here that rat OPs express different types of P2 receptors and that nucleotide-induced Ca(2+) raises in these progenitor cells are mainly due to the activation of P2X(7) ionotropic and ADP-sensitive P2Y(1) metabotropic receptors. We also show that ATP and ADP stimulate OP migration, inhibit the mitogenic response of OPs to PDGF and promote oligodendrocyte differentiation. The pharmacological profile of the nucleotide-induced effects demonstrates the important regulatory role of P2Y(1) receptor signaling in OP functions. These findings suggest that ATP, which is released in high amounts under inflammatory conditions and following cell death, might regulate remyelination processes in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the CNS, like multiple sclerosis.
Microglial cells are the major cellular elements with immune function inside the CNS and play important roles in orchestrating inflammatory brain response to hypoxia and trauma. Although a complete knowledge of the endogenous factors leading to a prompt activation of microglia is not yet available, activation of P2 purinoreceptors by extracellular ATP has been indicated as a primary factor in microglial response. A still unresolved question, however, is which subtype(s) of P2 receptors mediate(s) the response to ATP. By a combination of RT-PCR, Western blotting, and single-cell calcium imaging, we assessed the presence and the activity of P2 receptor subtypes in the mouse microglial cell line N9. All members of the P2 receptor family, including the recently reported receptor for sugar nucleotides (P2Y(14)), were found to be present in these cells at mRNA and/or protein level. The functionality of the receptors was assessed by analysis of the calcium responses evoked by specific agonists both in N9 cells and in primary microglia from rat brain. Interestingly, a different functional profile of P2 receptors was observed in resting or in LPS-activated N9 cells. Overnight exposure to LPS increased P2Y(6) and P2Y(14), decreased P2X(7), and left unchanged P2Y(1) and P2Y(2,4) receptor activity. The change in the P2 receptor profile in activated cells suggests selective roles for specific P2 receptor subtypes in microglial activation triggered by LPS. We speculate that modulation of microglial cell function via subtype-selective P2 receptor ligands may open up new strategies in the therapeutic management of inflammatory neurological diseases characterized by abnormal microglia response.
Microglial cells in culture and in situ express a defined pattern of K(+) channels, which is distinct from that of other glial cells and neurons. This pattern undergoes defined changes with microglial activation. As expected for a cell with immunological properties, microglia express a variety of cytokine and chemokine receptors, which are linked to the mobilization of Ca(2+) (cytosolic free calcium) from internal stores. Microglial cells also have the capacity to respond to neuronal activity: they express receptors for the major excitatory receptor glutamate and the main inhibitory receptor GABA (gamma-amino butyric acid). By expressing purinergic receptors, microglia can sense astrocyte activity in the form of Ca(2+) waves. Activation of transmitter receptors can affect cytokine release which is a potential means as to how brain activity can affect immune function.
Recent neuroscience research is beginning to discover the brain regions involved in decision-making under uncertainty, but little is known about whether or how these regions functionally interact with each other. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine both changes in overall activity and changes in functional connectivity during risk-taking. Results showed that choosing high-risk over low-risk decisions was associated with increased activity in both anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortices. Connectivity analyses revealed that largely distinct, but somewhat overlapping, cortical and subcortical regions exhibited significant functional connectivity with anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortices. Additionally, connectivity with the anterior cingulate in some regions, including the orbitofrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, was modulated by the decision participants chose. These findings (1) elucidate large networks of brain regions that are functionally connected with both anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortices during decision-making and (2) demonstrate that the roles of orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortices can be functionally differentiated by examining patterns of connectivity.
Most decisions must be made without advance knowledge of their consequences. Economists and psychologists have devoted much attention to modeling decisions made under conditions of risk in which options can be characterized by a known probability distribution over possible outcomes. The descriptive shortcomings of classical economic models motivated the development of prospect theory (D. Kahneman, A. Tversky, Prospect theory: An analysis of decision under risk. Econometrica, 4 (1979) 263-291; A. Tversky, D. Kahneman, Advances in prospect theory: Cumulative representation of uncertainty. Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, 5 (4) (1992) 297-323) the most successful behavioral model of decision under risk. In the prospect theory, subjective value is modeled by a value function that is concave for gains, convex for losses, and steeper for losses than for gains; the impact of probabilities are characterized by a weighting function that overweights low probabilities and underweights moderate to high probabilities. We outline the possible neural bases of the components of prospect theory, surveying evidence from human imaging, lesion, and neuropharmacology studies as well as animal neurophysiology studies. These results provide preliminary suggestions concerning the neural bases of prospect theory that include a broad set of brain regions and neuromodulatory systems. These data suggest that focused studies of decision making in the context of quantitative models may provide substantial leverage towards a fuller understanding of the cognitive neuroscience of decision making.
The presence of stem cells in the central nervous system of adult rodents has been suspected some forty years ago. However, it is only since two decades that the ability of those cells to give rise to neurons has been demonstrated in two regions of the CNS, the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb. It is only recently that stem cells have been identified in the hippocampus of adult Humans. Stem cells have been transplanted in animal models of Nervous pathologies, to compensate for a deficit in neurotransmitters (Parkinson's disease) or of trophic factors (Spinal cord injury) with encouraging but not decisive results. Future progresses are expected from the us of intrinsic stem cells whose fate could be controlled thanks to the modern tools of gene therapy.

Genetically encoded sensors are becoming a powerful tool for investigating cellular signaling pathways and, potentially, signaling in vivo. Many sensors use changes in fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between donor and acceptor variants of GFP separated by a ligand binding domain sensitive to a particular signaling pathway. Accurate measurements require that sensors be insensitive to extraneous intracellular environmental factors. We have found that the responsiveness of the Ca(2+) sensor, cameleon YC6.1, varies linearly with the resting YFP/CFP emission ratio in the cell. However, cells expressing responsive or non-responsive sensor can easily be segregated by determining a resting YFP/CFP ratio cutoff for the sensor. This environmental sensitivity has been eliminated by replacing EYFP with Venus to produce a new cameleon we have designated VC6.1. Measurements show that VC6.1 has a greater dynamic range than YC6.1 and better environmental resistance. We also show that YC6.1 is inactivated by persistent activation of the IP(3) pathway following expression of constitutively active G(q), while VC6.1 is not. The stability of VC6.1 may make it well suited to studies utilizing mixed cell populations such as those encountered in vivo.
The expression of two different transcripts for Ca(V)1.2 in rat tissues mirrors that which has previously been described for human tissue, in that expression of transcripts expressing exon 1a is predominant only in heart, whereas expression of transcripts expressing exon 1b is greater in smooth muscle rich tissues such as aorta and intestine. Transcripts expressing exon 1b also predominate in brain and in diaphragm. Western blots indicate that the N-terminus coded for by exon 1b is present in much of the protein in all these tissues except heart. The promoter just upstream of exon 1b has been cloned, sequenced and utilized to drive expression of luciferase in smooth muscle A7r5 cells, cardiac HL-1 cells, skeletal muscle L6 cells and neuronal PC12 cells. The nucleotide sequence of the promoter exhibits 80% identity with the equivalent promoter previously identified in humans and 94% identity with the sequence of the equivalent region of the mouse genome. Evidence in favor of still another promoter upstream of exon 2 has been uncovered.
Classical methyl-CpG binding proteins contain the conserved DNA binding motif methyl-cytosine binding domain (MBD), which preferentially binds to methylated CpG dinucleotides. These proteins serve as transcriptional repressors, mediating gene silencing via DNA cytosine methylation. Mutations in methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) have been linked to the human mental retardation disorder Rett syndrome, suggesting an important role for methyl-CpG binding proteins in brain development and function. This mini-review summarizes the recent advances in studying the diverse functions of MeCP2 as a prototype for other methyl-CpG binding proteins in the development and function of the vertebrate nervous system.
The formation of somatic neuromuscular junctions in skeletal muscle is regulated by an extracellular matrix protein called agrin. Here, we have examined the expression and localization of agrin during development of the rodent urinary bladder, as a first step to examining its possible role at autonomic neuroeffector junctions in smooth muscle. We have found that agrin is expressed on the surface of developing smooth muscle cells and in the basement membrane underlying the urothelium. More importantly, agrin is progressively concentrated at parasympathetic varicosities during postnatal development and is present at virtually all junctions in mature muscle. Reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction analysis has shown that pelvic ganglion neurons that innervate the bladder express LN/z8 agrin, whereas bladder smooth muscle expresses LN/z- agrin. Together, these results demonstrate that nerve and/or muscle agrin becomes localized at cholinergic parasympathetic varicosities in smooth muscle, where it could play a role in the maturation of the neuroeffector junction.
While the receptive field properties of single neurons in the inferior parietal cortex have been quantitatively described from numerous electrical measurements, the visual topography of area 7a and the adjacent dorsal prelunate area (DP) remains unknown. This lacuna may be a technical byproduct of the difficulty of reconstructing tens to hundreds of penetrations, or may be the result of varying functional retinotopic architectures. Intrinsic optical imaging, performed in behaving monkey for extended periods of time, was used to evaluate retinotopy simultaneously at multiple positions across the cortical surface. As electrical recordings through an implanted artificial dura are difficult, the measurement and quantification of retinotopy with long-term recordings was validated by imaging early visual cortex (areas V1 and V2). Retinotopic topography was found in each of the three other areas studied within a single day's experiment. However, the ventral portion of DP (DPv) had a retinotopic topography that varied from day to day, while the more dorsal aspects (DPd) exhibited consistent retinotopy. This suggests that the dorsal prelunate gyrus may consist of more than one visual area. The retinotopy of area 7a also varied from day to day. Possible mechanisms for this variability across days are discussed as well as its impact upon our understanding of the representation of extrapersonal space in the inferior parietal cortex.
In order to understand the brain networks that mediate cognitive reserve, we explored the relationship between subjects' network expression during the performance of a memory test and an index of cognitive reserve. Using H2(15)O positron emission tomography, we imaged 17 healthy older subjects and 20 young adults while they performed a serial recognition memory task for nonsense shapes under two conditions: low demand, with a unique shape presented in each study trial; and titrated demand, with a study list size adjusted so that each subject recognized shapes at 75% accuracy. A factor score that summarized years of education, and scores on the NART and the WAIS-R Vocabulary subtest was used as an index of cognitive reserve. The scaled subprofile model was used to identify a set of functionally connected regions (or topography) that changed in expression across the two task conditions and was differentially expressed by the young and elderly subjects. The regions most active in this topography consisted of right hippocampus, posterior insula, thalamus, and right and left operculum; we found concomitant deactivation in right lingual gyrus, inferior parietal lobe and association cortex, left posterior cingulate, and right and left calcarine cortex. Young subjects with higher cognitive reserve showed increased expression of the topography across the two task conditions. Because this topography, which is responsive to increased task demands, was differentially expressed as a function of reserve level, it may represent a neural manifestation of innate or acquired reserve. In contrast, older subjects with higher cognitive reserve showed decreased expression of the topography across tasks. This suggests some functional reorganization of the network used by the young subjects. Thus, for the old subjects this topography may represent an altered, compensatory network that is used to maintain function in the face of age-related physiological changes.
MCT2 is the main neuronal monocarboxylate transporter needed by neurons if they are to use lactate as an additional energy substrate. Previous evidence suggested that some MCT2 could be located in postsynaptic elements of glutamatergic synapses. Using post-embedding electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, it is demonstrated that MCT2 is present at postsynaptic density of asymmetric synapses, in the stratum radiatum of both rat hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions, as well as at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses in mouse cerebellum. MCT2 levels were significantly lower at mossy fibre synapses on CA3 neurons, and MCT2 was almost absent from symmetric synapses on CA1 pyramidal cells. It could also be demonstrated using quantitative double-labeling immunogold cytochemistry that MCT2 and AMPA receptor GluR2/3 subunits have a similar postsynaptic distribution at asymmetric synapses with high levels expressed within the postsynaptic density. In addition, as for AMPA receptors, a significant proportion of MCT2 is located on vesicular membranes within the postsynaptic spine, forming an intracellular pool available for a putative postsynaptic endo/exocytotic trafficking at these excitatory synapses. Altogether, the data presented provide evidence for MCT2 expression in the postsynaptic density area at specific subsets of glutamatergic synapses, and also suggest that MCT2, like AMPA receptors, could undergo membrane trafficking.
There is considerable controversy at present concerning the mechanisms responsible for the cellular uptake of anandamide. One particular issue concerns whether fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin should be used in the assays, it having been argued that such a presence effectively prevents the specific uptake of anandamide. In the present study, it has been demonstrated that in the presence of a low (0.1%, w/v) concentration of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin, a temperature-dependent and saturable (K(m) approximately 1 microM) uptake of anandamide into P19 embryonic carcinoma cells can be demonstrated using an incubation time of 4 min. Under these conditions, the uptake of anandamide at 4 degrees C is low at a substrate concentration of 100 nM. The uptake at 37 degrees C was not significantly reduced following treatment of the cells with either methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (50 microM) or mevinolin (1 microM), but was reduced by the FAAH inhibitor URB597 (1 microM) and inhibited by the transport inhibitor cum FAAH substrate AM404 with an IC(50) value of 12 microM. When a 45 s incubation time was used, the uptake of anandamide was not saturable at 37 degrees C over the concentration range tested (0.1-1 microM). Analysis of the data at 37 degrees C obtained with 45 s, 4 min and 15 min incubation times revealed a very rapid (i.e. complete by 45 s) non-saturable component followed by a slower saturable (K(m) approximately 1 microM) component of the uptake. It is concluded that the presence of a low concentration of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin at a suitable concentration reduces non-specific binding (and release) of anandamide to cell culture wells, greatly reduces the cellular accumulation seen at 4 degrees C, and allows the visualisation of both non-saturable and saturable components of the uptake to be seen at 37 degrees C.
Most brain related databases bring together specialized information, with a growing number that include neuroimaging measures. This article outlines the potential use and insights from the first entirely standardized and centralized database, which integrates information from neuroimaging measures (EEG, event related potential (ERP), structural/functional MRI), arousal (skin conductance responses (SCR)s, heart rate, respiration), neuropsychological and personality tests, genomics and demographics: The Brain Resource International Database. It comprises data from over 2000 &quot;normative&quot; subjects and a growing number of patients with neurological and psychiatric illnesses, acquired from over 50 laboratories (in the U.S.A, United Kingdom, Holland, South Africa, Israel and Australia), all with identical equipment and experimental procedures. Three primary goals of this database are to quantify individual differences in normative brain function, to compare an individual's performance to their database peers, and to provide a robust normative framework for clinical assessment and treatment prediction. We present three example demonstrations in relation to these goals. First, we show how consistent age differences may be quantified when large subject numbers are available, using EEG and ERP data from nearly 2000 stringently screened. normative subjects. Second, the use of a normalization technique provides a means to compare clinical subjects (50 ADHD subjects in this study) to the normative database with the effects of age and gender taken into account. Third, we show how a profile of EEG/ERP and autonomic measures potentially provides a means to predict treatment response in ADHD subjects. The example data consists of EEG under eyes open and eyes closed and ERP data for auditory oddball, working memory and Go-NoGo paradigms. Autonomic measures of skin conductance (tonic skin conductance level, SCL, and phasic skin conductance responses, SCRs) were acquired simultaneously with central EEG/ERP measures. The findings show that the power of large samples, tested using standardized protocols, allows for the quantification of individual differences that can subsequently be used to control such variation and to enhance the sensitivity and specificity of comparisons between normative and clinical groups. In terms of broader significance, the combination of size and multidimensional measures tapping the brain's core cognitive competencies, may provide a normative and evidence-based framework for individually-based assessments in &quot;Personalized Medicine.&quot;
Hypothesis driven research has been shown to be an excellent model for pursuing investigations in neuroscience. The Human Genome Project demonstrated the added value of discovery research, especially in areas where large amounts of data are produced. Neuroscience has become a data rich field, and one that would be enhanced by incorporating the discovery approach. Databases, as well as analytical, modeling and simulation tools, will have to be developed, and they will need to be interoperable and federated. This paper presents an overview of the development of the field of neuroscience databases and associate tools: Neuroinformatics. The primary focus is on the impact of NIH funding of this process. The important issues of data sharing, as viewed from the perspective of the scientist and private and public funding organizations, are discussed. Neuroinformatics will provide more than just a sophisticated array of information technologies to help scientists understand and integrate nervous system data. It will make available powerful models of neural functions and facilitate discovery, hypothesis formulation and electronic collaboration.



CRF(1) antagonists DMP696 and DMP904 were designed as drug development candidates for the treatment of anxiety and depression. Both compounds display nanomolar affinity for human CRF(1) receptors, and exhibit &gt;1000-fold selectivity for CRF(1) over CRF(2) receptors and over a broad panel of other proteins. DMP696 and DMP904 block CRF-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in cortical homogenates and cell-lines expressing CRF(1) receptors. Both compounds inhibit CRF-stimulated ACTH release from rat pituitary corticotropes. Binding and functional studies indicate that DMP696 and DMP904 behave as noncompetitive full antagonists. DMP696 and DMP904 exhibit anxiolytic-like efficacy in several rat anxiety models. In the defensive withdrawal test, both compounds reduce exit latency with lowest effective doses of 3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively. The anxiolytic-like effect is maintained over 14 days of repeated dosing. In the context of a novel environment used in this test, DMP696 and DMP904 reverse mild stress-induced increases in plasma CORT secretion but at doses 3-4-fold greater than those required for anxiolyticlike efficacy. DMP696 and DMP904 are ineffective in three depression models including the learned helplessness paradigm at doses up to 30 mg/kg. At lowest anxiolytic-like doses, DMP696 and DMP904 occupy &gt;50% CRF(1) receptors in the brain. The in vivo IC(50) values (plasma concentrations required for occupying 50% CRF(1) receptors) estimated based upon free, but not total, plasma concentrations are an excellent correlation with the in vitro IC(50) values. Neither compound produces sedation, ataxia, chlordiazepoxide-like subjective effects or adverse effects on cognition at doses 10-fold higher than anxiolytic-like doses. Neither compound produces physiologically significant changes in cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal or renal functions at anxiolytic-like doses. DMP696 and DMP904 have favorable pharmacokinetic profiles with good oral bioavailabilities. The overall pharmacological properties suggest that both compounds may be effective anxiolytics with low behavioral side effect liabilities.
Psychotic major depression is a severe condition that frequently proves difficult-to-treat. The most effective traditional treatments (electroconvulsive therapy and combinations of antipsychotics with tricyclic antidepressants) are associated with significant side effects, and the use of tricyclic antidepressants alone is largely ineffective. Recent evidence has indicated that the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, either alone or in combination with antipsychotics, may provide a desirable alternative to traditional treatments. Among selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, fluvoxamine has been the best studied and, somewhat surprisingly, has proven effective in several studies as a monotherapy without the need to combine with an antipsychotic. It is proposed that the apparent efficacy of fluvoxamine in psychotic major depression may be related to its unique property of high affinity for the sigma 1 receptor, which is thought to play a role in psychosis and in the action of some antipsychotic drugs.
This review discusses the clenching-grinding spectrum from the neuropsychiatric/neuroevolutionary perspective. In neuropsychiatry, signs of jaw clenching may be a useful objective marker for detecting or substantiating a self-report of current subjective emotional distress. Similarly, accelerated tooth wear may be an objective clinical sign for detecting, or substantiating, long-lasting anxiety. Clenching-grinding behaviors affect at least 8 percent of the population. We argue that during the early paleolithic environment of evolutionary adaptedness, jaw clenching was an adaptive trait because it rapidly strengthened the masseter and temporalis muscles, enabling a stronger, deeper and therefore more lethal bite in expectation of conflict (warfare) with conspecifics. Similarly, sharper incisors produced by teeth grinding may have served as weaponry during early human combat. We posit that alleles predisposing to fear-induced clenching-grinding were evolutionarily conserved in the human clade (lineage) since they remained adaptive for anatomically and mitochondrially modern humans (Homo sapiens) well into the mid-paleolithic. Clenching-grinding, sleep bruxism, myofacial pain, craniomaxillofacial musculoskeletal pain, temporomandibular disorders, oro-facial pain, and the fibromyalgia/chronic fatigue spectrum disorders are linked. A 2003 Cochrane meta-analysis concluded that dental procedures for the above spectrum disorders are not evidence based. There is a need for early detection of clenching-grinding in anxiety disorder clinics and for research into science-based interventions. Finally, research needs to examine the possible utility of incorporating physical signs into Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition posttraumatic stress disorder diagnostic criteria. One of the diagnostic criterion that may need to undergo a revision in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition is Criterion D (persistent fear-circuitry activation not present before the trauma). Grinding-induced incisor wear, and clenching-induced palpable masseter tenderness may be examples of such objective physical signs of persistent fear-circuitry activation (posttraumatic stress disorder Criterion D).
Immunochemical staining techniques are commonly used to assess neuronal, astrocytic and microglial alterations in experimental neuroscience research, and in particular, are applied to tissues from animals subjected to ischemic stroke. Immunoreactivity of brain sections can be measured from digitized immunohistology slides so that quantitative assessment can be carried out by computer-assisted analysis. Conventional methods of analyzing immunohistology are based on image classification techniques applied to a specific anatomic location at high magnification. Such micro-scale localized image analysis limits one for further correlative studies with other imaging modalities on whole brain sections, which are of particular interest in experimental stroke research. This report presents a semi-automated image analysis method that performs convolution-based image classification on micro-scale images, extracts numerical data representing positive immunoreactivity from the processed micro-scale images and creates a corresponding quantitative macro-scale image. The present method utilizes several image-processing techniques to cope with variances in intensity distribution, as well as artifacts caused by light scattering or heterogeneity of antigen expression, which are commonly encountered in immunohistology. Micro-scale images are composed by a tiling function in a mosaic manner. Image classification is accomplished by the K-means clustering method at the relatively low-magnification micro-scale level in order to increase computation efficiency. The quantitative macro-scale image is suitable for correlative analysis with other imaging modalities. This method was applied to different immunostaining antibodies, such as endothelial barrier antigen (EBA), lectin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), on histology slides from animals subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion by the intraluminal suture method. Reliability tests show that the results obtained from immunostained images at high magnification and relatively low magnification are virtually the same.


In the current issue of Cortex, Pavani and colleagues show that directing gaze toward the contralesional hemifield significantly diminishes the auditory deficits associated with unilateral neglect. The authors suggest that this beneficial effect of gaze direction may arise due to the recruitment of crossmodal attentional links between audition and vision. A complementary interpretation of these findings is that directing gaze toward neglected sound sources encourages the recoding of auditory spatial location in a relatively preserved frame of reference, and that it is through this coordinate transformation process that awareness of auditory stimuli may be regained. Rehabilitation strategies aimed at recoding stimuli within relatively preserved reference frames may be a useful step forward in managing unilateral neglect.
Blocking the effects of fractalkine therapeutically may regulate microglia cell activation and provide neuroprotection in the AD brain. A human herpesvirus 8-encoded chemokine, termed vMIP-II is a non-selective chemokine receptor antagonist (binding multiple chemokine receptors, including CX3CR1). By comparing vMIP-II and FKN, we have generated molecules that selectively antagonize CX3CR1 activation. The results from these studies will guide future development of therapeutic agents designed to modulate microglial activation with the goal of preventing or slowing the progression of AD.
Estrogens are now recognized as potent neuroprotectants in a variety of in vitro and in vivo model for cerebral ischemia. These protective effects of estrogens are seen in neurons, astrocytes, microglia and vascular endothelial cells and result in a profound protection of the brain during stroke. Herein, we provide a thesis that indicates that the protective effects of estrogens during stroke may be a combined effect on multiple targets of the neurovascular unit (NVU) through a fundamental protective effect of estrogens on the subcellular organelle that defines the fate of cells during insults, the mitochondria. By protecting mitochondria during insult, estrogens are able to reduce or eliminate the signal for cellular necrosis or apoptosis and thereby protect the NVU from ischemia/reperfusion. In this context, estrogens may be unique in their ability to target the cellular site of initiation of damage during stroke and could be a central compound in a multi-drug approach to the prevention and treatment of brain damage from stroke.
Alzheimer's disease, the most common neurodegenerative dementia in the elderly, affects cognition, behavior and functioning, and a prominent neuroinflammatory component likely contributes to disease pathogenesis. The epidemiology of AD has previously shown that NSAID use decreases the incidence of AD, and evidence from tissue culture, in vivo models, and Alzheimer brain tissue studies indicate that inflammation in AD is mediated by the production of proinflammatory molecules, leading to microglial activation and neuronal damage. Preliminary clinical drug trials of anti-inflammatory agents, such as indomethacin, suggest slowing of cognitive decline in AD, further supporting a role for inflammation. The basic mechanisms underlying the AD neuroinflammatory cascade, which might accelerate the development of AD neuropathology, are poorly understood, but several recent studies implicate a number of established signaling pathways in this process. Microglial activation might involve beta-amyloid binding and activation of cell surface immune and adhesion molecules such as CD45, CD40, CD36 and integrins, with the subsequent recruitment of Src family tyrosine kinases such as Fyn, Lyn and Syk kinases. ERK and MAPK pathways are then activated, which induces proinflammatory gene expression and leads to the production of cytokines and chemokines. These molecules may then contribute to synaptic pruning, damage and loss, while TNFalpha can induce neuronal apoptosis and injury. The production of interleukins and other cytokines and chemokines also may lead to microglial activation, astrogliosis, and further secretion of proinflammatory molecules and amyloid, thus perpetuating the cascade. Simultaneously, direct neuronal injury from amyloid-induced signaling also contributes to neurodegeneration. Of clinical relevance, components of these pathways may be suitable targets for therapeutic modulation in AD and for the development of novel disease-modifying anti-inflammatory therapy.

Heme oxygenase (HO) enzymes catalyze the breakdown of heme to iron, carbon monoxide (CO), and biliverdin, which is rapidly converted to bilirubin. HO-2 has been implicated in protection against oxidative stress, ischemia, and traumatic brain injury. The neuroprotective effects of HO-2 have been attributed to the generation of bilirubin, which is an important radical scavenger. However, the mechanism by which HO-2 provides protection is unclear. We utilized the olfactory system as a model to define the roles of HO-2 in glutathione depletion-induced oxidative injury, since olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) express high levels of HO isoforms. We demonstrated that L-buthionine-[S, R]-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione biosynthesis, lowered glutathione levels and induced apoptosis of ORNs. Despite the presence of HO-1 in ORNs, HO-2 null animals displayed increased levels of neuronal death after BSO treatment compared to wild type mice. Levels of bilirubin and cGMP were also reduced in HO-2 null mice. Primary cultures of ORNs confirmed that the neuroprotective role of HO-2 was mediated by bilirubin and cGMP. Taken together, these results suggest that HO-2 plays a major role in neuroprotection from oxidative stress, an effect that is mediated by cGMP and bilirubin.


New discoveries challenge the long-held view that aging is characterized by progressive loss and decline. Evidence for functional reorganization, compensation and effective interventions holds promise for a more optimistic view of neurocognitive status in later life. Complexities associated with assigning function to age-specific activation patterns must be considered relative to performance and in light of pathological aging. New biological and genetic markers, coupled with advances in imaging technologies, are enabling more precise characterization of healthy aging. This interdisciplinary, cognitive neuroscience approach reveals dynamic and optimizing processes in aging that might be harnessed to foster the successful aging of the mind.
Recent functional neuroimaging studies are generating novel insights into our knowledge of skilled and disturbed reading. In neurologically normal subjects, a double dissociation in neural activation in response to reading words and pseudowords has been revealed that corresponds to that observed in the comparison of semantic and phonological tasks. In patients with acquired dyslexia, functional imaging is demonstrating re-organisation within the reading system; in developmental dyslexia, functional imaging is being used to identify the impact of rehabilitation. Together, these findings have implications for cognitive models of reading that have previously relied on input from behavioural data.
Although it has long been thought that frontal lobe abnormality must play an important part in generating the severe impairment in higher-order social, emotional and cognitive functions in autism, only recently have studies identified developmentally early frontal lobe defects. At the microscopic level, neuroinflammatory reactions involving glial activation, migration defects and excess cerebral neurogenesis and/or defective apoptosis might generate frontal neural pathology early in development. It is hypothesized that these abnormal processes cause malformation and thus malfunction of frontal minicolumn microcircuitry. It is suggested that connectivity within frontal lobe is excessive, disorganized and inadequately selective, whereas connectivity between frontal cortex and other systems is poorly synchronized, weakly responsive and information impoverished. Increased local but reduced long-distance cortical-cortical reciprocal activity and coupling would impair the fundamental frontal function of integrating information from widespread and diverse systems and providing complex context-rich feedback, guidance and control to lower-level systems.
Results of neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies of frontal lobe function have been interpreted by some as evidence for specialized modules that are localized to distinct regions of frontal cortex, and that differ in both content and process from those in neighboring regions. These descriptions stand in stark contrast to the many domain-general theoretical accounts of the regulatory role of the frontal lobes in cognition. Recent attempts to understand how general regulatory mechanisms might operate across multiple domains (e.g. working memory, sentence comprehension) have been increasingly important in our understanding of the frontal lobes.
Neuroscience research during the past ten years has fundamentally changed the traditional view of the motor system. In monkeys, the finding that premotor neurons also discharge during visual stimulation (visuomotor neurons) raises new hypotheses about the putative role played by motor representations in perceptual functions. Among visuomotor neurons, mirror neurons might be involved in understanding the actions of others and might, therefore, be crucial in interindividual communication. Functional brain imaging studies enabled us to localize the human mirror system, but the demonstration that the motor cortex dynamically replicates the observed actions, as if they were executed by the observer, can only be given by fast and focal measurements of cortical activity. Transcranial magnetic stimulation enables us to instantaneously estimate corticospinal excitability, and has been used to study the human mirror system at work during the perception of actions performed by other individuals. In the past ten years several TMS experiments have been performed investigating the involvement of motor system during others' action observation. Results suggest that when we observe another individual acting we strongly 'resonate' with his or her action. In other words, our motor system simulates underthreshold the observed action in a strictly congruent fashion. The involved muscles are the same as those used in the observed action and their activation is temporally strictly coupled with the dynamics of the observed action.
Fundamental breakthroughs in the neurosciences, combined with technical innovations for measuring brain activity, are shedding new light on the neural basis of second language (L2) processing, and on its relationship to native language processing (L1). The long-held assumption that L1 and L2 are necessarily represented in different brain regions in bilinguals has not been confirmed. On the contrary, the available evidence indicates that L1 and L2 are processed by the same neural devices. The neural differences in L1 and L2 representations are only related to the specific computational demands, which vary according to the age of acquisition, the degree of mastery and the level of exposure to each language. Finally, the acquisition of L2 could be considered as a dynamic process, requiring additional neural resources in specific circumstances.
There have been recent developments in our understanding of the auditory neuroscience of non-human primates that, to a certain extent, can be integrated with findings from human functional neuroimaging studies. This framework can be used to consider the cortical basis of complex sound processing in humans, including implications for speech perception, spatial auditory processing and auditory scene segregation.
Human and nonhuman primates have a remarkable ability to recall, maintain and manipulate visual images in the absence of external sensory stimulation. Evidence from lesion, single-unit neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies shows that these visual working memory processes are consistently associated with sustained activity in object-selective inferior temporal neurons. Furthermore, results from these studies suggest that mnemonic activity in the inferior temporal cortex is, in turn, supported by top-down inputs from multimodal regions in prefrontal and medial temporal cortex, and under some circumstances, from the hippocampus.



Cluster headache (CH), also known as &quot;suicide headache,&quot; is characterized by a distinctive behavior during attacks. In 80% to 90% of cases, patients are restless and constantly moving in a vain attempt to relieve pain. They often perform complex, stereotyped actions. During attacks, CH sufferers do not want to be touched, stroked, or comforted and frequently moan a great deal, cry, or even scream. They sometimes indulge in violent, self-hurting behavior. Restlessness is a highly sensitive and highly specific parameter for CH and has been included among the signs and symptoms accompanying pain of the disorder in the Second Edition of the International Classification of Headache Disorders. A few hypotheses on pathophysiology of restlessness are addressed in this paper.
The cellular role of mitochondria includes ATP generation and the modulation of cytosolic calcium signals, besides being the &quot;crossroads&quot; for several cell death pathways. The maintenance of optimal mitochondrial functioning during the disease process increases the chances for survival. For example, ischaemia followed by reperfusion is known to negatively affect mitochondrial function, namely by inducing a deleterious condition called mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). The MPT is responsible for mitochondrial dysfunction and can ultimately lead to cell death. Therefore, it seems important to protect mitochondrial function in cardiac disease. Carvedilol, a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with antioxidant properties, has a positive impact on cardiac mitochondria during in vitro, ex-vivo and in vivo models of cardiac dysfunction. Particularly, carvedilol was shown to inhibit MPT in isolated heart mitochondria and protect mitochondria against the oxidative damage induced by the xanthine oxidase/hypoxanthine pro-oxidant system. The observation that carvedilol acts as an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex-I is also of importance, since this mitochondrial system was proposed as cause of the cardiotoxicity associated with the anti-neoplasic drug doxorubicin. This review points out the major findings concerning the positive impact of carvedilol on mitochondrial function and its use in the treatment of myocardial diseases where oxidative stress is known to be involved.
To study retinoid signaling in the developing telencephalon, we transfected a retinoid reporter gene into different regions of developing telencephalon. We found that the ventral telencephalon was more competent to retinoid signaling than the dorsal telencephalon. Moreover, among all retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs), RARbeta was strongly induced by retinoic acid in the ventral telencephalon, suggesting that RARbeta might be involved in retinoid signaling competence. The RT-PCR analysis indicated that RARbeta was selectively expressed in the developing striatum of ventral telencephalon. We then demonstrated that null mutations of RARbeta gene resulted in reduction of striatal-enriched tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) mRNA in the striatum of RARbeta-/- mutant mice. Conversely, the gain-of-function study showed that ectopic expression of RARbeta1 in the cerebral cortex enhanced STEP expression, and the effect was RARbeta-isoform specific. Our study identified RARbeta as an important molecule for transducing retinoid signals in developing ventral telencephalon.
Critical periods for experience-dependent plasticity are ubiquitous. The idea that experience-dependent plasticity is closely linked with the development of sensory function is still widely held; however, there also is growing evidence for plasticity in the adult nervous system. This article reviews the notion of a critical period for the treatment of amblyopia in light of recent experimental and clinical evidence for neural plasticity. Specifically, adults with amblyopia can improve their perceptual performance via extensive practice on a challenging visual task, and this improvement may transfer to improved visual acuity. Amblyopes achieve this improvement via the mechanisms that have been shown to explain perceptual learning in the normal visual system. It is hypothesized that these same mechanisms account for at least some of the improvement that occurs in the treatment of amblyopia.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the organisation of EEG patterns in 24-h recordings of preterm and near-term neonates. In particular, the distribution of the different EEG codes at different postmenstrual ages (PMA) and the variations of sleep-related EEG pattern organisation was studied, during day (8.00 a.m.-8.00 p.m.) and night (8.00 p.m.-8.00 a.m.) time. The age of appearance of different neonatal EEG patterns, previously described in literature for short lasting records, was confirmed in this 24-h study. The medium-voltage continuous EEG pattern (pattern &quot;3&quot;) was less represented approaching term age, in coincidence with the appearance of the two low-voltage continuous patterns (&quot;1&quot; and &quot;2&quot;), which are also related to active sleep and wakefulness. Discontinuous pattern (&quot;7&quot;) was also less represented with age, but in day-time only. The percentage of time occupied by this pattern, related to quiet sleep, was significantly higher during day-time hours, than at night.

Organizational effects of testosterone during a critical period of neonatal life have major irreversible effects on adult sexual behavior. We have investigated whether perinatal androgen changes also affect another major sexually differentiated system, the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. This was assessed in male rats who had been exposed to perinatal flutamide or 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD). Once the animals reached adulthood, an automated sampling system was used to collect blood from freely moving animals at 10-min intervals over 24 h, followed by a noise stress and then the administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Perinatal flutamide- and ATD-treated rats not only had higher mean corticosterone levels and increased frequency and amplitude of corticosterone pulses over the 24 h compared with vehicle-injected controls, but they also showed markedly increased corticosterone responses to both noise and LPS. All parameters of increased hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal activity resembled the normal physiological state of the intact adult female rather than that of the intact adult male rat. Furthermore, 3 h after LPS administration, both flutamide- and ATD-treated animals had markedly higher levels of corticotropin-releasing factor mRNA in the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and proopiomelanocortin mRNA in the adenohypophysis. Flutamide-treated rats also had a greater level of PVN arginine vasopressin mRNA. PVN glucocorticoid receptor mRNA levels were significantly lower in both the flutamide- and the ATD-treated male rats. These data highlight the importance of perinatal exposure to both testosterone and estrogen(s) on the development of a masculinized circadian corticosterone profile and stress-induced hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis activity in the adult male rat.



Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) maintain the balance between pathological and physiological conditions by limiting the extracellular concentration of glutamate within the CNS and thus preventing excitotoxic injury. The loss of EAAT2 has been associated with the development of neurological diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It has therefore been suggested that the over-expression of specific EAATs may provide some degree of neuroprotection. However, the inability to isolate and study the function of the different EAAT isoforms in a cell type-specific manner has made it difficult to determine the exact contribution of individual EAATs toward neuroprotection or neurodegeneration in the context of excitotoxic injury. To address this question, we transduced hippocampal slice cultures from 1-week-old C57B/6 mice with recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying an EAAT2 gene expression cassette. EAAT2 gene expression was driven in neurons with the neuron-specific enolase promoter. Using this model system, we were able to induce a significant increase in the expression of functional EAAT2. Consequently, a significant increase in CA1 neuronal damage was observed in slices over-expressing EAAT2 in neurons following an acute exposure to exogenous glutamate. These data suggest that the increased expression of EAAT2 within neurons may contribute to neurodegeneration.
Learning-related morphological modifications in single dendritic spines were studied quantitatively in the brains of young Sprague-Dawley rats. We have previously shown that olfactory discrimination rule-learning results in transient physiological and morphological modifications in piriform cortex pyramidal neurons. In particular, spine density along the apical dendrites of neurons from trained rats is increased after learning. The aim of the present study was to identify and describe olfactory learning-induced modifications in the morphology of single spines along apical dendrites of the same type of neurons. By using laser-scanning confocal microscopy, we show that 3 days after training completion spines on neurons from olfactory discrimination trained rats are shorter as compared to spines on neurons from control rats. Further analysis revealed that spine shortening attributed to olfactory discrimination learning derives from shortening of spine head and not from shortening of spine neck. In addition, detailed analysis of spine head volume suggests that spines with large heads are absent after learning. As spine head size may be related to the efficacy of the synapse it bears, we suggest that modifications in spine head dimensions following olfactory rule-learning enhance the cortical network ability to enter into a 'learning mode', in which memories of new odours can be acquired rapidly and efficiently.
Several lines of indirect evidence have suggested that nitric oxide may play an important role during light adaptation of the vertebrate retina. We aimed to verify directly the effect of light on nitric oxide release in the isolated carp retina and to investigate the relationship between nitric oxide and dopamine, an established neuromodulator of retinal light adaptation. Using a biochemical nitric oxide assay, we found that steady or flicker light stimulation enhanced retinal nitric oxide production from a basal level. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist L-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, inhibited the light adaptation-induced nitric oxide production suggesting that the underlying cellular pathway involved centre-depolarizing bipolar cell activity. Application of exogenous dopamine to retinas in the dark significantly enhanced the basal production of nitric oxide and importantly, inhibition of endogenous dopaminergic activity completely suppressed the light-evoked nitric oxide release. The effect of dopamine was mediated through the D1 receptor subtype. Imaging of the nitric oxide-sensitive fluorescent indicator 4,5-diaminofluorescein di-acetate in retinal slices revealed that activation of D1 receptors resulted in nitric oxide production from two main spatial sources corresponding to the photoreceptor inner segment region and the inner nuclear layer. The results taken together would suggest that during the progression of retinal light adaptation there is a switch from dopaminergic to nitrergic control, probably to induce further neuromodulatory effects at higher levels of illumination and to enable more efficient spreading of the light adaptive signal.
Changes occur during the postnatal development of the rat glutamatergic mossy fibre to granule cell synapse: to the morphology of synapses, glutamate transporter expression, AMPA receptor expression and the kinetics of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. For example, both the rise and decay times of AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents significantly shorten. To further define the development of mossy fibre to granule cell synaptic transmission, the properties and mechanisms of short-term plasticity have been described. The characterization of short-term plasticity will aid our understanding of the mechanisms that define the parameters of synaptic transmission during development and furthermore short-term plasticity may play an important role in determining information transfer between mossy fibres and granule cells. In response to pairs of stimuli (2-100-ms interval), depression (second excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude smaller than the first) was observed at both mature (older than 40 postnatal days) and immature (between 8 and 12 postnatal days) synapses. The degree of depression was similar at both stages of development, although recovery from depression was slower at mature synapses (tau 22 vs 12.5 ms). Several experimental approaches (coefficient of variation, low-affinity antagonists and cyclothiazide) suggest that depression at immature synapses results from multiple mechanisms. At mature synapses, postsynaptic receptor desensitization appears to be the major cause of depression.
Gene therapy for the control of pain has, to date, targeted neurons. However, recent evidence supports that spinal cord glia are critical to the creation and maintenance of pain facilitation through the release of proinflammatory cytokines. Because of the ability of interleukin-10 (IL-10) to suppress proinflammatory cytokines, we tested whether an adenoviral vector encoding human IL-10 (AD-h-IL10) would block and reverse pain facilitation. Three pain models were examined, all of which are mediated by spinal pro-inflammatory cytokines. Acute intrathecal administration of rat IL-10 protein itself briefly reversed chronic constriction injury-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. The transient reversal caused by IL-10 protein paralleled the half-life of human IL-10 protein in the intrathecal space (t(1/2) approximately 2 h). IL-10 gene therapy both prevented and reversed thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia, without affecting basal responses to thermal or mechanical stimuli. Extra-territorial, as well as territorial, pain changes were reversed by this treatment. Intrathecal AD-h-IL10 injected over lumbosacral spinal cord led to elevated lumbosacral cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of human IL-10, with far less human IL-10 observed in cervical CSF. In keeping with IL-10's known anti-inflammatory actions, AD-h-IL10 lowered CSF levels of IL-1, relative to control AD. These studies support that this gene therapy approach provides an alternative to neuronally focused drug and gene therapies for clinical pain control.
In the present study the effects of lens injury on retinal ganglion cell axon/neurite re-growth were investigated in adult mice. In vivo, lens injury promoted successful regeneration of retinal ganglion cell axons past the optic nerve lesion site, concomitant with the invasion of macrophages into the eye and the presence of activated retinal astrocytes/Muller cells. In vitro, retinal ganglion cells from lens-lesioned mice grew significantly longer neurites than those from intact mice, which correlated with the presence of enhanced numbers of activated retinal astrocytes/Muller cells. Co-culture of retinal ganglion cells from intact mice with macrophage-rich lesioned lens/vitreous body led to increased neurite lengths compared with co-culture with macrophage-free intact lens/vitreous body, pointing to a neurotrophic effect of macrophages. Furthermore, retinal ganglion cells from mice that had no lens injury but had received intravitreal Zymosan injections to stimulate macrophage invasion into the eye grew significantly longer neurites compared with controls, as did retinal ganglion cells from intact mice co-cultured with macrophage-rich vitreous body from Zymosan-treated mice. The intact lens, but not the intact vitreous body, exerted a neurotrophic effect on retinal ganglion cell neurite outgrowth, suggesting that lens-derived neurotrophic factor(s) conspire with those derived from macrophages in lens injury-stimulated axon regeneration. Together, these results show that lens injury promotes retinal ganglion cell axon regeneration/neurite outgrowth in adult mice, an observation with important implications for axon regeneration studies in transgenic mouse models.
Clusterin is a highly conserved, amphiphatic glycoprotein present in most tissues. It has been shown to be involved in the regulation of lipid transportation, clearance of cellular debris from the extracellular space and intracellular signal transduction. Clusterin is markedly up-regulated after neural injury but the functional significance of this response is unclear. Here, we show that clusterin up-regulation is substantially greater in hypoglossal motor neurons after hypoglossal nerve avulsion compared with nerve transection. Quantitative analyses of motor neuron numbers after the same lesions in clusterin(-/-) and clusterin(+/+) mice showed significantly larger numbers of surviving motor neurons in clusterin(+/+) mice. These results suggest that clusterin has a neuroprotective role after axotomy.
Pontine noradrenergic A5 neurons play a pivotal role in maturation and regulation of the brainstem respiratory rhythm-generating network. Analysis of newborn brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-null mice revealed a marked loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive A5 neurons compared to wildtype controls that was rescued by null mutation of the proapoptotic gene Bax. In cultures of the A5 region from E12.5 rat embryos, BDNF significantly increased the number and branching of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Immunoneutralization of endogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor partially inhibited the BDNF-dependent increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells without affecting neurite number. The A5 nucleus is the first brainstem cell group identified at which BDNF is required in vivo for development of neurons critical for cardiorespiratory control.
Many studies have shown the negative effects of cocaine on neuropsychological and cognitive performance in drug-dependent individuals, but little is known about the underlying neuroanatomy of these dysfunctions. The present study addressed attention switching between items held in working memory (WM) with a task in which subjects were required to store and update two items held in verbal or visuospatial WM. Attention-switching frequency varied between trials, thereby allowing us to isolate the switching component of task performance. Behavioural data revealed that cocaine addicts performed worse than healthy controls in all tasks. On the visuospatial task addicts performed at chance levels revealing particular impairment in visuospatial WM. On the verbal task, in which controls and users could be matched for performance, we identified attenuated responses in prefrontal and cingulate cortices and in striatal regions, while other areas such as dorsolateral prefrontal cortex did not differ between healthy controls and users. The results reveal that addiction may be accompanied by specific rather than ubiquitous hypoactivation in prefrontal and subcortical areas and suggest a compromised ability in users to control their attention to their thoughts as might be particularly relevant when required to switch away from drug-related thoughts, and thus the dysfunction in attention switching may contribute to the maintenance of addiction.
Prenatal X-ray irradiation is known to result in severe defects of neuronal migration and laminar formation in the cerebral cortex. We examined the formation of cortical afferent and efferent pathways in rats that had been exposed to X-ray irradiation (1.0 Gy) at embryonic day 14 (E14), by birthdating with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and axonal labeling with 1-1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'- tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), in addition to immunohistochemical staining for various axonal markers including neurofilament, and cell adhesion molecules L1 and TAG-1. The results obtained were as follows. (i) The neuroepithelium formed germinal rosettes and concavities in the cortical anlage from 2 days after irradiation. Neurons generated in the neuroepithelium accumulated to form subcortical heterotopia and obstructed pathway formation in the intermediate zone, resulting in an aberrant trajectory of TAG-1-immunoreactive cortical efferent axons. (ii) In rats exposed to X-ray irradiation at E14, cystic cavities were formed in the cortex-striatum boundary region between E15 and E17, probably because of delayed cell death of neurons generated at E14. These cavities transiently interrupted both cortical afferent (L1-positive) and efferent (TAG-1-positive) axons. (iii) X-ray irradiation at E14 partially destroyed subplate neurons (transient targets of thalamic afferent axons) and disturbed the arrangement of the subplate layer. This resulted in a misrouting of neurofilament- and L1-immunoreactive thalamocortical axons that obliquely traversed the cortical plate to run up to the superficial layer. The present study demonstrates for the first time that X-ray irradiation during initial cortical development causes multiple defects in the formation of cortical afferent and efferent pathways.
Cholinergic neurotransmission is known to affect activity-dependent plasticity in various areas, including the visual cortex. However, relatively little is known about the exact role of subcortical cholinergic inputs in the regulation of plastic events in this region during early postnatal development. In the present study, synaptic transmission and plasticity in the developing visual cortex were studied following selective immunotoxic removal of the basal forebrain cholinergic afferents in 4-day-old rat pups. The lesion produced dramatic cholinergic neuronal and terminal fibre loss associated with decreased mRNA levels for the M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors, as well as clear-cut impairments of long-term potentiation (LTP) in visual cortex slices. Indeed, after theta burst stimulation of layer IV a long-term depression (LTD) instead of an LTP was induced in immunolesioned slices. This functional change appears to be due to the lack of cholinergic input as exogenous application of acetylcholine prevented the shift from LTP to LTD. In addition, lesioned rats showed an increased sensitivity to acetylcholine (ACh). While application of 20 microm ACh produced a depression of the field potential in immunolesioned rat slices, in order to observe the same effect in control slices we had to increase ACh concentration to up to 200 microm. Taken together, our results indicate that deprivation of cholinergic input affects synaptic transmission and plasticity in developing visual cortex, suggesting that the cholinergic system could play an active role in the refinement of the cortical circuitry during maturation.

Using spatially identical displays (variants of the Mller-Lyer illusion), we compared the accuracy of spatial verbal judgments with that of saccadic (eye) and pointing (hand) movements. Verbal judgments showed a clear effect of the illusion. The amplitude of the primary saccade from one endpoint of the pattern (at fixation) to the other also showed an effect of the illusion. Conversely, movement amplitudes when pointing from one endpoint (initial finger position) to the other were significantly more accurate than both saccades and verbal responses. In a control experiment in which the viewing conditions between the saccade and pointing experiments were equalized, saccade amplitude was again affected by the illusion. In several studies, systematic biases in conscious spatial judgments have been contrasted with accurate open-loop pointing in peripersonal space. It has been proposed that such seeming dissociations between vision-for-action and vision-for-consciousness might in fact be because of a simple oculomotor strategy: saccade to the target before it disappears, then use the efference copy of the (accurate) saccadic movement to drive pointing. The present data do not support the hypothesis in this simple form.
The course of retrogradely labeled spinocerebellar fibers in the ventral and lateral funiculi of the spinal cord was studied following injections of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase into the posterior spinocerebellar termination area in the cat. Fibers labeled from unilateral injections into the paramedian lobule were found on the same side in the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus (DLF), corresponding to the dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT), but contralaterally in the ventral part of the lateral funiculus (VLF) and in the ventral funiculus (VF), corresponding to the ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT). Following injections into the posterior vermis, labeled fibers were less numerous. Most of them were found in the DSCT and only very few in the VSCT. Previously identified cells of origin of these spinocerebellar tracts were labeled in these experiments and counted. They correlated well with the extents and the locations of the injections that had been made into the two termination sites. These results represent novel detailed information on the location of axons projecting to the two main posterior spinocerebellar termination sites in the spinal white matter in the cat.
Many neurons in area TE of the macaque respond selectively to colors or forms. One problem remaining is how these neurons contribute to conjunctive perception of these features when there are many objects in their receptive fields. In order to investigate the effects of learning on neural activities for the conjunction of color and form, neurons were recorded during a visual fixation task and two go/no-go visual discrimination tasks. One discrimination task involved conjunction of color and form for successively presented colored patterns. In this task, the monkeys were required to hold two &quot;go&quot; stimuli in the transient memory. The other task involved associative discrimination between the form of gray patterns and the color of irregular textures when the two features were presented simultaneously at separate locations. Each of the two stimuli was neutral in the go/no-go behavior in the latter task. One third of responsive neurons showed a significant interaction of color and form in response to the colored patterns during the conjunction task. Responses of these neurons were mostly enhanced for a particular colored pattern, which was usually one of the go stimuli. The response enhancement was preserved when the go stimulus was presented with a distractor. However, this change was not seen during the associative discrimination task. During the fixation task, the neurons that showed interaction of color and form in the conjunction task were usually selective either for the forms of gray patterns or colors of irregular textures, and only a few neurons were selective for both. The results indicate that neurons in area TE can conjoin color and form actively for an object held in the working memory, suppressing illusory conjunction.
Glutamate receptors responding to N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA) are involved in neural development, excitotoxicity and neuronal plasticity. Each receptor includes at least two NR2 subunits. Here, we have examined the effects of selective antagonists of NR2A and NR2B subunits (NVP-AAM07 and Ro25-6981 respectively) on the effects of NMDA in the CA1 field of rat hippocampal slices. We have observed that Ro25-6981 potentiates, rather than blocks, the effects of NMD on field EPSPs and paired-pulse interactions (indicators of presynaptic effects) and on postsynaptic depolarisation in hippocampal slices. The NR2A subunit antagonist NVP-AAM077 blocks the effects of NMDA alone, or after potentiation by Ro25-6981. The potentiation of NMDA by Ro25-6981 was not prevented by staurosporine (protein kinase inhibitor), okadaic acid (an inhibitor of serine/threonine protein phosphatases) or anisomycin (protein synthesis inhibitor), but was prevented by cyclosporin A, which inhibits Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase 2B [calcineurin]. NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by electrical stimulation was not prevented by Ro25-6981 but was prevented by selective blockade of the NR2A subunit. The results suggest that, at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites in the rat hippocampus, NR2B-subunit-containing receptors limit NMDA receptor function by inhibitory restraint over NR2A-subunit-containing receptors, via calcineurin activation, and that LTP induction critically involves primarily receptors containing the NR2A subunit. Endogenous factors or drugs that modify this NR2B/NR2A interaction could have a major influence on synaptic transmission and plasticity in the brain.
Alterations in the normal healing process after corneal injury can produce undesirable outcomes that range from corneal haze to ulceration and perforation. Lipids play important roles in the complex inflammatory processes that occur after corneal wounding. While some lipid mediators, such as the lipoxygenase derivatives of arachidonic acid, 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12[S]-HETE and 15[S]-HETE), act as second messengers to promote cell proliferation and are possibly involved in the synthesis of other molecules that suppress inflammation, others, such as platelet-activating factor (PAF), exert their actions through specific receptors, play key roles during sustained corneal inflammation (as might occur with chemical burns), and contribute to tissue destruction and neovascularization. PAF is also a strong inducer of selective metalloproteinases (MMPs) that degrade the extracellular matrix. The use of a new PAF antagonist has shown great promise for the treatment of diffuse lamellar keratitis (DLK) and alkali-burned corneas.
Aging is accompanied by changes on many different levels, including sleep and memory processes. In light of recent findings, which underline the importance of sleep for memory consolidation in young adults, the relationship between sleep and memory in older adults is of particular interest. This review takes a closer look at commonalities and interrelationships of the two aging trajectories in sleep and memory. A link between these two research domains on aging will be proposed and discussed on the basis of recent findings within the cognitive neuroscience of sleep.
Minocycline is neuroprotective in many experimental models of neurodegenerative diseases and central nervous system (CNS) injury but has not previously been tested in a model of viral encephalitis. Experimental infection of neonatal mice with neurotropic reoviruses is a classic model for studying the pathogenesis of viral encephalitis. Intracerebral inoculation of serotype 3 reovirus strain Dearing (T3D) in neonatal mice results in lethal encephalitis caused by neuronal apoptosis throughout the CNS. Minocycline significantly delayed death in mice to 11.6 +/- 0.9 days post-infection vs. 8.6 +/- 0.7 days post-infection in controls (P &lt; 0.01). Virus-induced CNS injury, apoptosis, viral titer and antigen expression were significantly decreased in the brains of minocycline-treated mice on 6 and 8 days post-infection compared to controls. Virus-induced injury and viral titer in minocycline-treated infected mice at 11 days post-infection were similar to those seen in untreated T3D-infected mice at 8 days post-infection. Little microglial or astrocytic invasion of brain regions with viral injury was found at any time-point in untreated or minocycline-treated mice, suggesting that in this model system the neuroprotective effect exerted by minocycline is more likely due to its anti-apoptotic properties rather than its capacity to inhibit microglial activation and limit gliosis. These findings, similar to those reported for neurodegenerative diseases, indicate that minocycline does not prevent development of fatal reovirus encephalitis but delays disease onset and progression, suggesting that minocycline treatment may provide a useful adjunctive therapy in viral CNS infections.
Calcium-calmodulin protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha) is mainly found in brain cells, and the mRNA concentrates highly in the postsynaptic density. CaMKIIalpha is an effector of calcium and calmodulin mediated functions, and the phosphorylated CaMKIIalpha (pCaMKIIalpha) activates glutamate receptors, such as the AMPA receptor, and enhances its function. In the present study, we examined whether CaMKIIalpha in trigeminal brainstem neurons contributed to the neuropathic pain induced by inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) transection. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we found that the expression of CaMKIIalpha and pCaMKIIalpha increased in the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) after IAN transection. The significant increase in the protein of CaMKIIalpha peaked at 30 min after IAN transection, and the mRNA of CaMKIIalpha increased from 2 to 14 days. Double immunofluorescent staining for CaMKIIalpha and MAP2, a marker of dendrite, revealed a significant increase in the overlapping area at 30 min after injury. This suggests that CaMKIIalpha protein is synthesized from the local mRNA pool in the dendrite 30 min after IAN transection and may quickly transmit information after nerve injury. In the behavioral test in which the escape threshold from mechanical stimulation to the lateral face was measured, intrathecal administration of KN-93, a CaMKII inhibitor, for 7 days significantly inhibited mechano-allodynia induced by IAN transection, as compared with administration of a control peptide. These data suggest that CaMKIIalpha in the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis may be involved in neuropathic pain caused by IAN transection.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is a major constituent of senile plaques in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We have previously demonstrated ceramide production secondary to Abeta-induced activation of neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase) in cerebral endothelial cells and oligodendrocytes, which may contribute to cellular injury during progression of AD. In this study, we first established the &quot;Abeta --&gt; nSMase --&gt; ceramide --&gt; free radical --&gt; cell death&quot; pathway in primary cultures of fetal rat cortical neurons. We also provided experimental evidence showing that S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), a potent endogenous antioxidant derived from the interaction between nitric oxide (NO) and glutathione, caused dose-dependent protective effects against Abeta/ceramide neurotoxicity via inhibition of caspase activation and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This GSNO-mediated neuroprotection appeared to involve activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Activation of the cGMP/PKG pathway induced expression of thioredoxin and Bcl-2 that were beneficial to cortical neurons in antagonizing Abeta/ceramide toxicity. Consistently, exogenous application of thioredoxin exerted remarkable neuroprotective efficacy in our experimental paradigm. Results derived from the present study establish a neuroprotective role of GSNO, an endogenous NO carrier, against Abeta toxicity via multiple signaling pathways.
Social stress is associated with development of many psychological and physiological disturbances in humans. Animal models are needed to determine the etiology of these diseases and to develop rational clinical therapies to treat those afflicted. Rodent and non-human primate models of social stress have been developed to address these needs and contribute in complementary ways to the understanding of social stress. In this review, we provide an overview of common rodent and non-human primate models of social stress used in the laboratory with a focus on social hierarchy models. The implications of the current findings on understanding of the development of stress-related disease will also be discussed.
Nasu-Hakola disease is a rare, recessively inherited disease characterized by presenile dementia and bone cysts. Until now, no evidence of subclincal pathological changes in individuals heterozygous for the mutations underlying Nasu-Hakola disease has been reported. We performed a functional neuroimaging (99mTc-ECD SPECT) and neuropsychological study of healthy members of an Italian family carrying a mutation in the TREM2 gene. Two healthy subjects heterozygous for one mutated TREM2 allele showed a deficit of visuospatial memory associated with hypoperfusion in the basal ganglia, whereas the homozygotes for the wild-type allele of TREM2 did not show any abnormalities.
This article allows readers to look at racial and ethnic disparities in school readiness from a neuroscience perspective. Although researchers have traditionally measured gaps in school readiness using broad achievement tests, they can now assess readiness in terms of more specific brain-based cognitive functions. Three neurocognitive systems--cognitive control, learning and memory, and reading--are essential for success in school. Thanks to recent advances in brain imaging, it is now possible to examine these three systems, each located in specific areas of the brain, by observing them in action as children engage in particular tasks. Socioeconomic status--already linked with how well children do on skills tests generally--is particularly closely linked with how well they perform on tasks involving these crucial neurocognitive systems. Moreover, children's life experiences can influence their neurocognitive development and lead to functional and anatomical changes in their brains. Noting that chronic stress or abuse in childhood can impair development of the brain region involved in learning and memory, the authors show how the extreme stress of being placed in an orphanage leads to abnormal brain development and decreased cognitive functioning. More optimistically, the authors explain that children's brains remain plastic and capable of growth and development. Targeted educational interventions thus have the promise of improving both brain function and behavior. Several such interventions, for example, both raise children's scores in tests of reading and increase activity in the brain regions most closely linked with reading. The brain regions most crucial for school readiness may prove quite responsive to effective therapeutic interventions-even making it possible to tailor particular interventions for individual children. The authors look ahead to the day when effective educational interventions can begin to close racial and socioeconomic gaps in readiness and achievement.
Previously, we reported that hypothalamic explants isolated from male leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) implanted with 17beta-estradiol (E2), but not 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), released significantly higher levels of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in response to a veratridine challenge. In this study, we measured changes in GnRH soma size, circulating luteinizing hormone (LH), and gonadosomatic index (GSI) in response to these two steroid hormones to further assess the impact of these hormones on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Sexually mature male R. pipiens were implanted with silastic capsules containing cholesterol (Ch; control), E2, or DHT for 20 days. GnRH immunocytochemistry (ICC) revealed that both E2 and DHT significantly enlarged GnRH soma size without affecting the total number of GnRH neurons in the forebrain. The effects of E2 and DHT were specific, since neither hormone altered the soma size of tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in the dorsomedial posterior tuberculum. Circulating LH levels were significantly reduced in animals treated with both steroid hormones, with E2 exerting the most potent inhibitory effect. A significant inverse correlation was observed between the GSI and GnRH soma size in Ch controls, suggesting animals with larger GnRH neurons tended to have smaller gonads. Overall, our results showed that both steroid hormones induced the accumulation of GnRH and ultimately the swelling of the GnRH soma. Further, larger GnRH neurons were associated with smaller gonads and lower circulating levels of LH, suggesting a link between enlarged GnRH neurons and an overall decrease in the reproductive activity of R. pipiens.
Previously published reports have suggested that misexpression of alpha-Synuclein in the Drosophila central nervous system causes neurodegeneration and progressive age-dependent locomotor dysfunction similar to pathologic and clinical manifestations of Parkinson's disease. The number of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in these studies was assessed using immunohistochemistry with an anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibody on sequential paraffin sections of fly brains. In contrast, we do not observe any DA cell loss in alpha-Synuclein expressing fly brains when using whole-mount immunohistochemistry as an assay. Our results suggest that the DA cell loss observed with misexpression of alpha-Synuclein is not fully penetrant under a variety of experimental conditions and that this may complicate interpretation of such experiments.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy type 1A (FSHD1A) is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder characterized by early involvement of facial and scapular muscles with eventual spreading to pelvic and lower limb muscles. A high degree of clinical variability with respect to age at onset, severity, and pattern of muscle involvement, both between and within families, is present. For this reason, diagnosis of FSHD1A can be sometimes difficult and molecular diagnosis is then necessary. A clinical and molecular genetic-based epidemiological investigation has been carried out in the territory of northwestern Tuscany in central Italy to calculate the prevalence rate of FSHD1A as of March, 2004. The molecular diagnosis has been based on the detection of large deletions of variable size of kpnI repeat units on chromosome 4q35. Results have been compared to those of a previous study conducted in the same area in 1981 (in the premolecular diagnosis era). The minimum prevalence rate was 4.60 x 10(-5) inhabitants, a value four times higher compared to our previous study. No significant correlation between fragment size and clinical severity has been observed. This study confirms in an Italian population a prevalence rate of FSHD1A similar to that observed in other populations. Furthermore, it underlines the usefulness of routine adoption of the genetic testing in confirming clinical suspicion of FSHD1A as well as in correctly diagnosing atypical and otherwise misclassified cases.
Gene interactions are emerging as central to understanding the realization of any phenotype. To probe the flexibility of interactions in a defined gene network, we isolated a set of 16 interacting genes in Drosophila, on the basis of their alteration of a quantitative behavioral phenotype-the loss of coordination in a temperature-sensitive allele of Syntaxin1A. The interactions inter se of this set of genes were then assayed in the presence and in the absence of the original Syntaxin1A mutation to ask whether the relationships among the 16 genes remain stable or differ after a change in genetic context. The pattern of epistatic interactions that occurs within this set of variants is dramatically altered in the two different genetic contexts. The results imply considerable flexibility in the network interactions of genes.
Axoglial interactions underlie the clustering of ion channels and of cell adhesion molecules, regulate gene expression, and control cell survival. We report that Cnp1-null mice, lacking expression of the myelin protein cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (CNP), have disrupted axoglial interactions in the central nervous system (CNS). Nodal sodium channels (Nav) and paranodal adhesion proteins (Caspr) are initially clustered normally, but become progressively disorganized with age. These changes are characterized by mislocalized Caspr immunostaining, combined with a decrease of clustered Na+ channels, and occur before axonal degeneration and microglial invasion, both prominent in older Cnp1-null mice. We suggest that CNP is a glial protein required for maintaining the integrity of paranodes and that disrupted axoglial signaling at this site underlies progressive axonal degeneration, observed later in the CNS of Cnp1-null mice.
We demonstrate that there are significantly more p75 neurotrophin receptor- (NTR)-expressing cells in olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) primary cultures from olfactory nerve rootlets (ONR), but a greater proportion of O4 antigen- and PSA-NCAM-expressing cells in parallel cultures from the nerve fibre layer of the olfactory bulb (OB). By co-culturing adult rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with OECs derived from either ONR or OB tissue, we compared their neurite regrowth-promoting properties. In phenotypically unsorted cultures, there is greater RGC neurite regrowth on ONR OECs compared to OB OECs. Following immunoselection of ONR cells for p75 NTR, there is increased RGC neurite regrowth on the enriched population compared to the unselected cell population or the p75 NTR depleted population. When p75 NTR-enriched cells from ONR and OB cultures are compared directly, tissue source-related differences are no longer observed. Our previous work implicated a pertussis toxin (PTx)-sensitive G protein-linked signalling pathway in OEC regulation of neurite regrowth. We show that this pathway probably operates in interactions between the p75 NTR-positive and -negative cells; separated populations lose the PTx-mediated enhancement of neurite regrowth-promoting properties seen in mixed cultures. Optimum neurite regrowth is observed when both phenotypes are present in cultures from either ONR or OB, and where glial G-protein signalling is disabled by PTx before co-culture with neurons. We thus propose that p75 NTR-positive cells, whilst being the more effective neurite regrowth promoting subpopulation in isolation, cooperate with negative cells to provide optimum support for axonal regrowth.

Tolosa-Hunt syndrome (THS) is a rare cause of painful ophtalmoplegia due to chronic granulomatous inflammation of the cavernous sinus. While corticoids are the treatment of reference, corticodependence and corticoresistance are frequent, hence radiotherapy has been proposed as an alternative treatment. We report a case of long-term improvement (8 years) of THS after low-dose (20 Gy) radiotherapy in a patient with recurrences and corticodependence.
Ischemic colitis has not been reported in association with naratriptan therapy. We describe the occurrence of ischemic colitis in a patient who was treated with abortive doses of naratriptan for migraine and was also taking long-term oral contraceptives. Concurrent use of naratriptan and oral contraceptives should probably be avoided.

When treating patients with migraine, clinicians should consider prescribing appropriate combinations of acute and preventive therapies. An effective migraine-preventive therapy should be prescribed to patients with frequent (&gt; or = 2 migraines per month) or severe migraine. Topiramate has been shown to be an effective and generally well-tolerated migraine prophylaxis (preventive) therapy in adults, as demonstrated in several large, controlled trials. The most common adverse events in these trials were paresthesia, fatigue, anorexia, nausea, taste alteration, and diarrhea. Most adverse events were mild to moderate and transient in nature. Although patients should take migraine-preventive medications for approximately 2 to 3 months before evaluating effect, topiramate has shown efficacy as early as the first month of treatment. This article describes &quot;real-world&quot; approaches to using topiramate as a migraine-preventive therapy. Topiramate has received regulatory approval for the prophylaxis of migraine headache in adults in the United States and many other countries. The practical issues discussed in this article will enable clinicians to maximize the effectiveness while minimizing the side effects associated with this preventive agent.
Natural sounds, such as vocal communication sounds of many animal species typically occur as sequential sound pulses. Therefore, the response size of auditory neurons to a sound pulse would be inevitably affected when the sound pulse is preceded and succeeded by another sound pulse (i.e., forward and backward masking). The present study presents data to show that increasing strength of GABAergic inhibition relative to excitation contributes to decreasing response size and sharpening of duration selectivity of bat inferior collicular (IC) neurons to sound pulses in rapid sequences. The response size in number of impulses and duration selectivity of IC neurons were studied with a pulse train containing 9 sound pulses. A family of duration tuning curves was plotted for IC neurons using the number of impulses discharged to each presented sound pulse against pulse duration. Our data show that the response size of IC neurons progressively decreased and duration selectivity increased when determined with sequentially presented sound pulses. This variation in the response size and duration selectivity of IC neurons with sequentially presented sound pulses was abolished or reduced during bicuculline and GABA application. Bicuculline application increased the response size and broadened the duration tuning curve of IC neurons while GABA application produced opposite results. Possible mechanisms underlying increasing strength of GABAergic inhibition with sequentially presented sound pulses are presented. Biological significance of these findings in relation to acoustic signal processing is also discussed.
Mutation in the protocadherin 15 (Pcdh15) gene causes hair cell dysfunction and is associated with abnormal stereocilia development. We have characterized the first allele (Pcdh15(av-nmf19)) of Ames waltzer (av) obtained by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis. Pcdh15(av-nmf19) was generated in the Neuroscience Mutagenesis Facility (NMF) at The Jackson Lab (Bar Habor, USA). Pcdh15(av-nmf19) mutants display circling and abnormal swimming behavior along with lack of auditory-evoked brainstem response at the highest intensities tested. Mutation analysis shows base substitution (A--&gt; G) in the consensus splice donor sequence linked to exon 14 resulting in the skipping of exon 14 and the splicing of exon 13-15. This results in the introduction of a stop codon in the coding sequence of exon 15 due to shift in the reading frame. The effect of nmf19 mutation is expected to be severe since the expressed Pcdh15 protein is predicted to truncate in the 5th cadherin domain. Abnormalities of cochlear hair cell stereocilia are apparent in Pcdh15(av-nmf19) mutants near the time of birth and by about P15 (15 days after birth) there is evidence of sensory cell degeneration. Disorganization of outer hair cell stereocilia is observed as early as P2. Inner hair cell stereocilia are also affected, but less severely than those of the outer hair cells. These results are consistent with characteristics of the mutation in the Pcdh15(av-nmf19) allele and they support our previous finding that Protocadherin 15 plays an important role in hair-bundle morphogenesis.
The neurosciences embrace many disciplines, some long established, others of more recent origin. Behavioral endocrinology has only recently been fully acknowledged as a branch of neuroscience, distinctive for the determination of some of its exponents to remain integrative in the face of the many pressures towards reductionism that so dominate modern biology. One of its most characteristic features is a commitment to research at the whole-animal level on the physiological basis of complex behaviors, with a particular but by no means exclusive focus on reproductive behavior in all its aspects. The search for rigorously defined principles of behavioral organization that apply across species and the hormonal and neural mechanisms that sustain them underlies much of the research. Their aims are much like those put forth in the classical ethology of Lorenz and Tinbergen, one of the roots from which behavioral endocrinology has sprung. But there are others that can be traced back a century or more. Antecedents can be found in the work of such pioneers as Jakob von Uexkll, Jacques Loeb, Herbert Spencer Jennings, and particularly Charles Otis Whitman who launched a tradition that culminated in the classical contributions of Robert Hinde and Daniel Lehrman. William C. Young was another pioneer. His studies revolutionized thinking about the physiological mechanisms by which hormones influence behavior. An earlier potent influence was Karl Lashley who helped to shape the career of Frank Ambrose Beach who, more than anyone, has played a leading role in launching this new field.
It is well known that androgens play a critical role in mediating the reproductive behavior of males. However, many laboratory experiments that examined the effects of testosterone in male songbirds typically limited their investigations to the early phase of breeding. We sought to determine the influence of testosterone on social behavior, pair bonding, nesting, and use of space in captive zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) males as a function of breeding stage (pre-laying, incubation, and nestling phases). Fourteen males were released into an aviary with 14 females and allowed to breed for 7 weeks. Half of the males were given testosterone implants and half were given control implants. During the pre-laying phase, testosterone-implanted males spent significantly more time in nesting activities than control birds and more time elapsed from starting to build a nest to when their mates initiated egg-laying. During the incubation phase, testosterone-implanted subjects spent significantly more time in female-directed and undirected singing. Use of space varied between hormone conditions depending upon breeding phase: there was no difference during pre-laying, but during the incubation and nestling phases, testosterone-implanted subjects used significantly more space. This significant increase in &quot;home range&quot; during the latter phase of the breeding cycle coincides with results from field studies on other species. These results underscore the importance of considering breeding phase in assessing the behavioral sensitivity to hormones.
Environmental factors operating early in life have long-lasting and important consequences for the mental and physical health of the adult organism. In particular, prenatal exposure to stress represents one category of adverse early environmental events that are associated with development of depression and schizophrenia in adulthood. In the present studies, we examined whether prenatal stress alters the habituation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity that occurs with repeated stress exposure in adulthood. We compared corticosterone responses to the first vs. the eighth restraint, with lower responses to the eighth vs. the first considered evidence of habituation. In males, prenatal stress prevented the habituation of corticosterone responses to repeated restraint that was observed in non-prenatally stressed rats. Limited evidence of habituation was seen in either group of females and prenatally stressed females did not exhibit the enhanced corticosterone response during recovery from the eighth restraint that was seen in non-prenatally stressed females. Together, these results suggest a sex-specific interaction between prenatal stress and adult chronic stress on HPA activity.
We recently recorded somatosensory evoked fields (SEFs) elicited by compressing the glabrous skin of the finger and decompressing it by using a photosensor trigger. In that study, the equivalent current dipoles (ECDs) for these evoked fields appeared to be physiologically similar to the ECDs of P30m in median nerve stimulation. We sought to determine the relations of evoked fields elicited by mechanically stimulating the glabrous skin of the great toe and those of electrically produced P40m. We studied SEFs elicited by mechanical and electrical stimulations from the median and tibial nerves. The orientations of dipoles from the mechanical stimulations were from anterior-to-posterior, similar to the orientations of dipoles for P30m. The direction of the dipole around the peak of N20m from median nerve electrical stimulation was opposite to these directions. The orientations of dipoles around the peak of P40m by tibial nerve stimulation were transverse, whereas those by the compression and decompression stimulation of the toe were directed from anterior-to-posterior. The concordance of the orientations in ECDs for evoked fields elicited by mechanical and electrical stimulations suggests that the ECDs of P40m are physiologically similar to those of P30m but not to those of N20m. The discrepancy in orientations in ECDs for evoked field elicited by these stimulations in the lower extremity suggests that electrical and compression stimulations elicit evoked fields responding to fast surface rubbing stimuli and/or stimuli to the muscle and joint.
Neurological manifestations of HIV infection and AIDS are being recognized with a frequency that parallels the increasing number of AIDS cases. Next to sub-Saharan Africa, India has the second largest burden of HIV related pathology, essentially caused by HIV-1 clade C in both the geographic locales, in contrast to USA and Europe. But the true prevalence of HIV related neuroinfections and pathology is not available due to inadequate medical facilities, social stigma and ignorance that lead to underdiagnosis. Neurotuberculosis, followed by cryptococcosis and toxoplasmosis in various combinations are the major neuropathologies reflecting the endemicity and manifesting clinically by reactivation of latent infection. Discordance in the clinical prevalence of various infections, when compared to pathological studies highlight similarities in clinical, radiological modalities of diagnosis and inherent problems in establishing definitive diagnosis. Viral infections appear to be relatively rare. Inspite of heavy burden of HIV/AIDS, HIV associated neoplasia is infrequent, including primary CNS lymphomas. HIV encephalitis and HIV associated dementia are considered infrequent, though systematic studies have just been initiated in various centres. Peripheral neuropathy characteristically manifests with vasculitic neuropathy while diffuse infiltrative lymphocytosis syndrome (DILS) involving nerves has not been reported from India. Spinal cord pathology including vacuolar myelopathy is rare, even in asymptomatic cases. Till now the AIDS cases in India were drug naive but a new cohort of cases following initiation of HAART therapy as a national policy is soon emerging, altering the biology and evolution of HIV/AIDS in India. Lacunae in the epidemiology, diagnosis and study of biology of HIV/AIDS are outlined for future research.
HIV infection and psychiatric disorders have a complex relationship. Being HIV infected could result in psychiatric disorders as a psychological consequence of the infection or because of the effect of the HIV virus on the brain. Disorders may be as varied as depression, post-traumatic stress disorders, AIDS phobias, grief and the whole gamut of cognitive disorders. In addition, several psychiatric conditions may predispose individuals to acquiring HIV infection as a consequence of their influence on behaviour. There is also strong evidence of the relationship of substance use disorders and severe mental illnesses with HIV infection. HIV related psychiatric disorders also offer a challenge to clinicians in issues of differential diagnosis and management. Majority of the work in India has focused on substance use and HIV, and to a lesser extent on the psychiatric effects of HIV infection. Given the magnitude of the problem in the country and the multiple physical and psychological stressors that persons with HIV face in India, more research is needed.

A benign pruritic rash occurs in 10%-15% of persons treated with carbamazepine. A small fraction of them may experience life-threatening dermatological syndromes such as exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). The case of an 18-year-old female suffering from bipolar affective disorder (mania) who was being treated with carbamazepine, lithium, chlorpromazine and benzhexol is presented. After 10 days of treatment, she developed high-grade fever and mucocutaneous manifestations of SJS-TEN overlap. She was treated in hospital with systemic corticosteroids, antibiotics, intravenous fluids and other supportive measures, and recovered after 3 weeks.


Bordetella pertussis toxin B-oligomer (PTX-B) has been shown to inhibit HIV infection and replication in vitro. The potential anti-viral effect of PTX-B was tested here in an in vivo surrogate model of HIV infection, i.e. SCID mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) (hu-PBL-SCID) and infected with a CCR5-dependent (R5) HIV-1 strain. SCID mice inoculated intra-peritoneal (i.p.) with PTX-B and then infected with the R5 strain SF-162 were sacrificed 7 days later and analyzed for human PBL (hu-PBL) lymphoid tissue reconstitution, infection of hu-PBL, plasma viremia and viral rescue from ex vivo-cultivated i.p. hu-PBL. Unlike mice treated with 500 ng per animal of PTX-B showing no evidence of viral inhibition, daily administration of PTX-B (50 ng per mouse) strongly inhibited virus infection and replication, as determined by undetectable viremia, absence of infected hu-PBL and lack of rescue of infectious HIV in most animals. Furthermore, PTX-B injection 2 h before and twice after infection prevented HIV-1 infection and replication in all (10/10) tested animals. Thus, PTX-B potently inhibited virus infection and replication in hu-PBL-SCID mice, supporting the hypothesis that it may represent a new pharmacological agent against HIV-1 infection.
The olfactory system is an unusual tissue in that it can support neurogenesis throughout life; permitting the in-growth and synapse formation of olfactory receptor axons into the central nervous system (CNS) environment of the olfactory bulb. It is thought that this unusual property is in part due to the olfactory glial cells, termed olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), but also due to neuronal stem cells. These glial cells originate from the olfactory placode and possess many properties in common with the glial cells from the peripheral nervous system (PNS), Schwann cells. Recent data has suggested that olfactory ensheathing cells are a distinct glial cell type and possess properties, which might make them more suitable for transplant-mediated repair of central nervous system injury models. This paper reviews the biological properties of these cells and illustrates their use in central nervous system repair.
Dysfunction of brain serotonin system development is hypothesized to contribute to autistic behaviors. The testing of this hypothesis will likely depend on a better understanding of the genes and mechanisms involved in serotonin neuron cell fate specification. In this review we summarize the main features of vertebrate serotonin neuroanatomical development and recent studies that have revealed critical steps in the molecular genetic program that controls serotonin neuron phenotype. We then discuss the potential relevance of these findings to advances in autism research and to new molecular genetic tools under development that will impact future testing of the hypothesis.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) represents a major mental health problem with estimates of prevalence ranging from 1/500 to 1/2000. While generally recognized as developmental in origin, little to nothing is certain about its etiology. Currently, diagnosis is made on the basis of a variety of early developmental delays and/or regressions in behavior. There are no universally agreed upon changes in brain structure or cell composition. No biomarkers of any type are available to aid or confirm the clinical diagnosis. In addition, while estimates of the heritability of the condition range from 60 to 90%, as of this writing no disease gene has been unequivocally identified. The prevalence of autism is three- to four-fold higher in males than in females, but the reason for this sexual dimorphism is unknown. In light of all of these ambiguities, a proposal to discuss potential animal models may seem the heart of madness. However, parsing autism into its individual genetic, behavioral, and neurobiological components has already facilitated a 'conversation' between the human disease and the neuropathology and biochemistry underlying the disorder. Building on these results, it should be possible to not just replicate one aspect of autism but to connect the developmental abnormalities underlying the ultimate behavioral phenotype. A reciprocal conversation such as this, wherein the human disease informs on how to make a better animal model and the animal model teaches of the biology causal to autism, would be highly beneficial.
The hypothesis is presented that a disruption in brain synchronization contributes to autism by destroying the coherence of brain rhythms and slowing overall cognitive processing speed. Particular focus is on the inferior olive, a precerebellar structure that is reliably disrupted in autism and which normally generates a coherent 5-13 Hz rhythmic output. New electrophysiological data reveal that the continuity of the rhythmical oscillation in membrane potential generated by inferior olive neurons requires the formation of neuronal assemblies by the connexin36 protein that mediates electrical synapses and promotes neuronal synchrony. An experiment with classical eyeblink conditioning is presented to demonstrate that the inferior olive is necessary to learn about sequences of stimuli presented at intervals in the range of 250-500 ms, but not at 700 ms, revealing that a disruption of the inferior olive slows stimulus processing speed on the time scale that is lost in autistic children. A model is presented in which the voltage oscillation generated by populations of electrically synchronized inferior olivary neurons permits the utilization of sequences of stimuli given at, or faster than, 2 per second. It is expected that the disturbance in inferior olive structure in autism disrupts the ability of inferior olive neurons to become electrically synchronized and to generate coherent rhythmic output, thereby impairing the ability to use rapid sequences of cues for the development of normal language skill. Future directions to test the hypothesis are presented.
Conducting basic scientific research on a complex psychiatric disorder, such as autism, is a challenging prospect. It is difficult to dissociate the fundamental neurological and psychological processes that are disturbed in autism and, therefore, it is a challenge to discover accurate and reliable animal models of the disease. Because of their role in animal models of social processing and social bonding, the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin are strong candidates for dysregulation in autism. In this review, we discuss the current animal models which have investigated oxytocin and vasopressin systems in the brain and their effects on social behavior. For example, mice lacking the oxytocin gene have profound deficits in social processing and social recognition, as do rats lacking vasopressin or mice lacking the vasopressin V1a receptor (V1aR). In another rodent model, monogamous prairie voles are highly social and form strong pair bonds with their mates. Pair bonds can be facilitated or disrupted by perturbing the oxytocin and vasopressin systems. Non-monogamous vole species that do not pair bond have different oxytocin and V1aR distribution patterns in the brain than monogamous vole species. Potential ties from these rodent models to the human autistic condition are then discussed. Given the hallmark disturbances in social function, the study of animal models of social behavior may provide novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of autism.
Autism is a particularly complex disorder when considered from virtually any methodological framework, including the perspective of human genetics. We first present a review of the genetic analysis principles relevant for discussing autism genetics research. From this body of work we highlight results from three candidate genes, REELIN (RELN), SEROTONIN TRANSPORTER (5HTT), and ENGRAILED 2 (EN2) and discuss the relevant neuroscience, molecular genetics, and statistical results that suggest involvement of these genes in autism susceptibility. As will be shown, the statistical results from genetic analysis, when considered alone, are in apparent conflict across research groups. We use these three candidate genes to illustrate different problems in synthesizing results from non-overlapping research groups examining the same problem. However, when basic genetic principles and results from other scientific disciplines are incorporated into a unified theoretical framework, at least some of the difficulties with interpreting results can be understood and potentially overcome as more data becomes available to the field of autism research. Integrating results from several scientific frameworks provides new hypotheses and alternative data collection strategies for future work.
Autism spectrum disorders affect behaviors that emerge at ages when typically developing children become increasingly social and communicative, but many lines of evidence suggest that the underlying alterations in the brain occur long before the period when symptoms become obvious. Studies of the behavior of children in the first year of life demonstrate that symptoms are often detectable in the first 6 months. The environmental factors known to increase the risk of autism have critical periods of action during embryogenesis. Minor malformations that occur frequently in people with autism are known to arise in the same stages of development. Anomalies reported from histological studies of the brain are consistent with an early alteration of development. Congenital syndromes with high rates of autism include somatic that originate early in the first trimester. In addition, it is possible to duplicate a number of anatomic and behavioral features characteristic of human cases by exposing rat embryos to a teratogenic dose of valproic acid at the time of neural tube closure.
Infantile autism is a behaviorally defined disorder associated with characteristic cognitive, language and behavioral features. Several postmortem studies have highlighted areas of anatomic abnormality in the autistic brain. Consistent findings have been observed in the limbic system, cerebellum and related inferior olive. In the limbic system, the hippocampus, amygdala and entorhinal cortex have shown small cell size and increased cell packing density at all ages, suggesting a pattern consistent with development curtailment. Findings in the cerebellum have included significantly reduced numbers of Purkinje cells, primarily in the posterior inferior regions of the hemispheres. A different pattern of change has been noted in the vertical limb of the diagonal band of broca, cerebellar nuclei and inferior olive with plentiful and abnormally enlarged neurons in the brains of young autistic subjects, and in adult autistic brains, small, pale neurons that are reduced in number. These findings combined with reported age-related changes in brain weight and volume, have raised the possibility that the neuropathology of autism may represent an on-going process.
While abnormalities in head circumference in autism have been observed for decades, it is only recently that scientists have begun to focus in on the developmental origins of such a phenomenon. In this article we review past and present literature on abnormalities in head circumference, as well as recent developmental MRI studies of brain growth in this disorder. We hypothesize that brain growth abnormalities are greatest in frontal lobes, particularly affecting large neurons such as pyramidal cells, and speculate how this abnormality might affect neurofunctional circuitry in autism. The relationship to clinical characteristics and other disorders of macrencephaly are discussed.




During chronic metabolic acidosis (CMA), the plasma levels of glutamine are increased and so is glutamine metabolism in the kidney tubule cells. Degradation of glutamine results in the formation of ammonium (NH(4)(+)) and bicarbonate (HCO(3)(-)) ions, which are excreted in the pre-urine and transported to the peritubular blood, respectively. This process contributes to counteract acidosis and to restore normal pH, but the molecular mechanism, the localization of the proteins involved and the regulation of glutamine transport into the renal tubular cells, remains unknown. SN1, a Na(+)- and H(+)-dependent glutamine transporter has previously been identified molecularly, and its mRNA has been detected in tubule cells in the medulla of the kidney. Now shown is the selective targeting of the protein to the basolateral membranes of the renal tubule cells of the S3 segment throughout development of the normal rat kidney. During CMA, SN1 expression increases five- to six-fold and appears also in cortical tubule cells in parallel with the increased expression and activity of phosphate-activated glutaminase, a mitochondrial enzyme involved in ammoniagenesis. However, SN1 remains sorted to the basolateral membranes. The unique ability of SN1 to change transport direction according to physiologic changes in transmembrane gradients of [glutamine] and pH and its sorting to the basolateral membranes and the presence of a putative pH responsive element in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the gene (supported here by the demonstration in CMA kidney of a protein that binds SN1 mRNA) are conducive to the function of this transporter in pH regulation.
Genome alterations due to horizontal gene transfer and stress constantly generate strain on the gene pool of Neisseria meningitidis, the causative agent of meningococcal (MC) disease. The DNA glycosylase MutY of the base excision repair pathway is involved in the protection against oxidative stress. MC MutY expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited base excision activity towards DNA substrates containing A:7,8-dihydro-8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine and A:C mismatches. Expression in E. coli fully suppressed the elevated spontaneous mutation rate found in the E. coli mutY mutant. An assessment of MutY activity in lysates of neisserial wild-type and mutY mutant strains showed that both MC and gonococcal (GC) MutY is expressed and active in vivo. Strikingly, MC and GC mutY mutants exhibited 60- to 140-fold and 20-fold increases in mutation rates, respectively, compared to the wild-type strains. Moreover, the differences in transitions and transversions in rpoB conferring rifampin resistance observed with the wild type and mutants demonstrated that the neisserial MutY enzyme works in preventing GC--&gt;AT transversions. These findings are important in the context of models linking mutator phenotypes of disease isolates to microbial fitness.
The development of resistance to paclitaxel in tumors is one of the most significant obstacles to successful therapy. Overexpression of the betaIII-tubulin isotype has been associated with paclitaxel resistance in a number of cancer cell lines and in tumors, but the mechanism of resistance has remained unclear. Paclitaxel inhibits cancer cell proliferation by binding to the beta-subunit of tubulin in microtubules and suppressing microtubule dynamic instability, leading to mitotic arrest and cell death. We hypothesized that betaIII-tubulin overexpression induces resistance to paclitaxel either by constitutively enhancing microtubule dynamic instability in resistant cells or by rendering the microtubules less sensitive to the suppression of dynamics by paclitaxel. Using Chinese hamster ovary cells that inducibly overexpress either betaI- or betaIII-tubulin, we analyzed microtubule dynamic instability during interphase by microinjection of rhodamine-labeled tubulin and time-lapse fluorescence microscopy. In the absence of paclitaxel, there were no differences in any aspect of dynamic instability between the two beta-tubulin-overexpressing cell types. However, in the presence of 150 nm paclitaxel, dynamic instability was suppressed to a significantly lesser extent (suppressed only 12%) in cells overexpressing betaIII-tubulin than in cells overexpressing similar levels of betaI-tubulin (suppressed 47%). The results suggest that overexpression of betaIII-tubulin induces paclitaxel resistance by reducing the ability of paclitaxel to suppress microtubule dynamics. The results also suggest that endogenous regulators of microtubule dynamics may differentially interact with individual tubulin isotypes, supporting the idea that differential expression of tubulin isotypes has functional consequences in cells.
Gamma-secretase cleaves type I transmembrane proteins, including beta-amyloid precursor protein and Notch, and requires the formation of a protein complex comprised of presenilin, nicastrin, Aph-1, and Pen-2 for its activity. Aph-1 is implicated in the stabilization of this complex, although its precise mechanistic role remains unknown. Substitution of the first glycine within the transmembrane GXXXG motif of Aph-1 causes a loss-of-function phenotype in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, using an untranslated region-targeted RNA interference/rescue strategy in Drosophila Schneider 2 cells, we show that Aph-1 contributes to the assembly of the gamma-secretase complex by multiple mechanisms involving intermolecular and intramolecular interactions depending on or independent of the conserved glycines. Aph-1 binds to nicastrin forming an early subcomplex independent of the conserved glycines within the endoplasmic reticulum. Certain mutations in the conserved GXXXG motif affect the interaction of the Aph-1.nicastrin subcomplex with presenilin that mediates trafficking of the presenilin.Aph-1.nicastrin tripartite complex to the Golgi. The same mutations decrease the stability of Aph-1 polypeptides themselves, possibly by affecting intramolecular associations through the transmembrane domains. Our data suggest that the proper assembly of the Aph-1.nicastrin subcomplex with presenilin is the prerequisite for the trafficking as well as the enzymatic activity of the gamma-secretase complex and that Aph-1 functions as a stabilizing scaffold in the assembly of this complex.
Presenilins appear to form the active center of gamma-secretase but require the presence of the integral membrane proteins nicastrin, anterior pharynx defective 1, and presenilin enhancer 2 for catalytic function. We have simultaneously overexpressed all of these polypeptides, and we demonstrate functional assembly of the enzyme complex, a substantial increase in enzyme activity, and binding of all components to a transition state analogue gamma-secretase inhibitor. Co-localization of all components can be observed in the Golgi compartment, and further trafficking of the individual constituents seems to be dependent on functional assembly. Apart from its catalytic function, gamma-secretase appears to play a role in the trafficking of the beta-amyloid precursor protein, which was changed upon reconstitution of the enzyme but unaffected by pharmacological inhibition. Because the relative molecular mass and stoichiometry of the active enzyme complex remain elusive, we performed size exclusion chromatography of solubilized gamma-secretase, which yielded evidence of a tetrameric form of the complex, yet almost completely abolished enzyme activity. Gamma-secretase activity was reconstituted upon addition of an independent size exclusion chromatography fraction of lower molecular mass and nonproteinaceous nature, which could be replaced by a brain lipid extract. The same treatment was able to restore enzyme activity after immunoaffinity purification of the gamma-secretase complex, demonstrating that lipids play a key role in preserving the catalytic activity of this protease. Furthermore, these data show that it is important to discriminate between intact, inactive gamma-secretase complexes and the active form of the enzyme, indicating the care that must be taken in the study of gamma-secretase.
Autoimmune inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) are highly complex in their interaction of different cell populations. The main therapy focus in the last years has been the inhibition of the immune system. Recent progress has shown that endogenous as well as transplanted neural stem cells might positively influence the outcome of such diseases. In this review, we discuss the current concept of the underlying pathogenesis with a specific focus on local CNS cells and potential treatment options.
Sublethal insults can induce a transient tolerance toward subsequent lethal ischemia, a phenomenon termed ischemic preconditioning (IPC). In the myocardium, nitric oxide derived from 'inducible' nitric oxide synthase (iNOS or NOS II) plays a critical role in the expression of IPC produced by sublethal ischemia. Here, we investigated whether iNOS is involved in IPC in brain. Ischemic preconditioning was produced in mice by three episodes of 1-min bilateral common carotid artery (BCCA) occlusion, each followed by 5 mins of reperfusion. After 24 h, mice underwent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion for 20 mins. Intraischemic cerebral blood flow was monitored during both in BCCA and MCA occlusion (MCAO) by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Mice were killed 3 days after MCAO, and infarct volume was determined in thionine-stained sections. Infarct volume was significantly reduced 24 h after IPC (70%; P&lt;0.05). Treatment with the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine (400 mg/kg), abolished the IPC-induced protection. Furthermore, IPC failed to induce ischemic tolerance in iNOS-null mice. In wild-type mice, IPC increased the resistance to Ca(2+)-mediated depolarization in isolated brain mitochondria. However, in iNOS-null mice IPC failed to induce such resistance. We conclude that iNOS is required for the full expression of IPC and that such effect is coupled to an increased resistance of mitochondria to injury. Thus, iNOS-derived nitric oxide, in addition to its deleterious effects on the late stages of ischemic brain damage, can also be beneficial by promoting ischemic tolerance through signaling, ultimately resulting in mitochondrial protection.
Astrocytes play many roles essential for normal brain activity. The ability of these cells to recover after temporary focal cerebral ischemia is likely to be one important determinant of the extent of brain dysfunction and tissue damage. We have assessed astrocytic function based on the incorporation of radiolabel from 1-14C-acetate into glutamine at 1 hour of recirculation after middle cerebral artery occlusion for 2 or 3 hours in rats. There were marked differences in the response between subregions within the tissue subjected to ischemia, but the overall pattern of changes was similar after each ischemic period. The striatum, which forms part of the severely ischemic focal tissue during arterial occlusion, showed a large (44% to 68%) decrease in glutamine labeling compared with equivalent tissue from the contralateral hemisphere. In contrast, 14C-glutamine content was not significantly altered in perifocal tissue in the cerebral cortex, which was subjected to more moderate ischemia. Cortical focal tissue also was not significantly affected, but the response was much more variable between rats. In these brain subregions, the extent of recovery of the 14C-acetate metabolism after ischemia was not a good predictor of the likelihood of subsequent infarct development. Interestingly, a similar pattern of responses persisted when recirculation was extended to 4 hours. These results indicate that many astrocytes, particularly in the cortex, remain viable and capable of at least some complex oxidative metabolism during the first few hours of recirculation.
Experimental studies have shown the role of excitotoxicity in the pathogenesis of ischemic brain lesions, and glutamate levels have been found to be elevated in CSF and plasma from patients, early after stroke. In this study, we investigated whether platelets could be involved in the mechanism of altered plasma glutamate levels after stroke. Forty four patients, from 6 hours to 9 months after ischemic stroke, 15 age-related healthy controls and 15 controls with stroke risk factors or previous transient ischemic attack were enrolled. Glutamate plasma levels, platelet glutamate release after aggregation and platelet glutamate uptake were assessed. Plasma glutamate levels were increased up to 15 days after the ischemic event in stroke patients, and the levels at day 3 were inversely correlated with the neurologic improvement between day 3 and 15. Ex vivo platelet glutamate release was decreased by 70% in stroke patients, suggesting previous in vivo platelet activation. Moreover, platelet glutamate uptake in these patients was decreased by 75% up to 15 days and was still reduced 90 days after stroke. Our data show a prolonged increase of glutamate in plasma after stroke, which might presumably be linked to altered platelet functions, such as excessive release of the amino acid or impaired uptake.
Malformations caused by abnormalities of cortical development, or cortical dysplasias, were examined in surgical specimens from 108 patients with medically intractable epilepsy to determine the scope of histopathologic changes. The relevance of the clinical findings was also evaluated. Various types and degrees of dysplastic features were observed in various combinations, including architectural abnormalities, an increased number of neurons in the molecular layer and/or cortical layer II, neuronal clustering, an increased number of satellite oligodendrocytes, abnormal gyration, single and/or aggregates of heterotopic neurons in the white matter, and the appearance of cytologically abnormal cells, such as giant or dysmorphic neurons and balloon cells. In the temporal lobe specimens, microdysgenesis (corresponding to mild malformations caused by abnormalities of cortical development and type IA/B focal cortical dysplasias) was more frequently observed than Taylor-type focal cortical dysplasia (type IIA/B), whereas in the frontal lobe specimens, the frequency of occurrence of both types was even. The ages at seizure onset and surgery of patients with the latter type were significantly lower than those of patients with the former. On the other hand, prominent astrocytosis in the cortex and white matter was evident in all cases, and many corpora amylacea and neurofibrillary tangle-like inclusions were observed in a subset of cases. An ultrastructural investigation revealed dilatation of the postsynaptic dendritic spines and shafts in the cortex and features indicating the occurrence in the white matter of demyelination followed by remyelination. Thus, with regard to the epileptogenic lesions, although dysplastic changes constitute the pathogenetic basis, the overlapping subsequent degenerative processes involving synapses, dendrites, and axons might contribute to the development of epileptogenic processes. Astrocytes might also actively participate in the development of the pathogenesis of epilepsy.
Tuberous sclerosis complex is a multisystem autosomal dominant genetic disorder resulting from mutations in one of two genes, TSC1 and TSC2. Pathologically, tuberous sclerosis complex is characterized by abnormal cellular differentiation and proliferation, as well as abnormal neuronal migration. Epilepsy occurs in about 90% of patients, with onset frequently in the first year of life. In a sizable proportion of individuals, seizures tend to be refractory to antiepileptic drug treatment. This article reviews the progress in understanding drug-resistant seizures in tuberous sclerosis complex, from molecular pathogenesis to the pathophysiologic mechanisms of epileptogenesis, and the rationale for appropriate medical and surgical treatment.
Normal central nervous system development is dependent on extensive cell migration. Cells born in the proliferative ventricular zone migrate radially along specialized glial processes to their final locations. In contrast, most inhibitory interneurons found in the adult mammalian cerebral cortex and some other structures migrate along a nonradial pathway and on substrates only recently defined. Defects in radial cell migration have been implicated in several distinct human syndromes in which patients often present with epilepsy and mental retardation and have characteristic cerebral abnormalities. The identification of several genes responsible for human neural cell migration defects has led to a better understanding of the cellular and molecular interactions necessary for normal migration and the pathogenesis of these disorders. The prototypic cell migration disorder in humans is type I lissencephaly. Although type 1 lissencephaly is clearly a defect in radial cell migration, recent data from two model systems (Lis1 and ARX mutant mice) indicate that a defect in non-radial cell migration also exists. Thus, the result of a LIS1 mutation appears to have broader implications than a radial cell migration defect alone. Furthermore, it is likely that the observed defect in non-radial cell migration contributes to the clinical phenotype observed in these patients. Herein we discuss the role of normal non-radial cell migration in cortical development, as well as how perturbations in both radial and nonradial migration result in developmental anomalies.
A case of cerebellar liponeurocytoma in a 34-year-old man is reported. There are only 19 other cases reporting this entity in the medical literature. The diagnostic, radiological and clinical features associated with this tumour are reviewed and discussed in relation to our case. The differences in behaviour and prognosis between medulloblastoma and cerebellar liponeurocytoma are presented with the corresponding implications for management.
This case report describes a 59-year-old male who presented with headaches, seizures and hypertension followed by coma. Initial magnetic resonance imaging showed T2 hyperintensities typical of Hypertensive Encephalopathy (HE), the follow up scans showed diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) hyperintensities which is a rare finding in HE. DWI hyperintensities are typically suggestive of areas of cytotoxic damage, and the presence of these changes makes this case unusual, since the pathogenesis of HE is usually due to vasogenic oedema rather than cytotoxic damage of the brain tissue.

Myelocystocele is a variety of occult spinal dysraphism that is characterized by a localized, cystic dilatation of the terminal part of the central canal that then herniates through a posterior spina bifida. We describe a series of eight cases of myelocystocele. The clinical and radiological features and treatment are discussed and the relevant literature reviewed.
In a double-blind, parallel groups study, 60 healthy student volunteers (29 men and 31 women, aged 19-22 years) were randomly allocated to receive placebo, 100 or 200 mg modafinil. Two hours later, in the early evening, they completed an extensive cognitive battery. The 3 groups did not differ in self-ratings of sleepiness or tiredness before the testing session, and there were no treatment-associated changes in these or in mood ratings during the tests. Modafinil was without effect in several tests of reaction time and attention, but the 200-mg group was faster at simple color naming of dots and performed better than placebo in the Rapid Visual Information Processing test of sustained attention. Modafinil was without effect on spatial working memory, but the 100-mg group performed better in the backward part of the digit span test. Modafinil was without effect on verbal short-term memory (story recall), but 100 mg improved digit span forward, and both doses improved pattern recognition, although this was accompanied by a slowing of response latency in the 200-mg group. There were no significant effects of modafinil compared with placebo in tests of long-term memory, executive function, visuospatial and constructional ability, or category fluency. These results suggest that the benefits of modafinil are not clearly dose-related, and those from 100 mg are limited to the span of immediate verbal recall and short-term visual recognition memory, which is insufficient for it to be considered as a cognitive enhancer in non-sleep-deprived individuals.
The cerebral cortex contains circuitry for continuously computing properties of the environment and one's body, as well as relations among those properties. The success of complex perceptuomotor performances requires integrated, simultaneous use of such relational information. Ball catching is a good example as it involves reaching and grasping of visually pursued objects that move relative to the catcher. Although integrated neural control of catching has received sparse attention in the neuroscience literature, behavioral observations have led to the identification of control principles that may be embodied in the involved neural circuits. Here, we report a catching experiment that refines those principles via a novel manipulation. Visual field motion was used to perturb velocity information about balls traveling on various trajectories relative to a seated catcher, with various initial hand positions. The experiment produced evidence for a continuous, prospective catching strategy, in which hand movements are planned based on gaze-centered ball velocity and ball position information. Such a strategy was implemented in a new neural model, which suggests how position, velocity, and temporal information streams combine to shape catching movements. The model accurately reproduces the main and interaction effects found in the behavioral experiment and provides an interpretation of recently observed target motion-related activity in the motor cortex during interceptive reaching by monkeys. It functionally interprets a broad range of neurobiological and behavioral data, and thus contributes to a unified theory of the neural control of reaching to stationary and moving targets.
Although results from cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, and behavioral neuroscience clearly suggest that item and associative information in memory rely on partly different brain regions, little is known concerning the differences and similarities that exist between these two types of information as a function of memory stage (i.e., encoding and retrieval). We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess neural correlates of item and associative encoding and retrieval of simple images in 18 healthy subjects. During encoding, subjects memorized items and pairs. During retrieval, subjects made item recognition judgments (old vs. new) and associative recognition judgments (intact vs. rearranged). Relative to baseline, item and associative trials activated bilateral medial temporal and prefrontal regions during both encoding and retrieval. Direct contrasts were then performed between item and associative trials for each memory stage. During en- coding, greater prefrontal, hippocampal, and parietal activation was observed for associations, but no significant activation was observed for items at the selected threshold. During recognition, greater activation was observed for associative trials in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and superior parietal lobules bilaterally, whereas item recognition trials showed greater activation of bilateral frontal regions, bilateral anterior medial temporal areas, and the right temporo-parietal junction. Post hoc analyses suggested that the anterior medial temporal activation observed during item recognition was driven mainly by new items, confirming a role for this structure in novelty detection. These results suggest that although some structures such as the medial temporal and prefrontal cortex play a general role in memory, the pattern of activation in these regions can be modulated by the type of information (items or associations) interacting with memory stages.
Difficulty swallowing solids and/or liquids accompanied by intense anxiety that results in restricted eating patterns or complete avoidance of eating may not have an easily identified underlying medical cause. This type of &quot;eating disorder,&quot; which has also been described as &quot;choking phobia,&quot; may occur in the absence of body image distortion, fear of becoming fat, or the desire to be thinner. The primary complaint in these children may be physical discomfort accompanied by high anxiety. Negative consequences can be severe and include social withdrawal, family distress, and deleterious effects on the child's physical health. Prompt recognition in the pediatric setting is, therefore, critical to avoid escalation of symptoms and treatment delays. Three pediatric cases of severe choking phobia refractory to prior intervention are presented in which rapid and sustained improvement followed low-dose therapy with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Possible predictors of response to low-dose SSRI treatment in children with choking phobia and future avenues for investigation are explored.
In this study we examined the expression of RyR subtypes and the role of RyRs in neurotransmitter- and hypoxia-induced Ca2+ release and contraction in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Under perforated patch clamp conditions, maximal activation of RyRs with caffeine or inositol triphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) with noradrenaline induced equivalent increases in [Ca2+]i and Ca2+-activated Cl- currents in freshly isolated rat PASMCs. Following maximal IP3-induced Ca2+ release, neither caffeine nor chloro-m-cresol induced a response, whereas prior application of caffeine or chloro-m-cresol blocked IP3-induced Ca2+ release. In cultured human PASMCs, which lack functional expression of RyRs, caffeine failed to affect ATP-induced increases in [Ca2+]i in the presence and absence of extracellular Ca2+. The RyR antagonists ruthenium red, ryanodine, tetracaine, and dantrolene greatly inhibited submaximal noradrenaline- and hypoxia-induced Ca2+ release and contraction in freshly isolated rat PASMCs, but did not affect ATP-induced Ca2+ release in cultured human PASMCs. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR and immunofluorescence staining indicated similar expression of all three RyR subtypes (RyR1, RyR2, and RyR3) in freshly isolated rat PASMCs. In freshly isolated PASMCs from RyR3 knockout (RyR3-/-) mice, hypoxia-induced, but not submaximal noradrenaline-induced, Ca2+ release and contraction were significantly reduced. Ruthenium red and tetracaine can further inhibit hypoxic increase in [Ca2+]i in RyR3-/- mouse PASMCs. Collectively, our data suggest that (a) RyRs play an important role in submaximal noradrenaline- and hypoxia-induced Ca2+ release and contraction; (b) all three subtype RyRs are expressed; and (c) RyR3 gene knockout significantly inhibits hypoxia-, but not submaximal noradrenaline-induced Ca2+ and contractile responses in PASMCs.
P2X receptors are cation selective channels that are activated by extracellular nucleotides. These channels are likely formed by three identical or related subunits, each having two transmembrane segments (TM1 and TM2). To identify regions that undergo rearrangement during gating and to probe their secondary structure, we performed tryptophan scanning mutagenesis on the two putative TMs of the rat P2X4 receptor channel. Mutant channels were expressed in Xenopus oocytes, concentration-response relationships constructed for ATP, and the EC50 estimated by fitting the Hill equation to the data. Of the 22 mutations in TM1 and 24 in TM2, all but one in TM1 and seven in TM2 result in functional channels. Interestingly, the majority of the functional mutants display an increased sensitivity to ATP, and in general these perturbations are more pronounced for TM2 when compared with TM1. For TM1 and for the outer half of TM2, the perturbations are consistent with these regions adopting alpha-helical secondary structures. In addition, the greatest perturbations in the gating equilibrium occur for mutations near the outer ends of both TM1 and TM2. Surface biotinylation experiments reveal that all the nonfunctional mutants traffic to the surface membrane at levels comparable to the WT channel, suggesting that these mutations likely disrupt ion conduction or gating. Taken together, these results suggest that the outer parts of TM1 and TM2 are helical and that they move during activation. The observation that the majority of nonconducting mutations are clustered toward the inner end of TM2 suggests a critical functional role for this region.
Cluster headache (CH) is a well characterized primary headache disorder. Nevertheless, symptomatic CH has been reported in association with various underlying diseases. Symptomatic cluster headache related to ocular pathologies have been rarely described. We report a case consequent to a surgical operation for cataract.
For more than a century neurogenic inflammation has been proposed to have a role in various human diseases. The present review will cover the conceptual steps of the itinerary that has led to the conclusion that neurogenic inflammation is important in migraine. Of particular relevance for the object of this article is the observation that tachykin-independent neurogenic inflammatory responses are evident in rodents, but much less pronounced or absent in other mammal species, including man, whereas neurogenic vasodilatation, most likely mediated by CGRP, occurs in most mammalian species and also in man. Recent evidence that a CGRP receptor antagonist was effective in the treatment of migraine attack supports the hypothesis that neurogenic vasodilatation is a major underlying mechanism of migraine.
Despite the efficacy of highly active antiretroviral therapy in reducing viral burden, neurologic disease associated with HIV-1 infection of the CNS has not decreased in prevalence. HIV-1 does not induce disease by direct infection of neurons, although extensive data suggest that intra-CNS viral burden correlates with both the severity of virally induced neurologic disease, and with the generation of neurotoxic metabolites. Many of these molecules are capable of inducing neuronal apoptosis in vitro, but neuronal apoptosis in vivo does not correlate with CNS dysfunction, thus prompting us to investigate cellular and synaptic events occurring before cell death that may contribute to HIV-1-associated neurologic disease. We now report that the HIV-1 regulatory protein transactivator of transcription protein (Tat) increased oxidative stress, ATP levels, and mitochondrial membrane potential in primary rodent cortical neurons. Additionally, a proinflammatory cellular metabolite up-regulated by Tat, platelet-activating factor, also induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial hyperpolarization in neurons, suggesting that this type of metabolic dysfunction may occur on a chronic basis during HIV-1 infection of the CNS. Tat-induced mitochondrial hyperpolarization could be blocked with a low dose of the protonophore FCCP, or the mitochondrial KATP channel antagonist, tolbutamide. Importantly, blocking the mitochondrial hyperpolarization attenuated Tat-induced neuronal apoptosis, suggesting that increased mitochondrial membrane potential may be a causal event in precipitating neuronal apoptosis in cell culture. Finally, Tat and platelet-activating factor also increased neuronal vesicular release, which may be related to increased mitochondrial bioenergetics and serve as a biomarker for early damage to neurons.
The biochemical characterization of individual nitrergic (NO releasing) neurons is a non-trivial task both in vertebrate and invertebrate preparations. In spite of numerous efforts, there are limited data related to intracellular concentrations of essential metabolites involved in NO synthesis and degradation. This situation creates controversies in both identification of nitrergic neurons and the selection of reliable reporters of NOS activity in heterogeneous cell populations. We take advantage of identified neurons from the pulmonate mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis to perform direct single cell microanalysis of intracellular concentrations of the major nitric oxide synthase (NOS) related metabolites such as arginine, citrulline, argininosuccinate, NO(2)(-),and NO(3)(-). Capillary electrophoresis protocols have been developed to quantitate levels of these metabolites in single identified neurons from the buccal, cerebral, and pedal ganglia using laser-induced fluorescence and conductivity detection. The limits of detection (LODs) for arginine (Arg) and citrulline (Cit) are 84 amol (11nM) and 110 amol (15 nM), respectively, and LODs for NO(2)(-)and NO(3)(-) are &lt;200 amol (&lt;10nM) each. We report that intracellular concentrations of NOS related metabolites are in the millimolar range and less than 1% of a single cell is required for microchemical analysis. From four cell types tested, only the esophageal motoneuron B2 contains active NOS, and they also contain surprisingly high nitrite levels (up to 5mM) compared to other neurons tested (peptidergic B4, dopaminergic RPeD1, and serotonergic CGC). These B2 neurons also exhibit an Arg/Cit ratio susceptible to the selective NOS inhibitor l-iminoethyl-N-ornithine whereas others neurons do not even though they all may contain NOS transcripts. On the contrary, we found that absolute concentrations of other NOS related metabolites including nitrates are not reliable markers of NOS activity and demonstrate the need for multiple assays for NOS activity.
We characterized enzymatic activity of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the central nervous system of Aplysia californica, a popular experimental model in cellular and system neuroscience, and provided biochemical evidence for NO-cGMP signaling in molluscs. Aplysia NOS (ApNOS) activity, determined as citrulline formation, revealed its calcium-/calmodulin-(Ca/CaM) and NADPH dependence and it was inhibited by 50% with 5mM of W7 hydrochloride (a potent Ca/CaM-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor). A representative set of inhibitors for mammalian NOS isoforms also suppressed NOS activity in Aplysia. Specifically, the ApNOS was inhibited by 65-92% with 500 microM of L-NAME (a competitive NOS inhibitor) whereas d-NAME at the same concentration had no effect. S-Ethylisothiourea hydrobromide (5mM), a selective inhibitor of all NOS isoforms, suppressed ApNOS by 85%, l-N6-(1-iminoethyl)lysine dihydrochloride (L-NIL, 5mM), an iNOS inhibitor, by 78% and L-thiocitrulline (5mM) (an inhibitor of nNOS and iNOS) by greater than 95%. Polyclonal antibodies raised against rat nNOS hybridized with a putative purified ApNOS (160 kDa protein) from partially purified central nervous system homogenates in Western blot studies. Consistent with other studies, the activity of soluble guanylyl cyclase was stimulated as a result of NO interaction with its heme prosthetic group. The basal levels of cGMP were estimated by radioimmunoassay to be 44.47 fmol/microg of protein. Incubation of Aplysia CNS with the NO donors DEA/NONOate (diethylammonium (Z)-1-(N,N-diethylamino) diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate - 1mM) or S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (1mM) and simultaneous phosphodiesterase inhibition with 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (1mM) prior to the assay showed a 26-80 fold increase in basal cGMP levels. Addition of ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a] quinoxaline-1-one - 1mM), a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase, completely abolished this effect. This confirms that NO may indeed function as a messenger in the molluscan CNS, and that cGMP acts as one of its effectors.

Patients with mild forms of dementia and age-related memory impairment have just begun to benefit from pharmacotherapy developed over the last several years. However, current approaches do not significantly modify the course of neurodegeneration or of the aging process, and they offer limited and transient benefit to many patients. The goal of this review is to summarize new potential approaches in which molecules have been developed expressly to target multiple brain systems for the treatment of memory and cognition impairment. Some of these approaches include the development of single molecular entities that combine activity as cholinesterase inhibitors, muscarinic cholinergic M2 receptor antagonists, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists, alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists, or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Many of the bi-functional compounds discussed have improved efficacy as cognitive enhancing agents and/or they offer potential for neuroprotection and disease modification. It is likely that syndromes such as Alzheimer's disease will require multiple drug therapy to address the varied pathological aspects of the disease. Even if the strategy of combining drugs with different therapeutic targets is workable, the development of multi-functional compounds will obviate the challenge of administering multiple single drug entities with potentially different degrees of bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, and metabolism. Also, the simplification of the therapeutic regimen for individuals with AD who have difficulty with compliance is important.
Deposition of hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau is a recognized pathological process in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, however, the mechanism leading to tau accumulation is still not understood. In the present study, we found that different forms of tau, including phosphorylated tau (PHF-1) and non-phosphorylated tau (Tau-1) as well as total tau (Tau-5) in rat brain cortex extract, were degraded when it was co-incubated with ATP and MgCl(2) at 33 degrees C in vitro, and non-phosphorylated tau at Tau-1 epitope was more accessible to the ATP/Mg(2+)-depended proteolysis. With the increase of ATP and MgCl(2) concentration from 5 mM to 20 mM, increased degradation of tau was observed. ATP/Mg(2+)-induced degradation of tau was blocked by lactacystin, a specific proteasome inhibitor and was enhanced by sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS), a commonly used in vitro proteasome activator, and polyubiquitinated tau with high molecular weight was detected in the presence of lactacystin. Hyperphosphorylated tau isolated from AD brain (AD p-tau) was also partially degraded when it was incubated with rat brain cortex extract in the present of ATP/Mg(2+), and the degradation of AD p-tau was also enhanced by SDS and was inhibited by lactacystin. This study has demonstrated that tau, both phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated, is a substrate of ATP/Mg(2+)-depended proteasome. To our knowledge, this is the first report providing direct evidence that tau is degraded by 26S proteasome in an ubiquitin- and ATP-dependent manner.
The role of copper in biological phenomena that involve signal transduction is poorly understood. A well-defined cellular model of neuronal differentiation has been utilized to examine the requirement for copper during nerve growth factor (NGF) signal transduction that results in neurite outgrowth. Experiments demonstrate that NGF increases cellular copper content within 3 days of treatment. Copper chelators reduce the effects of NGF on neurite outgrowth and copper accumulation. The effects of tetraethylene pentamine (TEPA), a copper-specific chelator, are reversible by removal from the culture medium and/or by addition of equimolar copper chloride. Because previous work demonstrated that NGF increases protein methylation in PC12 cells, we examined whether TEPA also inhibits S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase (SAHH), an essential copper enzyme involved in all protein methylation reactions. In addition to direct in vitro inhibition of SAHH, we show that TEPA decreases protein arginine methyltransferase 1(PRMT1)-specific enzyme activity in PC12 cells and sympathetic neurons. These data comprise the first biochemical and cellular evidence to address the mechanism of copper involvement in neuronal differentiation.
The dopamine transporter is a plasma membrane protein that controls extracellular concentrations of the neurotransmitter dopamine. The physiological importance of the DAT provides the impetus for studies aimed at understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying regulation of the DAT gene. In this study, we identified a DAT-expressing neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-AS) and employed it to investigate the transcriptional regulation of the human DAT gene. Two GC boxes (located at -130 and -60, respectively, relative to the transcriptional start site) were identified as important cis-acting elements mediating DAT promoter activity in dopaminergic SK-N-AS cells. Utilizing Sp-deficient Drosophila Schneider line (SL-2) cells, we showed that both Sp1 and Sp3 are strong activators of DAT transcriptional activity. Differential binding of Sp1 and Sp3 to the two GC boxes was demonstrated by electrophoretic mobility shift assays and super-shift assays. Our results indicate that the Sp1 family of proteins plays an important role in controlling the expression of the dopamine transporter gene within dopaminergic neurons.
Stromal cell-derived factor (SDF1) and its cognate receptor CXCR4 have been shown to play a central role in the development of the cerebellum, hippocampus, and neocortex. However, little is known about the functions of SDF1/CXCR4 in early spinal cord progenitor cell differentiation. Here, we show that a functional SDF1alpha/CXCR4 signaling pathway is present in developing spinal cord cells (a spliced variant of SDF1). RT-PCR analysis of SDF1alpha and CXCR4 showed that they were present in E10.5 neural tube and their expression increased as neuroepithelial cells differentiated into more committed spinal cord progenitors. Stimulation of the more differentiated progenitors (E14.5) with SDF1alpha resulted in rapid activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2. This SDF1alpha-induced ERK activity was dose dependent and could be inhibited by pre-treatment of the cells with either pertussis toxin, an inactivator of G-protein-coupled receptors, or PD98059, a MEK1 inhibitor. Concomitant with ERK activation, SDF1alpha also activated the downstream transcription factor Ets, a substrate for ERK phosphorylation. Further, downstream activation of genes associated with cell survival, differentiation and migration was assessed using a G-protein-coupled receptor pathway-focused microarray. We found that 23 genes, including PDK1, Egr-1, Grm5, and E-selectin, were up-regulated by SDF1alpha. Furthermore, SDF1alpha induced chemotaxis in both neural and glial progenitors in in vitro migration assays. Pre-treatment of the cells with either pertussis toxin or PD98059 completely inhibited SDF1alpha-induced chemotaxis. Thus, our data suggest that SDF1alpha may function through a CXCR4/ERK/Ets-linked signalling pathway in spinal cord neural development to modulate migration of progenitor cells.
Mutations in the parkin gene, which encodes a ubiquitin ligase, are currently recognized as the main contributor to familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). A simple assumption about the effects of PD-linked mutations in parkin is that they impair or ablate the enzyme activity. However, a number of recent studies, including ours, have indicated that many disease-linked point mutants of parkin retain substantial catalytic activity. To understand how the plethora of mutations on parkin contribute to its dysfunction, we have conducted a systematic analysis of a significant number of parkin point mutants (22 in total), which represent the majority of parkin missense/nonsense mutations reported to date. We found that more than half of these mutations, including many located outside of the parkin RING fingers, produce alteration in the solubility of parkin which influences its detergent extraction property. This mutation-mediated alteration in parkin solubility is also associated with its propensity to form intracellular, aggresome-like, protein aggregates. However, they do not represent sites where parkin substrates become sequestered. As protein aggregation sequesters the functional forms away from their normal sites of action, our results suggest that alterations in parkin solubility and intracellular localization may underlie the molecular basis of the loss of function caused by several of its mutations.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a key molecule in the inflammatory pathway in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Cytosolic phospholipase A (cPLA2) is an important enzyme providing substrate for cyclooxygenases. We therefore examined cPLA2 expression in human ALS and mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic mice and its relation to COX-2. Immunohistochemistry and real-time RT-PCR revealed elevated cPLA2 protein and its mRNA levels in the lumbar spinal cord of mutant SOD1 mice. COX-2 immunoreactivity was increased in lumbar spinal cord sections from both familial ALS (FALS) and sporadic ALS (SALS) as compared to controls, and cPLA2 immunoreactivity was increased in a patient with FALS. Oral administration of the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, sulindac, extended the survival (by 10%) of G93A SOD1 mice as compared to littermate controls. Sulindac, as well as the selective COX-2 inhibitors, rofecoxib and celecoxib reduced cPLA2 immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord of G93A transgenic mice. Sulindac treatment preserved motor neurons, and reduced microglial activation and astrocytosis, in the spinal cord of G93A SOD1 transgenic mice. These results suggest that cPLA2 plays an important role in supplying arachidonic acid to the COX-2 driven inflammatory pathway in ALS associated with SOD1 mutations.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exerts a myriad of effects in rat hippocampus; it increases the concentration of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and signalling via the IL-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI) resulting in phosphorylation of the stress-activated protein kinase, c-jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) and impairment in long-term potentiation (LTP). This study was designed to establish whether activation of JNK is a pivotal event in mediating the effects of LPS in hippocampus and therefore LPS-treated rats were injected intracerebroventricularly with saline, the JNK inhibitor D-JNKI1, or with the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4, which antagonizes the effects of IL-1beta upstream of JNK activation. We report that IL-4 blocked the LPS-induced increase in IL-1RI expression and associated increases in phosphorylation of JNK and c-jun, whereas D-JNKI1 inhibited the LPS-induced phosphorylation of c-jun. Both IL-4 and D-JNKI1 inhibited the increase in caspase-3 staining which was associated with LPS treatment, and both abrogated the LPS-induced inhibition of LTP in perforant path-granule cell synapses. The data presented are consistent with the proposal that JNK activation, probably as a result of increased IL-1RI activation, is a critical step in mediating the detrimental effects of LPS in hippocampus.
The aim of the present microdialysis study was to investigate whether the increase in striatal glutamate levels induced by intrastriatal perfusion with NMDA was dependent on the activation of extrastriatal loops and/or endogenous striatal substance P and dopamine. The NMDA-evoked striatal glutamate release was mediated by selective activation of the NMDA receptor-channel complex and action potential propagation, as it was prevented by local perfusion with dizocilpine and tetrodotoxin, respectively. Tetrodotoxin and bicuculline, perfused distally in the substantia nigra reticulata, prevented the NMDA-evoked striatal glutamate release, suggesting its dependence on ongoing neuronal activity and GABA(A) receptor activation, respectively, in the substantia nigra. The NMDA-evoked glutamate release was also dependent on striatal substance P and dopamine, as it was antagonized by intrastriatal perfusion with selective NK(1) (SR140333), D(1)-like (SCH23390) and D(2)-like (raclopride) receptor antagonists, as well as by striatal dopamine depletion. Furthermore, impairment of dopaminergic transmission unmasked a glutamatergic stimulation by submicromolar NMDA concentrations. We conclude that in vivo the NMDA-evoked striatal glutamate release is mediated by activation of striatofugal GABAergic neurons and requires activation of striatal NK(1) and dopamine receptors. Endogenous striatal dopamine inhibits or potentiates the NMDA action depending on the strength of the excitatory stimulus (i.e. the NMDA concentration).
Kainate-induced epilepsy has been shown to be associated with increased levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the rat hippocampus. However, there is no information on how increased levels of this peptide might modulate excitation in kainate-induced epilepsy. In this work, we investigated the modulation of glutamate release by NPY receptors in hippocampal synaptosomes isolated from epileptic rats. In the acute phase of epilepsy, a transient decrease in the efficiency of NPY and selective NPY receptor agonists in inhibiting glutamate release was observed. Moreover, in the chronic epileptic hippocampus, a decrease in the efficiency of NPY and the Y(2) receptor agonist, NPY13-36, was also found. Simultaneously, we observed that the epileptic hippocampus expresses higher levels of NPY, which may account for an increased basal inhibition of glutamate release. Consistently, the blockade of Y(2) receptors increased KCl-evoked glutamate release, and there was an increase in Y(2) receptor mRNA levels 30 days after kainic acid injection, suggesting a basal effect of NPY through Y(2) receptors. Taken together, these results indicate that an increased function of the NPY modulatory system in the epileptic hippocampus may contribute to basal inhibition of glutamate release and control hyperexcitability.
In mammals it has been thought that the circadian clock localizes only in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. Recent studies have revealed that certain brain regions and peripheral tissues may also have intrinsic circadian clocks. However, the roles played by 'peripheral circadian clocks' have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated their function using mouse pineal glands, and found that expression of the arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (Aa-Nat, EC 2.3.1.87, the rate-limiting enzyme of melatonin synthesis) gene after adrenergic receptor stimulation depended on the time of day even in vitro (gating). Phase-dependent Aa-Nat responses were observed in both melatonin-proficient and melatonin-deficient mouse pineal glands. Phosphodiesterases are unlikely to suppress Aa-Nat induction because a phosphodiesterase inhibitor itself had no effect on the mRNA levels. Puromycin was ineffective in inducing Aa-Nat mRNA levels in either the presence or absence of isoproterenol, suggesting that newly synthesized proteins may not be necessary to gate the Aa-Nat responses. We also discovered circadian dependence of the expression of Period1-luminescence in Period1-luciferase transgenic mouse pineal glands: circadian clocks may be functional in culture. Aa-Nat mRNA levels showed no significant circadian rhythms in the absence of isoproterenol, thus suggesting that Aa-Nat mRNA levels are induced by adrenergic mechanisms, not by a pineal circadian clock. Our results suggest that the pineal circadian clock may determine timing when Aa-Nat gene expression can respond to inputs from the master circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, e.g. adrenergic stimulation.
Apolipoprotein E is a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, and the apoE protein is associated with beta-amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease brain. We examined signaling pathways stimulated by apoE in primary neurons in culture. ApoE and an apoE-derived peptide activated several intracellular kinases, including prominently extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). ERK1/2 activation by apoE was blocked by an inhibitor of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, the specific NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist MK 801 and other calcium channel blockers. Activation of apoE receptors also induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Dab1, an adaptor protein of apoE receptors, but experiments in Dab1 knockout neurons demonstrated that Dab1 was not necessary for ERK activation. In contrast, apoE treatment of primary neurons decreased activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, a kinase that interacts with another apoE receptor adaptor protein, c-Jun N-terminal kinase-interacting protein. This change also depended on interactions with the low-density lipoprotein receptor family but was independent of calcium channels. c-Jun N-terminal kinase deactivation by apoE was blocked by gamma-secretase inhibitors and pertussis toxin. These results demonstrate that apoE affects several signaling cascades in neurons: increased disabled phosphorylation, activation of the ERK1/2 pathway (dependent on calcium influx via the NMDA receptor) and inhibition of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 pathway (dependent on gamma-secretase and G proteins).
Dopamine D1 receptor interactions with arrestins have been characterized using heterologously expressed D1 receptor and arrestins. The purpose of this study was to investigate the interaction of the endogenous D1 receptor with endogenous arrestin2 and 3 in neostriatal neurons. Endogenous arrestin2 and 3 in striatal homogenates bound to the C-terminus of the D1 receptor in a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) pulldown assay, with arrestin3 binding more strongly. The D1 C-terminus and, to a lesser extent, the third cytoplasmic loop also bound purified arrestin2 and 3. In neostriatal neurons, 2, 5, and 20 min agonist treatment increased the colocalization of the D1 receptor and arrestin3 immunoreactivity without altering the colocalization of the D1 receptor and arrestin2. Further, agonist treatment for 5 and 20 min caused translocation of arrestin3, but not arrestin2, to the membrane. The binding of arrestin3, but not arrestin2, to the D1 receptor was increased as assessed by coimmunoprecipitation after agonist treatment for 5 and 20 min. Agonist treatment of neurons induced D1 receptor internalization (35-45%) that was maximal within 2-5 min, a time-course similar to that of the increase in colocalization of the D1 receptor with arrestin3. These data indicate that the D1 receptor preferentially interacts with arrestin3 in neostriatal neurons.
Perinatal hypoxia/ischemia (HI) is a common cause of neurological deficits in children. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) activity has been implicated in HI-induced brain damage. However, the mechanisms underlying its action in HI have not been characterized. We used a 7-day-old rat model to elucidate the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation in HI stimulation of IL-1 signaling. HI was induced by permanent ligation of the left carotid artery followed by 90 min of hypoxia (7.8% O(2)). Using ELISA assays, we observed increased cell death and caspase 3 activity in hippocampus and cortex 3, 6, 12, 24 and 48 h post-HI. IL-1beta protein expression increased, beginning at 3 h after HI and lasting until 24 h post-HI in hippocampus and 12 h post-HI in cortex. Intracerebroventricular injection of 2 microg IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) 2 h after HI significantly reduced cell death and caspase 3 activity. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analyses of hippocampus and cortex after HI for NF-kappaB activity showed increased p65/p50 DNA-binding activity at 24 h post-HI. Western blot analyses showed significant nuclear translocation of p65. Protein expression levels of two known inflammatory agents, inducible nitric oxide synthase and cycloxygenase 2, known to be transcriptionally regulated by NF-kappaB, also increased at 24 h after HI. All these HI-induced changes were reversed by IL-1Ra blockade of IL-1 signaling, consistent with IL-1 triggering of inflammatory apoptotic outcomes via NF-kappaB transcriptional activation. The observed increase in cytoplasmic phosphorylated inhibitor kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha) and nuclear translocation of Bcl-3 24 h after HI was also significantly attenuated by IL-1Ra blockade, suggesting that HI-induced IL-1 activation of NF-kappaB is via both the degradation of IkappaBalpha and the nuclear translocation of Bcl-3.
Derivatives of 3-guanidinopropionic acid, such as leptin, reduce body weight in obese, diabetic mice. We have assessed whether one of these analogues, BVT.12777 activates intracellular signalling pathways in the arcuate nucleus in a manner analogous to leptin and insulin. In addition, because these hormones have been shown to activate K(ATP) channels in a subset of arcuate neurones, we examined whether this channel is also a functional endpoint for BVT.12777 in the arcuate nucleus. BVT.12777 transiently increased phosphorylation of MAPK, STAT3, PKB and GSK3, in a manner identical to that observed for leptin and insulin. BVT.12777 also hyperpolarized glucose-responsive neurones by increasing the activity of K(ATP) channels. The increase in K(ATP) activity driven by BVT.12777 was PI3-kinase independent, unlike leptin and insulin activation of this channel, and could also be elicited in isolated patches. However, K(ATP) activity induced by BVT.12777 was dependent on actin filament dynamics, both in intact neurones and isolated patches. Thus, BVT.12777 modulates arcuate neurone K(ATP) activity by re-organization of the cytoskeleton, a mechanism that has also been ascribed to leptin and insulin. Consequently, BVT.12777 appears to act as a leptin and insulin mimetic with respect to at least some elements of arcuate neurone intracellular signalling and the activation of K(ATP) channels. Resistance to leptin and insulin, associated with obesity has, at least in part, been postulated to be due to aberrant intracellular signalling in arcuate neurones. The data presented here indicate that it may be possible to develop drugs, which by-pass up-stream signalling components associated with adiposity hormone resistance, such as PI3-kinase, but can still induce functional outputs from arcuate neurones by targeting downstream components of the leptin and insulin signalling cascades.
Transsynaptic and glial-neuronal communication are important components of the mechanism underlying the pubertal activation of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion. The molecules required for the architectural organization of these cell-cell interactions have not been identified. We now show that the hypothalamus of the prepubertal female rhesus monkey expresses a multiplicity of genes encoding three families of adhesion/signalling proteins involved in the structural definition of both neurone-to-neurone and bi-directional neurone-glia communication. These include the neurexin/neuroligin (NRX/NRL) and protocadherin-alpha (PCDHalpha) families of synaptic specifiers/adhesion molecules, and key components of the contactin-dependent neuronal-glial adhesiveness complex, including contactin/F3 itself, the contactin-associated protein-1 (CASPR1), and the glial receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase beta. Prominently expressed among members of the NRX family is the neurexin isoform involved in the specification of glutamatergic synapses. Although NRXs, PCDHalphas and CASPR1 transcripts are mostly detected in neurones, the topography of expression appears different. NRX1 mRNA-containing neurones are scattered throughout the hypothalamus, PCDHalpha mRNA transcripts appear more abundant in neurones of the arcuate nucleus and periventricular region, and neurones positive for CASPR1 mRNA exhibit a particularly striking distribution pattern that delineates the hypothalamus. Examination of LHRH neurones, using the LHRH-secreting cell line GT1-7, showed that these cells contain transcripts encoding NRXs and one of their ligands (NRL1), at least one PCDHalpha (CNR-8/PCDHalpha10), and the CASPR1/contactin complex. The results indicate that the prepubertal female monkey hypothalamus contains a plethora of adhesion/signalling molecules with different but complementary functions, and that an LHRH neuronal cell line expresses key components of this structural complex. The presence of such cell-cell communication machinery in the neuroendocrine brain suggests an integrated participation of their individual components in the central control of female sexual development.
The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) regulates multiple sclerosis (MS) and its model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We created four new intra-MHC recombinant rat strains, between the MHC haplotypes RT1(n) (BN) and RT1(l) (LEW) on the LEW background, to define disease regulation and localization within the MHC. Immunization with recombinant myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (a.a.1-125; MOG)/IFA induced EAE in strains expressing the MHC class II allele RT1.B(n), whereas strains expressing the RT1.B(l) were resistant. In myelin basic protein peptide (MBP(GP)63-88)/CFA-induced EAE, RT1.B(l) expressing strains were susceptible whereas strains expressing the RT1.B(n) were resistant. High levels of antigen-specific IFN-gamma secreting lymphoid cells and antigen-specific serum IgG antibodies were only recorded in rats with an MHC class II allele that permitted MOG- or MBP-EAE, respectively. Genetically, we localized the MHC regulation of the investigated EAE models to the central part of the MHC, containing the MHC class II (RT1.B/D) and the centromeric parts of the MHC class III. No influences were evident from the classical MHC class I (RT1.A), the telomeric parts of the MHC class III or the non-classical MHC class I (RT1.C/E/M) in contrast to previous reports. The MHC class II haplotype-specific regulation of EAE induced with two different CNS antigens demonstrates a strikingly specific MHC-association even within the same target organ.
The purpose of this study was to develop a suitable in vitro model system to study the biochemical pathway(s) by which interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) contributes to the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia. Thus, the effect of IL-1beta on a number of injury paradigms associated with energy deprivation was investigated using murine mixed cortical cell cultures. While IL-1beta by itself was not neurotoxic, pre-treatment-but not concurrent or post-treatment-with this cytokine potentiated neuronal injury induced by depriving cultures of either oxygen, glucose, or both oxygen and glucose. Cytotoxicity was abolished by an IL-1beta-neutralizing antibody. Together, these results demonstrate the establishment of reliable and reproducible in vitro models that will now allow detailed investigation of the cellular and molecular mechanisms relating to IL-1beta-mediated neuronal cell death.

According to previous biochemical and genetic findings, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), via activation of its tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB), is considered as a plausible candidate for contributing to Alzheimer's disease (AD). To examine the genetic association of BDNF and TrkB genes with AD, we genotyped multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within these genes among 375 Finnish AD patients and 460 control subjects. Single locus and multi-loci haplotype association analyses of BDNF and TrkB gene SNPs did not reveal significant differences between unstratified AD and control groups. In the case of BDNF SNPs, different allele and haplotype frequencies were observed when 160 sporadic AD cases were compared with 460 control subjects. However, these differences did not remain statistically significant after multiple corrections. We conclude that BDNF and TrkB genes are not contributing significant risk effect among Finnish AD patients.



The dysferlin gene is defective in Miyoshi myopathy (MM) and limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B). Dysferlin is a sarcolemmal protein that is implicated in calcium-dependent membrane repair. Affixin (beta-parvin) is a novel, integrin-linked kinase-binding protein that is involved in the linkage between integrin and the cytoskeleton. Here we show that affixin is a dysferlin binding protein that colocalizes with dysferlin at the sarcolemma of normal human skeletal muscle. The immunoreactivity of affixin was reduced in sarcolemma of MM and LGMD2B muscles, although the total amount of the affixin protein was normal. Altered immunoreactivity of affixin was also observed in other muscle diseases including LGMD1C, where both affixin and dysferlin showed quite similar changes with a reduction of sarcolemmal staining with or without cytoplasmic accumulations. Colocalization of dysferlin and affixin was confirmed by immunofluorescence analysis using dysferlin-expressing C2 myoblasts. Wild-type and mutant dysferlin colocalized with endogenous affixin. The interaction of dysferlin and affixin was confirmed by immunoprecipitation study using normal human and mouse skeletal muscles. Using immunoprecipitation with deletion mutants of dysferlin, we have identified that C-terminal region of dysferlin is an apparent binding site for affixin. We also found N-terminal calponin homology domain of affixin as a binding site for dysferlin. Our results suggest that affixin may participate in membrane repair with dysferlin.
Pursuing an object with smooth eye movements requires an accurate estimate of its two-dimensional (2D) trajectory. This 2D motion computation requires that different local motion measurements are extracted and combined to recover the global object-motion direction and speed. Several combination rules have been proposed such as vector averaging (VA), intersection of constraints (IOC), or 2D feature tracking (2DFT). To examine this computation, we investigated the time course of smooth pursuit eye movements driven by simple objects of different shapes. For type II diamond (where the direction of true object motion is dramatically different from the vector average of the 1-dimensional edge motions, i.e., VA not equal IOC = 2DFT), the ocular tracking is initiated in the vector average direction. Over a period of less than 300 ms, the eye-tracking direction converges on the true object motion. The reduction of the tracking error starts before the closing of the oculomotor loop. For type I diamonds (where the direction of true object motion is identical to the vector average direction, i.e., VA = IOC = 2DFT), there is no such bias. We quantified this effect by calculating the direction error between responses to types I and II and measuring its maximum value and time constant. At low contrast and high speeds, the initial bias in tracking direction is larger and takes longer to converge onto the actual object-motion direction. This effect is attenuated with the introduction of more 2D information to the extent that it was totally obliterated with a texture-filled type II diamond. These results suggest a flexible 2D computation for motion integration, which combines all available one-dimensional (edge) and 2D (feature) motion information to refine the estimate of object-motion direction over time.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings revealed a subpopulation (16%, n = 18/112) of rat median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) neurons responded to bath-applied angiotensin II (Ang II; 100 nM to 5 microM; 30-90 s) with a prolonged TTX-resistant membrane depolarization and rhythmic bursting activity. At rest, cells characteristically displayed relatively low input resistance and negative resting potentials. Ang-II-induced responses featured increased input resistance, a reversal potential of -95 +/- 2 mV, an increase in action potential duration from 2.9 +/- 0.5 to 4.3 +/- 0.8 ms, and the appearance of a rebound excitation at the offset of membrane responses to hyperpolarizing current injection. The latter was sensitive to Ni2+ (0.5-1 mM; n = 5), insensitive to extracellular Cs+ (1 mM, n = 7), and intracellular QX-314 (4 mM, n = 5), consistent with activation of a T-type Ca2+ conductance. Coincident with the Ang-II-induced depolarization was the appearance of rhythmic depolarizing shifts at a frequency of 0.14 +/- 0.09 Hz with superimposed bursts of 4-22 action potentials interspersed with silent periods persisting for &gt;1 h after washout. These TTX-resistant depolarizing shifts increased in amplitude and decreased in frequency with membrane hyperpolarization with activity ceasing beyond approximately -80 mV, and were abolished in low-Ca(2+)/high-Mg2+ bathing medium (n = 6), Co2+ (1 mM; n = 6), or Ni2+ (0.5-1 mM; n = 8). Thus in a subpopulation of MnPO neurons, Ang II induces &quot;pacemaker-like&quot; activity by reducing a K(+)-dependent leak conductance that contributes to resting membrane potential and promoting of Ca(2+)-dependent regenerative auto-excitation mediated, in part, by a T-type Ca2+ conductance.
Cortical responses to painful and nonpainful heat were measured using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) region of interest analysis (ROI) of primary somatosensory cortex (S1), secondary somatosensory cortex (S2), anterior cingulate (ACC), supplementary motor area (SMA), insula, and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). Previous studies indicated that innocuous and noxious stimuli of different modalities produce responses with different time courses in S1 and S2. The aim of this study was to 1) determine whether temporally distinct nociceptive blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses are evoked in multiple somatosensory processing cortical areas and 2) whether these responses discriminate small noxious stimulus intensity differences. Thirty-three subjects underwent fMRI scanning while receiving three intensities of thermal stimuli, ranging from innocuous warm (41 degrees C) to 1 degrees C below tolerance, applied to the dorsum of the left foot. Innocuous and noxious responses were distinguishable in contralateral S1, the mid-ACC, and SMA. The peak of the nociceptive response was temporally delayed from the innocuous response peak by 6-8 s. Responses to noxious but not to innocuous stimuli were observed in contralateral posterior insula. Responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli were not statistically different in contralateral S2. In contralateral S1 only, the nociceptive response could differentiate heat stimuli separated by 1 degrees C. These results show that 1) multiple cortical areas have temporally distinguishable innocuous and noxious responses evoked by a painfully hot thermode, 2) the nociceptive processing properties vary across cortical regions, and 3) nociceptive responses in S1 discriminate between painful temperatures at a level unmatched in other cortical areas.
Systemic exposure to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists can lead to psychosis and prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent behavioral impairments. Agonists of metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3) receptors ameliorate the adverse behavioral effects of NMDA antagonists in humans and laboratory animals, and are being considered as a novel treatment for some symptoms of schizophrenia. Despite the compelling behavioral data, the cellular mechanisms by which potentiation of mGlu2/3 receptor function attenuates the effects of NMDA receptor hypofunction remain unclear. In freely moving rats, we recorded the response of medial PFC (prelimbic) single units to treatment with the NMDA antagonist MK801 and assessed the dose-dependent effects of pre- or posttreatment with the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY354740 on this response. NMDA receptor antagonist-induced behavioral stereotypy was measured during recording because it may relate to the psychotomimetic properties of this treatment and is dependent on the functional integrity of the PFC. In most PFC neurons, systemic administration of MK801 increased the spontaneous firing rate, decreased the variability of spike trains, and disrupted patterns of spontaneous bursts. Given alone, LY354740 (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg) decreased spontaneous activity of PFC neurons at the highest dose. Pre- or posttreatment with LY354740 blocked MK801-induced changes on firing rate, burst activity, and variability of spike activity. These physiological changes coincided with a reduction in MK801-induced behavioral stereotypy by LY354740. These data indicate that activation of mGlu2/3 receptors reduces the disruptive effects of NMDA receptor hypofunction on the spontaneous spike activity and bursting of PFC neurons. This mechanism may provide a physiological basis for reversal of NMDA antagonist-induced behaviors by mGlu2/3 agonists.
Sensorimotor integration in the avian song system is crucial for both learning and maintenance of song, a vocal motor behavior. Although a number of song system areas demonstrate both sensory and motor characteristics, their exact roles in auditory and premotor processing are unclear. In particular, it is unknown whether input from the forebrain nucleus interface of the nidopallium (NIf), which exhibits both sensory and premotor activity, is necessary for both auditory and premotor processing in its target, HVC. Here we show that bilateral NIf lesions result in long-term loss of HVC auditory activity but do not impair song production. NIf is thus a major source of auditory input to HVC, but an intact NIf is not necessary for motor output in adult zebra finches.
The purpose of this study was to examine the time course of changes in cerebral activity and functional connectivity during long-term adaptation to a visuomotor transformation. Positron emission tomography was used to measure changes in brain activity as subjects tracked a target under the influence of a rotational transformation that distorted visual feedback. The experiment was 1 week long and consisted of two scanning sessions (obtained on days 2 and 7), aimed at examining early and late stages of learning. On average, visuomotor adaptation was achieved within 3 days. During early stages of adaptation, better performance was associated with greater activity in brain areas related to attention including bilateral dorso- and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices, frontal eye fields, and the human homologue of area MT. However, as adaptation proceeded, improvements in performance were associated with greater activity in motor regions such as the left (contralateral) sensorimotor cortex, bilateral anterior cerebellum, left cingulate motor area, right putamen, and a nonmotor region within the middle temporal gyrus. This learning-specific shift in brain activity was associated with a progressive change in the functional connectivity of these regions toward the end of the first session. Interestingly, only the functional connections between the anterior cerebellum, left middle temporal gyrus, and left sensorimotor cortex remained strong once visuomotor adaptation was achieved. Our findings suggest that visuomotor adaptation is not only reflected in persistent changes in activity in motor-related regions, but also in the strengthening and maintenance of specific functional connections.
Lesions in the caudal fastigial nucleus (cFN) severely impair the accuracy of visually guided saccades in the head-restrained monkey. Is the saccade dysmetria a central perturbation in issuing commands for orienting gaze (eye in space) or is it a more peripheral impairment in generating oculomotor commands? This question was investigated in two head-unrestrained monkeys by analyzing the effect of inactivating one cFN on horizontal gaze shifts generated from a straight ahead fixation light-emitting diode (LED) toward a 40 degrees eccentric target LED. After muscimol injections, when viewing the fixation LED, the starting position of the head was changed (ipsilesional and upward deviations). Ipsilesional gaze shifts were associated with a 24% increase in the eye saccade amplitude and a 58% reduction in the amplitude of the head contribution. Contralesional gaze shifts were associated with a decrease in the amplitude of both eye and head components (40 and 37% reduction, respectively). No correlation between the changes in the eye amplitude and in head contribution was observed. The amplitude of the complete head movement was decreased for ipsilesional movements (57% reduction) and unaffected for contralesional movements. For both ipsilesional and contralesional gaze shifts, the changes in eye saccade amplitude were strongly correlated with the changes in gaze amplitude and largely accounted for the gaze dysmetria. These results indicate a major role of cFN in the generation of appropriate saccadic oculomotor commands during head-unrestrained gaze shifts.
The rotatory vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) keeps the visual world stable during head movements by causing eye velocity that is equal in amplitude and opposite in direction to angular head velocity. We have studied the performance of the VOR in darkness for sinusoidal angular head oscillation at frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 50 Hz. At frequencies of &gt; or = 25 Hz, the harmonic distortion of the stimulus and response were estimated to be &lt;14 and 22%, respectively. We measured the gain of the VOR (eye velocity divided by head velocity) and the phase shift between eye and head velocity before and after adaptation with altered vision. Before adaptation, VOR gains were close to unity for frequencies &lt; or = 20 Hz and increased as a function of frequency reaching values of 3 or 4 at 50 Hz. Eye velocity was almost perfectly out of phase with head velocity for frequencies &lt; or = 12.5 Hz, and lagged perfect compensation increasingly as a function of frequency. After adaptive modification of the VOR with magnifying or miniaturizing optics, gain showed maximal changes at frequencies &lt;12.5 Hz, smaller changes at higher frequencies, and no change at frequencies larger than 25 Hz. Between 15 and 25 Hz, the phase of eye velocity led the unmodified VOR by as much as 50 degrees when the gain of the VOR had been decreased, and lagged when the gain of the VOR had been increased. We were able to reproduce the main features of our data with a two-pathway model of the VOR, where the two pathways had different relationships between phase shift and frequency.
Characterizing input integration at the single-cell level is a critical step to understanding cortical function, particularly when sensory stimuli are represented over wide cortical areas and single cells exhibit large receptive fields. To study synaptic integration of sensory inputs, we made intracellular recordings from the barrel cortex of anesthetized rats in vivo. For each cell, we deflected the principal whisker (PW) either alone or preceded by the deflection of a single adjacent whisker (AW) at an interval of 20 or 3 ms. At the 20-ms interval in all cases, prior AW deflection significantly suppressed the PW-evoked spike output and caused the underlying synaptic response to reach a peak Vm less depolarized than that arising from PW deflection alone. The decrease in peak Vm was not attributed to hyperpolarizing inhibition but to a divisive reduction in PW-evoked PSP amplitude. The reduction in amplitude was not a result of shunting inhibition but was mostly a result of removal of the synaptic drive, or disfacilitation. When the AW-PW interval was shortened to 3 ms, spike suppression was observed in a subset of the cells studied. In most cases, a divisive reduction in synaptic response amplitude was offset by summation with the preceding AW-evoked depolarization. To determine whether suppression is a general feature of synaptic integration by barrel cortex neurons, we also characterized the interaction of responses evoked by local electrical stimulation. In contrast to the whisker data, we found that responses to paired stimulation at the same intervals produced more spikes and reached a peak Vm more depolarized than the individual responses alone, suggesting that whisker-evoked suppression is not a result of postsynaptic mechanisms. Instead, we propose that cross-whisker response suppression depends on sensory-specific mechanisms at cortical and subcortical levels.
Dendritic architecture provides the structural substrate for myriads of input and output synapses in the brain and for the integration of presynaptic inputs. Understanding mechanisms of evolution and development of neuronal shape and its respective function is thus a formidable problem in neuroscience. A fundamental prerequisite for finding answers is a precise quantitative analysis of neuronal structure in situ and in vivo. Therefore we have developed a tool set for automatic geometric reconstruction of neuronal architecture from stacks of confocal images. It provides exact midlines, diameters, surfaces, volumes, and branch point locations and allows analysis of labeled molecule distribution along neuronal surfaces as well as direct export into modeling software. We show the high accuracy of geometric reconstruction and the analysis of putative input synapse distribution throughout entire dendritic trees from in situ light microscopy preparations as a possible application. The binary version of the reconstruction module is downloadable at no cost.
The case reports described in this article indicate that current neuropsychiatric practice is strongly limited by reliance on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). Knowledge of new psychopathology that will enable the neuropsychiatrists and neuroscientists identify specific areas of brain dysfunction is essential to modern practice of neuropsychiatry. Today, less than 20% of neuropsychiatry and neuroscience programs teach such psychopathology.The development of brain imaging and metabolic measurement technologies; the continuous and rapid introduction of many new pharmaceutical agents into clinical care; and the various, detailed editions of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) have all shaped modern psychiatric training and thus future psychiatric practice. This &quot;shaping&quot; is observed most often in the teaching of psychopathology and of mental status examinations, both currently focusing on how to recognize and elicit the clinical features needed to apply the criteria set by the DSM. Once DSM criteria are met, a best-choice treatment plan based on DSM diagnosis is selected from an array of pharmacotherapy algorithms. It is assumed that the known reliability of the DSM system maximizes the likelihood that these diagnostic decisions are valid and treatment choices are therefore appropriate. Descriptive psychopathology that goes beyond the DSM is primarily relegated to historical consideration and rarely pertains to issues regarding patient care.
Psychotherapy is used commonly to treat a variety of mental illnesses, yet surprisingly little is known about its biological mechanisms especially in comparison with pharmacotherapy. In this review we survey the current knowledge about changes in brain function following psychotherapeutic intervention that are detectable with current neuroimaging techniques. We also consider the possible role for neuroimaging in refining clinical diagnoses and predicting treatment outcome, which would benefit both clinical decision-making and the cognitive neuroscience of psychotherapy.

High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is a neurosurgical procedure for the alleviation of motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease and debilitating medication-induced dyskinesias. Stimulation is achieved with electrodes implanted stereotactically in the subthalamic nucleus by a neurosurgeon specializing in stereotactic surgery and a team composed of an anesthesiologist, a neurophysiologist, certified nurses and nurse practitioners and, at some centers, a neurologist. The teamwork continues in the recovery room and the intensive care unit, where the patient may experience transient adverse behavioral effects. Two weeks after surgery, the neurostimulator is activated and programmed. The medications also are adjusted to complement stimulation to maximize the therapeutic effects and minimize the stimulation-induced side effects. For those patients who are deconditioned or have major speech, gait, or balance problems, rehabilitation therapy is employed.
Depression as a medical disorder increasingly is being recognized and treated. The mood of an individual with major depression is often described as sad, hopeless, or discouraged, and there are many physical symptoms associated with depression. Pharmacologic treatments for depression have advanced greatly since the development of the first therapies, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Many medications, such as tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), currently are available to help combat this health problem. Newer medications have eliminated many of the side effects associated with older therapies, and treatments in development are designed with the goal of further improving on efficacy while eliminating side effects.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) at a subtoxic concentration (100 microM) promotes neuronal survival against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity via a brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) autocrine loop in cultured cerebellar granule cells. The signal transduction mechanism(s) underlying NMDA neuroprotection, however, remains elusive. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3-K) pathways alter gene expression and are involved in synaptic plasticity and neuronal survival. This study tested whether neuroprotective activation of NMDA receptors, together with TrkB receptors, coactivated the MAPK or PI3-K pathways to protect rat cerebellar neurons. NMDA receptor activation caused a concentration- and time-dependent activation of MAPK lasting 24 hr. This activation was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 but was attenuated only partially by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor k252a, suggesting that activation of both NMDA and TrkB receptors are required for maximal neuroprotection. The MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126 (10 microM) partially blocked NMDA neuroprotection, whereas LY294002, a selective inhibitor of the PI3-K pathway, did not affect the neuroprotective activity of NMDA. Glutamate excitotoxicity decreased bcl-2, bcl-X(L), and bax mRNA levels,. NMDA increases Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) protein levels and decreases Bax protein levels. NMDA and TrkB receptor activation thus converge on the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 signaling pathway to protect neurons against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. By increasing antiapoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family, NMDA receptor activation may also promote neuronal survival by preventing apoptosis.

The authors report the case of a 30-year-old man who presented with progressive neurological deficits due to a spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM). There was sudden increase in his neurological deficits after diagnostic angiography was performed. Repeated magnetic resonance imaging and angiography revealed complete thrombosis of the malformation. Stenosis in the draining vein was the most probable cause of this postangiographic occlusion of the AVM. Contrast injection during angiography may have precipitated the thrombosis.
The gene for myelencephalon-specific protease (MSP) is a member of the kallikrein gene family and in rats is expressed mainly in the central nervous system. Its function and alteration in brain injury have not yet been clarified. We examined the expression of MSP after cryogenic injury (CI) using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. Analysis of MSP mRNA by in situ hybridization revealed a higher level of expression around the cryogenic area than on the contralateral side at 2-7 days after CI, with peak expression occurring 7 days after CI. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated expression of MSP protein at 1 day after CI, in the same region in which MSP mRNA was observed, with peak expression again at 7 days after CI, in the area around the lesion. Double immunohistochemical labeling revealed that MSP was expressed mainly in oligodendrocytes. These results suggest that expression of MSP may be related to the turnover of myelin-associated proteins and extracellular matrix proteins after CI. The regulation of active MSP may be important in the physiological or pathological changes involved in remyelination or demyelination.
Protein kinase B/Akt is a key signaling molecule that regulates cell survival, growth, and metabolism, and inhibits apoptosis. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) activates Akt, and Akt has been implicated in neuronal survival after TBI, but little is known about injury-induced Akt activation in astrocytes, cells that exhibit hypertrophic and hyperplastic responses to CNS injury. Here we have investigated the effect of mechanical strain on Akt activation in primary cultures of rat cortical astrocytes growing on deformable Silastic membranes. When astrocytes were subjected to mechanical strain (50 msec; 5-7.5 mm displacement), we observed an increase in phosphorylation of serine 473, a key indicator of Akt activation. Akt phosphorylation was increased at 3 min postinjury, was maximal from 5 to 10 min, and declined gradually thereafter. Akt activation was also dependent on the severity of the injury. Stretch-induced Akt phosphorylation was attenuated by blocking calcium influx and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), an upstream activator of Akt. In addition, we found that ATP is rapidly released after mechanical strain and that the P2 purinergic receptor antagonist iso-pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',5'disulfonate (PPADS) attenuated trauma-induced Akt activation. We conclude that mechanical strain causes activation of Akt in astrocytes via stimulation of P2 receptors. This suggests that P2 receptor/Akt signaling promotes astrocyte survival and growth, and this process may play a role in the generation of reactive gliosis after TBI.
Rodent models are being extensively used to investigate the effects of traumatic injury and develop and assess the mechanisms of repair and regeneration. We present quantitative assessment of two-dimensional (2D) kinematics of overground walking and for the first time three-dimensional (3D) joint angle kinematics of all four limbs during treadmill walking in intact adult female Long-Evans rats. Gait cycle with subphases and intralimb and interlimb cyclograms are presented. Phase relationships between joint angles on a cycle-by-cycle basis and interlimb footfalls are assessed using a simple technique. Electromyogram (EMG) data from major flexor and extensor muscles for each of the hindlimb joints and elbow extensor muscles of the forelimbs synchronized to the 3D kinematics are also obtained. Overground walking kinematics, provides information on base of support, stride length, and hindfoot rotation. Treadmill walking kinematics indicate primarily monophasic angle trajectories for the hip and shoulder joints, weak double peak patterns for the knee and elbow joints, and a prominent double peak pattern for the ankle joints. Maximum flexion of the knee during swing precedes that of the ankle, which precedes that of the hip. A mild exercise regimen over 8 weeks does not alter the kinematics. EMG activity indicates specific relationships of the neural activity to joint angle kinematics. We find that the ankle flexors as well as the hip and elbow extensors maintain constant burst duration with changing cycle duration. Data and techniques described here are likely to be useful for quantitative assessment of altered gait and neural control mechanisms after neurotrauma.
Disruption of bladder function and sexual reflexes are major complications following spinal cord injury (SCI). We examined the use of telemetric monitoring of corpus spongiosum penis (CSP) pressures for assessment of micturition and erectile events following SCI in rats. Pressure catheters were implanted in the bulb of the CSP of seven male Long-Evans hooded rats, subjected to a standardized weight drop SCI (10 g x 12.5 mm) at T10. CSP pressures were analyzed for spontaneously occurring micturition and erectile events, and during ex copula reflex erection tests until 25 days after SCI. Urine volume was determined until 21 days after SCI. Results show initial loss of bladder function after SCI with gradual return of reflex micturition. When compared to baseline (BL), micturition pressure characteristics after SCI included prolonged duration, increased area under the curve (AUC), increased mean pressures, increased number of pressure peaks, and increased peak frequency. At 21 days after SCI, the urine volume per micturition was significantly increased. The number of full erectile events decreased significantly following SCI. Pressure wave analyses demonstrated increased AUC, increased maximum pressures, increased suprasystolic peak duration, increased AUC of the suprasystolic peaks, and increased maximum pressures of the suprasystolic peaks during recovery. The number of partial erectile events decreased significantly following SCI. Ex copula reflex erection testing demonstrated significantly decreased latency. The study demonstrates that telemetric monitoring of CSP pressures in conscious rats is a valuable and reliable method for assessing recovery of autonomic function following SCI.
Opioid use may be associated with an increased risk of neurological disease in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection through effects on immune cell function. Studies were performed to examine the effects of specific retinoid receptor activation on mu opioid receptor (MOR) production by phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated U937 cells, a mononuclear cell line. PHA stimulation increased activation of the MOR promoter as well as levels of MOR mRNA, total receptor protein in cell lysates, and surface and cytoplasmic receptor expression. Retinoid X receptor (RXR) agonist and retinoic acid receptor (RAR) antagonist further increased MOR expression by the PHA-stimulated cells. In contrast, MOR expression was suppressed by RAR agonist and by RXR antagonist. Finally, opioid receptor binding was also increased by RXR agonist and RXR antagonist; no increase in binding occurred in the presence of RAR agonists and RXR antagonist. All together, these studies suggest that MOR expression in U937 cells can be differentially regulated by specific retinoid receptor activation. Such effects may have important clinical relevance for opioid users with HIV infection, including individuals with neurological disease.
Over the past decade there has been a revolution in the understanding and care of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS)-associated disease. Much of this progress stems from a broader recognition of the importance of differences in viral types, including receptor preference(s), replication properties, and reservoirs, as contributing factors to immunosuppresion and disease progression. In contrast, there is limited conceptualizatin of viral diversity and turnover in the brain and circulation in relation to neurocognitive impairments. Herein, the authors review current concepts regarding viral molecular diversity and phenotypes together with features of HIV-1 neuroinvasion, neurotropism, neurovirulence and neurosusceptiblity. Viral genetic and antigenic diversity is reduced within the brain compared to blood or other systemic organs within individuals. Conversely, viral molecular heterogeneity is greater in patients with HIV-associated dementia compared to nondemented patients, depending on the viral gene examined. Individual viral proteins exert multiple neuropathogenic effects, although the neurological consequences of different viral polymorphisms remain uncertain. Nonetheless, host genetic polymorphisms clearly influence neurological disease outcomes and likely dictate both acquired and innate immune responses, which in turn shape viral evolution within the host. Emerging issues include widespread antiretroviral therapy resistance and increasing awareness of viral superinfections together with viral recombination, all of which are likely to impact on both HIV genetic variation and neuropathogenesis. With the persisting prevalence of HIV-induced neurocognitive disabilities, despite marked improvements in managing immunosuppression, it remains imperative to fully define and understand the mechanisms by which viral dynamics and diversity contribute to neurological disease, permitting the development of new therapeutic strategies.

A quality improvement project was undertaken by Neuro-ICU nurses to determine possible effects from open visitation. From a quality improvement perspective, nurses' concerns were investigated along with their perceptions about open visitation to determine a need for visitation policy revision. Vast variability in nurses' interpretation and implementation of individualized open visitation policy suggested a need for the following: staff education about the policy and its implementation, a review of the literature to determine the validity of concerns about deleterious physiologic effects on neuroscience patients from visitation, and improved communication among nurses about visitation.
The aim of this work was to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disc position abnormalities compared with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Participants in this study were 41 consecutive patients with signs and symptoms of temporomandibular disorders. All 82 TMJs were evaluated to detect disc position abnormalities by means of ultrasonography and MRI, performed by blinded operators. The accuracy of ultrasonography was evaluated with respect to MRI. Ultrasonography demonstrated good accuracy in the evaluation of disc position, showing a sensitivity of 65.8% and a specificity of 80.4%, resulting in a positive likelihood ratio of 3.35, a negative likelihood ratio of 0.42, and a diagnostic odds ratio of 7.97. The predictive positive and negatives values were respectively 77.1% and 70.2% and the overall agreement between the two radiological techniques was 73.1%. Ultrasonography proved to be accurate in detecting normal disc position and the presence of abnormalities in disc-condyle relationship but not so useful for the distinction between disc displacement with and without reduction.



Neurobiological dimensional models of personality aim to account for the structure of personality traits and disorders through links to neurotransmitter systems. Three such models are reviewed: those of Cloninger, Depue, and Siever. While these proposals have heuristic value, none of them has obtained strong empirical support. Our current understanding of neurobiology is insufficient to develop a model of personality on this basis. At this point, dimensions of personality should be derived from factor analysis rather than from neurobiological theories.
The vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1 or TRPV1) is a membrane-bound, nonselective cation channel expressed by peripheral sensory neurons. TRPV1 antagonists produce antihyperalgesic effects in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Here, we describe the in vitro and in vivo pharmacology of a novel TRPV1 antagonist, AMG 9810, (E)-3-(4-t-butylphenyl)-N-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[b][1,4]dioxin-6-yl)acrylamide. AMG 9810 is a competitive antagonist of capsaicin activation (IC50 value for human TRPV1, 24.5 +/- 15.7 nM; rat TRPV1, 85.6 +/- 39.4 nM) and blocks all known modes of TRPV1 activation, including protons (IC50 value for rat TRPV1, 294 +/- 192 nM; human TRPV1, 92.7 +/- 72.8 nM), heat (IC50 value for rat TRPV1, 21 +/- 17 nM; human TRPV1, 15.8 +/- 10.8 nM), and endogenous ligands, such as anandamide, N-arachidonyl dopamine, and oleoyldopamine. AMG 9810 blocks capsaicin-evoked depolarization and calcitonin gene-related peptide release in cultures of rat dorsal root ganglion primary neurons. Screening of AMG 9810 against a panel of G protein-coupled receptors and ion channels indicated selectivity toward TRPV1. In vivo, AMG 9810 is effective at preventing capsaicin-induced eye wiping in a dose-dependent manner, and it reverses thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia in a model of inflammatory pain induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. At effective doses, AMG 9810 did not show any significant effects on motor function, as measured by open field locomotor activity and motor coordination tests. AMG 9810 is the first cinnamide TRPV1 antagonist reported to block capsaicin-induced eye wiping behavior and reverse hyperalgesia in an animal model of inflammatory pain.
Monitoring gene expression has been intensively used to identify neurobiological and neuroanatomical substrates associated with administration of antipsychotic drugs. Transcription factors of the Nur family (Nurr1, Nur77, and Nor-1) are orphan nuclear receptors that have been recently associated with dopamine neurotransmission. Nurr1 is involved in midbrain dopamine neuron development. Nur77 and Nor-1 are expressed in dopaminoceptive areas such as the striatum, nucleus accumbens, and prefrontal cortex. To better understand the relationship between Nur and antipsychotic drug effects, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the effect of various typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs on the modulation of Nur mRNA levels. We show that differential patterns of Nur expression can be obtained with typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs. Modulation of Nur77 and Nor-1 mRNA expression by antipsychotics can be used to calculate an index that is predictive of the typical or atypical profile of antipsychotic drugs. Inductions of Nur by anti-psychotic drugs are correlated with dopamine D2 receptor in the striatum and D2 and D3 receptor subtypes in the nucleus accumbens. The 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A/D2 affinity ratio of antipsychotics can also predict these patterns of inductions. In addition to classical gene patterns induced in the striatal complex (striatum, accumbens) and cortex, most antipsychotic drugs tested strongly induced Nur77, Nor-1, and increased Nurr1 mRNA levels in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. These data suggest that typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs might induce in multiple brain regions distinct Nur-dependent transcriptional activities, which may contribute to their pharmacological effects.
Histamine H3 receptor antagonists are being developed to treat a variety of neurological and cognitive disorders that may be ameliorated by enhancement of central neurotransmitter release. Here, we present the in vitro pharmacological and in vivo pharmacokinetic profiles for the nonimidazole, benzofuran ligand ABT-239 [4-(2-{2-[(2R)-2-methylpyrrolidinyl]ethyl}-benzofuran-5-yl)benzonitrile] and compare it with several previously described imidazole and nonimidazole H3 receptor antagonists. ABT-239 binds to recombinant human and rat H3 receptors with high affinity, with pK(i) values of 9.4 and 8.9, respectively, and is over 1000-fold selective versus human H1, H2, and H4 histamine receptors. ABT-239 is a potent H3 receptor antagonist at recombinant human and rat receptors, reversing agonist-induced changes in cAMP formation (pK(b) = 7.9 and 7.6, respectively), guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio) triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding (pK(b) = 9.0 and 8.3, respectively), and calcium mobilization (human pK(b) = 7.9). ABT-239 also competitively reversed histamine-mediated inhibition of [3H]histamine release from rat brain cortical synaptosomes (pK(b) = 7.7) and agonist-induced inhibition of contractile responses in electric field stimulated guinea pig ileal segments (pA2 = 8.7). Additionally, ABT-239 is a potent inverse agonist, inhibiting constitutive [35S]GTPgammaS binding at both rat and human H3 receptors with respective pEC50 values of 8.9 and 8.2. ABT-239 demonstrates good pharmacokinetic characteristics in rat, dog, and monkey with t1/2 values ranging from 4 to 29 h, corresponding with clearance values and metabolic turnover in liver microsomes from these species, and good oral bioavailability ranging from 52 to 89%. Thus, ABT-239 is a selective, nonimidazole H3 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist with similar high potency in both human and rat and favorable drug-like properties.
Acute pharmacological blockade of central histamine H3 receptors (H3Rs) enhances arousal/attention in rodents. However, there is little information available for other behavioral domains or for repeated administration using selective compounds. ABT-239 [4-(2-{2-[(2R)-2-methylpyrrolidinyl]ethyl}-benzofuran-5-yl)benzonitrile] exemplifies such a selective, nonimidazole H3R antagonist with high affinity for rat (pK(i) = 8.9) and human (pK(i) = 9.5) H3Rs. Acute functional blockade of central H3Rs was demonstrated by blocking the dipsogenia response to the selective H3R agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine in mice. In cognition studies, acquisition of a five-trial, inhibitory avoidance test in rat pups was improved with ABT-239 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), a 10- to 150-fold gain in potency, with similar efficacy, over previous antagonists such as thioperamide, ciproxifan, A-304121 [(4-(3-(4-((2R)-2-aminopropanoyl)-1-piperazinyl)propoxy)phenyl)(cyclopropyl) methanone], A-317920 [N-((1R)-2-(4-(3-(4-(cyclopropylcarbonyl) phenoxy)propyl)-1-piperazinyl)-1-methyl-2-oxoethyl)-2-furamide], and A-349821 [(4'-(3-((R,R)2,5-dimethyl-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-propoxy)-biphenyl-4-yl)-morpholin-4-yl-methanone]. Efficacy in this model was maintained for 3 to 6 h and following repeated dosing with ABT-239. Social memory was also improved in adult (0.01-0.3 mg/kg) and aged (0.3-1.0 mg/kg) rats. In schizophrenia models, ABT-239 improved gating deficits in DBA/2 mice using prepulse inhibition of startle (1.0-3.0 mg/kg) and N40 (1.0-10.0 mg/kg). Furthermore, ABT-239 (1.0 mg/kg) attenuated methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity in mice. In freely moving rat microdialysis studies, ABT-239 enhanced acetylcholine release (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) in adult rat frontal cortex and hippocampus and enhanced dopamine release in frontal cortex (3.0 mg/kg), but not striatum. In summary, broad efficacy was observed with ABT-239 across animal models such that potential clinical efficacy may extend beyond disorders such as ADHD to include Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia.
BL-1249 [(5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-naphthalen-1-yl)-[2-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-phenyl]-amine] produced a concentration-dependent membrane hyperpolarization of cultured human bladder myocytes, assessed as either a reduction in fluorescence of the voltage-sensitive dye bis-(1,2-dibutylbarbituric acid)trimethine oxonol (EC50 = 1.26 +/- 0.6 microM) or by direct electrophysiological measurement (EC50 = 1.49 +/- 0.08 microM). BL-1249 also produced a membrane hyperpolarization of acutely dissociated rat bladder myocytes. Voltage-clamp studies in human bladder cells revealed that BL-1249 activated an instantaneous, noninactivating current that reversed near E(K). The BL-1249-evoked outward K+ current was insensitive to blockade by glyburide, tetraethylammonium, iberiotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, apamin, or Mg2+. However, the current was inhibited by extracellular Ba2+ (10 mM). In in vitro organ bath experiments, BL-1249 produced a concentration-dependent relaxation of 30 mM KCl-induced contractions in rat bladder strips (EC50 = 1.12 +/- 0.37 microM), yet had no effect on aortic strips up to the highest concentration tested (10 microM). The bladder relaxation produced by BL-1249 was partially blocked by Ba2+ (1 and 10 mM) but not by apamin, iberiotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, glyburide, or tetraethylammonium. In an anesthetized rat model, BL-1249 (1 mg/kg i.v.) decreased the number of isovolumic contractions, without significantly affecting blood pressure. Thus, BL-1249 behaves as a potassium channel activator that exhibits bladder versus vascular selectivity both in vitro and in vivo. A survey of potassium channels exhibiting sensitivity to extracellular Ba2+ at millimolar concentration revealed that the expression of the K2P2.1 (TREK-1) channel was relatively high in human bladder cells versus human aortic cells, suggesting this channel as a possible candidate target for BL-1249.
We found that 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamide (CDPPB) is a potent and selective positive allosteric modulator of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5). In Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human mGluR5, CDPPB potentiated threshold responses to glutamate in fluorometric Ca2+ assays more than 7-fold with an EC50 value of approximately 27 nM. At 1 microM, CDPPB shifted mGluR5 agonist concentration response curves to glutamate, quisqualate, and (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine 3- to 9-fold to the left. At higher concentrations, CDPPB exhibited agonist-like activity on cells expressing mGluR5. No other activity was observed on any other mGluR or cell type at concentrations up to 10 microM. CDPPB had no effect on [3H]quisqualate binding to mGluR5 but did compete for binding of [3H]methoxyPEPy, an analog of the selective mGluR5 negative allosteric modulator MPEP. CDPPB was found to be brain penetrant and reversed amphetamine-induced locomotor activity and amphetamine-induced deficits in prepulse inhibition in rats, two models sensitive to antipsychotic drug treatment. These results demonstrate that positive allosteric modulation of mGluR5 produces behavioral effects, suggesting that such modulation serves as a viable approach to increasing mGluR5 activity in vivo. These effects are consistent with the hypothesis that allosteric potentiation of mGluR5 may provide a novel approach for development of antipsychotic agents.
Several lines of evidence suggest that some of the neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is attributed to proteolytic fragments of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-amyloid (Abeta) may not be the sole active component involved in the pathogenesis of AD. The potential effects of other cleavage products of APP need to be explored. The CTFs, carboxy-terminal fragments of APP, have been found in AD patients' brain and reported to exhibit much higher neurotoxicity in a variety of preparations than Abeta. Furthermore CTFs are known to impair calcium homeostasis and learning and memory through blocking LTP, triggering a strong inflammatory reaction through MAPKs- and NF-kappaB-dependent astrocytosis and iNOS induction. Recently, it was reported that CTF translocated into the nucleus, binding with Fe65 and CP2, and in turn, affected transcription of genes including glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, which results in the induction of tau-rich neurofibrillary tangles and subsequently cell death. Spatial memory of transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing CT100 was significantly impaired and CTFs were detected in the neurons as well as in plaques of the Tg mice and double Tg mice carrying CT100 and mutant tau. In this review, we summarize observations indicating that both CTF and Abeta may participate in the neuronal degeneration in the progress of AD by differential mechanisms.
We studied synaptic plasticity in the calyx of Held synapse, an axosomatic synapse in the auditory brainstem, by making whole-cell patch clamp recordings of the principal cells innervated by the calyces in a slice preparation of 7- to 10-day-old rats. A 5 min 20 Hz stimulus train increased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) on average more than twofold. The amplitude of the synaptic currents took several minutes to return to control values. The post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) was accompanied by a clear increase in the frequency, but not the amplitude, of spontaneous EPSCs, which returned to baseline more rapidly than the potentiation of evoked release. The size of the readily releasable pool of vesicles was increased by about 30%. In experiments in which presynaptic measurements of the intracellular calcium concentration were combined with postsynaptic voltage clamp recordings, PTP was accompanied by an increase in the presynaptic calcium concentration to about 210 nM. The decay of the PTP matched the decay of this increase. When the decay of the calcium transient was shortened by dialysing the terminal with EGTA, the PTP decay sped up in parallel. Our experiments suggest that PTP at the calyx of Held synapse is due to a long-lasting increase in the presynaptic calcium concentration following a tetanus, which results in an increase in the release probability of the vesicles of the readily releasable pool. Although part of the PTP can be explained by a direct activation of the calcium sensor for phasic release, other mechanisms are likely to contribute as well.
We have investigated how the nonclassical receptive field (nCRF) affects dynamic orientation selectivity of cells in the primary visual cortex (V1) in anaesthetized and paralysed cats using the reverse correlation method. We found that tuning to the orientation of the test stimulus depends on the size of the stimulation area. A significant sharpening of orientation tuning was induced by nCRF stimulation, with the magnitude of the effect increasing with the size of stimulation. The effect of the nCRF on the temporal dynamics of orientation tuning was also investigated by examining the tuning over a range of delays from stimulus onset. We found small but detectable changes in both the preferred orientation and the bandwidth of tuning over time when the classical receptive field (CRF) was stimulated alone. Stimulation in nCRF significantly increased the magnitude of these temporal changes. Thus, nCRF stimulation not only enhances the overall orientation selectivity, but also enriches the temporal dynamics of cortical neurones, which may increase the computational power of the visual cortex in information processing.
A simplified cell culture system was developed to study neuronal plasticity. As changes in synaptic strength may alter network activity patterns, we grew hippocampal neurones on a microelectrode array (MEA) and monitored their collective behaviour with 60 electrodes simultaneously. We found that exposure of the network for 15 min to the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline induced an increase in synaptic efficacy at excitatory synapses that was associated with an increase in the frequency of miniature AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs and a change in network activity from uncoordinated firing of neurones (lacking any recognizable pattern) to a highly organized, periodic and synchronous burst pattern. Induction of recurrent synchronous bursting was dependent on NMDA receptor activation and required extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 signalling and translation of pre-existing mRNAs. Once induced, the burst pattern persisted for several days; its maintenance phase (&gt; 4 h) was dependent on gene transcription taking place in a critical period of 120 min following induction. Thus, cultured hippocampal neurones display a simple, transcription and protein synthesis-dependent form of plasticity. The non-invasive nature of MEA recordings provides a significant advantage over traditional assays for synaptic connectivity (i.e. long-term potentiation in brain slices) and facilitates the search for activity-regulated genes critical for late-phase plasticity.
This paper provides an electrical description of the generation of slow waves in the guinea-pig gastric antrum. A short segment of a circular smooth muscle bundle with an attached network of myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC-MY) and longitudinal muscle sheet was modelled as three electrical compartments with resistive connexions between the ICC-MY compartment and each of the smooth muscle compartments. The circular smooth muscle layer contains a proportion of intramuscular interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC-IM), responsible for the regenerative component of the slow wave. Hence the equivalent cell representing the circular muscle layer incorporated a mechanism, modelled as a two stage reaction, which produces an intracellular messenger. The first stage of the reaction is proposed to be activated in a voltage-dependent manner as described by Hodgkin and Huxley. A similar mechanism was incorporated into the equivalent cell describing the ICC-MY network. Spontaneous discrete transient depolarizations, termed unitary potentials, are detected in records taken from either bundles of circular smooth muscle containing ICC-IM or from ICC-MY. In the simulation the mean rate of discharge of unitary potentials was allowed to vary with the concentration of messenger according to a conventional dose-effect relationship. Such a mechanism, which describes regenerative potentials generated by the circular muscle layer, also simulated the plateau component of the pacemaker potential in the ICC-MY network. A voltage-sensitive membrane conductance was included in the ICC-MY compartment; this was used to describe the primary component of the pacemaker potential. The model generates a range of membrane potential changes with properties similar to those generated by the three cell types present in the intact tissue.
Productive vocabulary composition is investigated in 17-month-old children who are participating in an ongoing longitudinal dyslexia research project in the Netherlands. The project is searching for early precursors for dyslexia and follows a group of children who are genetically at risk for dyslexia and a control group during the first 10 years of their lives. Among other measures, the Dutch version of the MacArthur Communicative Development Inventory: Words and Sentences (N-CDI) is used to investigate early vocabulary development. In this article, the first N-CDI results from the 2 groups of 17-month-old children are compared with each other, with other cross-sectional, cross-linguistic studies, and with a similar Finnish longitudinal dyslexia project. The Dutch children show the same general acquisition pattern as documented for other languages, but there are significant differences between the two groups of 17-month-old children in total number of words produced and in the linguistic composition of their productive vocabulary.


For neuroscience, memorable demonstrations of principles in action are crucial. Neural control of walking is particularly difficult to understand because the interaction of the cerebral cortex with a central pattern generator (CPG) makes the mode of control context-dependent. Beginning students tend to consider corticospinal control the basis of all movement, so they may not distinguish the limited circumstances in which the cerebral cortex bypasses the CPG to control leg movements directly for walking. The demonstration described here is designed to show that cortical involvement in normal walking is minimal unless visual control of foot placement is required. Cortical involvement in motor control is assessed by probing for spare attention while a student volunteer performs three different tasks: sitting, walking down a hallway, and walking through an obstacle course. Simple math quizzes with 20 oral questions are the probes. The class observes the demonstration and discusses the results. To evaluate learning, a multiple-choice question was administered two months after the demonstration, as well as 14 months later to cohorts from the previous year's class. The demonstration succeeded: quiz scores were similar for sitting and level walking, but lower for the obstacle course. Two months later, 86% of students correctly answered the multiple choice question; 42% of the previous year's cohorts answered correctly after 14 months. The demonstration shows that the cortex is engaged by walking through an obstacle course, not walking on a flat indoor surface. Initially, most students learned this distinction well, but after a year, many reverted to the idea that the corticospinal tract controls details of leg movements during walking. Thus this result emphasizes the need for review of advanced concepts. Overall, the experience was fun and could easily fit into basic or clinical neuroscience courses.
Although the field of neuroscience is booming, a challenge for researchers in mental health disciplines is the integration of basic research findings into applied clinical approaches leading to effective therapies. Recently the National Institute of Mental Health called for translational research grants to encourage collaboration between neuroscientists and mental health professionals. In order for this &quot;clinical neuroscience&quot; to emerge and thrive, an important first step is the provision of appropriate course offerings so that future neuroscience researchers and mental health practitioners will have a common neurobiological base from which to make informed decisions about the most efficacious treatments for mental illnesses. Accordingly, an integrative course, Clinical Neuroscience, was developed to address these issues. After reviewing the historical origins of this emerging discipline, students are exposed to fundamental overviews of neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, and neural development before approaching the neurobiological components of several disorders (e.g., schizophrenia, depression, Tourette's syndrome, drug abuse, obsessive compulsive disorder). Finally, the maintenance of mental health is emphasized as topics such as psychoneuroimmunology, coping with stress, and eating regulation are discussed. Important themes emphasized in this course include (1) the consideration of only empirically based evidence, (2) the view that mental illness represents a disruption of neurobiological homeostasis, (3) the acknowledgement that, because the brain is a plastic organ, the clinical relevance of environmental and behavioral influences is difficult to overestimate, and (4) the recognition of the value of ecologically relevant animal models in the investigation of various aspects of mental illness. Because of the importance of stress maintenance in mental health, exercises have been developed to increase students' awareness of their own coping strategies. Finally, several books and movies are incorporated to provide additional points of view of the topics discussed in the course.
The Indian herb Gymnema sylvestre has been used in traditional Ayurvedic medicine for 2000 years, most recently for the treatment of diabetes. Loose leaf Gymnema sylvestre can be prepared as a tea and will impair the ability to taste sugar by blocking sweet receptors on the tongue. This report describes a laboratory exercise easily applied to an undergraduate neuroscience course that can be used to illustrate the principles of gustatory sensation. Combined with a preceding lecture on the primary taste sensations, students experience and appreciate how the primary tastes are combined to produce overall taste. In addition, the exercises outlined here expand upon previously published demonstrations employing Gymnema sylvestre to include illustrations of the different sensory transduction mechanisms associated with each of the four or five primary taste modalities. Students compare their qualitative primary taste experiences to salt, sugar, aspartame, chocolate, and sweet-sour candy prior to and following exposure to Gymnema sylvestre. The herb's impairment of sweet sensation is profound and dramatically alters the perception of sweetness in sugar, chocolate, and candy without altering the perception of the other primary tastes. The exercise has an indelible effect on students because the herb's intense effect compels students to rely on their unique personal experiences to highlight the principles of gustatory sensation.
Neurochemical analysis of discrete brain structures in experimental animals provides important information on synthesis, release, and metabolism changes following behavioral or pharmacological experimental manipulations. Quantitation of neurotransmitters and their metabolites following unilateral drug injections can be carried out using standard chromatographic equipment typically found in most undergraduate analytical laboratories. This article describes an experiment done in a six session (four hours each) component of a neuroscience research methods course. The experiment provides advanced neuroscience students experience in brain structure dissection, sample preparation, and quantitation of catecholamines using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and protein analysis using ultraviolet spectroscopic methods. The students are exposed to useful laboratory techniques such as standard solution preparation and calibration curve construction, centrifugation, quantitative pipetting, and data evaluation and graphical presentation. Typically, only students that participate in independent neuroscience research are familiar with these types of quantitative skills. The usefulness of this type of experimental design for understanding behavioral or pharmacological effects on neurotransmitter systems is emphasized through a final report requiring a comprehensive literature search.
Information competency refers to skills that allow a student to identify appropriate sources of information, evaluate information critically, and use it ethically. Although the sudden increase of information available in electronic form has stimulated interest in information competency, the basic principles apply to all sources of information, including print. Information competency is especially critical in biological psychology. New discoveries in the neurosciences are featured every day by the mainstream media. As a society, we are being asked to make informed decisions about increasingly complex concepts, as in the case of the recent California proposition regarding stem cell research. Ideally, our students will become community leaders who will help shape these and other policy decisions, but the assumption of this role requires skills that extend long after the completion of a particular course or degree. Because of the perceived complexity of biological psychology, students new to the discipline may be reluctant to venture out into the experimental literature. A variety of activities are presented here that will build student confidence and shape information competency. Although these exercises can be used in a variety of disciplines, they are particularly well suited to biological psychology. The various exercises lend themselves to different levels of student expertise. Many of the exercises are quite appropriate for all levels and abilities, including graduate level students. As a bonus, these activities involve students in writing about biological psychology, providing a foundation for the writing of formal term papers or research reports.
Handheld computers are widely used in clinical practice, and their use in both human medical education and veterinary medical education is increasing, especially, for the former, in activities involving point-of-care access. This article references the insights that can be obtained from the usage and activities that are gaining a strong foothold in human medical education. Handheld computer technology gives students access to a large and changing knowledge base for clinical practice, especially when they are geographically dispersed. Differences in use between education and practice largely relate to the importance clinicians place on patient information. Student use focuses on progress mapping and ready access to clinical reference material. Suggestions are made for future use in medical education.
Poliovirus selectively replicates in neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem, although poliovirus receptor (PVR) expression is observed in both the target and nontarget tissues in humans and transgenic mice expressing human PVR (PVR-transgenic mice). We assessed the role of alpha/beta interferon (IFN) in determining tissue tropism by comparing the pathogenesis of the virulent Mahoney strain in PVR-transgenic mice and PVR-transgenic mice deficient in the alpha/beta IFN receptor gene (PVR-transgenic/Ifnar knockout mice). PVR-transgenic/Ifnar knockout mice showed increased susceptibility to poliovirus. After intravenous inoculation, severe lesions positive for the poliovirus antigen were detected in the liver, spleen, and pancreas in addition to the central nervous system. These results suggest that the alpha/beta IFN system plays an important role in determining tissue tropism by protecting nontarget tissues that are potentially susceptible to infection. We subsequently examined the expression of IFN and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) in the PVR-transgenic mice. In the nontarget tissues, ISGs were expressed even in the noninfected state, and the expression level increased soon after poliovirus infection. On the contrary, in the target tissues, ISG expression was low in the noninfected state and sufficient response after poliovirus infection was not observed. The results suggest that the unequal IFN response is one of the important determinants for the differential susceptibility of tissues to poliovirus. We consider that poliovirus replication was observed in the nontarget tissues of PVR-transgenic/Ifnar knockout mice because the IFN response was null in all tissues.

When we look around us, we are overall more likely to notice objects that we have recently looked at; an effect known as priming. For example, when the color or shape of a visual search target is repeated, observers find the target faster than otherwise. Here I summarize recent research undertaken to uncover the temporary changes in brain activity that accompany these priming effects. In light of the fact that priming seems to have a large effect on how attention is allocated, we investigated priming effects in a visual search task on patients suffering from the neurological disorder &quot;hemispatial neglect&quot; in which patients typically fail to notice display items in one of their visual hemifields. Priming of target color was relatively normal for these patients, while priming of target location seemed to require awareness of the briefly presented visual search target. An experiment with functional magnetic resonance imaging of normal observers revealed that both color and location priming had a strong modulatory influence on attentional mechanisms of the frontal and parietal cortex. Color priming was also correlated with changes in activity in visual cortex as well as color processing areas in the temporal lobe. Location priming was correlated with changes in activity near the temporo- parietal junction and lateral inferior frontal cortex, areas that have been connected with attentional capture; which ties well with our finding of deficits of location priming for the neglect patients who indeed have lesions in the temporo-parietal junction. Overall, the results confirm the tight coupling of visual attention and priming in vision, and also that the visual areas of the brain show some modulation of activity as priming develops.
Education is the most important part of medical-science training. Assessment of training programmes and examination of trainees' skills are necessary to guarantee that trainees develop competence. Training programmes vary between and within countries. The impending integration of the medical-job market among European countries highlights the need for people training to be specialists to achieve a certain standard. Here, we review the neurological training programmes in Europe, principally those in Italy, and discuss the standardisation of the training of residents in Italy and the quality control of current residency training, or its absence, in Europe.
The progressive myoclonic epilepsies (PMEs) are a group of symptomatic generalised epilepsies caused by rare disorders, most of which have a genetic component, a debilitating course, and a poor outcome. Challenges with PME arise from difficulty with diagnosis, especially in the early stages of the illness, and further problems of management and drug treatment. Recent advances in molecular genetics have helped achieve better understanding of the different disorders that cause PME. We review the PMEs with emphasis on updated genetics, diagnosis, and therapeutic options.

Synaptic plasticity, or epigenesis, is present and varies throughout the whole life of the cerebral cortex. The adult synapse is formed of large and variable proteins assemblies acting as molecular switches leading to many distinct functional states. In the flow of activity circulating through the synaptic circuits, these multiple synaptic states transitions are modulated by the levels and sequences of activations of the pre- and post-synaptic domains. The efficiency of synaptic transmission is also modulated by competition and/or cooperativity with neighbouring synapses, and by many neuromodulations. Some transitions eventually lead to synaptogenesis. In the adult cerebral cortex, synaptogenesis remains a local event; axonal and dendritic arbors are not reshaped. On the contrary, during pre- and post-natal synaptogenesis, the same molecular mechanisms lead to a significant reorganization of the axonal and dendritic arbors. Early in the development, synapses are generated and differentiate under the control of robust mechanisms governed by genes. Then, during the critical periods, extending from the end of gestation to the end of puberty, the refinement of the synaptic architecture becomes experience-expectant. This &quot;epigenetic opening&quot; of synaptogenesis to environment is maximal in the human brain. It is the source of the exceptional cognitive adaptability of our species, and possibly one of its major fragility. Epigenetic manipulations of these critical periods are undertaken, allowing restoration of synaptic plasticity also in the adult brain.
Immediate recall of phonemes was studied in a pseudoword span task. Finnish participants recalled lists of increasing length, consisting of C(consonant)V(vowel)CVCV pseudowords. The lists were made up from pools of 12 pseudowords. There were three types of lists. In the non-redundant lists the items were unpredictable combinations of consonants and vowels. In consonant-redundant lists, all items had the consonant frame /t/_/s/_/l/. In vowel-redundant lists, all items had the vowel frame _/u/_/e/_/o/. Unlike redundant last syllables in a previous experiment, neither consonant nor vowel redundancy helped list recall. Instead, a harmful phonological similarity effect was apparent in the vowel-redundant case but not the consonant-redundant case. A phoneme-level analysis of recall showed that consonants were recalled better in consonant-redundant lists and vowels were recalled better in vowel-redundant lists compared to non-redundant lists. Vowels appeared to be more important for discrimination between items, with redundancy resulting in confusions. The consequences of phoneme-level forgetting and redintegration for item- and list-level recall are discussed.
Histamine-synthesizing neurons in the brain may play an important role in cognition, and a histaminergic deficit has been found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The AD medication tacrine was previously shown to inhibit some forms of rodent histamine-N-methyltransferase (HNMT), but the effects of AD drugs have not been investigated on human HNMT activity. Presently, the effects of tacrine and galanthamine (another AD medication) were studied on the activity of several forms of human and rat HNMT. Tacrine (0.01-10 microM) inhibited both human and rat HNMT activity in a concentration-dependent manner, but was less potent on both human embryonic kidney and recombinant human brain HNMT than on rat kidney HNMT (IC50 values were 0.46 and 0.70 microM vs. 0.29 microM, respectively). Galanthamine (up to 10 microM) did not influence the activity of rat kidney or human HNMT. Tacrine, but not galanthamine, may achieve brain levels sufficient to influence histamine metabolism in some patients treated for AD.
Mitochondria play a pivotal role in many metabolic and apoptotic pathways that regulate the life and death of cells. Accumulating evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction is involved in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mitochondrial dysfunction may cause motor neuron death by predisposing them to calcium-mediated excitotoxicity, by increasing generation of reactive oxygen species, and by initiating the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Morphological and biochemical mitochondrial abnormalities have been described in sporadic human ALS cases, but the implications of these findings in terminally ill individuals or in post-mortem tissues are difficult to decipher. However, remarkable mitochondrial abnormalities have also been identified in transgenic mouse models of familial ALS expressing mutant Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Detailed studies in these mouse models indicate that mitochondrial abnormalities begin prior to the clinical and pathological onset of the disease, suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction may be causally involved in the pathogenesis of ALS. Although the mechanisms whereby mutant SOD1 damages mitochondria remain to be fully understood, the finding that a portion of mutant SOD1 is localized in mitochondria, where it forms aberrant aggregates and protein interactions, has opened a number of avenues of investigation. The future challenges are to devise models to better understand the effects of mutant SOD1 in mitochondria and the relative contribution of mitochondrial dysfunction to the pathogenesis of ALS, as well as to identify therapeutic approaches that target mitochondrial dysfunction and its consequences.
In neural cells, such as oligodendrocytes and neurons, transport of certain RNAs along microtubules is mediated by the cis-acting heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2 response element (A2RE) trafficking element and the cognate trans-acting heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2 trafficking factor. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we have identified a microtubule-associated protein, tumor overexpressed gene (TOG)2, as an hnRNP A2 binding partner. The C-terminal third of TOG2 is sufficient for hnRNP A2 binding. TOG2, the large protein isoform of TOG, is the only isoform detected in oligodendrocytes in culture. TOG coimmunoprecipitates with hnRNP A2 present in the cytoskeleton (CSK) fraction of neural cells, and both coprecipitate with microtubule stabilized pellets. Staining with anti-TOG reveals puncta that are localized in proximity to microtubules, often at the plus ends. TOG is colocalized with hnRNP A2 and A2RE-mRNA in trafficking granules that remain associated with CSK-insoluble tissue. These data suggest that TOG mediates the association of hnRNP A2-positive granules with microtubules during transport and/or localization.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of central 5-HT2C receptor binding in rat model of pancreatic regeneration using 60-70% pancreatectomy. The 5-HT and 5-HT2C receptor kinetics were studied in cerebral cortex and brain stem of sham operated, 72 h pancreatectomised and 7 days pancreatectomised rats. Scatchard analysis with [3H] mesulergine in cerebral cortex showed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.05) in maximal binding (Bmax) without any change in Kd in 72 h pancreatectomised rats compared with sham. The decreased Bmax reversed to sham level by 7 days after pancreatectomy. In brain stem, Scatchard analysis showed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.01) in Bmax with a significant increase (p &lt; 0.01) in Kd. Competition analysis in brain stem showed a shift in affinity towards a low affinity. These parameters were reversed to sham level by 7 days after pancreatectomy. Thus the results suggest that 5-HT through the 5-HT2C receptor in the brain has a functional regulatory role in the pancreatic regeneration.
To reveal the spectrum of genes that are modulated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy type 1A (CMT1A), which is due to overexpression of the gene coding for the peripheral myelin protein 22 (pmp22), we performed a cDNA microarray experiment with cDNA from sciatic nerves of a rat model of the disease. In homozygous pmp22 overexpressing animals, we found a significant down-regulation of 86 genes, while only 23 known genes were up-regulated, suggesting that the increased dosage of pmp22 induces a general down-regulation of gene expression in peripheral nerve tissue. Classification of the modulated genes into functional categories leads to the identification of some pathways altered by overexpression of pmp22. In particular, a selective down-regulation of the ciliary neurotrophic factor transcript and of genes coding for proteins involved in cell cycle regulation, for cytoskeletal components and for proteins of the extracellular matrix, was observed. Cntf expression was further studied by real-time PCR and ELISA technique in pmp22 transgenic sciatic nerves, human CMT1A sural nerve biopsies, and primary cultures of transgenic Schwann cells. According to the results of cDNA microarray analysis, a down-regulation of cntf, both at the mRNA and protein level, was found in all the conditions tested. These results are relevant to reveal the molecular function of PMP22 and the pathogenic mechanism of CMT1A. In particular, finding a specific reduction of cntf expression in CMT1A Schwann cells suggests that overexpression of pmp22 significantly affects the ability of Schwann cells to offer a trophic support to the axon, which could be a factor, among other, responsible for the development of axonal atrophy in human and experimental CMT1A.
The neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) protein, merlin, is structurally related to the ERM (ezrin-radixin-moesin) protein family of membrane-cytoskeleton linkers and is mutated in nervous system tumors. Apart from tumor suppressor activity, merlin's functions are poorly understood. We compared the localization and expression of merlin and ezrin in developing and adult brain and in brain-derived progenitor cells. Both proteins were widely but differentially expressed in human, rat, and mouse brain. In brain tissue and neuronal progenitor cell cultures merlin was predominantly found in neurons while ezrin was expressed in astrocytes. Merlin expression was seen from E11 in mouse embryos, whereas ezrin was present earlier. Both proteins were expressed in embryonic mouse neurospheres, where ezrin was specifically localized in filopodia of adherent neuronal progenitor cells. Subcellular analysis demonstrated ezrin in fine filopodial structures in astrocytes, while merlin was detected in neuronal synaptic junctions. The widespread expression of merlin in brain and its association with protein kinase A suggest a role for merlin in brain biology.
Here, we use a cell surface thrombin cleavage assay to investigate directly the role of NSF in the surface delivery and synaptic accumulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors. In cultured hippocampal neurons, the GluR2 subunit (which specifically interacts with NSF) inserts rapidly into the plasma membrane from intracellular compartments and accumulates in synaptic sites. In contrast, surface accumulation of GluR3 (a subunit that does not interact with NSF) or a GluR2 mutant defective in NSF binding (DeltaA849-Q853) occurs initially at extrasynaptic sites and is kinetically slower than wild-type GluR2. Introducing a binding site for NSF into GluR3 (GluR3NSF) generates a subunit that behaves like GluR2 in terms of kinetics and site of surface insertion. These data suggest that the NSF interaction is necessary for rapid incorporation of AMPA receptor subunits into synapses and is sufficient to confer this property on GluR3.
Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) has been identified as a putative risk factor for schizophrenia and affective disorders through study of a Scottish family with a balanced (1;11) (q42.1;q14.3) translocation, which results in the disruption of the DISC1 locus and cosegregates with major psychiatric disease. Several other reports of genetic linkage and association between DISC1 and schizophrenia in a range of patient populations have added credibility to the DISC1-schizophrenia theory, but the function of the DISC1 protein is still poorly understood. Recent studies have suggested that DISC1 plays a role in neuronal outgrowth, possibly through reported interactions with the molecules Nudel and FEZ1. Here we have analyzed the DISC1 protein sequence to identify previously unknown regions that are important for the correct targeting of the protein and conducted imaging studies to identify DISC1 subcellular location. We have identified a central coiled-coil region and show it is critical for the subcellular targeting of DISC1. This domain is independent from the C-terminal Nudel binding domain highlighting the multidomain nature/functionality of the DISC1 protein. Furthermore, we have been able to provide the first direct evidence that DISC1 is localized to mitochondria in cultured cortical neurons that are dependent on an intact cytoskeleton. Surprisingly, Nudel is seen to differentially associate with mitochondrial markers in comparison to DISC1. Disruption of the cytoskeleton results in colocalization of Nudel and mitochondrial markers-the first observation of such a direct relationship. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated to play a role in schizophrenia so we speculate that mutations in DISC1 or Nudel may impair mitochondrial transport or function, initiating a cascade of events culminating in psychiatric illness.

Watching ice floes glide by on the Hudson River from Eric Kandel's office, one gets a sense of placid reflection tempered by constant action-an apt analogy for Kandel's ability to calmly manage several ongoing projects and commitments at once. In addition to his well-lauded, ongoing research at Columbia University Medical Center's New York State Psychiatric Institute, Kandel has written several books on neurobiology, behavior, and memory. In addition to being a Nobel Laureate Scientist, he is well-known as an editor of the seminal textbook Principles of Neural Science. He and his colleagues are in the midst of working on a new edition of Principles, and he is working on a scientific autobiography. MI sat down with Dr. Kandel and discussed with him a range of topics including childhood and early career influences, intramural research at the NIH, the HHMI, ethical considerations of altering memory and, of course, Aplysia.
Cell-penetrating peptides are amphipathic or cationic oligopeptides able to transport covalently attached cargoes across cell membranes. Peptide aptamers are polypeptide fragments of endogenous proteins that mimic and thus perturb interactions with other cellular proteins. Combining aptamer and CPP technology can generate pharmacological reagents effective in cell culture models and in vivo.
We report on a large Brazilian kindred with young-onset parkinsonism due to either a homozygous or heterozygous mutation in parkin. A total of 6 members were affected: 5 were homozygous and 1 heterozygous for a deletion in exon 4. Two other heterozygotes also had extrapyramidal signs. All affected subjects showed characteristic features of parkin disease with foot dystonia and an excellent response to levodopa complicated by motor fluctuations and dyskinesia within 3 years of therapy. Careful clinical follow-up over 10 years showed the phenotype was similar in all the homozygotes with asymmetrical limb bradykinesia and early walking difficulties. Some acceleration of disability was observed in some of the cases as they entered the third decade of illness, but dementia was absent.
In this prospective study, the prevalence of clinically significant restless legs syndrome (RLS) with symptoms at least 2 to 3 days per week was 8.3% in 60 sequentially polysomnographically studied patients with clinically significant sleep apnea (Apnea Index score &gt; 5 or Respiratory Disturbance Index score &gt; 10). Age-matched spouses were used as a control group and showed a comparable prevalence of RLS at 2.5% (not significant). Although RLS appears to be only slightly more common in sleep apnea patients than in controls, the importance of this study lies in the fact that clinically significant RLS occurred in 1 of every 12 patients with sleep apnea and, in every case, the RLS was unsuspected before polysomnography. We recommend that all patients undergoing polysomnography to rule out sleep apnea be screened for the symptoms of RLS. We have found the MEMO-NIH consensus conference questionnaire administered at the time of polysomnography to be useful in this regard.
A single GAG deletion in the DYT1 gene causes primary early-onset, generalized torsion dystonia. The DYT1 protein product, torsinA, belongs to the AAA+ family of proteins. When overexpressed, wild-type torsinA localizes mainly to the endoplasmic reticulum, whereas the mutant forms inclusions of unclear biogenetic origin. In this study, overexpressed wild-type torsinA in human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cell lines was distributed throughout the cell body and colocalized with a marker for the endoplasmic reticulum, confirming it is an endoplasmic reticulum protein. However, mutant torsinA showed perinuclear staining and formed distinct globular inclusions, which did not colocalize with endoplasmic reticulum markers. Immunoelectron microscopy of the mutant torsinA inclusions revealed membrane whorls staining for torsinA, as well as labeling of lamellae, isolated bilayers, and perinuclear membranes. This finding shows that mutant torsinA redistributes to specific membranous structures, which may represent different stages of maturation of the intracellular inclusions. The mutant torsinA-containing bodies were immunoreactive for vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2). VMAT2 expression is important for the exocytosis of bioactive monoamines in neurons. Abnormal processing, transport, or entrapment of VMAT2 within the mutant torsinA membranous inclusions, therefore, may affect cellular dopamine release, providing a potential pathogenic mechanism for the DYT1-dependent dystonia.
Surgical lesions in the medial pallidum have been shown to ameliorate motor deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). It is believed that interruption of the pallidothalamocortical projections to the motor cortex is required for the satisfactory results. In this report, we adopt cortico-cortical inhibition as the tool to assess the pallidotomy effect on cortical excitability in PD. Interstimulus interval between 1 and 15 msec were investigated. The average peak-to-peak amplitude was measured and calculated at each delay. A total of 8 patients (M:F = 4:4) 54.9 years of age (SD = 9.6) and 10 controls were recruited for the study. In the controls, the inhibitory phenomenon was observed from the 1-msec to the 4-msec delay points and the maximal inhibition was at the 3-msec delay point (33.69% +/- 6.50% of the control response). Mild facilitation was noticed since the 5-msec delay point and thereafter. In patients before operation, a similar trend of inhibition was also observed in the initial 4 msec with the maximal inhibition also at the 3-msec delay point (64.66 +/- 6.77% of the control response). In the postoperative group, the short interstimulus interval inhibition can no longer be observed and the conditioned response was 95.06 +/- 23.68% of the control at the 3-msec delay point. The suppression was gone at and after the 7-msec delay point. Results of repeated-measures analysis of variance show a significant difference among the controls and PD patients before and 3 months after pallidotomy (F = 3.40, P = 0.05). Post hoc examination revealed a significant difference between the controls and PD patients 3 months after pallidotomy at the 3-msec delay point (P = 0.004). However, no correlation was observed between the 3-msec inhibition and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Motor score or the dyskinesia score. The results suggest that pallidotomy can modulate the cortical inhibitory circuitry in patients with PD.
Rituximab, a monoclonal antibody against B-cell membrane marker CD-20, is an effective treatment for immunoglobulin M (IgM) monoclonal anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) neuropathies. We report a patient with an autonomic and painful sensory neuropathy associated with an IgM lambda monoclonal gammopathy, responsive to rituximab. Treatment resulted in a decline in total IgM and improvement in the patient's painful neuropathy and dysautonomia. Rituximab may be an effective and tolerable treatment for autonomic and sensory neuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy.
Expression of somatostatin in the brain declines during aging in various mammals including apes and humans. A prominent decrease in this neuropeptide also represents a pathological characteristic of Alzheimer disease. Using in vitro and in vivo paradigms, we show that somatostatin regulates the metabolism of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), the primary pathogenic agent of Alzheimer disease, in the brain through modulating proteolytic degradation catalyzed by neprilysin. Among various effector candidates, only somatostatin upregulated neprilysin activity in primary cortical neurons. A genetic deficiency of somatostatin altered hippocampal neprilysin activity and localization, and increased the quantity of a hydrophobic 42-mer form of Abeta, Abeta(42), in a manner similar to presenilin gene mutations that cause familial Alzheimer disease. These results indicate that the aging-induced downregulation of somatostatin expression may be a trigger for Abeta accumulation leading to late-onset sporadic Alzheimer disease, and suggest that somatostatin receptors may be pharmacological-target candidates for prevention and treatment of Alzheimer disease.

When planning target-directed reaching movements, human subjects combine visual and proprioceptive feedback to form two estimates of the arm's position: one to plan the reach direction, and another to convert that direction into a motor command. These position estimates are based on the same sensory signals but rely on different combinations of visual and proprioceptive input, suggesting that the brain weights sensory inputs differently depending on the computation being performed. Here we show that the relative weighting of vision and proprioception depends both on the sensory modality of the target and on the information content of the visual feedback, and that these factors affect the two stages of planning independently. The observed diversity of weightings demonstrates the flexibility of sensory integration and suggests a unifying principle by which the brain chooses sensory inputs so as to minimize errors arising from the transformation of sensory signals between coordinate frames.
Adaptive motor behavior requires efficient error detection and correction. The posterior parietal cortex is critical for on-line control of reach-to-grasp movements. Here we show a causal relationship between disruption of cortical activity within the anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS) by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and disruption of goal-directed prehensile actions (either grip size or forearm rotation, depending on the task goal, with reaching preserved in either case). Deficits were elicited by applying TMS within 65 ms after object perturbation, which attributes a rapid control process on the basis of visual feedback to aIPS. No aperture deficits were produced when TMS was applied to a more caudal region within the intraparietal sulcus, to the parieto-occipital complex (putative V6, V6A) or to the hand area of primary motor cortex. We contend that aIPS is critical for dynamic error detection during goal-dependent reach-to-grasp action that is visually guided.
Accurately maintaining a fixed limb posture and quickly moving between postures underlies both everyday skills, including holding and lifting a cup of coffee, and expert skills, such as an Olympic wrestler's holding and throwing an opponent. A fundamental question in limb motor control is whether the brain manages these contrasting goals of posture and movement through a single, robust control process or whether each engages a specialized control process. We addressed this question by examining how individual neurons in the primary motor cortex of macaque monkeys represent mechanical loads during posture and movement tasks. Notably, approximately half of the neurons that expressed load-related activity did so exclusively during either posture only or movement only. Further, those neurons with load-related activity during both tasks randomly switched their magnitude of response between tasks. These random changes in load representation suggest specialized control processes, one for posture and one for movement.
Formation of senile plaques composed of amyloid beta peptide, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease, in human brains precedes disease onset by many years. Noninvasive detection of such plaques could be critical in presymptomatic diagnosis and could contribute to early preventive treatment strategies. Using amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice as a model of amyloid beta amyloidosis, we demonstrate here that an intravenously administered (19)F-containing amyloidophilic compound labels brain plaques and allows them to be visualized in living mice by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using (19)F and (1)H. Our findings provide a new direction for specific noninvasive amyloid imaging without the danger of exposure to radiation. This approach could be used in longitudinal studies in mouse models of Alzheimer disease to search for biomarkers associated with amyloid beta pathology as well as to track disease course after treatment with candidate medications.
Optic ataxia is a disorder associated with posterior parietal lobe lesions, in which visually guided reaching errors typically occur for peripheral targets. It has been assumed that these errors are related to a faulty sensorimotor transformation of inputs from the 'ataxic visual field'. However, we show here that the errors observed in the contralesional field in optic ataxia depend on a dynamic gaze-centered internal representation of reach space.
Leukocyte common antigen-related (LAR) family receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (LAR-RPTP) bind to liprin-alpha (SYD2) and are implicated in axon guidance. We report that LAR-RPTP is concentrated in mature synapses in cultured rat hippocampal neurons, and is important for the development and maintenance of excitatory synapses in hippocampal neurons. RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown of LAR or dominant-negative disruption of LAR function results in loss of excitatory synapses and dendritic spines, reduction of surface AMPA receptors, impairment of dendritic targeting of the cadherin-beta-catenin complex, and reduction in the amplitude and frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Cadherin, beta-catenin and GluR2/3 are tyrosine phosphoproteins that coimmunoprecipitate with liprin-alpha and GRIP from rat brain extracts. We propose that the cadherin-beta-catenin complex is cotransported with AMPA receptors to synapses and dendritic spines by a mechanism that involves binding of liprin-alpha to LAR-RPTP and tyrosine dephosphorylation by LAR-RPTP.
Understanding the neurobiology of motivation might help in reducing compulsive behaviors such as drug addiction or eating disorders. This study shows that excitatory synaptic transmission was enhanced in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis of rats that performed an operant task to obtain cocaine or palatable food. There was no effect when cocaine or food was delivered passively, suggesting that synaptic plasticity in this area is involved in reward-seeking behaviors.
Spectacular progress in molecular biology, genome-sequencing projects and genomics makes this an appropriate time to attempt a comprehensive understanding of the molecular basis of social life. Promising results have already been obtained in identifying genes that influence animal social behaviour and genes that are implicated in social evolution. These findings - derived from an eclectic mix of species that show varying levels of sociality - provide the foundation for the integration of molecular biology, genomics, neuroscience, behavioural biology and evolutionary biology that is necessary for this endeavour.
Excitatory synapses in the brain show several forms of synaptic plasticity, including long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), which are initiated by increases in intracellular Ca(2+) that are generated through NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors or voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels. LTP depends on the coordinated regulation of an ensemble of enzymes, including Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, adenylyl cyclase 1 and 8, and calcineurin, all of which are stimulated by calmodulin, a Ca(2+)-binding protein. In this review, we discuss the hypothesis that calmodulin is a central integrator of synaptic plasticity and that its unique regulatory properties allow the integration of several forms of signal transduction that are required for LTP and LTD.
The mammalian vomeronasal organ (VNO) has emerged as an excellent model to investigate the signaling mechanisms, mode of activation, biological function, and molecular evolution of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels in real neurons and real physiological systems. TRPC2, a member of the canonical TRPC subfamily, is highly localized to the dendritic tip of vomeronasal sensory neurons. Targeted deletion of the TRPC2 gene has established that TRPC2 plays a fundamental role in the detection of pheromonal signals by the VNO. TRPC2-deficient mice exhibit striking behavioral defects in the regulation of sexual and social behaviors. A novel Ca(2+)-permeable, diacylglycerol-activated cation channel found at the dendritic tip of vomeronasal neurons is severely defective in TRPC2 mutants, providing the first clear example of native diacylglycerol-gated cation channels in the mammalian nervous system. The TRPC2 gene has become an important marker for the evolution of VNO-dependent pheromone signaling in primates.
The subthreshold membrane voltage of a neuron in active cortical tissue is a fluctuating quantity with a distribution that reflects the firing statistics of the presynaptic population. It was recently found that conductance-based synaptic drive can lead to distributions with a significant skew. Here it is demonstrated that the underlying shot noise caused by Poissonian spike arrival also skews the membrane distribution, but in the opposite sense. Using a perturbative method, we analyze the effects of shot noise on the distribution of synaptic conductances and calculate the consequent voltage distribution. To first order in the perturbation theory, the voltage distribution is a gaussian modulated by a prefactor that captures the skew. The gaussian component is identical to distributions derived using current-based models with an effective membrane time constant. The well-known effective-time-constant approximation can therefore be identified as the leading-order solution to the full conductance-based model. The higher-order modulatory prefactor containing the skew comprises terms due to both shot noise and conductance fluctuations. The diffusion approximation misses these shot-noise effects implying that analytical approaches such as the Fokker-Planck equation or simulation with filtered white noise cannot be used to improve on the gaussian approximation. It is further demonstrated that quantities used for fitting theory to experiment, such as the voltage mean and variance, are robust against these non-Gaussian effects. The effective-time-constant approximation is therefore relevant to experiment and provides a simple analytic base on which other pertinent biological details may be added.
We provide an analytical recurrent solution for the firing rates and cross-correlations of feedforward networks with arbitrary connectivity, excitatory or inhibitory, in response to steady-state spiking input to all neurons in the first network layer. Connections can go between any two layers as long as no loops are produced. Mean firing rates and pairwise cross-correlations of all input neurons can be chosen individually. We apply this method to study the propagation of rate and synchrony information through sample networks to address the current debate regarding the efficacy of rate codes versus temporal codes. Our results from applying the network solution to several examples support the following conclusions: (1) differential propagation efficacy of rate and synchrony to higher layers of a feedforward network is dependent on both network and input parameters, and (2) previous modeling and simulation studies exclusively supporting either rate or temporal coding must be reconsidered within the limited range of network and input parameters used. Our exact, analytical solution for feedforward networks of coincidence detectors should prove useful for further elucidating the efficacy and differential roles of rate and temporal codes in terms of different network and input parameter ranges.
Fisher information has been used to analyze the accuracy of neural population coding. This works well when the Fisher information does not degenerate, but when two stimuli are presented to a population of neurons, a singular structure emerges by their mutual interactions. In this case, the Fisher information matrix degenerates, and the regularity condition ensuring the Cramr-Rao paradigm of statistics is violated. An animal shows pathological behavior in such a situation. We present a novel method of statistical analysis to understand information in population coding in which algebraic singularity plays a major role. The method elucidates the nature of the pathological case by calculating the Fisher information. We then suggest that synchronous firing can resolve singularity and show a method of analyzing the binding problem in terms of the Fisher information. Our method integrates a variety of disciplines in population coding, such as nonregular statistics, Bayesian statistics, singularity in algebraic geometry, and synchronous firing, under the theme of Fisher information.
Shannon's information theory provides a principled framework for the quantitative analysis of brain responses during the encoding and representation of event streams. In particular, entropy measures the expected uncertainty of events in a given context. This contextual uncertainty or unpredictability may, itself, be important for balancing [bottom-up] sensory information and [top-down] prior expectations during perceptual synthesis. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we found that the anterior hippocampus is sensitive to the entropy of a visual stimulus stream. In contrast, activity in an extensive bilateral cortico-thalamic network was dictated by the surprise or information associated with each particular stimulus. In short, we show that the probabilistic structure or context in which events occur is an important predictor of hippocampal activity.


The nigrostriatal system is critical for fine motor function and its deterioration during aging is thought to underlie the decline in fine manual ability of old persons. Because estrogen has a neuroprotective effect on this system, one might expect women's motor function to be less vulnerable to the detrimental effects of aging than that of men. We examined this hypothesis in the rhesus monkey, which has been established as an excellent model of human age-related motor impairment. We tested 28 young and old rhesus monkeys of both sexes in a task involving the retrieval of a Life Saver candy from rods of different complexity to determine whether fine motor ability (1) is sexually dimorphic, (2) declines with age and (3) declines differently in males and females. In addition, we measured the whole brain volume, the volumes of the caudate, putamen, hippocampal formation and the area of the corpus callosum in a subset of the monkeys (n=15) for which magnetic resonance images of the brain were available. All monkeys performed similarly in the test with the simplest rod. In the test with complex rods; however, age-related slowing of motor function was evident in males, but not in females. Age-related decreases in the normalized caudate and putamen volumes were similar in males and in females. In addition, motor speed was not significantly correlated to any of the neuroanatomical measures under study. Further studies will be necessary to uncover the neurohormonal bases of the differential age-related motor decline between males and females.
Numerous anatomical and brain imaging studies find substantial differences in brain structure between men and women across the span of human aging. The ability to extend the results of many of these studies to the general population is limited, however, due to the generally small sample size and restrictive health criteria of these studies. Moreover, little attention has been paid to the possible impact of brain infarction on age-related differences in regional brain volumes. Given the current lack of normative data on gender and aging related differences in regional brain morphology, particularly with regard to the impact of brain infarctions, we chose to quantify brain MRIs from more than 2200 male and female participants of the Framingham Heart Study who ranged in age from 34 to 97 years. We believe that MRI analysis of the Framingham Heart Study more closely represents the general population enabling more accurate estimates of regional brain changes that occur as the consequence of normal aging. As predicted, men had significantly larger brain volumes than women, but these differences were generally not significant after correcting for gender related differences in head size. Age explained approximately 50% of total cerebral brain volume differences, but age-related differences were generally small prior to age 50, declining substantially thereafter. Frontal lobe volumes showed the greatest decline with age (approximately 12%), whereas smaller differences were found for the temporal lobes (approximately 9%). Age-related differences in occipital and parietal lobe were modest. Age-related gender differences were generally small, except for the frontal lobe where men had significantly smaller lobar brain volumes throughout the age range studied. The prevalence of MRI infarction was common after age 50, increased linearly with age and was associated with significantly larger white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volumes beyond that associated with age-related differences in these measures. Amongst men, the presence of MRI infarction was associated with significant age-related reductions in total brain volume. Finally, statistically significant associations were found between the volume of MRI infarcts in cubic centimeters and all brain measures with the exception of parietal lobe volume for individuals where the volume of MRI infarctions was measured. These data serve to define age and gender differences in brain morphology for the Framingham Heart Study. To the degree participants of the Framingham Heart Study are representative the general population, these data can serve as norms for comparison with morphological brain changes associated with aging and disease. In this regard, these cross-sectional quantitative estimates suggest that age-related tissue loss differs quantitatively and qualitatively across brain regions with only minor differences between men and women. In addition, MRI evidence of cerebrovascular disease is common to the aging process and associated with smaller regional brain volumes for a given age, particularly for men. We believe quantitative MRI studies of the Framingham community enables exploration of numerous issues ranging from understanding normal neurobiology of brain aging to assessing the impact of various health factors, particularly those related to cerebrovascular disease, that appear important to maintaining brain health for the general population.
This study compared the status of brain mitochondria isolated from 12-week streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats versus STZ-diabetic animals treated with insulin during a period of 4 weeks. Brain mitochondria isolated from 12-week citrate (vehicle)-treated rats were used as control. For that purpose, several mitochondrial parameters were evaluated: respiratory indexes (respiratory control ratio (RCR) and ADP/O ratio), transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim), repolarization lag phase, repolarization level, ATP, glutathione and coenzyme Q (CoQ) contents, production of H2O2, ATPase activity, and the capacity of mitochondria to accumulate Ca2+. Furthermore, the effect of Abeta1-40 was also analyzed. We observed that STZ-induced diabetes promoted a significant decrease in mitochondrial CoQ9, ATPase activity, and a lower capacity of mitochondria to accumulate Ca2+ when compared with control and insulin-treated diabetic rats. The presence of 4 microM Abeta1-40 induced a significant decrease in RCR in the three groups of rats. However, this peptide induced a significant increase in the repolarization lag phase and a significant decrease in the repolarization level in control and diabetic animals without insulin treatment. Furthermore, this peptide exacerbated significantly the production of H2O2 in STZ-diabetic rats, this effect being avoided by insulin treatment. Our data show that although diabetes induces some alterations in brain mitochondrial activity, those alterations do not interfere significantly with mitochondria functional efficiency. Similarly, insulin does not affect basal mitochondria function. However, in the presence of amyloid beta-peptide, insulin seems to prevent the decline in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation efficiency and avoids an increase in oxidative stress, improving or preserving the function of neurons under adverse conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease.
To clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying multiple sclerosis (MS)-promoting autoimmune process, we have investigated a comprehensive gene expression profile of T cell and non-T cell fractions of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from 72 MS patients and 22 age- and sex-matched healthy control (CN) subjects by using a cDNA microarray. Among 1258 genes examined, 173 genes in T cells and 50 genes in non-T cells were expressed differentially between MS and CN groups. Downregulated genes greatly outnumbered upregulated genes in MS. More than 80% of the top 30 most significant genes were categorized into apoptosis signaling-related genes of both proapoptotic and antiapoptotic classes. They included upregulation in MS of orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 (NR4A2), receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 2 (RIPK2), and silencer of death domains (SODD), and downregulation in MS of TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (BCL2), and death-associated protein 6 (DAXX). Furthermore, a set of the genes involved in DNA repair, replication, and chromatin remodeling was downregulated in MS. These results suggest that MS lymphocytes show a complex pattern of gene regulation that represents a counterbalance between promoting and preventing apoptosis and DNA damage of lymphocytes.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a late-onset disorder caused by a (GCG)n trinucleotide repeat expansion in the poly(A) binding protein nuclear-1 (PABPN1) gene, which in turn leads to an expanded polyalanine tract in the protein. We generated transgenic mice expressing either the wild type or the expanded form of human PABPN1, and transgenic animals with the expanded form showed clear signs of abnormal limb clasping, muscle weakness, coordination deficits, and peripheral nerves alterations. Analysis of mitotic and postmitotic tissues in those transgenic animals revealed ubiquitinated PABPN1-positive intranuclear inclusions (INIs) in neuronal cells. This latter observation led us to test and confirm the presence of similar INIs in postmortem brain sections from an OPMD patient. Our results indicate that expanded PABPN1, presumably via the toxic effects of its polyalanine tract, can lead to inclusion formation and neurodegeneration in both the mouse and the human.
Mutations in SOD1 cause selective motor neuron degeneration in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients and transgenic mice overexpressing the mutant enzyme. Formation and accumulation of ubiquitinated aggregates in motor neurons are thought to be involved in the toxic gain of function of mutant SOD1. The present study shows that the accumulation of soluble and detergent-insoluble mutant SOD1 in spinal cord of symptomatic SOD1G93A transgenic mice is due to impaired degradation of mutant SOD1 rather than to increased transcript levels. This effect was accompanied by a decrease of constitutive proteasome levels and a concomitant increase of immunoproteasome in the spinal cord homogenate which resulted in overall unchanged proteasome activity. A decrease of constitutive proteasome occurred in the motor neurons of SOD1G93A mice at the presymptomatic stage and became remarkable with the progression of the disease. This provides further evidence for an involvement of proteasome impairment in the toxicity of mutant SOD1.
Excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and apoptosis have been recognized as routes to neuronal death in various neurological diseases. We examined the possibility that PHF-1 tau, a substrate for various proteases, would be selectively cleaved depending upon routes of neuronal death. Cleavage form of PHF-1 tau was not observed in cortical cell cultures exposed to excitotoxins or oxidative stress that cause neuronal cell necrosis. PHF-1 tau was cleaved within 8 h following exposure of cortical cell cultures to apoptosis-inducing agents. This cleavage was blocked by inclusion of zDEVD-fmk, an inhibitor of caspase-3, and accompanied by activation of caspase-3. Levels and cleavage of PHF-1 tau were markedly increased in AD brain compared with control. Moreover, PHF-1 tau and active caspase-3 were colocalized mostly in tangle-bearing neurons. The current findings suggest that PHF-1 tau is cleaved by caspase-3 during apoptosis and neurodegenerative process in AD.
Converging lines of evidence suggest that neuroinflammatory processes may account for the progressive death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). Therefore, anti-inflammatory strategies have attracted much interest for their potential to prevent further deterioration of PD. Our previous study showed that triptolide, a traditional Chinese herbal compound with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties, protected dopaminergic neurons from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced damage in primary embryonic midbrain cell cultures. To examine further if triptolide can protect dopaminergic neurons from inflammation-mediated damage in vivo, microglial activation and injury of dopaminergic neurons were induced by LPS intranigral injection, and the effects of triptolide treatment on microglial activation and survival ratio and function of dopaminergic neurons were investigated. Our results demonstrated that microglial activation induced by a single intranigral dose of 10 mug of LPS reduced the survival ratio of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) to 29% and the content of dopamine (DA) in striatum to 37% of the non-injected side. Intriguingly, treatment with triptolide of 5 mug/kg for 24 days once per day dramatically improved the survival rate of TH-ir neurons in the SNpc to 79% of the non-injected side. Meanwhile, treatment with triptolide of 1 or 5 mug/kg for 24 days once per day significantly improved DA level in striatum to 70% and 68% of the non-injected side, respectively. Complement receptor 3 (CR3) immunohistochemical staining revealed that triptolide treatment potently inhibited LPS-elicited deleterious activation of microglia in SNpc. The excessive production of cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta, was significantly abolished by triptolide administration. These results, together with our previous data in vitro, highly suggest the effectiveness of triptolide in protecting dopaminergic neurons against inflammatory challenge.
Recent evidence suggests repeated mild brain trauma may result in cumulative damage. We investigated cell damage and death in hippocampal cultures following repeated mechanical trauma in vitro by measuring propidium iodide (PrI) uptake, release of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and glial S-100beta protein, and performing neuronal counts. Cultures receiving two mild injuries (31% stretch) 1 or 24 h apart displayed different profiles of PrI uptake and S-100beta release, although neuronal loss and NSE release was similar in both paradigms. Cells receiving a subthreshold, low-level stretch (10%) repeated several times eventually stained with PrI. Cultures administered 10% stretch before mild injury released less S-100beta than mild injury alone, suggesting a preconditioning effect. Lastly, exogenous S-100beta applied to injured cultures decreased PrI uptake, implying a protective role. These results suggest cumulative damage is dependent on injury severity and inter-injury interval, and that neurons and glia react differently to various injury paradigms.

Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the synthesizing enzyme for acetylcholine, has been implicated to involve multiple isoforms of ChAT mRNA in several animals. Since these isoforms are mostly non-coding splice variants, only a homologous ChAT protein of about 68 kDa has been shown to be produced in vivo. Recent evidence indicates the existence of a protein coding splice variant of ChAT mRNA, which lacks exons 6-9 of the rat ChAT gene. The encoded protein was designated ChAT of a peripheral type (pChAT), because of its preferential expression in the peripheral nervous system as confirmed by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. However, functional significance of pChAT is unknown. To obtain a clue to this question, we examined a possible difference in intracellular trafficking between pChAT and the well-known ChAT of the common type (cChAT) using green fluorescent protein (GFP) in living human embryonic kidney cells. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that pChAT-GFP was detectable in the cytoplasm but not in the nucleus, whereas cChAT-GFP was found in both cytoplasm and nucleus. Following treatment with leptomycin B, a nuclear export pathway inhibitor, pChAT-GFP became detectable in both cytoplasm and nucleus, indicating that pChAT can be translocated to the nucleus. In contrast, the leptomycin B treatment did not seem to affect the content of intranuclear cChAT-GFP. After incubation with protein kinase C inhibitors, enhanced accumulation of pChAT-GFP but not cChAT-GFP occurred in the nucleus. These results clearly indicate that pChAT varies from cChAT in intracellular transportation, probably reflecting the difference in physiological roles between pChAT and cChAT.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common causes of neurological disability in young and middle-aged adults and is thought to be mediated by autoreactive T cells. Activities of adenosine deaminase (ADA) and 5'(nucleotidase (5'NT), which are involved in the differentiation and maturation of the lymphoid system, were measured in peripheral blood T cells from 21 MS patients and in 23 age and sex matched healthy controls to determine whether an association existed between these enzyme abnormalities and cellular immune functions. ADA and 5'NT activities were found significantly decreased in MS patients (P &lt; .001 and P &lt; .01 respectively) when compared with controls. Low levels of ADA and 5'NT activities were found irrespective of whether patients had relapsing-remitting or chronic progressive MS. These findings suggest that low levels of these enzyme activities in T cells may be related to the persistent abnormalities in T cell function in the clinical course of MS.
We have developed methods that allow correlation of propulsive reflexes of the intestine with measurements of intraluminal pressure, fluid movement and spatio-temporal maps of intestinal wall movements for the first time in vivo. A segment of jejunum was cannulated and set up in a Trendelenburg recording system while remaining connected to the vascular and nerve supply of the anaesthetized rat. The resting intraluminal pressure in intact intestine was 2-4 mmHg. Hydrostatic pressures of 2, 4, 8 and 16 mmHg were imposed. At a baseline pressure of 4 mmHg, propulsive waves generated pressures of 9 +/- 1 mmHg, that progressed oral to anal at 2-5 mm s(-1). Individual propulsive waves propelled 0.8 +/- 0.4 mL of fluid. The frequency of propulsive waves increased with pressure, but peristaltic efficiency (mL per contraction) decreased with pressure increase between 4 and 16 mmHg. Atropine, as a bolus, transiently blocked peristalsis, but caused maintained block when infused. Hexamethonium blocked propulsive contractions. Inhibition of nitrergic transmission converted regular peristalsis to non-propulsive contractions. These studies demonstrate the utility of an adapted Trendelenburg method for quantitative investigation of motility and pharmacology of enteric reflexes in vivo.
Alvimopan is a novel, peripherally acting mu-opioid antagonist that is being developed for the management of acute postoperative ileus and for the reversal of the delayed gastrointestinal and colonic transit that result in symptoms such as constipation, nausea and motility disorders in patients treated with opiate analgesics. There is a clinical need for effective medications for the treatment of postoperative ileus and opiate-induced constipation and other motility disorders. This review addresses the basic and applied pharmacology and current evidence for the use of the medication, alvimopan, in clinical gastroenterology.
MRI data of 100 healthy human brains were analyzed to establish a neuroanatomical map of the most frequently occurring 'sulcal basins' of the human frontal cortex. Sulcal basins are defined to be concavities in the white matter surface constituting/representing components of entire sulci. We determined their volume, depth, and interindividual variability. The sulcal basins were found to fall into two groups, on average, eight anterior basins in the prefrontal and premotor region and four posterior ones in the motor region of the frontal lobe. Compared to posterior basins, anterior basins are characterized by lower volume and depth. Furthermore, they showed greater interindividual variability in volume, depth, and occurrence. Our results indicate the existence of a mechanism for cortical folding which shows a greater flexibility in the phylogenetically younger, anterior prefrontal areas.
Executive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease is well documented, but it is still unclear whether this results from (i) prefrontal dysfunction, (ii) striatal dysfunction, or (iii) altered striatal outflow to the prefrontal cortex. To clarify this issue, we used H(2)(15)O PET to asses six nondemented and nondepressed patients with Parkinson's disease and six matched controls while they performed a task involving executive function, random number generation (RNG), and a control counting task. To assess the effect of increasing task demands, each task was performed at three rates. Both groups showed significant increase in nonrandomness of responses during RNG at faster rates, which was differentially greater for the patients at the faster rate. The controls showed significant activation of the lateral and medial prefrontal cortex and superior and medial parietal cortex during RNG relative to counting. For the same comparison, the patients did not show any activity in medial frontal structures. The controls showed significantly greater mesial frontotemporal activation during counting than RNG, whereas the patients did not show any modulation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in these areas with task. With faster rates of RNG, the controls showed rCBF increase in the right internal segment of globus pallidus (GPi) and a decrease in frontal cortex. The patients showed the opposite pattern of subcortical and frontal rCBF change with faster rates. The results suggest that executive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease is associated with a failure to modulate frontal activation with increased task demands (nature of task or rate), a deficit associated with altered rCBF in the GPi, the final basal ganglia output pathway to frontal cortex rather than any intrinsic prefrontal dysfunction.
Working memory is an important mental capacity that is compromised following sleep deprivation (SD). To understand how working memory load interacts with state to influence brain activation in load-sensitive regions, and the extent to which SD-related changes are common across different loads, we used fMRI to study twelve healthy subjects following 24 h of SD using a verbal n-back task with three load levels. Performance decline was observed by way of reduced accuracy and slower response times following SD. The left prefrontal region and thalamus showed load dependent activity modulation that interacted with state. The right parietal and anterior medial frontal regions showed load dependent changes in activity as well as an effect of state. The anterior cingulate and occipital regions showed activation that displayed state effects that were independent of working memory load. These findings represent a step toward identifying how different brain regions exhibit varying vulnerability to the deleterious effects of SD on working memory.
Global variations of BOLD-fMRI signal are often considered as nuisance effects. This unwanted source of variance is commonly eliminated using proportional global signal scaling (PGSS). However, application of PGSS relies on the assumption that global variations of BOLD signal and experimental conditions are uncorrelated. It has been shown for cognitive tasks that the unjustified application of PGSS might greatly distort statistical results. The present study examined this issue in the domain of emotion research. Specifically, fMRI data were obtained in a block-design, while 21 subjects passively viewed high and low emotionally arousing pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral pictures. Violations of the orthogonality assumption were found for analyses of emotional pictures high in arousal, causing dramatically different outcomes when compared to analyses performed without PGSS. Application of PGSS was associated with attenuated emotional activation in visual cortical areas, insensitivity to emotional activations in limbic and paralimbic regions, and widely distributed artificial deactivations. In contrast, the orthogonality assumption was not violated for low arousing emotional materials. Thus, the validity of using PGSS varied as a function of the emotional arousal of the stimuli. Taken together, the unwarranted use of PGSS might contribute to conflicting results in affective neuroscience fMRI studies, in particular with respect to limbic and paralimbic structures.
While much is known about the functional architecture of the visual system, little is known about its large-scale dynamics during perception. This study describes this dynamics with a high spatial, temporal and spectral resolution. We recorded depth EEG of epileptic patients performing a face detection task and found that the stimuli induced strong modulations in the gamma band (40 Hz to 200 Hz) in selective occipital, parietal and temporal sites, in particular the fusiform gyrus, the lateral occipital gyrus and the intra-parietal sulcus. Occipito-temporal sites were the first to be activated, closely followed by the parietal sites, while portions of the primary visual cortex seemed to deactivate temporarily. Some of those effects were found to be correlated across distant sites, suggesting that a coordinated balance between regional gamma activations and deactivations could be involved during visual perception.
A major challenge for neuroscience is to map accurately the spatiotemporal patterns of activity of the large neuronal populations that are believed to underlie computing in the human brain. To study a specific example, we selected the mismatch negativity (MMN) brain wave (an event-related potential, ERP) because it gives an electrophysiological index of a &quot;primitive intelligence&quot; capable of detecting changes, even abstract ones, in a regular auditory pattern. ERPs have a temporal resolution of milliseconds but appear to result from mixed neuronal contributions whose spatial location is not fully understood. Thus, it is important to separate these sources in space and time. To tackle this problem, a two-step approach was designed combining the independent component analysis (ICA) and low-resolution tomography (LORETA) algorithms. Here we implement this approach to analyze the subsecond spatiotemporal dynamics of MMN cerebral sources using trial-by-trial experimental data. We show evidence that a cerebral computation mechanism underlies MMN. This mechanism is mediated by the orchestrated activity of several spatially distributed brain sources located in the temporal, frontal, and parietal areas, which activate at distinct time intervals and are grouped in six main statistically independent components.
It is known that manipulation of the encoding strategy affects behavioral and activation data during later retrieval. In the present fMRI study, we examined brain activity during the recognition of words encoded using three different strategies formed by the combination of two factors of relational and self-performed processes. The first encoding strategy involved subjects learning words using both relational and self-performed processes (R+S+). In the second, subjects learned words using only a relational process (R+S-). In the third, subjects learned words without using either process (R-S-). During fMRI after encoding, subjects were randomly presented with words encoded previously and with new words (New) and were required to judge whether or not the word presented had been previously encoded. The fMRI experiment was performed with the event-related design. Compared to New, activation of the left medial temporal lobe (MTL) occurred during the recognition of words encoded using R+S+ and R+S-, whereas right MTL activations only occurred with the R+S+ strategy. ROI analysis for the bilateral hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus showed a linear increase in left MTL activity (hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus) during the recognition of words encoded with the R-S-, R+S-, to R+S+, whereas right MTL activity (parahippocampal gyrus) was only increased with the R+S+ strategy. The findings suggest that the left and right MTL structures may contribute differentially to the processes involved in the recognition of stimuli and that these differential activities may depend on the encoding strategies formed by the two factors of relational and self-performed processes.
To perform group studies using functional imaging data, the individual brain images are usually transformed into a common coordinate space. The two most widely used spaces in the neuroscience community are the Talairach space and the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) space. The Talairach coordinate system has become the standard reference for reporting the brain locations in scientific publication, even when the data have been spatially transformed into different brain templates (e.g., MNI space). When expressed in terms of individual subjects, the mapping of a coordinate in MNI space to the Talairach space generates distinct coordinates for different subjects. In this paper, we describe two approaches to derive the Talairach coordinates from the MNI space, which is based on the ICBM152 template from the International Consortium of Brain Mapping. One approach is the Talairach Method of Piecewise Linear Scaling (TMPLS) as implemented in the AFNI software package; and the other is a template-matching approach using the linear transformation in SPM99. The uncertainty measurements of the mapping results are presented. This may allow researchers to better interpret results reporting in the Talairach coordinates obtained from the MNI space. This study also examines the discrepancy between the derived Talairach coordinates and those obtained from the mni2tal script, a tool commonly used by the neuroimaging community. Large discrepancies are found in the inferior regions, superior frontal and occipital regions.
The electroneutral Na-K-Cl co-transporter (NKCC) protein transports Na(+), K(+) and Cl(-) into cells under physiological conditions with a stoichiometry of 1Na(+) :1K(+) :2Cl(-). NKCC is characteristically inhibited by the sulfamoylbenzoic acid &quot;loop'' diuretics, such as bumetanide and furosemide. To date, only two distinct isoforms, NKCC1 and NKCC2, have been identified. NKCC1 has a broad tissue distribution, while the NKCC2 isoform is only found in vertebrate kidney. NKCC serves multiple functions, including ion and fluid movements in secreting or reabsorbing epithelia and cell volume regulation. However, understanding the role of NKCC1 in the central nervous system has just begun. NKCC1 protein is expressed in neurons throughout the brain. Dendritic localization of NKCC1 is found in both pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons. NKCC1 is important in the maintenance of intracellular Cl(-) in neurons and contributes to GABA-mediated depolarization in immature neurons. Thus, NKCC1 may affect neuronal excitability through regulation of intracellular Cl(-) concentration. Expression of NKCC1 protein has also been found in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In addition to its role in the accumulation of Cl(-), NKCC1 may also contribute to K(+) clearance and maintenance of intracellular Na(+) in glia. Our recent studies suggest that NKCC1 activation leads to high [K(+)](o(-)) induced astrocyte swelling and glutamate release, as well as neuronal Na(+) , and Cl(-) influx during acute excitotoxicity. Inhibition of NKCC1 activity significantly reduces infarct volume and cerebral edema following cerebral focal ischemia.
A review of the principal contributions of radio-therapy of brain tumours by beam particles is carried out. Neutrons, protons and light ions are considered along with their pros and cons in relation to types and locations of brain tumours. A particular emphasis is given to the pathologic studies of their effects directly o n tumours and on the normal nervous tissue, considering mainly the relevant action mechanisms of the radiation types and the requirements of the clinical therapeutic strategies. For comparison the main features of the pathologic effects of radiotherapy by photons are described. From the review it emerges that the new modality of radiation by protons and light ions, because of their peculiar physical characteristics, may represent a new way of destroying the tumour and sparing normal nervous tissue, especially when deeply located and irregularly shaped tumours are concerned. More neuropathological studies are needed in order to better understand the potentiality of the new treatment of modalities.
Hemifacial spasm (HFS) is a movement disorder characterised by involuntary paroxysmal facial movements that usually involve the orbicularis oculi and then spread to the other facial muscles. A microvascular compression and demyelination of the seventh nerve at its exit from the brain stem is considered to be the main aetiology of HFS. In addition to rare idiopathic (cryptogenetic) cases, others causes of HFS exist: tumours or vascular malformations have been described, of both the ipsilateral and contralateral cerebellopontine angle (CPA). However, space-occupying lesions in locations other than CPA are usually not thought to be responsible for HFS. Here we describe the case of a 45-year-old woman suffering from HFS, who dramatically improved after surgical removal of a tentorial paramedian meningioma.
Whole-cell patch clamp recording and immunohistochemistry were used to investigate the expression of P2X receptors on rat parasympathetic ganglion neurons of the otic, sphenopalatine, submandibular, intracardiac and paratracheal ganglia. Neurons from all five ganglia responded to ATP with a rapidly activating, sustained inward current. Neurons of intracardiac and paratracheal ganglia were insensitive to alphabeta-meATP, while all neurons in the otic and some neurons of sphenopalatine and submandibular ganglia responded. Lowering pH potentiated ATP responses in neurons from all five ganglia. Co-application of Zn(2+) potentiated ATP responses in intracardiac, paratracheal and submandibular ganglion neurons. Immunohistochemistry revealed strong and specific staining for the P2X(2) subunit in all five ganglia and strong P2X(3) staining in otic, sphenopalatine and submandibular ganglia. In conclusion, there is heterogeneity in P2X receptor expression in different parasympathetic ganglia of the rat, but the predominant receptor subtypes involved appear to be homomeric P2X(2) and heteromeric P2X(2/3).
Research into factors that determine the propensity to self-administer cocaine has shown that stressors can determine the amount of cocaine self-administered as well as the rate of acquisition. However, the interaction between the genetic make-up of the animal and stress is unknown. This study investigated this interaction by using the genetic animal model consisting of apomorphine susceptible (APO-SUS) and unsusceptible (APO-UNSUS) rats. Animals were allowed to self-administer 0.25 mg/kg cocaine under stressful and habituated conditions. This study revealed that the amount of cocaine consumed was highly dependent on the genetic make-up of the animal as well as the amount of stress during self-administration. Under habituated circumstances the APO-UNSUS rats took far more cocaine than the APO-SUS rats. Under stressful circumstances, however, the APO-SUS rats took far more cocaine than the APO-UNSUS rats. This difference in the amount consumed by APO-SUS and APO-UNSUS rats is likely to be due to the specific neurobiological features of their dopaminergic and, possibly, noradrenergic system as well as the reactivity of their HPA-axis. It is suggested that the amount of a drug consumed and, accordingly, its addictive potential and 'drug-vulnerability' are determined by the interaction between the genetic make-up of the animals and stress, and not by either component alone.
Recent experiments from our laboratory have demonstrated that drug states can signal when environmental cues will be followed by rewarding outcomes (ie Pavlovian conditioning). However, little is known about the generality of this approach and whether it can be used for studying the pharmacological properties of drug states. Accordingly, the present experiments tested the pharmacological specificity of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg), amphetamine (1 mg/kg), and chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 5 mg/kg) in this Pavlovian drug discrimination procedure. Following drug administration, presentation of a conditional stimulus (CS) was followed by brief access to sucrose. When saline was administered, the same CS was presented but sucrose was withheld. In substitution tests, rats in each condition received varying doses of all training drugs and caffeine. Anticipatory food seeking developed during the CS on drug sessions but not on saline sessions for all drug features (ie drug state-specific conditional response (CR)). In generalization tests, this CR decreased as a function of decreases in the training dose. Median effective doses (ED50s) were calculated for nicotine (0.054 mg/kg), amphetamine (0.26 mg/kg), and CDP (2.48 mg/kg). No compound tested substituted for the CDP training drug. Partial substitution was evident between nicotine and amphetamine; CDP did not substitute for either of these drug features. Caffeine fully substituted for nicotine (ED50 = 15.45 mg/kg) and amphetamine (ED50 = 3.70 mg/kg), but not for CDP. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that drug states can occasion appetitive Pavlovian CRs in a pharmacologically specific manner.
Environmental stimuli previously paired with drug taking appear to play a critical role in nicotine dependence. Converging anatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral evidence implicates dopamine D3 receptors (D3Rs) in the mechanisms underlying stimulus-controlled drug-seeking behavior. This study assessed the effects of BP 897, a D3R partial agonist and ST 198, a D3R antagonist, on nicotine-induced conditioned place preferences (CPPs), used as a measure of drug-seeking behavior, on food-maintained responding and on discrimination performance under a two-lever-choice nicotine discrimination procedure. BP 897 and ST 198 both blocked the expression of nicotine-induced CPP at doses selective for D3R. They had no effect on locomotor activity in the CPP apparatus and no significant effect on nicotine discrimination performance or food-maintained responding under the discrimination procedure. Involvement of antidepressant actions in the effects of BP 897 and ST 198 on CPP is unlikely, since we found no effect of D3R blockade with BP 897 or genetic depletion of D3Rs in a forced swimming test, used as a behavioral test for antidepressant activity. This suggests that D3R ligands reduce the motivational effects of nicotine by a mechanism distinct from those of nicotine replacement therapy and bupropion, the two currently used aids for smoking cessation in humans. These findings support the use of D3R ligands as aids for smoking cessation and indicate that their effects would be selective for those rewarding or reinforcing effects of nicotine that contribute to the maintenance of tobacco-smoking behavior, without affecting subjective responses to nicotine or producing any antidepressant-like effects.
Rapid advances in the field of interventional neurology and the development of minimally invasive techniques have resulted in a great expansion of potential therapeutic applications. We discuss therapeutic interventional neurology as applied in clinical practice in one of the two possible ways: 1) embolization leading to occlusion of blood vessels; and 2) revascularization leading to reopening of blood vessels. These procedures can be applied to a broad range of cerebrovascular diseases. In the first section of this review, we will explore the evolution of these interventions to occlude aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, neurovascular tumors, and injuries. In the second section, revascularization in acute ischemic stroke, stenosis, and dural venous thrombosis will be discussed.
In this review, the value of functional imaging [positron emission tomography (PET)/single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)] in drug development is considered. Radionuclide imaging can help establish the diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders where this is in doubt and provides a potential biomarker for following drug effects on disease progression. PET and SPECT can help understand mechanisms of disease and determine the functional effects of therapeutic approaches on neurotransmission and metabolism. Synthesizing radiotracer analogs of novel drugs can provide proof of principle that these agents reach their enzyme or receptor targets and delineate their regional brain distribution. If such radiotracers do not prove to have ideal properties for imaging, the concept of microdosing potentially allows multiple other drug analogs to be tested with less stringent regulatory requirements than for novel medicinals. Finally, PET tracers can provide receptor and enzyme active site dose occupancy profiles, thereby guiding dosage selection for phase 1 and phase 2 trials. The eventual hope is that radiotracer imaging will provide a surrogate marker for drug efficacy, although this has yet to be realized, and progress the concept of personalized medicine where receptor/enzyme binding profiles help predict therapeutic outcome.
There is now good evidence that human sex-typed behavior is influenced by sex hormones that are present during prenatal development, confirming studies in other mammalian species. Most of the evidence comes from clinical populations, in which prenatal hormone exposure is atypical for a person's sex, but there is increasing evidence from the normal population for the importance of prenatal hormones. In this paper, we briefly review the evidence, focusing attention on the methods used to study behavioral effects of prenatal hormones. We discuss the promises and pitfalls of various types of studies, including those using clinical populations (concentrating on those most commonly studied, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, androgen insensitivity syndrome, ablatio penis, and cloacal exstrophy), direct measures of hormones in the general population (assayed through umbilical cord blood, amniotic fluid, and maternal serum during pregnancy), and indirect measures of hormones in the general population (inferred from intrauterine position and biomarkers such as otoacoustic emissions, finger length ratios, and dermatoglyphic asymmetries). We conclude with suggestions for interpreting and conducting studies of the behavioral effects of prenatal hormones.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) and substance P (SP) are thought to play an important role in a variety of stress responses. Both CCK- and SP-positive fibers innervating the thalamus are found principally in the midline nuclei, including the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT), which has strong reciprocal connections with the medial prefrontal cortex. In the present study, we determined the source of the CCK- and SP-immunoreactive fibers to the PVT, employing combination of retrograde neuronal tracing and immunohistochemistry in the rat. The PVT-projecting neurons showing CCK immunoreactivity were detected in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, and ventral mesencephalic periaqueductal gray, including the Edinger-Westphal nucleus and the dorsal raphe nucleus. Sources of SP afferents to the PVT were detected in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, the mesopontine tegmentum and the medullary raphe nucleus. CCK- and SP-immunoreactive fibers may exert modulatory influence on the prefrontal cortical activity via the PVT and regulate behavioral components of stress-adaptation responses.


Neurocysticercosis is a common cause of adult onset epilepsy. Neurocysticercosis in pregnancy can present with convulsions and may be difficult to differentiate from a pregnancy related disorder. We present a case of neurocysticercosis diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging.
Hydatid disease involving the vertebral body and paravertebral soft tissues is a rare disease with poor prognosis. We report a case of spinal cord compression caused by secondary extradural cysts.
Venous angiomas` also known as deep vein anomalies (DVA), are one of the well-described brain vascular malformations. Frequently they are diagnosed as an incidental finding on neuroimaging (CT or MRI). A DVA may present as a single enhancing venous channel or as a large vascular abnormality illustrated on cerebral angiogram. Such a large DVA may mimic other intracranial lesions that mandate surgical intervention. We describe the radiological findings on CT, MRI, MRA and cerebral angiography of a 26-year-old male who presented with a few months` history of recurrent attacks of light-headiness, dizziness and slurring of speech that usually lasted for 2 minutes and resolved spontaneously. Cerebral angiography illustrated enlarged medullary veins draining into a central venous trunk then into the superior sagittal sinus resembling a caput medusa sign. Large DVAs may present radiologically as a brain lesion. Early recognition of these anomalies would avoid unnecessary or harmful intervention of this, otherwise, benign pathology.
Celiac disease is a gluten-sensitive enteropathy characterized by malabsorption resulting from inflammatory injury to the mucosa of the small intestine. It is well known to be associated with a variety of neurological disorders including epilepsy, myopathy, neuropathy and ataxia. The nature of this association is unclear. Although osteomalacia secondary to vitamin D deficiency is a recognized complication of celiac disease, however, severe osteomalacic myopathy as the only presentation of celiac disease is extremely rare. We present 2 interesting cases of osteomalacic myopathy secondary to celiac disease, which were treated successfully with full recovery. An important and unique observation was the brisk reflexes noticed in both patients. The mechanism behind this phenomenon is not well understood. Work-up for celiac disease is warranted in any young patient that presents with myopathy.
Bilateral sternalis muscles were observed during dissection of the thoraco-abdominal region of a male cadaver. A full description of the muscles, as well as their attachments and innervations were reported. A brief review of the existing literature, regarding the nomenclature, incidence, attachments, innervations and clinical relevance of the sternalis muscle, is also presented.








Long-acting injectable antipsychotics, also known as `depots`, were developed in the late 1960s as an attempt to improve compliance and long-term management of schizophrenia. Despite their availability for over 30 years, guidelines for their use and data on patients for whom long-acting injectable antipsychotics are most indicated are sparse and vary considerably. A review of the perceived advantages and disadvantages of using long-acting injectable antipsychotics is provided in this article, as well as a review of the literature to update clinicians on the current advances of this therapeutic option to optimize compliance and long-term management of chronic schizophrenia.
A large number of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and Rho GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) are used in the CNS to activate specific Rho GTPase family members, thereby inducing various signaling mechanisms that regulate neuronal shape, growth, and plasticity, in part through their effects on the actin cytoskeleton. Kalirin is a large neuronal dual Rho GEF that activates Rac1, RhoA, and RhoG via its two Rho GEF domains. This activation, which is spatially and temporally regulated, allows Kalirin to influence neurite initiation, axonal growth, and dendritic morphogenesis. In addition, this alternatively spliced gene generates developmentally regulated transcripts that yield proteins localized to the postsynaptic density (PSD). Kalirin-7, which interacts with PSD-95, is necessary for dendritic spine formation. In addition, Kalirins have the ability to regulate and influence other aspects of neuronal morphogenesis via protein-protein interactions with their other domains, including many spectrins, other protein and lipid interaction domains, and a potential kinase. These interactions have implications not only for neuronal morphogenesis but also for vesicle trafficking, secretion, neuronal maintenance, and neurodegenerative disease.
Primates use two types of voluntary eye movements to track objects of interest: pursuit and saccades. Traditionally, these two eye movements have been viewed as distinct systems that are driven automatically by low-level visual inputs. However, two sets of findings argue for a new perspective on the control of voluntary eye movements. First, recent experiments have shown that pursuit and saccades are not controlled by entirely different neural pathways but are controlled by similar networks of cortical and subcortical regions and, in some cases, by the same neurons. Second, pursuit and saccades are not automatic responses to retinal inputs but are regulated by a process of target selection that involves a basic form of decision making. The selection process itself is guided by a variety of complex processes, including attention, perception, memory, and expectation. Together, these findings indicate that pursuit and saccades share a similar functional architecture. These points of similarity may hold the key for understanding how neural circuits negotiate the links between the many higher order functions that can influence behavior and the singular and coordinated motor actions that follow.



A review of the history of ancient medicine reveals that most of the knowledge is concentrated in the studies of a few scientists. The best-known names include Hippocrates, Rufus of Ephesus, Celsus, and Galen. The survival of their works throughout the ages has been the most important factor contributing to their popularity. However, there are other scientists who made great contributions to science, but whose writings have been lost or destroyed over the course of time. As a result, their names are not as well known as those of others and the value of their contributions is not appreciated. With the improvement of communication technology in the past 50 years, links between the studies of ancient science can be made more effectively and scientists who have remained hidden under the shade of time have begun, after thousands of years, to receive the appreciation they deserve. In the field of neuroscience, the historical record focuses on Galen of Pergamon. But, when his marvelous works are carefully studied, it is interesting to note two names he frequently referenced: Herophilus (335-280 BC) and Erasistratus (310-250 BC). These two scientists were the first to place scientific value on the dissection of the human body. Herophilus is considered the father of scientific anatomy, and Erasistratus was the first experimental physiologist. Attracted by the prospect of material advancement and eminent students, both migrated from their homes in Asia Minor to Alexandria. The works of Herophilus and Erasistratus have been lost entirely, but some details of their teachings may be recovered from the writings of Galen. In this study, we focus on Herophilus, a master of ancient medicine, whose important discoveries about the human body formed the basis for positive science and the foundation for neuroscience.


Studies are under way to examine the neurogenetic factors contributing to smoking behaviors. The combined approaches of genomics, molecular biology, neuroscience, and pharmacology are expected to fuel developments in pharmacogenetics, to create new genetic tests, and ultimately to provide the basis for innovative strategies for smoking cessation and prevention. The emergence of a neurogenomic understanding of nicotine addiction is likely to induce fundamental changes in popular, clinical, and public health views of smoking, which could significantly shape existing practices and policies to reduce tobacco use. Still a nascent area of research, nicotine addiction provides an excellent case study through which to anticipate key ethical and policy issues in both behavioral genetics and the neurogenomics of addictive behaviors.



Engineering has traditionally focused on the external extensions of organisms, such as transportation systems, high-rise buildings, and entertainment systems. In contrast, bioengineering is concerned with inward processes of biologic organisms. Utilization of engineering principles and techniques in the analysis and solution of problems in medicine and biology is the basis for bioengineering. This article discusses subspecialties in bioengineering and presents examples of projects in this discipline.
Animal studies have established a role for the brainstem reticular formation, in particular the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), in the development and maintenance of central sensitisation and its clinical manifestation, secondary hyperalgesia. Similar evidence in humans is lacking, as neuroimaging studies have mainly focused on cortical changes. To fully characterise the supraspinal contributions to central sensitisation in humans, we used whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging at 3T, to record brain responses to punctate mechanical stimulation in an area of secondary hyperalgesia. We used the heat/capsaicin sensitisation model to induce secondary hyperalgesia on the right lower leg in 12 healthy volunteers. A paired t-test was used to compare activation maps obtained during punctate stimulation of the secondary hyperalgesia area and those recorded during control punctate stimulation (same body site, untreated skin, separate session). The following areas showed significantly increased activation (Z&gt;2.3, corrected P&lt;0.01) during hyperalgesia: contralateral brainstem, cerebellum, bilateral thalamus, contralateral primary and secondary somatosensory cortices, bilateral posterior insula, anterior and posterior cingulate cortices, right middle frontal gyrus and right parietal association cortex. Brainstem activation was localised to two distinct areas of the midbrain reticular formation, in regions consistent with the location of nucleus cuneiformis (NCF) and rostral superior colliculi/periaqueductal gray (SC/PAG). The PAG and the NCF are the major sources of input to the RVM, and therefore in an ideal position to modulate its output. These results suggest that structures in the mesencephalic reticular formation, possibly the NCF and PAG, are involved in central sensitisation in humans.
The objective of the study was to examine the effectiveness of two types of memory training (collective and individual), compared to control (waiting list), on memory performance. Participants were 139 community-dwelling older individuals recruited through media advertisements asking for people with subjective memory complaints to participate in a study. Data were collected at baseline, and at 1 week and 4 months after the intervention. Training efficacy was assessed using measures of subjective and objective memory performance. After the intervention, participants in the collective training group reported more stability in memory functioning and had fewer feelings of anxiety and stress about memory functioning. In addition, positive effects were found on objective memory functioning. Compared with the other two groups, the collective training group participants had an improved recall of a previously learned word list. Compared to controls, participants in the individual training group reported fewer feelings of anxiety and stress in relation to memory functioning.
To investigate whether a diurnal animal possesses the orexinergic system implicating vigilance and behavior, we examined Fos immunoreactivity (IR) in orexinergic neurons of Korean chipmunks raised under 12h light-dark cycles. Brain tissue, collected at four different zeitgeber times (ZT), was double-labeled with Fos and orexin-A antibodies. There was no difference in the number of orexin-IR neurons in the hypothalamus across all ZTs. However, more orexin-IR neurons expressing Fos-IR were found at ZTs 3 and 9 than ZTs 15 and 21. The results demonstrate circadian variations in the activation of orexin neurons corresponding with locomotor cycles, similarly seen in nocturnal rodents.
Differential library screening of an albumen gland cDNA library, Western blot analysis, protein expression, immunolocalization studies, comparative genomics, and secretion assays identified a major Aplysia californica albumen gland protein ('capsulin') that is localized to egg capsules and to the sheaths of the egg cordon. Capsulin shared sequence homology with eggshell proteins encoded by the Drosophila dec-1 gene. The 1790-amino acid A. californica precursor contains 17 repeat sequences that are flanked by basic residue processing sites. The numerous proteolytic processing sites may facilitate the breakdown of capsulin prior to when veliger larvae break out of egg capsules as free-swimming larvae. An Aplysia brasiliana capsulin repeat sequence was 97% identical to its A. californica homolog. Capsulin fragments were not detected in the eluates of egg cordons, suggesting that capsulin is not a candidate water-borne pheromone precursor.


The discovery that the adult mammalian brain creates new neurons from pools of stemlike cells was a breakthrough in neuroscience. Interestingly, this particular new form of structural brain plasticity seems specific to discrete brain regions, and most investigations concern the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampal formation (HF). Overall, two main lines of research have emerged over the last two decades: the first aims to understand the fundamental biological properties of neural stemlike cells (and their progeny) and the integration of the newly born neurons into preexisting networks, while the second focuses on understanding its relevance in brain functioning, which has been more extensively approached in the DG. Here, we propose an overview of the current knowledge on adult neurogenesis and its functional relevance for the adult brain. We first present an analysis of the methodological issues that have hampered progress in this field and describe the main neurogenic sites with their specificities. We will see that despite considerable progress, the levels of anatomic and functional integration of the newly born neurons within the host circuitry have yet to be elucidated. Then the intracellular mechanisms controlling neuronal fate are presented briefly, along with the extrinsic factors that regulate adult neurogenesis. We will see that a growing list of epigenetic factors that display a specificity of action depending on the neurogenic site under consideration has been identified. Finally, we review the progress accomplished in implicating neurogenesis in hippocampal functioning under physiological conditions and in the development of hippocampal-related pathologies such as epilepsy, mood disorders, and addiction. This constitutes a necessary step in promoting the development of therapeutic strategies.
Recent work in neuroscience has shown that the adult central nervous system contains neural progenitors, precursors, and stem cells that are capable of generating new neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. While challenging previous dogma that no new neurons are born in the adult mammalian CNS, these findings bring with them future possibilities for the development of novel neural repair strategies. The purpose of this review is to present current knowledge about constitutively occurring adult mammalian neurogenesis, to highlight the critical differences between &quot;neurogenic&quot; and &quot;non-neurogenic&quot; regions in the adult brain, and to describe the cardinal features of two well-described neurogenic regions-the subventricular zone/olfactory bulb system, and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We also provide an overview of currently used models for studying neural precursors in vitro, mention some precursor transplantation models, and emphasize that, in this rapidly growing field of neuroscience, one must take caution with respect to a variety of methodological considerations for studying neural precursor cells both in vitro and in vivo. The possibility of repairing neural circuitry by manipulating neurogenesis is an intriguing one, and, therefore, we also review recent efforts to understand the conditions under which neurogenesis can be induced in non-neurogenic regions of the adult CNS. This work aims toward molecular and cellular manipulation of endogenous neural precursors in situ, without transplantation. We conclude this review with a discussion of what the function might be of newly generated neurons in the adult brain and provide a summary of current thinking about the consequences of disturbed adult neurogenesis and the reaction of neurogenic regions to disease.
In order to elucidate the roles of human growth hormone (hGH) in the normal (control) pituitary and in adenomas, the hGH isoforms in the human pituitary were analyzed with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, immobilized metal affinity column (Ga(+3)) chromatography, mass spectrometry (MS), and bioinformatics. Twenty-four hGH-containing proteins, with significantly different expression proportions of their isoforms were found. The proportions of isoforms were as follows: isoform 1 (87.5%) &gt; isoform 2 (8.1%) &gt; isoform 3 (3.3%) &gt; isoform 4 (1.1%). Deamidation of asparagine to aspartate was identified with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight MS. Tandem mass spectrometry data demonstrated that hGH is a phosphoprotein (spot 6); phosphorylation was found at Ser-77 in the tryptic peptide (68)YSFLQNPQTSLCFSESIPTPSNR(90), at Ser-176 in the tryptic peptide (172)FDTNSHNDDALLK(184), and at Ser-132 in the peptide (126)SLVYGASDSNVYDLLK(141). The phosphorylation sites at Ser-77 and Ser-176 were consistent with computer-program predictions (NetPhos). These results provide novel clues for further studies of the functions, and mechanisms of action, of hGH in the human pituitary and in growth hormone-related diseases.

Greater continuity in cognition between children and adults may exist than is usually appreciated. It was thought that after 3 to 4 years of age, the problem in switching on the dimensional-change card-sort task disappears. We show here, however, that if speed is used as the dependent measure, the effect of the first dimension is evident even in adults. Adults, like preschoolers, show difficulty in switching from a block of sorting by color or shape to a block of sorting by the other dimension. Notably, performance throughout the session was affected by the first dimension by which stimuli were sorted. We hypothesize that perhaps adults never fully outgrow any of the cognitive and perceptual biases of infancy and early childhood. Other examples of such biases that appear to still be present in adults are discussed. Conversely, the assumption that the optimal dependent measure for adults is the most sensitive measure for children is questioned.
The parvocellular visual pathway in the primate brain is known to be involved with the processing of color. However, a subject of debate is whether an abrupt change in color, conveyed via this pathway, is capable of automatically attracting attention. It has been shown that the appearance of new objects defined solely by color is indeed capable of modulating attention. However, given evidence suggesting that the visual system is particularly sensitive to new onsets, it is unclear to what extent such results reflect effects of color change per se, rather than effects of object onset. We assessed attentional capture by color change that occurred as a result of either new objects appearing or already-present &quot;old&quot; objects changing color. Results showed that although new object onsets accrued attention, changing the color of old objects did not. We conclude that abrupt color change per se is not sufficient to capture attention.







Although Quality of Life in patients with Mood Disorders has been widely investigated, there are very few studies that examine the relationship between quality of life and subthreshold affective symptoms. The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between mood spectrum and subjective quality of life in the general population. A sample of 200 healthy subjects was recruited from the general population. None of the subjects were treated with psychotropic medications or were receiving psychotherapy at the time of the assessments. Subjects were 22-55 years old. The mean age was 33.56 years. Subjects rated themselves on the 'Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire' (Q-LES-Q) and the 'Self-Report Questionnaire for Mood Spectrum' (MOODS-SR). We found a statistically significant correlation between Q-LES-Q total score and MOODS-SR total score (r = -0.43; p &lt; 0.001) and between Q-LES-Q total score and depressive symptoms-related subtotal score of MOODS-SR (r = -0.35; p &lt; 0.001), but not between Q-LES-Q total score and manic symptoms-related subtotal score of MOODS-SR. Our data suggests that subjects who report subthreshold affective symptomatology also report a low degree of enjoyment and satisfaction from life. The depressive aspects of the mood spectrum seem to have the greatest negative influence.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of the duration of steroid depletion on the steroid-induced luteinizing hormone and prolactin surges in ovariectomized, peripubertal female rats. Additionally, the role of nitric oxide (NO) in mediating the surge responses was determined. Peripubertal, 6-week-old, female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized. One or three weeks later, animals were injected with 17 beta-estradiol (50 microg, sc) followed 48 h later by progesterone (2.5 mg, sc). Effects of NO were examined by administering L-arginine (300 mg/kg, ip). The response of ovariectomized, adult females to steroid treatment was also determined. One and three weeks after ovariectomy, steroid replacement produced an LH and prolactin surge in peripubertal animals. However, both the magnitude and duration of the LH surge was greater 3 weeks after ovariectomy. While L-arginine significantly enhanced the magnitude of the LH surge 1 week after ovariectomy, by 3 weeks L-arginine caused a decrease in the duration, but not the magnitude of the surge. In contrast, L-arginine did not affect either the magnitude or duration of the prolactin surge one week after ovariectomy, but diminished the magnitude after 3 weeks of steroid depletion. In adults, steroids induced significant increases in both LH and prolactin. These results demonstrate that sensitivity to NO stimulation of LH, but not prolactin secretion, is modulated by the duration of gonadal steroid hormone depletion. The differences in the responsiveness of LH and prolactin to steroid-induced stimulation in peripubertal animals demonstrate that these hormones are regulated by NO through different mechanisms.
The pathogenesis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has traditionally been based on the biopsychosocial model that emphasizes that the symptom manifestations of IBS and consulting behavior are influenced at least in part by psychological processes. However, there has been increasing interest in trying to identify and unravel potential molecular mechanisms in IBS, and this endeavor has been driven by some evidence that there is a true genetic contribution to IBS. IBS does aggregate in families, and the concordance of IBS is twice as great in monozygotic compared with dizygotic twins in most, but not all, studies. A number of genetic polymorphisms have been associated with IBS but most remain to be independently confirmed, and unknown gene-environment interactions probably remain essential for the disorder to manifest. As we become better able to specify the phenotypes within IBS, it seems likely that increasingly relevant gene associations that have implications for testing and treatment will rapidly be identified. IBS probably represents a collection of several organic diseases, some of which may have a genetic component; the biopsychosocial model, although important, may represent a gross oversimplification of the underlying molecular pathogenesis.
The case presented highlights the difficult differential diagnosis of memory-sparing cognitive decline in an elderly patient with previously stable bipolar illness. Many disorders can contribute to cognitive and behavioral deterioration in this population, including reversible causes, particularly delirium and psychiatric illness, and irreversible structural or progressive processes including vascular disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, normal-pressure hydrocephalus, and frontotemporal dementia.



The majority of heat shock proteins (HSP) act as molecular chaperones protecting cells from deleterious stress. These proteins are able to inhibit the aggregation of partially denatured proteins and refold them into the correct conformation. They have also been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. Previous reports from our laboratory have described a 40-kDa catecholamine-regulated heat-shock-like protein (CRP40). This study investigates CRP40 expression in ventral striatal specimens obtained from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium (SFNC). CRP40 levels were significantly reduced in schizophrenic patients relative to the control group. However, ventral striatal samples of individuals diagnosed with major depression or bipolar disorder did not show significant changes in the expression of the protein. No differences in CRP40 levels were observed due to age, sex or postmortem interval (PMI). Further analysis of the schizophrenic group revealed that unmedicated and medicated patients showed decreases in ventral striatal CRP40 levels relative to the control group. However, the largest reduction in these levels was seen in unmedicated schizophrenic patients. In addition, relative to the unmedicated individuals, the clozapine- and haloperidol-treated groups showed elevations in ventral striatal CRP40 expression, although not significant. An increase in sample size may clarify this observation. Taken together, these results suggest a functional role of CRP40 in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.

Using a multiround version of an economic exchange (trust game), we report that reciprocity expressed by one player strongly predicts future trust expressed by their partner-a behavioral finding mirrored by neural responses in the dorsal striatum. Here, analyses within and between brains revealed two signals-one encoded by response magnitude, and the other by response timing. Response magnitude correlated with the &quot;intention to trust&quot; on the next play of the game, and the peak of these &quot;intention to trust&quot; responses shifted its time of occurrence by 14 seconds as player reputations developed. This temporal transfer resembles a similar shift of reward prediction errors common to reinforcement learning models, but in the context of a social exchange. These data extend previous model-based functional magnetic resonance imaging studies into the social domain and broaden our view of the spectrum of functions implemented by the dorsal striatum.

