During nerve growth, axons are dependent upon contact with matrix components, such as laminins, for elongation, guidance, and trophic support. Semiquantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to identify laminin chains in normal peripheral nerves, during postnatal development, after sciatic nerve transection (SNT), and after sciatic nerve crush (SNC). Laminin alpha2, alpha4, beta1, beta2, and gamma1 chain mRNAs were all expressed at high levels in newborn rat sciatic nerves with declining levels during later developmental stages. At the adult stage, no laminin chain mRNA was detectable. Of interest, the mRNA levels for alpha4 chain declined faster than those for alpha2. After SNT, laminin alpha2, alpha4, beta1, and gamma1 mRNA levels were up-regulated at the site of the injury, with the most profound reaction in the proximal nerve stump. Laminin alpha2 and alpha4 chains differed in that the mRNA levels of alpha4 were up-regulated earlier and declined quicker, whereas alpha2 had a later onset, with high levels remaining even after 6 weeks. After SNC, there was an initial up-regulation of the same laminin chain mRNAs as after SNT in the nerve, however, less intense, and at 6 weeks after SNC, all laminin mRNA levels studied had returned to normal. IHC of adult human normal and transected peripheral nerves stained positive for laminin alpha2, alpha4, beta1, and gamma1 chains in close relation to neurofilament labeled axons. Laminin alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, beta1, beta2, and gamma1 chains were found in blood vessel-like structures and alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, beta2, and gamma1 in the perineurium. These results and a previously published description of integrin regulation in spinal motoneurons suggest that both laminin-2 (alpha2beta1gamma1) and laminin-8 (alpha4beta1gamma1) are important for the postnatal nerve development and axonal regeneration after injury and that laminin-8 may have important functions especially early postnatally and early after adult nerve lesion.
Cytokine growth factors of the interleukin (IL)-6 family have recently been shown to play an important role in central nervous system (CNS) development, repair, and inflammation. These cytokines, which interact via specific membrane receptors, share a signal-transducing receptor subunit, glycoprotein 130 (gp130). Gp130 is expressed by motoneurons in the gray matter of the rat spinal cord and by several brainstem nuclei that project to the spinal cord including the red, reticular, and vestibular nuclei. In this study, we examined whether stimulation of gp130 signaling, with the use of grafts of fibroblasts genetically modified to deliver the fusion protein, hyper-IL-6 (H-IL-6), which consists of the cytokine growth factor, IL-6, and its alpha receptor, would elicit growth of injured spinal cord axons. Particular emphasis was placed on examining the potentially competing effects of growth factor versus proinflammatory influences of H-IL-6 in the context of spinal cord injury. Our results demonstrated that grafts delivering H-IL-6 induce a sixfold increase in the number of neutrophils (P &lt; 0.05) and a twofold increase in the areas of spinal tissue occupied by macrophages and activated microglia (P &lt; 0.01) at the site of the spinal cord injury when compared with control grafts. Of note, this augmentation in inflammatory cell infiltration correlated with a significant twofold increase in lesion size (P &lt; 0.05) and a fourfold reduction in axonal growth (P &lt; 0.01) at the lesion site. Thus, potential neurotrophic properties of this cytokine family of growth factors must be balanced against their inflammatory properties when considering therapeutic application to CNS injury.
Neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate area of adult animals is stimulated by neuropathological diseases. We investigated here whether transient global cerebral ischemia in adult gerbils, which causes neurodegeneration selectively in CA1 pyramidal neurons, affects endogenous stem cells in the dentate area as well as CA1 region. The two key findings of this study are that: (1), global ischemia markedly increases neurogenesis in hippocampal subgranular zone from immature neuronal progenitor cells (betaIII-tubulin) to mature neurons (NeuN); and that (2), there is also an appearance of newly born neurons in the degenerated CA1 pyramidal cell layer, as demonstrated by immunofluorescence. These results provide evidence for an increased neurogenesis in the gerbil CA1 pyramidal cell layer four weeks following global cerebral ischemia, which could promote morphological and functional recovery after cerebral ischemia.


Regenerating goldfish retinal explants were cultured on poly-L-lysine (control) or poly-L-lysine overlaid with membranes isolated from non-regenerating optic tract (OTr) and 10- or 21-day regenerating OTr. Non-regenerating OTr substrate inhibited all neurite growth while 10- and 21-day regenerating OTr substrates significantly increased the average neurite number per explant and average neurite length compared to controls. These results indicate an upregulation of neurite growth permissive properties of regenerating OTr membranes.
Cell growth and terminal differentiation are controlled by complex signaling cascades that regulate the expression of specific subsets of genes controlling cell fate and morphogenic processes. We have recently cloned and characterized a novel Ste20-like kinase termed SLK (Sabourin et al., Mol. Cel. Biol. 20 (2000) 684). However, the specific function of SLK is poorly understood. To gain further insights into the role of SLK we have characterized its activity, expression and distribution in the CNS during embryonic development and in the adult brain. Although SLK is expressed ubiquitously in adult tissues, our results show that it is expressed preferentially in neuronal lineages during development. We find that SLK is preferentially expressed in the neurons and neuroepithelium of the developing embryo and can be detected at 10.5 and 12.5 days post-coitum (dpc) in the forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain of the developing CNS. At later stages (14.5 dpc), SLK is expressed in the hypothalamus region, all layers of the neural tube, dorsal root ganglion and in the proliferating ependymal layers. Surprisingly, following middle cerebral artery occlusion, SLK expressing neuronal cells are lost and SLK is localized to phagocytic macrophages/microglia. These results suggest a functional role for SLK in early neuronal development as well as in the adult CNS.
The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus is one of several sexually dimorphic hypothalamic nuclei. We have previously demonstrated that astrocytes in the neonatal arcuate nucleus exhibit a marked sexually dimorphic morphology as a result of differential exposure to gonadal steroids by postnatal day (PN) 2, with males having complex stellate cells compared to the simple bipolar ones found in females. Here, we present data demonstrating that arcuate astrocytes are sexually dimorphic by the day of birth and continue as such throughout postnatal development (PN0-PN15), and persist into adulthood. These data suggest that early gonadal steroid exposure permanently organizes arcuate astrocyte morphology. The male versus female difference in astrocyte morphology may contribute to the sexually dimorphic regulation of neuroendrocrine secretions from the pituitary in the adult.
Previous studies from this and another laboratory demonstrated that in utero ethanol exposure reduces 5-HT neurons and S100B-immunopositive glia that are proximal to these neurons. Our laboratory also found that these effects are prevented by maternal treatment with a 5-HT(1A) agonist. Because of S100B's important role in the development of 5-HT neurons, the present study used both in vivo and in vitro models to investigate the potential involvement of S100B with the damaging effects of ethanol and with the protective effects of 5-HT(1A) agonists. We used in situ hybridization to address whether a 5-HT(1A) agonist could potentially affect S100B mRNA in vivo. Maternal treatment with buspirone between gestation days 13 and 20 significantly increased S100B mRNA in neuroepithelium of G20 offspring of control (40%) and ethanol-fed dams (20%). However, S100B mRNA was not altered in neuroepithelium from ethanol-exposed offspring. In astroglial cultures, we examined whether ethanol reduces the release of S100B and whether a 5-HT(1A) agonist could stimulate the release of this protein. We also evaluated the effects of ethanol and ipsapirone on astroglial content of S100B. Neither the concentration of S100B in astroglial media nor astroglial content of S100B were affected by ethanol. However, treatment with 100 nM ipsapirone, a 5-HT(1A) agonist, between the 6th and 7th day in vitro, increased astroglial release of S100B 2- to 3-fold. Thus, the protective effects of a 5-HT(1A) agonist on ethanol-treated 5-HT neurons might be associated with the ability of these drugs to release the neurotrophic factor S100B from astrocytes.
Dithiocarbamate (DTC)-based pesticides have been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) through epidemiological links to increased risk of PD, clinical reports of parkinsonism following occupational exposure to the DTC-based pesticide maneb, and experimental studies showing dopaminergic neurodegeneration with combined exposure of rats to maneb and paraquat. We hypothesize that the manganese-ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate (MnEBDC) complex in maneb may produce oxidative stress by catalyzing catechol oxidation. We tested this hypothesis by performing a structure-function analysis of metal-EBDC and metal-diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDC) complexes of Mn2+, Zn2+, and Cu2+ to catalyze oxidation of N-acetyldopamine (NA-DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DP) in the presence and absence of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a model of glutathione. Both Mn-DTCs retained the capacity of the parent ion to catalyze one-electron oxidation of NA-DA, but lost the ability to catalyze DP oxidation. Strikingly, while Zn2+ did not catalyze catechol oxidation, both Zn-DTCs catalyzed one-electron oxidation of NA-DA but not DP. While Cu2+ catalyzed oxidation of both catechols, Cu-DTCs were inert. Similar results were obtained with MnEBDC and dopamine or norepinephrine; however, zinc-ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate was less efficient at catalyzing oxidation of these catechols. Our results point to the potential for manganese- and zinc-containing EBDC pesticides to promote oxidative stress in catecholaminergic regions of the brain.
Chat (Cas/HEF1-associated signal transducer) is a novel signaling molecule with an N-terminal SH2 domain and C-terminal Cas/HEF1 association domain that is implicated in the regulation of cell adhesion. The Cas/HEF1 association domain also shows sequence similarity with guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Ras family small GTPases. In this study, we found significant activation of Rap1 in Chat-overexpressing cells. Myr-Chat, a membrane-targeted form of Chat, activated Rap1 more efficiently. Interestingly, Chat and Cas synergistically activated Rap1. Certain Cas, Crk or C3G mutants suppressed Rap1 activation by Chat. We also confirmed the ternary complex formation consisting of Chat, Cas and Crk. Thus, it is likely that Chat-induced Rap1 activation was mediated by upregulation of the Cas-Crk-C3G signaling pathway rather than direct guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity of Chat. We further demonstrated that Myr-Chat expression induced cell periphery spreading and cell shape branching and that this activity also depended on the Cas-Crk-C3G pathway and Rap1 activity. Moreover, expression of Myr-Chat enhanced integrin-mediated cell adhesion. Taken together we propose a novel role for the Chat-Cas complex in controlling cell adhesion via the activation of Rap1.
Rab5, a member of the small GTPase family of proteins, is primarily localized on early endosomes and has been proposed to participate in the regulation of early endosome trafficking. It has been reported that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases and FYVE domain proteins, such as EEA1, can be recruited onto early endosomes and act as Rab5 effectors. SARA (Smad anchor for receptor activation), also a FYVE domain protein, was initially isolated as a participant in signal transduction from the transforming growth factor beta receptor. Overexpressed SARA has been found on EEA1-positive early endosomes. In this report, we show that endogenous SARA is present on early endosomes and overexpression of SARA causes endosomal enlargement. Functionally, SARA overexpression significantly delays the recycling of transferrin. The transferrin receptor distributed on the cell surfaces was also greatly reduced in cells overexpressing SARA. However, the internalization rate of transferrin is not affected by SARA overexpression. The morphological and functional alterations caused by SARA overexpression resemble those caused by overexpression of Rab5:GTP mutant Rab5Q79L. Finally, all SARA-mediated phenotypic changes can be counteracted by overexpression Rab5:GDP mutant Rab5S34N. These results collectively suggested that SARA plays an important functional role downstream of Rab5-regulated endosomal trafficking.

In order to study the role of a possible inflammatory reaction in the post-polio syndrome (PPS) four key cytokines were determined by means of mRNA expression in mononuclear cells from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and peripheral blood of 13 patients. Data were compared with those of samples from eight non-inflammatory control persons. The PPS-patients displayed increased numbers of CSF cells expressing mRNA for TNF-alpha (p&lt;0.02), IFN-gamma (p&lt;0.02), IL-4 (p&lt;0.001) and IL-10 (p&lt;0.05), in comparison to the non-inflammatory controls. As positive controls, samples from patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) were examined. We conclude that there is a chronic intra CNS expression of inflammatory cytokines in PPS, in the range of that in MS, a well known neuroinflammatory disease. However, the pathogenic significance of this is unclear.
Previous experiments have shown that mice lacking a functional delta-opioid receptor (DOR-1) gene do not develop analgesic tolerance to morphine. Here we report that mice lacking a functional gene for the endogenous ligand preproenkephalin (ppENK) show a similar tolerance deficit. In addition, we found that the DOR-1 and ppENK knock-outs as well as the NMDA receptor-deficient 129S6 inbred mouse strain, which also lacks tolerance, exhibit antagonist-induced opioid withdrawal. These data demonstrate that although signaling pathways involving ppENK, DOR, and NMDA receptor are necessary for the expression of morphine tolerance, other pathways independent of these factors can mediate physical dependence. Moreover, these studies illustrate that morphine tolerance can be genetically dissociated from physical dependence, and thus provide a genetic framework to assess more precisely the contribution of various cellular and molecular changes that accompany morphine administration to these processes.
Neurons of the inferior olivary nucleus (IO) form the climbing fibers that excite Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex. IO neurons are electrically coupled through gap junctions, and they generate synchronous, subthreshold oscillations of membrane potential at approximately 5-10 Hz. Experimental and theoretical studies have suggested that both the rhythmicity and synchrony of IO neurons require electrical coupling. We recorded from pairs of IO neurons in slices of mouse brainstem in vitro. Most pairs of neurons from wild-type (WT) mice were electrically coupled, but coupling was rare and weak between neurons of knock-out (KO) mice for connexin36, a neuronal gap junction protein. IO cells in both WT and KO mice generated rhythmic membrane fluctuations of similar frequency and amplitude. Oscillations in neighboring pairs of WT neurons were strongly synchronized, whereas the oscillations of KO pairs were uncorrelated. Spontaneous oscillations in KO neurons were not blocked by tetrodotoxin. Spontaneously oscillating neurons of both WT and KO mice generated occasional action potentials in phase with their membrane rhythms, but only the action potentials of WT neuron pairs were synchronous. Harmaline, a beta-carboline derivative thought to induce tremor by facilitating rhythmogenesis in the IO, was injected systemically into WT and KO mice. Harmaline-induced tremors were robust and indistinguishable in the two genotypes, suggesting that gap junction-mediated synchrony does not play a role in harmaline-induced tremor. We conclude that electrical coupling is not necessary for the generation of spontaneous subthreshold oscillations in single IO neurons, but that coupling can serve to synchronize rhythmic activity among IO neurons.
It is known that the dorsal cochlear nucleus and medial geniculate body in the auditory system receive significant inputs from somatosensory and visual-motor sources, but the purpose of such inputs is not totally understood. Moreover, a direct connection of these structures has not been demonstrated, because it is generally accepted that the inferior colliculus is an obligatory relay for all ascending input. In the present study, we have used auditory neurophysiology, double labeling with anterograde tracers, and retrograde tracers to investigate the ascending projections of the cochlear nuclear complex. We demonstrate that the dorsal cochlear nucleus and the small cell cap of the ventral cochlear nucleus have a direct projection to the medial division of the medial geniculate body. These direct projections from the cochlear nucleus complex bypass the inferior colliculus and are widely distributed within the medial division of the medial geniculate, suggesting that the projection is not topographic. As a nonlemniscal auditory pathway that parallels the conventional auditory lemniscal pathway, its functions may be distinct from the perception of sound. Because this pathway links the parts of the auditory system with prominent nonauditory, multimodal inputs, it may form a neural network through which nonauditory sensory and visual-motor systems may modulate auditory information processing.
We combined event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with olfactory classical conditioning to differentiate the neural responses evoked during appetitive and aversive olfactory learning. Three neutral faces [the conditioned stimuli (CS+)] were repetitively paired with pleasant, neutral, or unpleasant odors [the unconditioned stimuli (UCS)] in a partial reinforcement schedule. A fourth face was never paired to odor [the nonconditioned stimulus (CS-)]. Learning-related neural activity, comparing unpaired (face only) CS+ stimuli with CS-, showed valence-independent activations in rostral and caudal orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Medial OFC responded to the appetitive (app) CS+, whereas lateral OFC responded to the aversive (av) CS+. Within nucleus accumbens, neural responses showed divergent activation profiles that increased with time in response to the appCS+ but decreased in response to the avCS+. In posterior amygdala, responses were elicited by the appCS+, which habituated over time. In temporal piriform cortex, neural responses were evoked by the avCS+, which progressively increased with time. These results highlight regional and temporal dissociations during olfactory learning and imply that emotionally salient odors can engender cross-modal associative learning. Moreover, the findings suggest that the role of human primary (piriform) and secondary olfactory cortices transcends their function as mere intermediaries of chemosensory information processing.
Studies of patients with focal brain injury indicate that smell perception involves caudal orbitofrontal and medial temporal cortices, but a more precise functional organization has not been characterized. In addition, although it is believed that odors are potent triggers of emotion, support for an anatomical association is scant. We sought to define the neural substrates of human olfactory information processing and determine how these are modulated by affective properties of odors. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in an olfactory version of a classical conditioning paradigm, whereby neutral faces were paired with pleasant, neutral, or unpleasant odors, under 50% reinforcement. By comparing paired (odor/face) and unpaired (face only) conditions, odor-evoked neural activations could be isolated specifically. In primary olfactory (piriform) cortex, spatially and temporally dissociable responses were identified along a rostrocaudal axis. A nonhabituating response in posterior piriform cortex was tuned to all odors, whereas activity in anterior piriform cortex reflected sensitivity to odor affect. Bilateral amygdala activation was elicited by all odors, regardless of valence. In posterior orbitofrontal cortex, neural responses evoked by pleasant and unpleasant odors were segregated within medial and lateral segments, respectively. The results indicate functional heterogeneity in areas critical to human olfaction. They also show that brain regions mediating emotional processing are differentially activated by odor valence, providing evidence for a close anatomical coupling between olfactory and emotional processes.
Dopamine is an important transmitter in the CNS and PNS, critically regulating numerous neuropsychiatric and physiological functions. These actions of dopamine are mediated by five distinct receptor subtypes. Of these receptors, probably the least understood in terms of physiological functions is the D5 receptor subtype. To better understand the role of the D5 dopamine receptor (DAR) in normal physiology and behavior, we have now used gene-targeting technology to create mice that lack this receptor subtype. We find that the D5 receptor-deficient mice are viable and fertile and appear to develop normally. No compensatory alterations in other dopamine receptor subtypes were observed. We find, however, that the mutant mice develop hypertension and exhibit significantly elevated blood pressure (BP) by 3 months of age. This hypertension appears to be caused by increased sympathetic tone, primarily attributable to a CNS defect. Our data further suggest that this defect involves an oxytocin-dependent sensitization of V1 vasopressin and non-NMDA glutamatergic receptor-mediated pathways, potentially within the medulla, leading to increased sympathetic outflow. These results indicate that D5 dopamine receptors modulate neuronal pathways regulating blood pressure responses and may provide new insights into mechanisms for some forms of essential hypertension in humans, a disease that afflicts up to 25% of the aged adult population in industrialized societies.
Sympathetic neurons innervate the heart early in postnatal development, an event that is crucial for proper modulation of blood pressure and cardiac function. However, the axon guidance cues that direct sympathetic neurons to the heart, and the neuronal receptors that recognize those cues, are poorly understood. Here we present evidence that interactions between the alpha4beta1 integrin on sympathetic neurons and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in the heart plays a role in cardiac innervation. The alpha4 subunit was detected on postnatal rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons in culture and in cryosections of SCG and heart. VCAM-1 immunoreactivity was detected on cardiac myocytes that associate with invading sympathetic neurons. Purified recombinant soluble VCAM-1 (rsVCAM-1) stimulated SCG neurite outgrowth at levels comparable with laminin 2/4 and fibronectin (Fn), and outgrowth on rs-VCAM-1 and Fn was blocked by antibodies specific for the alpha4 and beta1 integrin subunits. Intrathoracic injection of function-blocking antibodies to alpha4 and VCAM-1, as well as a small molecule inhibitor of alpha4 integrins, significantly reduced sympathetic innervation of the heart. These results indicate that the interaction between alpha4 integrin and VCAM-1 is important for sympathetic innervation of the heart.
We developed a new method, designated N-linked glycosylation signal (NGS) differential display (DD)-PCR, that enables the identification of genes encoding N-linked glycosylated molecules that exhibit varying patterns of expression. Using this innovative technique, we identified an N-linked glycosylated 11-transmembrane domain protein that is upregulated in response to axotomy. Expression levels increased 3 d after axotomy, reached maximal levels at approximately postoperative days 5-7, and then gradually decreased through day 20. The protein was termed axotomy-induced glycosylated/Golgi-complex protein 1 (AIGP1). AIGP1 immunoreactivity is specifically localized in neurons, with subcellular localization within the Golgi, indicating that AIGP1 is a resident Golgi protein. Moreover, AIGP1 gene expression in cultured neurons is specifically induced by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi stressors tunicamycin and brefeldin A. We observed that the frequency of cell death is increased by AIGP1 overexpression and that the corresponding region of the protein implicated in the activity involves the large eighth and ninth transmembrane loops. Our results suggest that AIGP1 gene activation and protein accumulation in the Golgi complex in response to axotomy-induced ER-Golgi stress may contribute to signaling during programmed cell death in damaged neurons.
Telomerase, a reverse transcriptase that maintains chromosome ends (telomeres) during successive cell divisions in mitotic cells is present in neuroblasts and early postmitotic embryonic neurons but is absent from adult neurons. The signals that control telomerase levels during development are unknown, as are the functions of telomerase in developing neurons. We now report that telomerase activity and levels of its catalytic subunit telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) are increased in embryonic hippocampal neurons by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and a secreted form of beta-amyloid precursor protein (sAPP). BDNF and sAPP promote the survival of the embryonic neurons, and these trophic effects are blocked when TERT production is suppressed using antisense technology. Telomerase is required for the long-term survival of early postmitotic neurons during a time window of approximately 1 week in culture; telomerase is then downregulated and is not required for BDNF and sAPP survival signaling in mature neurons. The increase in telomerase activity and trophic effects of BDNF and sAPP are mediated by phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and p42/p44 MAP kinases. Our findings demonstrate a requirement for telomerase in the cell survival-promoting actions of BDNF and sAPP in early postmitotic hippocampal neurons, suggesting a previously unknown role for telomerase in mediating the biological actions of neurotrophic factors during brain development.
In this report we describe pertussis toxin-induced reversible encephalopathy dependent on monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) overexpression (PREMO), a novel animal model that exhibits features of human encephalopathic complications of inflammatory disorders such as viral meningoencephalitis and Lyme neuroborreliosis as well as the mild toxic encephalopathy that commonly precedes relapses of multiple sclerosis (MS). Overexpression of the mouse MCP-1 gene product (classically termed JE) in astrocytes, the major physiological CNS cellular source of MCP-1, failed to induce neurological impairment. Unexpectedly, transgenic (tg) mice overexpressing MCP-1 at a high level (MCP-1(hi)) manifested transient, severe encephalopathy with high mortality after injections of pertussis toxin (PTx) plus complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Surviving mice showed markedly improved function and did not relapse during a prolonged period of observation. Tg mice that expressed lower levels of MCP-1 were affected minimally after CFA/PTx injections, and tg expression of other chemokines failed to elicit this disorder. The disorder was significantly milder in mice lacking T-cells, which therefore play a deleterious role in this encephalopathic process. Disruption of CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) abolished both CNS inflammation and encephalopathy, identifying CCR2 as a relevant receptor for this disorder. Proinflammatory and type 1 cytokines including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IFN-gamma, IL-2, RANTES, and IP-10 were elevated in CNS tissues from mice with PREMO. These studies characterize a novel model of reversible inflammatory encephalopathy that is dependent on both genetic and environmental factors.
In Drosophila melanogaster, ebony and tan, two cuticle melanizing mutants, regulate the conjugation (ebony) of beta-alanine to dopamine or hydrolysis (tan) of the beta-alanyl conjugate to liberate dopamine. beta-alanine biosynthesis is regulated by black. ebony and tan also exert unexplained reciprocal defects in the electroretinogram, at ON and OFF transients attributable to impaired transmission at photoreceptor synapses, which liberate histamine. Compatible with this impairment, we show that both mutants have reduced histamine contents in the head, as measured by HPLC, and have correspondingly reduced numbers of synaptic vesicles in their photoreceptor terminals. Thus, the histamine phenotype is associated with sites of synaptic transmission at photoreceptors. We demonstrate that when they receive microinjections into the head, wild-type Sarcophaga bullata (in whose larger head such injections are routinely possible) rapidly (&lt;5 sec) convert exogenous [3H]histamine into its beta-alanine conjugate, carcinine, a novel metabolite. Drosophila tan has an increased quantity of [3H]carcinine, the hydrolysis of which is blocked; ebony lacks [3H]carcinine, which it cannot synthesize. Confirming these actions, carcinine rescues the histamine phenotype of ebony, whereas beta-alanine rescues the carcinine phenotype of black;tan double mutants. The equilibrium ratio between [3H]carcinine and [3H]histamine after microinjecting wild-type Sarcophaga favors carcinine hydrolysis, increasing to only 0.5 after 30 min. Our findings help resolve a longstanding conundrum of the involvement of tan and ebony in photoreceptor function. We suggest that reversible synthesis of carcinine occurs in surrounding glia, serving to trap histamine after its release at photoreceptor synapses; subsequent hydrolysis liberates histamine for reuptake.
Axons of the type B photoreceptors form synapses with hair cells and interneurons that are involved in classical conditioning in Hermissenda. We examined the differences in the Ca2+ channels expressed in the soma and axons of the B photoreceptors by direct functional recordings of single-channel currents. Although the soma of the B cells express two Ca2+ current subtypes, a transient BayK 8644-insensitive (approximately 17 pS) current and a sustained BayK 8644-sensitive (approximately 10 pS) current, the axons expressed only the latter. The axonal Ca2+ current activated at potentials positive to -20 mV. Moreover, the Ca2+ channels are distributed heterogeneously along the length of the axon, with the higher channel density (approximately 10-15 channel microm(-2)) occurring at the distal one-third of the isolated axons, with respect to the soma. The regions of Ca2+ channel clusters may represent the presynaptic site of the photoreceptor-interneuron synapses. Furthermore, the high-density clusters of Ca2+ channels may augment postsynaptic responses. The results of the present study represent the first direct recordings of Ca2+ currents at presumed synaptic sites. Expression of different Ca2+ channel subtypes at distinct compartments of the type B photoreceptors may generate diverse Ca2+ domains that may be required for neuronal plasticity in Hermissenda.
The hippocampal mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 synapse exhibits NMDA receptor-independent long-term potentiation (LTP), which is expressed by presynaptic mechanisms leading to persistent enhancement of transmitter release. Recent studies have identified several molecules that may play an important role in MF-LTP. These include Rab3A, RIM1alpha, kainate autoreceptor, and hyperpolarization-activated cation channel (I(h)). However, the precise cellular expression mechanism remains to be determined because some studies noticed essential roles of release machinery molecules, whereas others suggested modulation of the ionotropic processes affecting Ca2+ entry into the presynaptic terminals. Using fluorescence recordings of presynaptic Ca2+ in hippocampal slices, here we demonstrated that MF-LTP is not accompanied by an increase in presynaptic Ca2+ influx during an action potential. Whole-cell recordings from CA3 neurons revealed long-lasting increases in mean frequency, but not mean amplitude, of miniature EPSCs after the high-frequency stimulation of MFs. These data indicate that the presynaptic expression mechanisms responsible for enhanced transmitter release during MF-LTP involve persistent modification of presynaptic molecular targets residing downstream of Ca2+ entry.
Glutathione is a major regulator of the redox equilibrium, so its deficit weakens tissue resistance to oxidants. The nervous system is particularly susceptible to oxidative insults and is therefore very dependent on its glutathione content, especially during development, when brain metabolism and growth are maximal. In addition, various pathologies affecting the nervous system involve oxidative stress, possibly associated with a diminution of glutathione concentrations. To study the involvement of glutathione in brain redox homeostasis, we set up an experimental model of chronic glutathione deficit. Developing rats were treated daily with L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, and their brain levels of glutathione and lipid peroxidation products (TBARS) were measured. BSO induced a 40-50% glutathione deficit in the cortex, diencephalon, and pons/medulla. Despite the glutathione deficit induced by BSO, we did not observe any signs of oxidative stress. Because it is known that rats compensate for a glutathione deficit by enhancing their synthesis and tissue levels of ascorbic acid (AA), we performed the same experiment in osteogenic-disorder Shionogi (ODS) rats, a mutant strain that cannot synthetize AA. Although BSO induced a glutathione deficit of comparable intensity in the two strains of rats, it elevated TBARS levels in the diencephalon and pons/medulla only in ODS and not in nonmutant rats. These results suggest that ODS rats, which closely mimic the human redox regulation, will allow study of the long-term consequences of chronic glutathione deficit observed in various clinical situations.
The intravascular release of adrenal catecholamines is a fundamental homeostatic process mediated via thoracolumbar spinal sympathetic preganglionic neurones (AD-SPN). To understand mechanisms regulating their excitability, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from 54 retrogradely labelled neonatal rat AD-SPN. Passive membrane properties included a mean resting membrane potential, input resistance and time constant of -62 +/- 6 mV, 410 +/- 241 MOmega and 104 +/- 53 ms, respectively. AD-SPN were homogeneous with respect to their active membrane properties. These active conductances included transient outward rectification, observed as a delayed return to rest at the offset of the membrane response to hyperpolarising current pulses, with two components: a fast 4-AP-sensitive component (A-type conductance), contributing to the after-hyperpolarisation (AHP) and spike repolarisation; a slower prolonged Ba(2+)-sensitive component (D-like conductance). All AD-SPN expressed a Ba(2+)-sensitive instantaneous inwardly rectifying conductance activated at membrane potentials more negative than around -80 mV. A potassium-mediated, voltage-dependent sustained outward rectification activated at membrane potentials between -35 and -15 mV featured an atypical pharmacology with a component blocked by quinine, reduced by low extracellular pH and arachidonic acid, but lacking sensitivity to Ba(2+), TEA and intracellular Cs(+). This quinine-sensitive outward rectification contributes to spike repolarisation. Following block of potassium conductances by Cs(+) loading, AD-SPN revealed the capability for autorhythmicity and burst firing, mediated by a T-type Ca(2+) conductance. These data suggest the output capability is dynamic and diverse, and that the range of intrinsic membrane conductances expressed endow AD-SPN with the ability to generate differential and complex patterns of activity. The diversity of intrinsic membrane properties expressed by AD-SPN may be key determinants of neurotransmitter release from SPN innervating the adrenal medulla. However, factors other than active membrane conductances of AD-SPN must ultimately regulate the differential ratio of noradrenaline (NA) versus adrenaline (A) release secreted in response to various physiological and environmental demands.
The obese gene product, leptin is an important circulating satiety factor that regulates energy balance via its actions in the hypothalamus. However, leptin receptors are also expressed in brain regions not directly associated with energy homeostasis, such as the hippocampus. Here, leptin inhibits hippocampal neurones via activation of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels, a process that may be important in regulating neuronal excitability. We now show that leptin receptor labelling is expressed on somata, dendrites and axons, and is also concentrated at synapses in hippocampal cultures. In functional studies, leptin potently and reversibly reduces epileptiform-like activity evoked in lean, but not leptin-resistant Zucker fa/fa rats. Furthermore, leptin also depresses enhanced Ca(2+) levels evoked following Mg(2+) removal in hippocampal cultures. The ability of leptin to modulate this activity requires activation of BK, but not K(ATP), channels as the effects of leptin were mimicked by the BK channel activator NS-1619, and inhibited by the BK channel inhibitors, iberiotoxin and charybdotoxin. The signalling mechanisms underlying this process involve stimulation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase), but not mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), as two structurally unrelated inhibitors of PI 3-kinase, LY294002 and wortmannin, blocked the actions of leptin. These data indicate that leptin, via PI 3-kinase-driven activation of BK channels, elicits a novel mechanism for controlling neuronal excitability. As uncontrolled excitability in the hippocampus is one underlying cause of temporal lobe epilepsy, this novel action of leptin could provide an alternative therapeutic target in the management of epilepsy.
Substantial evidence now exists indicating that the neurotrophins, a family of growth factors required for the survival, development, and differentiation of various neuronal populations of the nervous system, are also important for the development of nonneuronal tissues. Such a function was first suggested by studies showing the presence of high-affinity neurotrophin receptors in a variety of nonneuronal tissues including those of the cardiovascular, endocrine, immune, and reproductive systems. Within the latter, the gonads appear to be a preferential site of neurotrophin action as suggested by the presence in the mammalian ovary of at least four of the five known neurotrophins and all of the neurotrophin receptors thus far identified. While the various functions that the neurotrophins may have in the ovary are still being elucidated, it is now clear that in addition to recruiting the ovarian innervation, they play a direct role in the regulation of two different maturational periods that are critical for the acquisition of female reproductive function: early follicular development and ovulation. Neurotrophins facilitate the development of newly formed follicles by promoting the initial differentiation and the subsequent growth of primordial follicles. These actions appear to be related to the ability of neurotrophins to sustain the proliferation of both mesenchymal and granulosa cells, and to induce the synthesis of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) receptors. At the time of the first ovulation, neurotrophins contribute to the ovulatory cascade by increasing prostaglandin E(2) release, reducing gap junction communication, and inducing cell proliferation within the thecal compartment of preovulatory follicles.
A high sympathetic and/or a low cardiovagal activity in patients with major depression (MD) may contribute to the higher cardiac morbidity and mortality of MD patients. Standardized tests of heart rate variability (HRV) allow a quantitative estimation of autonomic nervous system function. However, previous studies on the relationship between HRV and MD have revealed conflicting results. Our study compared time and frequency domain HRV indices (5-min resting study, deep breathing test, Valsalva test) between 32 patients with MD (DSM-III-R) and 64 non-depressed controls. The severity of depressive symptoms was assessed by the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D); patients were divided into subgroups with moderate (M-HAM-D&lt;25) or severe depressive symptoms (S-HAM-D&gt;or=25). After controlling for age, gender and smoking, S-HAM-D patients showed a higher heart rate and a significantly lower modulation of cardiovagal activity compared to controls. Although some of the HRV indices of the M-HAM-D group did not differ significantly from controls, they were in the expected direction. There was a significantly negative correlation between the HAM-D scores and the vagal HRV indices, suggesting a direct association between the severity of depressive symptoms and the modulation of cardiovagal activity. Clinical consequences arising from these findings and possible implications for treatment are discussed.
Twelve schizophrenic subjects with acoustic hallucinations in their case histories were compared with 12 healthy reference subjects and eight subjects with panic disorder in a test of three auditory masking tasks, simultaneous masking (SM), forward masking (FM) and backward masking (BM). The schizophrenic subjects showed no differences from reference subjects on SM but had higher thresholds for the two other conditions (FM and BM). Schizophrenics with very increased thresholds (n=6) had a significantly higher need for residential treatment. Thresholds for SM and BM were not, as for reference subjects, related to age for schizophrenics. No statistically significant differences regarding any masking experiments were found between the panic disorder subjects and the reference subjects. Simultaneous masking, reflecting functions of the basilar membrane and those of elementary brainstem processing, showed no signs of dysfunction in schizophrenic subjects. Schizophrenics showed aberrations in FM and BM, possibly influenced by more central (cortical) processes.
We studied the effects of self-administered (SA) vs. experimenter-administered (EA) morphine on dendritic spines in the hippocampal formation (CA1 and dentate), nucleus accumbens shell (NAcc-s), sensory cortex (Par1 and Oc1), medial frontal cortex (Cg3), and orbital frontal cortex (AID) of rats. Animals in the SA group self-administered morphine in 2-h sessions (0.5 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) for an average of 22 sessions and animals in the EA group were given daily i.v. injections of doses that approximated the total session dose for matched rats in Group SA (average cumulative dose/session of 7.7 mg/kg). Control rats were given daily i.v. infusions of saline. One month after the last treatment the brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. In most brain regions (Cg3, Oc1, NAcc-s) morphine decreased the density of dendritic spines, regardless of mode of administration (although to a significantly greater extent in Group SA). However, only SA morphine decreased spine density in the hippocampal formation and only EA morphine decreased spine density in Par1. Interestingly, in the orbital frontal cortex morphine significantly increased spine density in both Groups SA and EA, although to a much greater extent in Group SA. We conclude: 1) Morphine has persistent (at least 1 month) effects on the density of dendritic spines in many brain regions, and on many different types of cells (medium spiny neurons, pyramidal cells, and granule cells); 2) The effect of morphine on spine density (and presumably synaptic organization) varies as a function of both brain region and mode of drug administration; and 3) The ability of morphine to remodel synaptic inputs in a regionally specific manner may account for the many different long-term sequelae associated with opioid use.
The descending pathway between the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) is an important substrate for autonomic functions associated with emotion. Activity in this circuit is crucially modulated by catecholamines and agonists of the alpha-2A-adrenergic receptor (alpha(2A)-AR), which relieve cardiovascular and gastrointestinal symptoms associated with experience of aversive stimuli. The subcellular distribution of alpha(2A)-AR within the CeA, however, has not been characterized. It is also not known if any alpha(2A)-AR-expressing neurons in the CeA project to the dorsal vagal complex. In order to address these questions, we examined the immunocytochemical labeling of alpha(2A)-AR in the CeA of rats receiving microinjection of the retrograde tracer fluorogold (FG) into the dorsal vagal complex at the level of the area postrema, an area involved in cardiorespiratory and gastrointestinal functions. Of all alpha(2A)-AR-labeled profiles in the CeA, the majority were either dendrites (42%) or somata (24%). alpha(2A)-AR labeling was often present on the plasmalemma in dendrites and was mainly found in endosome-like organelles in somata. Of all alpha(2A)-AR immunoreactive somata, 62% also contained immunolabeling for FG and 23% of all dendrites also showed labeling for the retrograde tracer. The intracellular distribution of alpha(2A)-AR did not differ in somata or dendrites with or without detectable FG. The remaining singly labeled alpha(2A)-AR profiles consisted of axons (11%), axon terminals (12%), and glial processes (13%). In numerous instances, alpha(2A)-AR-labeled glia or axon terminals were apposed to DVC projecting neurons. Together, this evidence suggests that the principal site for alpha(2A)-AR activation is at extrasynaptic sites on dendrites of CeA neurons, many of which project to the DVC and also show endosomal receptor labeling. In addition, these results indicate that activation of alpha(2A)-AR in the CeA may influence the activity of DVC projecting neurons through indirect mechanisms, including changes in presynaptic transmitter release or glial function. These results suggest that alpha(2A)-AR agonists in the CeA may modulate numerous processes including stress-evoked autonomic reactions and feeding behavior.
Increasing chemical use necessitates a better understanding of how pollutants, such as di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), a peroxisome proliferator and a phthalate plasticizer, affect human health. To understand the effects of DEHP exposure, we utilized microarray technology to identify novel DEHP targets in livers of male C57BL/6 mice treated with 1.0% dietary DEHP for 13 weeks. We identified 51 DEHP-regulated genes; these genes are involved in, but not limited to, peroxisome proliferation, xenobiotic detoxification, oxidative stress response, immune function, steroid hormone metabolism, testis development, and pheromone transport. The reproductive toxicity mechanism of DEHP may be due to its effects on steroid hormone metabolism and sexual development. Confirmation of microarray results with Northern blots demonstrated that both low- and high-dose DEHP treatments altered the expression of genes associated with testis development and steroid hormone synthesis. Vanin-1, a regulator of testis development, was upregulated after exposure to 0.2 and 1.0% DEHP by 1.8- and 2.9-fold, respectively. Several genes involved in hormone metabolism were also regulated by DEHP. 11betaHSDI was downregulated 1.8- and 3.1-fold by 0.2 and 1.0% DEHP, respectively, while HSD3b5 was suppressed similarly by 0.2% DEHP, 1.5-fold, and more severely by 1.0% DEHP, 8.0-fold. Interestingly, food restriction had a similar effect to DEHP on several genes, including HSD3b5. In addition, steroidogenic gene cyp7B1 was downregulated while phospholipid transfer protein and cyp2B9 were induced. Genes peripherally associated with steroid hormones were also affected: ALDH3, GSTtheta2, and Id2. Collectively, our data validate the concern for DEHP as a reproductive developmental toxicant.
Tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) levels in the adult guinea pig cochlear nucleus (CN) were determined from Western blots for up to 60 days after unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA). Compared to TrkB levels on the intact side, those on the lesioned side were elevated in the anteroventral CN (AVCN) at 7 and 60 days and in the posteroventral CN (PVCN) at 30 days. TrkB levels were depressed in the AVCN and the dorsal CN (DCN) at 30 days. Elevations in the AVCN on the lesioned side at 7 days coincided with a period of synaptogenesis. Other changes were temporally related to up- or downregulations of transmitter release and synaptic receptor activities that were evident after UCA. The findings suggest that changes in signaling through TrkB may contribute to the plasticities in the CN that were evident after UCA.
Forebrain injections of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), the endogenous ligand of the NOP opioid receptor, previously referred to as ORL1 or OP4 receptor, stimulate feeding in freely feeding rats, while the NOP receptor antagonist [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)NH(2) inhibits food deprivation-induced feeding. To further evaluate whether the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system plays a physiological role in feeding control, the present study evaluated forebrain mRNA levels for the N/OFQ precursor (pro-N/OFQ), as well as for the NOP receptor in food deprived rats. The results obtained show that food deprived rats have lower mRNA levels for the NOP receptor in several forebrain regions; a significant reduction was found in the paraventricular and lateral hypothalamic nuclei and in the central nucleus of the amygdala. Food deprived rats also exhibited lower pro-N/OFQ mRNA levels in the central amygdala. These results suggest that the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system may have a physiological role in feeding control. The observation that food deprivation reduces gene expression of the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system is apparently not consistent with a direct hyperphagic action for N/OFQ. Taking into account that N/OFQ exerts inhibitory actions at cellular level, the present results may be in keeping with the hypothesis that N/OFQ stimulates feeding by inhibiting neurons inhibitory for food intake; under conditions of food deprivation, these neurons may be silent and the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system, which controls them, may also be regulated at a lower level. Consistently, in the present study N/OFQ stimulated food intake in freely feeding rats, but did not further increase feeding in food deprived rats.
Morphine through mu-opioid receptors and G(i/o) proteins modulates several cellular effector systems; however, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase are not well known. We evaluated the effect of two mu-opioid receptor agonists on ouabain-sensitive Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in mice forebrain synaptosomes, and examined the modulation of this effect by antagonists of opioid receptors and a blocker of G(i/o) proteins. Incubation of synaptosomes with morphine (10(-9) to 10(-4) M) or buprenorphine (10(-10) to 10(-5) M) concentration-dependently stimulated Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity, morphine being less potent but more efficacious than buprenorphine. Morphine did not displace [3H]ouabain from its binding site (Na(+),K(+)-ATPase) to forebrain membranes, whereas ouabain did so in a concentration-dependent manner. Naloxone, an opioid antagonist (10(-6) M), added to the synaptosomal medium, antagonized the enhancement of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity induced by morphine, producing a parallel shift to the right of the morphine concentration-response curve. Treatment with beta-funaltrexamine, a mu antagonist (2.5 and 10 microg/mouse, i.c.v.) and naloxonazine, a mu1 antagonist (35 mg/kg, s.c.), 24 h before the synaptosomes were obtained, produced a dose-dependent reduction in the E(max) of the morphine-induced increase in Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in vitro, but did not significantly modify its EC(50). Pertussis toxin (G(i/o) protein blocker) treatment at a dose of 0.5 microg/mouse, administered i.c.v. 5 days before the synaptosomes were obtained, completely abolished the enhancement of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity induced by morphine. A lower dose (0.25 microg/mouse) decreased the E(max) of morphine by 50% but did not significantly affect its EC(50). These results suggest that morphine indirectly enhances Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in the brain by activating mu-opioid receptors and G(i/o) proteins.
One prerequisite for understanding the physiological relevance of intercellular calcium waves in glia is the examination of mechanisms that trigger these waves. Here, we show that stimulation of cultured septal neurons to produce a large and sustained calcium rise in the soma can initiate calcium waves in surrounding glial cells. The initiation of calcium waves is dependent on calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels on the neuron. The waves are not due to direct stimulation of the glial cells or to loss of neuronal membrane integrity. Mechanism of wave initiation is distinct from that involved in wave propagation and does not involve glutamate or acetylcholine release. Communication via gap junctions, or nitric oxide production, is not involved in the initial signaling between a stimulated neuron and the surrounding astrocytes. Suramin, a blocker of P2 receptors blocked the waves but failed to abolish the responses in glial cells immediately surrounding the stimulated neuron. Our results suggest that patterns of calcium rises on neurons, like those seen in glutamate cytotoxicity, can cause calcium waves in surrounding glial cells.
beta-Amyloid peptide is the principal protein in the senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease and is considered to be responsible for the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Several studies have shown that beta-amyloid is cytotoxic, using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) as an indicator of viability in cells. Utilizing the MTT assay, we screened an in-house library to find compounds that suppress beta-amyloid-induced inhibition of MTT reduction. From among the screening hits, we focused on 6-ethyl-N,N'-bis(3-hydroxyphenyl)[1,3,5]triazine-2,4-diamine (named RS-0466), which had been newly synthesized in our laboratory. This compound was found to be capable of significantly inhibiting beta-amyloid-induced cytotoxicity in HeLa cells and of reversing the decrease of phosphorylated Akt induced by beta-amyloid. Furthermore, RS-0466 reversed the beta-amyloid-induced impairment of long-term potentiation in rat hippocampal slices. These results raise the possibility that RS-0466 or its derivatives have potential as a therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease patients, and its effect is at least in part mediated by activation of Akt.
Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins constitute a family of over 20 proteins that negatively regulate heterotrimeric G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathways by enhancing endogenous GTPase activities of G protein alpha subunits. RGSZ1, one of the RGS proteins specifically localized to the brain, has been cloned previously and described as a selective GTPase accelerating protein for Galpha(z) subunit. Here, we employed several methods to provide new evidence that RGSZ1 interacts not only with Galpha(z,) but also with Galpha(i), as supported by in vitro binding assays and functional studies. Using glutathione S-transferase fusion protein pull-down assays, glutathione S-transferase-RGSZ1 protein was shown to bind (35)S-labeled Galpha(i1) protein in an AlF(4)(-)dependent manner. The interaction between RGSZ1 and Galpha(i) was confirmed further by co-immunoprecipitation studies and yeast two-hybrid experiments using a quantitative luciferase reporter gene. Extending these observations to functional studies, RGSZ1 accelerated endogenous GTPase activity of Galpha(i1) in single-turnover GTPase assays. Human RGSZ1 functionally regulated GPA1 (a yeast Galpha(i)-like protein)-mediated yeast pheromone response when expressed in a SST2 (yeast RGS protein) knockout strain. In PC12 cells, transfected RGSZ1 blocked mitogen-activated protein kinase activity induced by UK14304, an alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist. Furthermore, RGSZ1 attenuated D2 dopamine receptor agonist-induced serum response element reporter gene activity in Chinese hamster ovary cells. In summary, these data suggest that RGSZ1 serves as a GTPase accelerating protein for Galpha(i) and regulates Galpha(i)-mediated signaling, thus expanding the potential role of RGSZ1 in G protein-mediated cellular activities.
Growth hormone (GH) secretion is regulated by indirect negative feedback mechanisms. To address whether GH has direct actions on pituitary cells, lipid signaling in GH(4)ZR(7) somatomammotroph cells was examined. GH (EC(50) = 5 nm) stimulated diacylglycerol (DAG) and ceramide formation in parallel by over 10-fold within 15 min and persisting for &gt;3 h. GH-induced DAG/ceramide formation was blocked by pertussis toxin (PTX) implicating G(i)/G(o) proteins and was potentiated 1.5-fold by activation of G(i)/G(o)-coupled dopamine-D2S receptors, which had no effect alone. Following PTX pretreatment, only PTX-resistant Galpha(i)3, not Galpha(o) or Galpha(i)2, rescued GH-induced DAG/ceramide signaling. GH-induced DAG/ceramide formation was also blocked in cells expressing Gbetagamma blocker GRK-ct. In GH(4)ZR(7) cells, GH induced phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT5, which was blocked by PTX and mimicked by ceramide analogue C2-ceramide or sphingomyelinase treatment to increase endogenous ceramide. We conclude that in GH(4) pituitary cells, GH induces formation of DAG/ceramide via a novel Galpha(i)3/Gbetagamma-dependent pathway. This novel pathway suggests a mechanism for autocrine feedback regulation by GH of pituitary function.
A phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) has been known to play multiple biological roles. However, role of PTEN in astrocyte activation is not clear yet. In the present study, the expression pattern of PTEN in the process of reactive gliosis was immunohistochemically examined in intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injected kainic acid mouse hippocampus. Mice were grouped into three; 30 min, 1 day and 7 days after kainic acid i.c.v. injection. Thirty minutes after kainic acid i.c.v. injection, astrocytes were activated and PTEN was weakly expressed in immature astrocytes. Seven days after kainic acid i.c.v. injection, PTEN expression was decreased in highly activated astrocytes showing extensively spindled shape. Immunofluorescence double labeling experiment showed that PTEN was expressed in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. These findings suggest that PTEN might have a role in early stage of reactive astrogliosis in vivo.
Vulnerable neurons in the hippocampus die 2-3 days after transient global brain ischemia. In the present study, rat brain mitochondria were isolated at different time points (4 h, 24 h and 48 h) after transient global ischemia. Detection of mitochondrially-generated reactive oxygen species, measured through dichlorodihydrofluorescein oxidation, was increased up to 40% relative to control in hippocampal mitochondria at 4 h and 48 h of reperfusion. Ischemia-stimulated oxidative stress was observed with mitochondria oxidizing substrates linked to nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide or flavin adenine dinucleotide, but not in the presence of the respiratory chain inhibitor antimycin A. A slightly decreased Ca(2+) uptake capacity was observed in hippocampal mitochondria during reperfusion. We conclude that transient brain ischemia induces oxidative stress in hippocampal mitochondria.
Phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases1/2 (pERK1/2) -like immunoreactivity (LI) was enhanced in the neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMV) 8 min after an intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid in the mouse; the enhancement in pERK1/2-LI was suppressed after vagotomy. With immunofluorescent double labeling technique, the co-localization of acetic acid-induced pERK1/2 and tyrosine hydroxylase-LIs was observed in some of the NTS and DMV neurons. These results suggest that ERK1/2 signal-transducting pathway is involved in neuronal activities in NTS and DMV which are induced by vagus-conveyed nociceptive visceral information, and that some of these pERK1/2- immunoreactive neurons in NTS and DMV are catecholaminergic.
The neonatal cerebellum undergoes an early period of ethanol sensitivity in which profound neuronal loss is seen following acute exposure, while slightly later exposure produces no such loss. This study was designed to determine whether this differential susceptibility is related to differences in ethanol-induced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We found that ethanol treatment on postnatal day 4 (P4), the peak period of cerebellar vulnerability, resulted in ROS increases, but slightly later exposure (on P7) produced no immediate changes in ROS, but reductions were seen at 12 and 24 h following exposure. Exposure on P14 produced consistent decreases in ROS production. Thus, differential responsiveness in oxidative processes may play a major role in the differential temporal ethanol vulnerability of developing cerebellum.
Western tonal music relies on a formal geometric structure that determines distance relationships within a harmonic or tonal space. In functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments, we identified an area in the rostromedial prefrontal cortex that tracks activation in tonal space. Different voxels in this area exhibited selectivity for different keys. Within the same set of consistently activated voxels, the topography of tonality selectivity rearranged itself across scanning sessions. The tonality structure was thus maintained as a dynamic topography in cortical areas known to be at a nexus of cognitive, affective, and mnemonic processing.


Recent studies have measured the time taken by neural processes to decide between alternative stimuli. Overt responses are produced only as soon as neural processes are completed. The brain throttles the mind.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a form of posttranscriptional gene silencing mediated by short double-stranded RNA, known as small interfering RNA (siRNA). These siRNAs are capable of binding to a specific mRNA sequence and causing its degradation. The recent demonstration of a plasmid vector that directs siRNA synthesis in mammalian cells prompted us to examine the ability of lentiviral vectors to encode siRNA as a means of providing long-term gene silencing in mammalian cells. The RNA-polymerase III dependent promoter (H1-RNA promoter) was inserted in the lentiviral genome to drive the expression of a small hairpin RNA (shRNA) against enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). This construct successfully silenced EGFP expression in two stable cell lines expressing this protein, as analyzed by fluorescence microscopy, flow cytometry, and Western blotting. The silencing, which is dose dependent, occurs as early as 72 hr postinfection and persists for at least 25 days postinfection. The ability of lentiviruses encoding siRNA to silence genes specifically makes it possible to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by the lentiviral vector and provides a powerful tool for gene therapy and gene function studies.



During cerebral cortical development, excitatory glutamatergic projection neurons are generated from neural stem cells intrinsic to the early embryonic cortical ventricular zone by a process of radial migration, whereas most inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons and oligodendrocytes (OLs) appear to be elaborated from ventral forebrain stem cells that initially undergo tangential cortical migration before terminal lineage maturation. In contrast to the more compartmentalized developmental organization of the spinal cord, the generation of neurons and OLs from a common ventral forebrain stem cell would expose these cells to the sequential actions of ventral and dorsal gradient morphogens [sonic hedgehog (Shh) and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs)] that normally mediate opposing developmental programs. Here we report that Shh promotes GABAergic neuronalOL lineage restriction of forebrain stem cells, in part, by activation of the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, Olig2 and Mash1. In mutant mice with a generalized defect in tangential cortical migration (Dlx12--), there is a profound and selective reduction in the elaboration of both cortical GABAergic neurons and OLs. Our studies further demonstrate that the sequential elaboration of cortical GABAergic neurons and OLs from common Shh-responsive ventral forebrain progenitors requires the spatial and temporal modulation of cortical BMP signaling by BMP ligands and the BMP antagonist, noggin, respectively. These findings suggest an integrative model for cerebral cortical GABAergic neuronal and OL lineage maturation that would incorporate the sequential contributions of the ventral and dorsal forebrain, and the potential role of regional developmental cues in modulating transcriptional codes within evolving neural lineage species.
Many experiments in the past have demonstrated the requirement of de novo gene expression during the long-term retention of learning and memory. Although previous studies implicated individual genes or genetic pathways in learning and memory, they did not uncover the collective behaviors or patterns of the genes. We have used genome-scale screening to analyze gene expression during spatial learning of rats in the Morris water maze. Our results show distinct temporal gene expression profiles associated with learning and memory. Exogenous administration of one peptide whose sustained increase during memory retention was implicated by microarray analysis, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-18, improved spatial learning behavior, suggesting that pharmacological modulation of pathways and targets identified may allow new therapeutic approaches for improving learning and memory. Results of this study also suggest that while learning and physical activity involve common groups of genes, the behavior of learning and memory emerges from unique patterns of gene expression across time.
An interval timing mechanism in the brain governs reproduction in seasonally breeding mammals by triggering refractoriness to inhibitory short photoperiods during midwinter. The neural mechanisms responsible for the timing and induction of photorefractoriness by this seasonal clock are unknown. Using cDNA microarrays and RT-PCR, we identified a class of genes encoding thyroxine (T4)-binding proteins (transthyretin, T4-binding globulin, albumin) whose expression is associated with reproductive refractoriness to short day lengths. Down-regulation of these genes was associated with reduced hypothalamic T4 uptake, which was reversed by long-day photoperiod treatments that restored responsiveness to short days. Circulating T4 concentrations did not vary with states of photoresponsiveness in euthyroid hamsters, but blockade of thyroid function accelerated the onset of photorefractoriness to short days. These data link changes in gene expression in the hypothalamus to the functional output of a seasonal clock. Reproductive inhibition in short days depends on T4 only late in the nonbreeding season. Down-regulation of genes encoding T4-binding proteins in the hypothalamus during this interval may restrict access of a static T4 signal to hypothalamic target tissues that regulate reproduction, thereby timing annual transitions in reproductive function. Hypothalamic autoregulation of T4 influx may constitute a critical cellular process involved in the generation and expression of seasonal reproductive rhythms and suggests a previously undescribed mechanism by which neural targets gain access to peripheral hormones.
Bilirubin, an abundant pigment that causes jaundice, has long lacked any clear physiologic role. It arises from enzymatic reduction by biliverdin reductase of biliverdin, a product of heme oxygenase activity. Bilirubin is a potent antioxidant that we show can protect cells from a 10,000-fold excess of H2O2. We report that bilirubin is a major physiologic antioxidant cytoprotectant. Thus, cellular depletion of bilirubin by RNA interference markedly augments tissue levels of reactive oxygen species and causes apoptotic cell death. Depletion of glutathione, generally regarded as a physiologic antioxidant cytoprotectant, elicits lesser increases in reactive oxygen species and cell death. The potent physiologic antioxidant actions of bilirubin reflect an amplification cycle whereby bilirubin, acting as an antioxidant, is itself oxidized to biliverdin and then recycled by biliverdin reductase back to bilirubin. This redox cycle may constitute the principal physiologic function of bilirubin.
Control over neuronal growth is a fundamental objective in neuroscience, cell biology, developmental biology, biophysics, and biomedicine and is particularly important for the formation of neural circuits in vitro, as well as nerve regeneration in vivo [Zeck, G. &amp; Fromherz, P. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 10457-10462]. We have shown experimentally that we can use weak optical forces to guide the direction taken by the leading edge, or growth cone, of a nerve cell. In actively extending growth cones, a laser spot is placed in front of a specific area of the nerve's leading edge, enhancing growth into the beam focus and resulting in guided neuronal turns as well as enhanced growth. The power of our laser is chosen so that the resulting gradient forces are sufficiently powerful to bias the actin polymerization-driven lamellipodia extension, but too weak to hold and move the growth cone. We are therefore using light to control a natural biological process, in sharp contrast to the established technique of optical tweezers [Ashkin, A. (1970) Phys. Rev. Lett. 24, 156-159; Ashkin, A. &amp; Dziedzic, J. M. (1987) Science 235, 1517-1520], which uses large optical forces to manipulate entire structures. Our results therefore open an avenue to controlling neuronal growth in vitro and in vivo with a simple, noncontact technique.
How can one cell divide to form two cells, which are genetically identical to the mother cell, with different cell fates? That is the question discussed by Shen and Temple. Specifically, they address how Notch signaling is attenuated in one daughter cell through the asymmetric inheritance of the protein Numb, which may be responsible for mediating the endocytosis of the receptor Notch in the Numb-enriched cell.
Inflammatory responses occur within tissue microenvironments, with functional contributions from both haematopoietic (lymphocytic) cells and stromal cells (including macrophages and fibroblasts). These environments are complex--a compound of many different cell types at different stages of activation and differentiation. Traditional models of inflammatory disease highlight the role of antigen-specific lymphocyte responses and attempt to identify causative agents. However, recent studies have indicated the importance of tissue microenvironments and the innate immune response in perpetuating the inflammatory process. The prominent role of stromal cells in the generation and maintenance of these environments has begun to challenge the primacy of the lymphocyte in regulating chronic inflammatory processes. Sensible enquiries into factors regulating the persistence of inflammatory disease necessitate an understanding of the mechanisms regulating tissue homeostasis and remodelling during inflammation. This article highlights recent insights into the factors regulating dynamic aspects of inflammation, focusing particularly on mononuclear cell infiltrates, their interactions with stromal cells in tissues and the relevance of these interactions to existing and possible future therapies. A key feature of current research has been a growing appreciation that disordered spatial and temporal interactions between infiltrating immune cells and resident stromal cells lie at the heart of disease persistence.
The present study has examined the density and mosaic regularity of the population of horizontal cells in the pigmented and albino mouse retina. Retinal wholemounts were immunostained for calbindin, and labeled cells within sampled fields were analyzed to determine horizontal cell soma size and density. The X-Y positional coordinates of each cell were determined, from which the geometrical properties of the mosaic were examined using nearest neighbor and Voronoi domain analyses, and regularity indices were derived from those measures. Autocorrelation and density recovery profile analyses were also conducted to identify the presence of exclusion zones within the population of horizontal cells. For each sampled field, random simulations of matched density, constrained by the physical size of the horizontal cells, were generated and analyzed in parallel. Neither retinal area, nor horizontal cell soma size, nor density differed between the pigmented and albino retinas. Mosaic regularity in pigmented and albino retinas did not differ, but each differed significantly from random simulations of identical density. Horizontal cells in the mouse retina exhibit exclusion zones extending beyond the physical size of the soma, but these were identical in size in the pigmented and albino retina. Such exclusion zones are suggested to reflect homotypic interactions between horizontal cells during early development that mediate cellular repulsion and tangential movement. The lack of any discernable effect brought about by the albino mutation, despite numerous developmental abnormalities associated with the retinal neuroepithelium in albino mice, is consistent with other results showing that homotypic interactions are sufficient for the genesis of the global patterning characteristic of mature retinal mosaics.
The present study reports the first systematic rostrocaudal distribution of estrogen receptor-alpha immunoreactivity (ERalpha-ir) in the human hypothalamus and its adjacent areas in young adults. Postmortem material taken from 10 subjects (five male and five female), between 20 and 39 years of age, was investigated. In addition, three age-matched subjects with abnormal levels of estrogens were studied: a castrated, estrogen-treated 50-year-old male-to-female transsexual (T1), a 31-year-old man with an estrogen-producing tumor (S2), and an ovariectomized 46-year-old woman (S8). A strong sex difference, with more nuclear ERalpha-ir in women, was observed rostrally in the diagonal band of Broca and caudally in the medial mamillary nucleus. Less robust sex differences were observed in other brain areas, with more intense nuclear ERalpha-ir in men, e.g., in the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the medial preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, and lateral hypothalamic area, whereas women had more nuclear ERalpha-ir in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and ventromedial nucleus. No nuclear sex differences in ERalpha were found, e.g., in the central part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In addition to nuclear staining, ERalpha-ir appeared to be sex-dependently present in the cytoplasm of neurons and was observed in astrocytes, plexus choroideus, and other non-neuronal cells. ERalpha-ir in T1, S2, and S8 suggested that most of the observed sex differences in ERalpha-ir are &quot;activational&quot; (e.g., ventromedial nucleus/medial mamillary nucleus) rather than &quot;organizational.&quot; Species similarities and differences in ERalpha-ir distribution and possible functional implications are discussed.
Alcoholism is a complex genetic trait; susceptibility is influenced by multiple genes of small effect. To pursue mechanistic studies, genetic animal models have been used. These models are partial, each addressing one or more of the contributing traits rather than the disease as a whole. Animal studies have modeled alcohol's rewarding effects, the development of tolerance, the pathological consequences to brain systems, and the dependence on alcohol inferred from the presence of withdrawal symptoms when the drug is removed. The classical genetic methods of inbred strain analysis and development and studies of selectively bred lines have been employed for more than 40 years. Recently, such studies have shown that a genetic tendency to experience severe withdrawal is associated with a tendency to avoid self-administration of alcohol. Also recently, attempts to identify the specific genes conferring risk or protection from alcohol's effects have been undertaken. These studies have used mapping techniques based on gene sequence polymorphisms, studies of gene expression differences, and the use of candidate gene targeting such as creation of null mutants. Studies reviewed here have mapped quantitative trait loci (QTL) for many genes affecting alcohol sensitivity, tolerance, reward, and withdrawal severity. The furthest progress in gene mapping has been made toward one withdrawal QTL on mouse chromosome 4. Using multiple congenic strains, the gene conferring increased withdrawal severity has been isolated to a region of less than 1 centiMorgan, containing fewer than 20 genes. A strong candidate gene, coding for a multiple PS095/DLG/Z0-1 (PDZ) binding domain zinc finger protein, cannot be excluded. Although many more such genes will be identified in the near future, their contribution to the mapped phenotype will be shown to be dependent on epistatic interactions with other risk genes, as well as genes in the animal's background. Progress in gene identification will also depend crucially on the precise description of the phenotypes being mapped so that their pleiotropic range of influence on the multi-behavioral phenotypic syndrome can be determined.
Previous work suggests that auditory hallucinations in children and adolescents occur frequently in the absence of psychotic illness, although a number of such children go on to develop more severe psychotic symptomatology and need for care. We examined prospectively what factors are associated with formation of delusions in adolescents who are hearing voices. Eighty adolescents (mean age 12.9 years, SD = 3.1) who reported hearing voices were examined at baseline and followed-up three times over a period of 3 years. Fifty percent were receiving professional care, but 50% were not in need of care. Baseline measurement of voice appraisals, attributions, psychopathology, global functioning, dissociation, stressful life events, coping mechanisms, and receipt of professional care were used as predictors of delusion formation, measured as a score of 6 or greater on the extended BPRS items: &quot;suspiciousness,&quot; &quot;unusual thought content&quot; and &quot;grandiosity.&quot; Thirteen children (16%) displayed evidence of delusional ideation over at least one of the three follow-up periods, of which seven (9%) de novo. Adjusting for presence of baseline delusional ideation, delusion formation over the follow-up period was associated with baseline voice appraisals and attributions such as tone of the voice (hazard ratio voice &quot;variably friendly and hostile&quot; compared to &quot;always friendly&quot;: HR = 6.8, 95% CI: 1.1, 41.0), perceived location of the voice (outside vs. inside head: HR = 2.9, 95% CI: 1.0, 8.7), and whether the voice resembled that of a parent (HR = 3.5, 95% CI: 1.0, 12.0); baseline BPRS anxiety/depression (HR = 6.4, 95% CI: 1.9, 21.4), baseline BPRS disorganization (HR = 5.0, 95% CI: 0.98, 26.1) and the baseline amount of reported recent stressful life events (HR continuous life events score: 1.8, 95% CI: 1.0, 3.3). In addition, in older children, the perceived influence of the voices on emotions and behavior was strongly associated with delusion formation (HR = 5.1, 95% CI: 1.0, 25.9). Delusion formation in children hearing voices may be responsive to triggering events and facilitated by feelings of anxiety/depression. The results also highlight the role of attributions associated with external sources, authority figures, perceived influence or &quot;power&quot; over the person, as well as emotional appraisal processes and cognitive disorganization.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of peripheral electrical stimulation (PES), with high (100 Hz) or low (2 Hz) frequencies, on the expression of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). Rats were trained with cocaine (0.1-10 mg/kg, i.p.) under a biased paradigm in a three-compartment chamber for the development of a CPP. One day following the last conditioning, the total time spent in each compartment was recorded after the deliverance of PES. Naloxone (1, 5, and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) was applied to investigate whether endogenous opioid receptor pathways play any role in the effect of PES. It was found that (1). 1 mg/kg and higher doses of cocaine, but not 0.5 mg/kg, produced significant place preference, (2). cocaine-induced CPP, once developed, maintained for more than 13 days in a cocaine-free state, (3). PES of 100 Hz, but not 2 Hz, significantly attenuated the expression of cocaine-induced CPP (P&lt;0.01), (4). PES per se did not influence the natural place preference in rats, and (5). the inhibition of cocaine CPP induced by 100 Hz PES could be reversed by naloxone pre-treatment at 10 mg/kg, but not at lower doses. These results suggest that PES could inhibits cocaine-induced CPP in a frequency-dependent manner. This effect is probably mediated by an endogenous kappa-opioid mechanism.
As in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) infants, mouse models of PWS display failure-to-thrive during the neonatal period. In rodents, the hypothalamic neuropeptide, Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and Agouti-related peptide (AgrP) stimulate while alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) inhibits appetite. We hypothesized that altered expression of these neuropeptides in the hypothalamus may underlie the failure-to-thrive in PWS neonatal mice. To test this hypothesis we evaluated mRNA expression of Npy, Agrp, and Pomc by in situ hybridization in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) of 3-day-old female and male PWS neonates. The results showed that Agrp mRNA expression was decreased relative to wild-type (WT) controls in neonates of both sexes, while mRNA expression of Pomc was upregulated in PWS neonates. Since AgrP and the Pomc-derived peptide, alpha-MSH, are functional antagonists at melanocortin 4 receptors in the hypothalamic regulation of appetitive behavior, these results show that robust anorexigenic melanocortin signaling, may contribute to the failure-to-thrive in PWS neonatal mice.
The human visual system is divided into two pathways specialized for the processing of either objects or spatial locations. Neuroanatomical studies in monkeys have suggested that a similar specialization may also divide auditory cortex into two such pathways. We used the identical stimulus material in two experimental sessions in which subjects had to either identify auditory objects or their location. Magnetoencephalograms were recorded and M100 dipoles were fitted into individual brain models. In the right hemisphere, the processing of auditory spatial information lead to more lateral activations within the temporal plane while object identification lead to more medial activations. These findings suggest that the human auditory system processes object features and spatial features in distinct areas.

Previous studies indicate that reserpine may disrupt dopamine transporter activity. Results presented herein reveal that it also inhibits potently synaptosomal [3H]dopamine uptake. In addition, reserpine administration to rats decreased the V(max) of synaptosomal dopamine transport, as assessed ex vivo 12 h after treatment. This decrease appeared, at least in part, dissociated from concurrent inhibition of the vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2). In separate experiments, synaptosomal dopamine uptake did not differ between wild-type and heterozygous VMAT-2 knockout mice, and reserpine treatment did not inhibit [3H]dopamine uptake into cells heterogously expressing the human dopamine transporter. Taken together, these data suggest that reserpine may transiently alter dopamine transporter function in a noncompetitive, indirect manner.

The primary motor cortex (MI) is regarded as the site for motor control. Occasional reports that MI neurons react to sensory stimuli have either been ignored or attributed to guidance of voluntary movements. Here, we show that MI activation is necessary for the somatic perception of movement of our limbs. We made use of an illusion: when the wrist tendon of one hand is vibrated, it is perceived as the hand moving. If the vibrated hand has skin contact with the other hand, it is perceived as both hands bending. Using fMRI and TMS, we show that the activation in MI controlling the nonvibrated hand is compulsory for the somatic perception of the hand movement. This novel function of MI contrasts with its traditional role as the executive locus of voluntary limb movement.
Misshapen (Msn) has been proposed to shut down Drosophila photoreceptor (R cell) growth cone motility in response to targeting signals linked by the SH2/SH3 adaptor protein Dock. Here, we show that Bifocal (Bif), a putative cytoskeletal regulator, is a component of the Msn pathway for regulating R cell growth cone targeting. bif displays strong genetic interaction with msn. Phenotypic analysis indicates a specific role for Bif to terminate R1-R6 growth cones. Biochemical studies show that Msn associates directly with Bif and phosphorylates Bif in vitro. Cell culture studies demonstrate that Msn interacts with Bif to regulate F-actin structure and filopodium formation. We propose that Bif functions downstream of Msn to reorganize actin cytoskeleton in decelerating R cell growth cone motility at the target region.
The retina adapts to average light intensity but also to the range of light intensities (contrast). A study by Baccus and Meister, in this issue of Neuron, identifies three ways that ganglion cells and interneurons adapt to high contrast: shorten integration time, reduce gain, and depolarize. Only the depolarization decays, over tens of seconds.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by defects of the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), which acts both as an anion-selective channel and as a regulator of other proteins. The relative contribution of these two functions in CF disease is debated. The toxin VacA forms channels with properties similar to those of the CFTR, and we report here that it can insert into the membrane of various cells originating from respiratory epithelia, generating a chloride conductance comparable to that produced by activation of the CFTR. VacA may therefore become a valuable tool in the study of CF pathogenesis.
Intrachromosomal deletions linking Dpl expression to the PrP promoter produce cerebellar degeneration that can be abrogated by the introduction of wild-type PrP transgenes. Since Dpl-like truncated forms of PrP are neuropathogenic in mice and likewise counterbalanced by expression of PrP(C) we asked whether naturally occurring mutant forms of human PrP have Dpl-like attributes. Five PRNP missense mutations causing familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (F-CJD) map to a helical region found in both PrP(C) and Dpl and result in amino acids identical to conserved residues in Dpl. These F-CJD alleles may cause mutant PrP to become a weak mimetic of Dpl structure and/or function.

Attention-related cognitive processes in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) were studied by measuring somatosensory evoked magnetic fields (SEFs). Twenty-one normal adult human subjects participated in this study for investigating effects of attention and stimulus intensity on cortical finger representation in the SI cortex. Electric stimuli at low and high intensity were delivered to the index or middle finger in finger discrimination and non-discrimination task. For the low intensity stimulation at 1.25 times sensory threshold, an early component (M50) showed clear segregation of the sources for the two fingers and an increase of the amplitude specific to the finger discrimination task. Such an attentional effect on the SI cortex was masked by the high intensity stimulation (2.5 times sensory threshold); the M50 source separation by the fingers was induced irrespective of the discrimination or non-discrimination task. The results suggest that a conscious regulation of stimulus intensity coding in the SI cortex underlies the attention-dependent enhancement of spatial finger information processing.
Previous studies of brain-damaged patients and functional neuro-imaging have consistently shown the importance of the hippocampal complex, i.e. the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, in episodic memory retrieval. We wished to determine whether patterns of brain activation during memory retrieval as measured by PET are same or different when the oldness of a to-be-retrieved episode is manipulated. Using cue words, subjects remembered related episodes from three periods of their life, childhood, adolescence and recent period. The results showed an increase of parahippocampal activities during recall of episodes from childhood and recent period, but not from adolescence. These data suggest a possibility of time-dependent hippocampal contribution in episodic recall, which cannot be understood in simple terms of recent remote memory dichotomy.
Homogenates of postmortem spinal cord from seven patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and six controls together with serum from 13 patients with ALS and 13 controls were analysed for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) using an immunoassay (ELISA). There was no significant difference in VEGF levels in the spinal cord between the ALS patients and the controls. In serum the VEGF levels were significantly higher in the ALS group than in the control group. There was a moderate inverse relation between the duration of the disorder and the serum VEGF levels. The findings indicate that the capacity to synthesize VEGF is preserved even in the late stages of ALS. The results might also be consistent with a transient hypoxic component during the course of ALS, but not with a persistant spinal hypoxia in the late stages of the disorder.

Drug addiction can be conceptualized as a disturbance of behavior motivated by drug-conditioned incentives. This abnormality has been explained by Incentive-Sensitization and Allostatic-Counteradaptive theories as the result of non-associative mechanisms acting at the stage of the expression of incentive motivation and responding for drug reinforcement. Each one of these theories, however, does not account per se for two basic properties of the motivational disturbance of drug addiction: (1). focussing on drug- at the expenses of non-drug-incentives; (2). virtual irreversibility. To account for the above aspects we have proposed an associative learning hypothesis. According to this hypothesis the basic disturbance of drug addiction takes place at the stage of acquisition of motivation and in particular of Pavlovian incentive learning. Drugs share with non-drug rewards the property of stimulating dopamine (DA) transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell but this effect does not undergo habituation upon repeated drug exposure, as instead is the case of non-drug rewards. Repetitive, non-decremental stimulation of DA transmission by drugs in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAc) shell abnormally strengthens stimulus-drug associations. Thus, stimuli contingent upon drug reward acquire powerful incentive properties after a relatively limited number of predictive associations with the drug and become particularly resistant to extinction. Non-contingent occurrence of drug-conditioned incentive cues or contexts strongly facilitates and eventually reinstates drug self-administration. Repeated drug exposure also induces a process of sensitization of drug-induced stimulation of DA transmission in the NAc core. The precise significance of this adaptive change for the mechanism of drug addiction is unclear given the complexity and uncertainties surrounding the role of NAc core DA in responding but might be more directly related to instrumental performance.
This review expounds the idea that the analysis of dopamine (DA) action on target cells under behaviorally relevant conditions and behavior-related changes in DA activity can offer new information to clarify the functional significance of mesocorticolimbic DA. In contrast to the traditional association of DA with certain behavioral processes and mechanisms (activation, arousal, conditioning, motivation, reinforcement, sensorimotor integration, etc.), evaluation of DA activity during well-controlled behaviors established by different reinforcers can provide important clues for determining the role of DA in the development and regulation of goal-directed behavior. This review summarizes the results of our microiontophoretic studies of striatal neurons in awake, unrestrained rats, particularly the action of DA on spontaneously active and glutamate (GLU)-stimulated cells, the pattern of DA-GLU interaction, and the role of tonic DA release in regulating the activity and afferent responsiveness of these units. We present the results of our iontophoretic studies of ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons in freely moving animals suggesting the complexity and limitations in their identification as DA- and non-DA cells under behaviorally relevant conditions. We also consider technical and methodological problems related to electrophysiological and electrochemical evaluation of DA transmission in behaving animals. Finally, we discuss parallels and differences in the activity of presumed DA VTA neurons and changes of nucleus accumbens DA-dependent electrochemical signal during heroin self-administration (SA) behavior.
A case of simultaneous trigeminal and vagoglossopharyngeal neuralgia is described. No microvascular compression was seen at the trigeminal complex while the origin of vagoglossopharyngeal pain could have been due either to Chiari malformation or microvascular compression of the IX-X nerve complex. Decompressive surgery was ineffective. The patient could completely block his facial painful fits by strongly pinching the anterior axillary fold. This case militates against peripheral theories of facial neuralgias, including microvascular compression and ganglion ignition focus theories, and supports a central origin thereof.




Neuroscience has enjoyed tremendous growth over the past 20 years, including a substantial increase in the number of neuroscience departments, programs, and courses at the undergraduate level. To meet the need of new neuroscience courses, there has also been growth in the number of introductory neuroscience textbooks designed for undergraduates. However, textbooks typically trail current knowledge by five to ten years, especially in neuroscience where our understanding is increasing rapidly. Consequently, it is often important to supplement neuroscience and physiology textbooks with information about recent findings in neuroscience. To design supplementary educational material, it is essential first to identify the educational objectives of the program and the characteristics of the learners, which can differ dramatically between undergraduate and graduate or professional students. Four principles that may serve the selection and design of supplementary material for undergraduate neuroscience and physiology courses are that (1) material must be interesting to the undergraduates, (2) material should reinforce previously learned concepts, (3) students must be adequately prepared, and (4) the teacher and student must have sufficient appropriate resources.
Thirty years ago, patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) and their families were told &quot;nothing can be done&quot; to improve function. Since the SCI patient population is reaching normal life expectancy through better health care, it has become an obviously worthwhile enterprise to devote considerable research effort to SCI. Targets for intervention in SCI toward improved function have been identified using basic research approaches and can be simplified into a list: (1) reduction of edema and free-radical production, (2) rescue of neural tissue at risk of dying in secondary processes such as abnormally high extracellular glutamate concentrations, (3) control of inflammation, (4) rescue of neuronal/glial populations at risk of continued apoptosis, (5) repair of demyelination and conduction deficits, (6) promotion of neurite growth through improved extracellular environment, (7) cell replacement therapies, (8) efforts to bridge the gap with transplantation approaches, (9) efforts to retrain and relearn motor tasks, (10) restoration of lost function by electrical stimulation, and (11) relief of chronic pain syndromes. Currently, over 70 clinical trials are in progress worldwide. Consequently, in this millennium, unlike in the last, no SCI patient will have to hear &quot;nothing can be done.&quot;
Recognition of the importance of glial cells in nervous system functioning is increasing, specifically regarding the modulation of neural activity. This brief review focuses on some of the morphological and functional interactions that take place between astroglia and neurons. Astrocyte-neuron interactions are of special interest because this glia cell type has intimate and dynamic associations with all parts of neurons, i.e., somata, dendrites, axons, and terminals. Activation of certain receptors on astrocytes produces morphological changes that result in new contacts between neurons, along with physiological and functional changes brought about by the new contacts. In response to activation of other receptors or changes in the extracellular microenvironment, astrocytes release neuroactive substances that directly excite or inhibit nearby neurons and may modulate synaptic transmission. Although some of these glial-neuronal interactions have been known for many years, others have been quite recently revealed, but together they are forming a compelling story of how these two major cell types in the brain carry out the complex tasks that mammalian nervous systems perform.


Early-onset cataract and Alzheimer's disease occur with high frequency in Down syndrome (trisomy 21), the most common chromosome duplication in human live births. Previously, we used in vivo and lens organ culture models to demonstrate Alzheimer pathophysiology in oxidative stress-related lens degeneration. Currently, well-characterized Alzheimer transgenic mouse models are used to extend these findings. Here, we report on mice carrying a complete copy of a wild-type human AbetaPP (hAbetaPP) gene from the Down syndrome critical region on chromosome 21. hAbetaPP mice produce fiber cell membrane defects similar to those described in human cataracts and increased age-related lens degeneration. hAbetaPP expression and mRNA alternative splicing in human and mouse lens and cornea favor longer, potentially more amyloidogenic forms. Endogenous mouse AbetaPP expression is increased in transgenic lenses, consistent with the cycle of oxidative stress proposed in the mechanism of Alzheimer pathophysiology. Alternative splicing previously designated as neuron-specific occurs in human lens and cornea, and is maintained by hAbetaPP expressed in mouse tissues. These present data implicate AbetaPP in fiber cell formation and in early-onset cataracts in Down syndrome. Finally, our findings provide further support for our hypothesis that Alzheimer pathophysiology contributes to the cataract formation that is increasing in the aging population.
Orexin A and orexin B are hypothalamic peptides that act on their targets via two G protein-coupled receptors (OX1 and OX2 receptors). In the central nervous system, the cell bodies producing orexins are localized in a narrow region within the lateral hypothalamus and project mainly to regions involved in feeding, sleep, and autonomic functions. Via putative pre- and postsynaptic effects, orexins increase synaptic activity in these regions. In isolated neurons and cells expressing recombinant receptors orexins cause Ca2+ elevation, which is mainly dependent on influx. The activity of orexinergic cells appears to be controlled by feeding- and sleep-related signals via a variety of neurotransmitters/hormones from the brain and other tissues. Orexins and orexin receptors are also found outside the central nervous system, particularly in organs involved in feeding and energy metabolism, e.g., gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, and adrenal gland. In the present review we focus on the physiological properties of the cells that secrete or respond to orexins.
We examined effects of botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNTA) on sympathetic constrictions of the vena cava and uterine artery from guinea pigs to test the role of soluble NSF attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins in release of the cotransmitters norepinephrine (NE) and neuropeptide Y (NPY). Protein extracts of venae cavae and uterine arteries showed partial cleavage of synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) after treatment in vitro with BoNTA (50-100 nM). The rising phase of isometric contractions of isolated venae cavae to field stimulation at 20 Hz, mediated by NE acting on alpha-adrenoceptors, was reduced significantly by 100 nM BoNTA. However, sustained sympathetic contractions mediated by NPY were not affected by BoNTA. In uterine arteries, noradrenergic contractions to 1-Hz stimulation were almost abolished by BoNTA, and contractions at 10 Hz were reduced by 50-60%. We conclude that SNARE proteins are involved in exocytosis of NE from synaptic vesicles at low frequencies of stimulation but may not be essential for exocytosis of NPY and NE from large vesicles at high stimulation frequencies.
Imaging fluorescent measurements with fura 2 were used to examine cytosolic calcium signals induced by sulfated CCK octapeptide (CCK-8) in dissociated vagal afferent neurons from adult rat nodose ganglia. We found that 40% (184/465) of the neurons responded to CCK-8 with a transient increase in cytosolic calcium. The threshold concentration of CCK-8 for inducing the response varied from 0.01 to 100 nM. In most neurons (13/16) the response was eliminated by removing extracellular calcium. Depleting intracellular calcium stores with thapsigargin slightly augmented the response. Most neurons were unresponsive to nonsulfated CCK-8. The response was eliminated by the CCK-A receptor antagonist lorglumide. Low concentrations of JMV-180 had no effect; however, high concentrations of JMV-180 reduced responses to CCK-8. These results demonstrate that CCK acts at the low-affinity site of the CCK-A receptor to trigger the entry of extracellular calcium into vagal afferent neurons. Increased cytosolic calcium may participate in acute activation of vagal afferent neurons, or it may initiate long-term changes, which modulate future neuronal responses to sensory stimuli.

One approach to understanding proximate and evolutionary mechanisms of social behavior is to analyze mechanisms of neural and behavioral plasticity and their underlying genes. This article deals with such analyses in the honeybee Apis mellifera. The first part reviews the control of age-related division of labor in honeybee colonies with special attention to social, endocrine, and neurochemical factors. The second part reviews progress in studying changes in gene expression that are associated with division of labor, including a brief description of a genomics project that involves a set of 20,000 expressed sequence tags from the honeybee brain and cDNA microarrays for large-scale gene expression analysis. The article concludes by considering some of the general issues associated with studies of genes and social behavior in honeybees.
Cholinergic pathways serve important functions in learning and memory processes. The loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and the presence of senile plaques composed by amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) are found in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, the role of A beta in the cholinergic dysfunction observed in AD is not yet clarified. In this study, we observed that the release of [3H]acetylcholine evoked by K(+)-depolarization was significantly lower in cells treated with A beta 25-35 peptide, than in untreated cells or in cells exposed to the reverse sequence peptide A beta 35-25. The levels of pyruvate, the substrate for pyruvate dehydrogenase, the enzyme involved in acetyl coenzyme A synthesis in the brain, which is rate-limiting for the synthesis of acetylcholine, were significantly decreased, about 40%, in A beta treated cells. A beta 25-35 did not affect choline acetyltransferase activity or [3H]choline uptake. 2-[3H]-deoxyglucose uptake was decreased when cells were exposed to A beta 25-35 or to A beta 1-40. Taken together these data suggest that an impairment of glycolysis, and the consequent decrease in pyruvate levels, may be responsible for the decrement of acetylcholine release observed in A beta treated cells, thus sustaining the hypothesis that the cholinergic dysfunction, observed in AD patients, might be associated with extracellular A beta accumulation.
Until fairly recently, interest in stem cells was restricted to neurobiology studies on the principles of embryonic development. This situation has changed rapidly in the last few years when neuronal stems and precursors were isolated in vitro, thus allowing expansion and controlled differentiation of selective populations of neuronal cells. This theoretically unlimited reserve would then supply specific cells for transplantation in diseases characterized by widespread degeneration of selective cell populations as motor neurons in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). The recent evidence of cell transdifferentiation has further amplified the potential therapeutic use of stem cells. Stem cell technology is at an early stage but the desperate need for a therapy in ALS patients may legitimize clinical trials in absence of conclusive scientific evidence. This paper discusses the premises for stem cell therapy in ALS.
In this study, magnetic resonance (MR) images of the brain of an adult common dolphin (Delphinus delphis) were acquired in the coronal plane at 66 antero-posterior levels. From these scans a computer-generated set of resectioned virtual images in orthogonal planes was constructed using the programs VoxelView and VoxelMath (Vital Images, Inc., Michigan State Univ.). Sections in all three planes reveal major neuroanatomical structures. These structures in the adult common dolphin brain are compared with those from a fetal common dolphin brain from a previously published study as well as with MR images of adult brains of other odontocetes. This study, like previous ones, demonstrates the utility of MR imaging (MRI) for comparative neuroanatomical investigations of dolphin brains.




This study describes surface reconstructions and associated flat maps that represent the highly convoluted shape of cerebellar cortex in three species: human, macaque, and mouse. The reconstructions were based on high-resolution structural MRI data obtained from other laboratories. The surface areas determined for the fiducial reconstructions are about 600 cm(2) for the human, 60 cm(2) for the macaque, and 0.8 cm(2) for the mouse. As expected from the ribbon-like pattern of cerebellar folding, the cerebellar flat maps are elongated along the axis parallel to the midline. However, the degree of elongation varies markedly across species. The macaque flat map is many times longer than its mean width, whereas the mouse flat map is only slightly elongated and the human map is intermediate in its aspect ratio. These cerebellar atlases, along with associated software for visualization and for mapping experimental data onto the atlas, are freely available to the neuroscience community (see http:/brainmap.wustl.edu).
The role of flocculus and paraflocculus neurons in the cerebellar control of predictive eye movements was examined using two modeling techniques. The first study characterized the dependence of individual Purkinje-cell firing patterns on oculomotor output, visual input, and response timing using multilinear regression techniques. Interestingly, no dependence on visual input was detected. Purkinje cell firing was explained by sensitivities to eye position and eye velocity alone. However, complex responses occurred when sensitivity vectors pointed in different directions. For example, some neurons showed a preference for circular pursuit in a particular rotation direction. Responses also tended to lead the eye during predictable pursuit and to lag during unpredictable, visually driven pursuit. This suggests that flocculus and paraflocculus neurons played a stronger role during predictive pursuit than visually driven pursuit. A second modeling study demonstrated how the flocculus/paraflocculus system might generate predictive pursuit. A biologically realistic neural network was simulated based on the known anatomy and physiology of this cerebellar system. It included mossy and climbing fibers with realistic responses, Purkinje cells acting on well-characterized brain-stem circuits, and granule, Golgi, basket, and stellate cells with appropriate connections. The network was able to learn new pursuit trajectories based on long-term alterations in synaptic connectivity at parallel-to-Purkinje synapses. Interestingly, this model was able to generate predictive pursuit without visual input based only on eye-motion input. Thus, both models provide complementary evidence for the generation of nonvisual predictive control by flocculus and paraflocculus neurons.
We constructed a realistic simulation model to elucidate whether the characteristics of the cerebellar synaptic plasticity reported in vitro guide the acquisition and adaptation of the ocular following response (OFR). The model reconstructed the firing frequency of the inputs of granule cell axons (GCA), inhibitory cells (IC), and climbing fibers (CF) to cerebellar Purkinje cells for the OFR, to simulate the reported cerebellar plasticity, including long-term depression, long-term potentiation, and rebound potentiation. When the model used the same visual inputs as reported for monkeys, it successfully simulated the real characteristics of simple spikes in Purkinje cells of adult monkeys and adaptation of gain and direction. The success of our simulation relied on the temporal relationship of the synaptic weight changes when CF inputs preceded GCA and IC inputs, corresponding to the relationship reported by Chen and Thompson and reanalysis of the data of Karachot et al. The success of our simulation strongly suggests that acquisition and adaptation of the OFR arise from cerebellar plasticity.
In adult Lurcher mice virtually all cerebellar Purkinje cells have degenerated as a direct consequence of mutant gene action, providing a natural model for studying the effect of cerebellar cortical lesions on the generation of compensatory eye movements. Lurcher mice possess both optokinetic (OKR) and vestibular (VOR) compensatory reflexes. However, clear differences were observed in control of the OKR consisting of a large reduction in gain and a moderate increase in phase lag. Minor differences were also observed in the VOR in that gain and phase lead of the reflex were both increased in Lurcher animals. Subjecting Lurcher animals to eight days of visuovestibular training tested the assumption that increased VOR gain reflected an adaptive mechanism within remaining brainstem oculomotor pathways to compensate for the reduced OKR. Contrary to control animals, Lurcher animals were unable to modify either VOR or OKR in the course of training and therefore confirmed that an intact cerebellum is indispensable for the implementation of adaptive modifications to the oculomotor system.
Electrotonic coupling by gap junctions between neurons in the inferior olive has been claimed to underly complex spike (CS) synchrony of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and thereby to play a role in the coordination of movements. Here, we investigated the motor performance of mice that lack connexin36 (Cx36), which appears necessary for functional olivary gap junctions. Cx36 null-mutants are not ataxic, they show a normal performance on the accelerating rotorod, and they have a regular walking pattern. In addition, they show normal compensatory eye movements during sinusoidal visual and/or vestibular stimulation. To find out whether the normal motor performance in mutants reflects normal CS activity or some compensatory mechanism downstream of the cerebellar cortex, we determined the CS firing rate, climbing-fiber pause, and degree of CS synchrony. None of these parameters in the mutants differed from those in wildtype littermates. Finally, we investigated whether the role of coupling becomes apparent under challenging conditions, such as during application of the tremorgenic drug harmaline, which specifically turns olivary neurons into an oscillatory state at a high frequency. In both the mutants and wildtypes this application induced tremors of a similar duration with similar peak frequencies and amplitudes. Thus surprisingly, the present data does not support the notion that electrotonic coupling by gap junctions underlies synchronization of olivary spike activity and that these gap junctions are essential for normal motor performance.
Climbing fiber (CF) activation evokes a large all-or-nothing electrical response in Purkinje cells (PCs), the complex spike. It has been suggested that the role of CFs (and thus complex spikes) is that of a &quot;teacher&quot; in simple learning paradigms such as associative eyeblink conditioning. An alternative hypothesis describes the olivocerebellar system as part of a timing device and denies a role of the CF input in learning. To date, neither of these hypotheses nor others can definitively be verified or discounted. Similarly, the complex spike evades a clear understanding when it comes to the cellular events underlying complex spike generation. What is known, however, is that complex spikes are associated with large dendritic calcium signals that are required for the induction of long-term depression (LTD) at the parallel fiber (PF)-PC synapse. PF-LTD is a form of long-term synaptic plasticity that has been suggested to underlie certain forms of cerebellar motor learning. In contrast to the PF input, the CF input has been considered invariant. Our recent discovery of LTD at the CF input shows that complex spikes are less static than previously assumed. In addition to depression of CF-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents, long-lasting, selective reduction of slow complex spike components could be observed after brief CF tetanization. To understand the functional implications of CF-LTD, it is crucial to know the types of currents constituting the specific complex spike components. Here we review the &quot;anatomy&quot; of the complex spike as well as our observations of activity-dependent complex spike waveform modifications. In addition, we discuss which properties CF-LTD might add to the circuitry of the cerebellar cortex.
Classic studies of the cerebellum before the middle of the twentieth century established the structural entity of the cerebellum and characterized its function as enabling animals and humans to carry out smooth and accurate movements, even at a high speed and without visual feedback. In the 1960s, neuronal circuit structures of the cerebellum were analyzed in detail, which promoted computational approaches toward the study of neuronal network principles of the cerebellum. In the 1970s and 1980s, vestibulo-ocular reflex adaptation, adaptive locomotion, eye blink conditioning, and learning in hand/arm movement were established as effective experimental paradigms for investigating neural mechanisms of cerebellar functions. In the 1980s, long-term depression (LTD) was discovered and considered as a memory process in the cerebellum; in the 1990s, complex signal transduction processes underlying LTD were revealed. It was also in the 1980s that computational approaches were advanced for modeling control system functions of the cerebellum. Currently, there are two alternative models proposed for VOR adaptation. In this decade, we envisage new developments toward the fusion of knowledge of the cerebellum at molecular and cellular levels and those in systems and computation. Studies of LTD will play a key role in pursuing this direction.
Over the last four decades elegant sets of a single-cell studies, originating from various research groups, have contributed significantly to our understanding of olivary and cerebellar physiology. Nevertheless questions relating to the dynamic properties of olivocerebellar network, as a system, remain unsolved. We may be reaching the limits of what can be learned using the single-cell recordings. Further research on this subject may require study of the spatiotemporal activity profiles of ensemble neuronal activity. This paper summarizes results obtained using voltage-sensitive dye imaging in inferior olive slices, and the use of mathematical modeling to address such activity profiles.
Modulation of the complex spike activity of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar flocculus can convey not only visual signals but also nonvisual signals. The nonvisual complex spike modulation, which is readily observed with vestibular stimulation of the awake rabbit in darkness, is approximately in-phase with the concomitant simple spike modulation. This nonreciprocal relationship contrasts to the reciprocal relationship found when the rabbit is afforded vision.
Deciphering the information or signals carried by the complex spike discharge of Purkinje cells has proven to be problematic, primarily because of low frequency discharge and lack of adequate analytical techniques. This problem is particularly acute for studies of limb movements. To this end the relationship of cerebellar Purkinje cell complex spike discharge to direction and speed were studied in a manual-tracking task. Two monkeys were trained to pursue track targets moving in one of eight directions and at one of four speeds. An analysis based on Poisson regression modeling fitted the complex spike counts during single movement trials to target direction and/or speed. Using single trial data, the Poisson modeling demonstrated that the complex spike discharge for a majority of the Purkinje cells was significantly fit to tracking direction and speed. A second analysis based on the directional distribution of position and speed errors and a Poisson regression model of complex spike discharge to tracking position and speed errors found little relationship to movement error. Comparison of the preferred direction of the complex spike discharge with that of the simple spike activity revealed a reciprocal relationship for many cells. Thus, the complex spike discharge signals both tracking direction and speed but not movement errors. Furthermore, treating complex spike counts as a Poisson process provides a powerful tool for analyzing these events in single trials, without the need for extensive averaging.
Evidence to date supports the strong conclusion that the cerebellum learns. Classical conditioning of the eyeblink response is critically dependent upon the cerebellum. The issue addressed here is whether cerebellar cortex or deep nuclei form the basic association. Learning occurs with large cerebellar cortical aspirations in rabbits and with a Purkinje-cell-deficient mutation in mice. The learned response is poorly timed, small in amplitude, and inconsistent in its occurrence. Learning nevertheless occurs. Lesions of the interpositus, on the other hand, prevent new learning and abolish previously learned conditioned responses. Small electrolytic lesions, kainic acid lesions, and temporary inactivation (cooling, muscimol, anisomycin) localize learning to the dorsolateral anterior interpositus nucleus. Learning-related unit activity-the signature of the engram-recorded throughout the brain depends on the interpositus. Electrical stimulation of interpositus afferents are needed for conditioning, and the conditioned interpositus has a lowered threshold. Finally, a recent anatomical study with electron microscopy shows synaptic changes in the excitatory inputs to the interpositus with conditioning. The interpositus is responsible for making the basic association between conditioned and unconditioned stimuli, which in turn allows ancillary learning to occur in cerebellar cortex, and possibly brainstem and forebrain.
The DYT1 dystonia mutation is associated with an abnormal metabolic brain network characterized by hypermetabolism of the basal ganglia, supplementary motor area, and the cerebellum. In this study, we quantified the activity of this network in carriers of other dystonia mutations to determine whether this functional abnormality is linked to genotype. The findings suggest that the DYT1 metabolic topography is not genotype specific and may be present in carriers of other dystonia mutations.
Although pain is experienced by many patients with diabetic neuropathy, the pathophysiology of painful diabetic neuropathy is not understood. Substantial evidence indicates that dysregulated sodium channel gene transcription contributes to hyperexcitability of dorsal root ganglion neurons, which may produce neuropathic pain after axonal transection. In this study, we examined sodium channel mRNA and protein expression in dorsal root ganglion neurons in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes and tactile allodynia, using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry for sodium channels Na(v)1.1, Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.6, Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.8, and Na(v)1.9. Our results show that, in rats with experimental diabetes, there is a significant upregulation of mRNA for the Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.6, and Na(v)1.9 sodium channels and a downregulation of Na(v)1.8 mRNA 1 and 8 weeks after onset of allodynia. Channel protein levels display parallel changes. Our results demonstrate dysregulated expression of the genes for sodium channels Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.6, Na(v)1.8, and Na(v)1.9 in dorsal root ganglion neurons in experimental diabetes and suggest that misexpression of sodium channels contributes to neuropathic pain associated with diabetic neuropathy.
The pathogenesis of cell death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) may involve glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity, oxidative damage, and apoptosis. We used a transgenic mouse model of ALS to determine the effect of inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 in treating the disease. Cyclooxygenase-2, present in spinal neurons and astrocytes, catalyzes the synthesis of prostaglandin E2. Prostaglandin E2 stimulates glutamate release from astrocytes, whereas cyclooxygenase-2 also plays a key role in the production of proinflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and free radicals. Treatment with a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, markedly inhibited production of prostaglandin E2 in the spinal cords of ALS mice. Celecoxib treatment significantly delayed the onset of weakness and weight loss and prolonged survival by 25%. Spinal cords of treated ALS mice showed significant preservation of spinal neurons and diminished astrogliosis and microglial activation. Our results suggest that cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition may benefit ALS patients.
Alpha/theta (a/t) neurofeedback training has in the past successfully been used as a complementary therapeutic relaxation technique in the treatment of alcoholism. In spite of positive clinical outcomes, doubts have been cast on the protocol's specificity when compared to alternative relaxation regimes. This study investigated the basic tenet underlying the a/t training rationale, that accurate a/t feedback representation facilitates the generation of these frequency components. Two groups of healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to either (a) real contingent a/t feedback training or (b) a noncontingent mock feedback control condition. The groups were compared on measures of theta/alpha (t/a) ratios within and across training sessions, as well as activational self-report scales after each session. The contingent a/t feedback group displayed significant within-session t/a ratio increments not evident in the mock control group, as well as higher overall t/a ratios in some but not all of the training sessions. No differences were found between the groups in terms of subjective activational phenomenology, in that both groups reported significantly lower levels of activation after training sessions. The data demonstrate that irrespective of considerations of clinical relevance, accurate a/t neurofeedback effectively facilitates production of higher within-session t/a ratios than do noncontingent feedback relaxation.




Bronchoplasty originally designed for patients with inadequate pulmonary function who cannot tolerate pneumonectomy, has recently yielded good results as well as offering an alternative to pneumonectomy. We describe a technique for plication of the proximal bronchial membranous portion when there is significant discrepancy in lumen size between the main and the segmental bronchi to allow precise end-to-end anastomosis. Plication helps prevent postoperative anastomotic stenosis and obstruction.

The kinematic parameters of air-stepping induced by 2 methods known to elicit locomotion (olfactory stimulation vs. L-dopa injection) were compared in 3-day-old rats. In the 1st stage, suspended pups were induced to step with an olfactory stimulus of soiled shavings from the nest. In the 2nd stage, they received a subcutaneous injection of L-dopa. Their movements were faster, with a larger amplitude and a phase delay in ipsilateral coupling. Third, the olfactory stimulus was presented in conjunction with L-dopa. The characteristics of locomotion returned to the same level as with the olfactory stimulus alone. These results suggest that olfactory stimulation involves higher nerve centers able to modulate the dopaminergic pathways. They are discussed in relation to the neural structure involved in locomotion.
Conditioning to the anxiogenic effects of nicotine has previously been demonstrated in the social interaction test and there was no generalization of conditioning between the social interaction and elevated plus-maze tests. Because the two tests generate distinct states of anxiety, the conditioning could have occurred to the cues associated with the test environment and/or to those associated with the type of anxiety generated by the test. The elevated plus-maze permits separation of these two factors, because quite distinct states of anxiety are generated on trials 1 and 2, whereas the apparatus cues remain the same. Rats that had been tested on day 1 in the plus-maze, 5 min after nicotine (0.45 mg/kg), showed a conditioned anxiogenic response when tested undrugged on day 2. This was shown by significantly lower percentages of open-arm entries and percentage of time spent on the open arms, compared with control groups. Thus, conditioning to apparatus cues is sufficient to mediate a conditioned anxiogenic effect. The importance of the timing of the nicotine-associated cues was demonstrated by the failure to obtain conditioned anxiogenic effects when rats were exposed to the plus-maze on day 1, 30 min after nicotine (0.45 or 0.1 mg/kg).
In this paper a phenomenological model of spike-timing dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) is developed that is based on a Volterra series-like expansion. Synaptic weight changes as a function of the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic spikes are described by integral kernels that can easily be inferred from experimental data. The resulting weight dynamics can be stated in terms of statistical properties of pre- and postsynaptic spike trains. Generalizations to neurons that fire two different types of action potentials, such as cerebellar Purkinje cells where synaptic plasticity depends on correlations in two distinct presynaptic fibers, are discussed. We show that synaptic plasticity, together with strictly local bounds for the weights, can result in synaptic competition that is required for any form of pattern formation. This is illustrated by a concrete example where a single neuron equipped with STDP can selectively strengthen those synapses with presynaptic neurons that reliably deliver precisely timed spikes at the expense of other synapses which transmit spikes with a broad temporal distribution. Such a mechanism may be of vital importance for any neuronal system where information is coded in the timing of individual action potentials.
Several formulations of correlation-based Hebbian learning are reviewed. On the presynaptic side, activity is described either by a firing rate or by presynaptic spike arrival. The state of the postsynaptic neuron can be described by its membrane potential, its firing rate, or the timing of backpropagating action potentials (BPAPs). It is shown that all of the above formulations can be derived from the point of view of an expansion. In the absence of BPAPs, it is natural to correlate presynaptic spikes with the postsynaptic membrane potential. Time windows of spike-time-dependent plasticity arise naturally if the timing of postsynaptic spikes is available at the site of the synapse, as is the case in the presence of BPAPs. With an appropriate choice of parameters, Hebbian synaptic plasticity has intrinsic normalization properties that stabilizes postsynaptic firing rates and leads to subtractive weight normalization.
Sensory experience alters the functional organization of cortical networks. Previous studies using behavioral training motivated by aversive or rewarding stimuli have demonstrated that cortical plasticity is specific to salient inputs in the sensory environment. Sensory experience associated with electrical activation of the basal forebrain (BasF) generates similar input specific plasticity. By directly engaging plasticity mechanisms and avoiding extensive behavioral training, BasF stimulation makes it possible to efficiently explore how specific sensory features contribute to cortical plasticity. This review summarizes our observations that cortical networks employ a variety of strategies to improve the representation of the sensory environment. Different combinations of receptive-field, temporal, and spectrotemporal plasticity were generated in primary auditory cortex neurons depending on the pitch, modulation rate, and order of sounds paired with BasF stimulation. Simple tones led to map expansion, while modulated tones altered the maximum cortical following rate. Exposure to complex acoustic sequences led to the development of combination-sensitive responses. This remodeling of cortical response characteristics may reflect changes in intrinsic cellular mechanisms, synaptic efficacy, and local neuronal connectivity. The intricate relationship between the pattern of sensory activation and cortical plasticity suggests that network-level rules alter the functional organization of the cortex to generate the most behaviorally useful representation of the sensory environment.
The synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin was solubilized from rat brain synaptosomes with a relatively low concentration of Triton X-100 (0.2%) and was highly purified (above 95%) using a rapid single chromatography step on hydroxyapatite/celite resin. Purified synaptophysin was reconstituted into a planar lipid bilayer and the channel activity of synaptophysin was characterized. In asymmetric KCl solutions (cis 300 mM/trans 100 mM), synaptophysin formed a fast-fluctuating channel with a conductance of 414 +/- 13 pS at +60 mV. The open probability of synaptophysin channels was decreased upon depolarization, and channels were found to be cation-selective. Synaptophysin channels showed higher selectivity for K(+) over Cl(-) (P(K(+))/P(Cl(-)) &gt; 8) and preferred K(+) over Li(+), Na(+), Rb(+), Cs(+), or choline(+). The synaptophysin channel is impermeable to Ca(2+), which has no effect on its channel activity. This study is the second demonstration of purified synaptophysin channel activity, but the first biophysical characterization of its channel properties. The availability of large amounts of purified synaptophysin and of its characteristic channel properties might help to establish the role of synaptophysin in synaptic transmission.

The management of patients with intracranial tumours relies on accurate diagnosis of tumour type. To assess the accuracy with which tumour histology could be diagnosed from brain CT we reviewed data from a prospective, population-based study from three Scottish neuroscience centres. Between October 1997 and April 1999 all patients from the Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee Neuroscience Centres with a CT-diagnosis of a solitary, supratentorial intra-cerebral tumour were recruited. General and neuroradiologists were asked to give their best guess tumour diagnosis. Biopsy confirmed neuropathological tumour type was available for comparison with best guess CT-diagnosis in 221 of 324 patients. Histological diagnosis was either malignant glioma, low grade glioma or metastasis in 199 cases. The accuracy of CT lesional diagnosis for these three categories was 60% (95% confidence interval 54-67%), 85% (80-89%) and 82% (77-88%), respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of an intra-cerebral tumour was 0.81 with a positive predictive value of 0.93. There was no significant difference between histological diagnostic accuracy of neuroradiologists and general radiologists. In 10% of patients the initial CT scan was reported as negative for intracranial tumour, with 62% of these scans having been carried out without contrast. Based on CT alone radiologists are good at identifying an intra-cerebral tumour, but not so good at distinguishing between different tumour types. The implications of the findings for patient management are discussed.
Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) has recently been shown to be an important pathophysiological regulator in experimental implantation glioma since manipulation of NOS can significantly alter tumoural blood flow and inhibit tumour growth. In this study we investigated the role of iNOS (inducible NOS) in glioma tumourogenisis using the rodent C6 striatal implantation model. We produced genetically engineered C6 clones that do not express iNOS activity even after stimulation with a mixture of lipopolysaccaride (LPS) and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. These iNOS knockout cells showed a similar growth rate to control cells in vivo at 5 days. We then performed an in vivo implantation glioma study using either the iNOS knockout clone or two genetically engineered control C6 clones. There was a significant reduction (p &lt; 0.01) of tumour mass with the iNOS knockout clone 28 days after the implantation. Immunocytochemistry indicated infiltrates of CD3 positive T cells and macrophages in the controls and the iNOS knockout group. These studies indicate that iNOS expression by tumour parenchymal cells is a critical factor for tumour growth with this model. The mechanisms that cause failure of tumour growth need clarification prior to considering that specific iNOS inhibitors might be candidates for adjuvant treatment of malignant glioma.
1. Stroke is the third most common cause of death in the world, and there is a clear need to develop new therapeutics for the stroke victim. To address this need, we generated a combinatorial library of polyamine compounds based on sFTX-3.3 toxin from which L-Arginyl-3,4-Spermidine (L-Arg-3,4) emerged as a lead neuroprotective compound. In the present study, we have extended earlier results to examine the compound's neuroprotective actions in greater detail. 2. In an in vitro ischaemia model, L-Arg-3,4 significantly reduced CA1 cell death when administered prior to induction of 60 min of ischaemia as well as when administered immediately after ischaemia. Surprisingly, L-Arg-3,4 continued to prevent cell death significantly when administration was delayed for as long as 60 min after ischaemia. 3. L-Arg-3,4 significantly reduced cell death in excitotoxicity models mediated by glutamate, NMDA, AMPA, or kainate. Unlike glutamate receptor antagonists, 300 microM L-Arg-3,4 did not suppress synaptic transmission as measured by evoked responses in acute hippocampal slices. 4. L-Arg-3,4 provided significant protection, in vitro, in a superoxide mediated injury model and prevented an increase of superoxide production after AMPA or NMDA stimulation. It also decreased nitric oxide production after in vitro ischaemia and NMDA stimulation, but did so without inhibiting nitric oxide synthase directly. 5. Furthermore, L-Arg-3,4 was significantly neuroprotective in an in vivo model of global forebrain ischaemia, without any apparent neurological side-effects. 6. Taken together, these results demonstrate that L-Arg-3,4 is protective in several models of neurodegeneration and may have potential as a new therapeutic compound for the treatment of stroke, trauma, and other neurodegenerative diseases.
1. Distension-sensitive vagal afferent fibres from the guinea-pig oesophagus were recorded extracellularly in vitro. Most recorded units were spontaneously active firing at 3.2+/-0.3 Hz (n=41, N=41) and had low thresholds (less than 1 mm) to circumferential stretch. Dynamic and adapted phases of stretch-evoked firing, as well as a silent period were linearly dependent on the amplitude of stretch. 2. High K+ (7-12 mM) Krebs solution dose-dependently increased both spontaneous and stretch-evoked firing and reduced the duration of the silent period. 3. Charybdotoxin (ChTX, 100 nM) slightly increased spontaneous and stretch-evoked firing and decreased the silent period, while neither iberiotoxin (100 nM) nor apamin (0.5 microM) had significant effects. omega-Conotoxin GVIA (0.5 microM) did not significantly affect firing of vagal mechanoreceptors. 4. In the majority of single units, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) concentration-dependently (EC(50) approximately 28 microM) increased spontaneous firing, strongly reduced the silent period but did not affect stretch (3 mm)-induced firing. Firing evoked by 1-2 mm was increased by 4-AP. 5. Alpha-dendrotoxin (DnTX, 300 nM) and DnTX K (30 nM) slightly increased spontaneous and stretch-evoked firing. There was no additive effect on spontaneous firing when ChTX and DnTX K were applied simultaneously. 6. Barium (100 microM) increased stretch-induced firing, probably due to an increase in intramural tension. Glibenclamide (10 microM) had no effect on spontaneous or stretch-induced firing. 7. The results indicate that voltage-gated 4-AP- and dendrotoxin-sensitive K+ channels are the main type of K+ channels that influence excitability of vagal mechano-sensitive endings of the guinea-pig oesophagus. They were involved in control of spontaneous firing and in stretch-induced firing evoked by moderate stretch, but none of the K+ channels appeared to be involved in adaptation to maintained stretch by their slowly adapting vagal mechanoreceptors.
1. In this study we have examined methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-induced toxicity in perinatal rat brain, related this to normal development of serotonin transporter sites (SERT), and determined whether early exposure to MDMA subsequently alters cerebral function in adults. 2. Perinatal development of SERT was visualized and quantified using [(3)H]-paroxetine binding autoradiography in embryonic and neonatal rat brain from embryonic day 15 (E15) to postnatal day p30 (p30). Cerebral glucose utilization (lCMR(glu)) was measured by 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography in adult rats. 3. [(3)H]-Paroxetine binding was observed in forebrain from E18. From birth (p0), binding was organized into neocortical columns (75% higher at p10 than in adult) which declined toward adult levels between p20 and p25. 4. MDMA treatment (20 mg x kg(-1) s.c. twice daily for four days) commencing at developmental stages from E15 (treatment given to dams) to p20, had no effect upon [(3)H]-paroxetine binding measured at p40. Treatments started on p25 or later resulted in significant decreases in [(3)H]-paroxetine binding (&gt;or=46%). This was coincident with the development of adult patterns of binding in forebrain. 5. Despite the lack of MDMA-induced neurotoxicity, rats treated in utero (E15) showed increased lCMR(glu) in locus coeruleus (+37%), and in areas receiving ascending noradrenergic innervation, such as anterior thalamus (+44%) and septal nucleus (+24%). 6 These studies confirm that the susceptibility of serotonergic terminals to the neurotoxic properties of MDMA is absent in the immediate perinatal period, but also suggests that in utero MDMA exposure produces significant long-term effects on cerebral function by a mechanism as yet unknown.
An unexpectedly high percentage of monozygotic twin pairs is discordant for handedness. Some of these twins show mirror-imaging of several ectodermally derived features. Both features of discordant left-right asymmetry may be caused by relatively late monozygotic twinning, when the original embryo has already lost its bilateral symmetry. Language lateralization is related to handedness and may therefore also be altered during the development of embryological asymmetry in some monozygotic twins. Language lateralization was measured with functional MRI in 12 monozygotic twin pairs who were concordant for handedness and in 13 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for handedness. Lateralization indices were calculated from individual language activation patterns. Correlations were calculated to test intra-pair resemblance for language lateralization. The intra-pair correlation for language lateralization was significant in the handedness-concordant group, but not in the handedness-discordant group. In the handedness-discordant group, five twin pairs were also discordant for cerebral dominance; the other twin pairs of discordant handedness exhibited remarkable similarity in language lateralization. The high intra-pair correlation for language lateralization in the handedness-concordant twins suggests a genetic basis for language lateralization. However, in monozygotic twin pairs of discordant handedness, discordance for language dominance occurs in a significant number of twins. Discordant language dominance may be caused by a relatively late time of splitting of the original embryo, which disrupts the normal development of left-right asymmetry.
An interesting hypothesis in the study of neurotrauma is that repeated traumatic brain injury may result in cumulative damage to cells of the brain. However, post-injury sequelae are difficult to address at the cellular level in vivo. Therefore, it is necessary to complement these studies with experiments conducted in vitro. In this report, the effects of single and repeated traumatic injury in vitro were investigated in cultured mouse hippocampal cells using a well characterized model of stretch-induced injury. Cell damage was assessed by the level of propidium iodide (PrI) uptake and retention of fluorescein diacetate (FDA). Uninjured control wells displayed minimal PrI uptake and high levels of FDA retention. Mild, moderate and severe levels of stretch caused increasing amounts of PrI uptake, respectively, when measured at 15 min and 24 h post-injury, indicating increased cellular damage with increasing amounts of stretch. For repeated injury studies, cultures received a second injury 1 h after the initial insult. Repeated mild injury caused a slight increase in PrI uptake compared with single injury at 15 min and 24 h post-injury, which was evident primarily in glial cells. However, the neurites of neurones in cultures that received repeated insults showed signs of damage that were not evident after a single mild injury. The release of neurone-specific enolase (NSE) and S-100beta protein, two common clinical markers of CNS damage, was also measured following the repeated injuries paradigm. When measured at 6 h post-injury, both NSE and S-100beta were found to be elevated after repeated mild injuries when compared with the single injury group. These results suggest that cells of the hippocampus may be susceptible to cumulative damage following repeated mild traumatic insults. Both glial cells and neurones appear to exhibit increased signs of damage after repetitive injury. To our knowledge, this study represents the first report on the effects of repeated mechanical insults on specific cells of the brain using an in vitro model system. The biochemical pathways of cellular degradation following repeated mild injuries may differ considerably from those that are activated by a single mild insult. Therefore, we hope to use this model in order to investigate secondary pathways of cellular damage after repeated mild traumatic injury, and as a rapid and economical means of screening possibilities for treatment strategies, including pharmaceutical intervention.
Sympathetic nervous system (SNS) regulation of immune function has been studied by ablating the SNS with a peripheral injection of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Our previous data indicate that sympathectomy of mice results in enhanced antibody production and in vitro levels of antigen-specific IL-2 and IFN-gamma. Other investigators have observed either increased or decreased immune function following sympathectomy. Here we present data showing that culture supernatants from spleen cells from the same denervated animals contain increased IL-2 and IFN-gamma levels in response to antigen-specific (keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH)) stimulation, but decreased cytokines levels in response to the T cell mitogen Con A compared to vehicle control mice. KLH-induced type 2 cytokines were also increased; no decrease in Con A-stimulated type 2 cytokines was observed. We evaluated whether the antigen presenting cell (APC) or the T cell might be the main target of the observed sympathectomy effects. Cell separation and mixing experiments suggest that the sympathectomy-induced alterations of antigen-specific and mitogen-induced type 1 cytokines are mediated primarily via the T cell. These data directly address some apparent discrepancies in the literature, and highlight potential regulatory sites to be further investigated in pathways of neural-immune communication.
The effects of kindled seizures elicited from sites in the left and right temporal lobes on mitogen-induced proliferation (LPS, Con A, PHA) and induction of representative TH1 (IFN-gamma) and TH2 (IL-10, IL-4) cytokines were determined in activated rat splenocytes. With reference to cell proliferation, the changes depended on the hemispheric side and location of kindling. Kindling of the left side mediated significant increase in cell proliferation by LPS. Left side kindling resulted in decreased cell proliferation by PHA. Although right side kindling showed no change when taken together, further analysis showed that the reduced proliferation by PHA was mediated when the pyriform cortex was kindled with no change from amygdaloid nuclei. Similar hemispheric polarization was observed in the production of IL-10 and IFN-gamma by Con A-stimulated splenocytes in left side kindled rats. Hence, kindled temporal lobe seizures induced changes in specific immune functions. These effects are not only lateralized but are also specific with respect to the particular region kindled. Since epileptic patients have altered immune functions, this report contributes to our understanding of this complex immune-brain cross-talk in epilepsy.
Affective neuroscience has seen an explosion of research efforts using modern neuroimaging approaches to uncover the neural basis of emotion and personality. The first section of this paper reviews studies from the domains of affective and forensic neuroimaging. These studies illustrate some of the topics likely to be the subject of future ethical debates. The second section relates limitations of the neuroimaging approach to ethical considerations in predicting future psychopathology on the basis of brain state analysis.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary motor neuron disease, and three clinical subtypes of autosomal recessive SMA, including Werdnig Hoffmann disease (type 1), have been shown to be induced by deletion within the same genes. In order to clarify the pathogenesis of motor neuron degeneration in SMA, we immunohistochemically examine the expressions of oxidative stress-related materials (oxidative products) and glutamate transporters, which can prevent glutamate neurotoxicity, in five autopsy cases of SMA type 1. Age-matched controls did not show any deposition of oxidative products in the brain. In contrast, the abnormal deposition of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified protein, a product of membrane lipid oxidation, was observed in the spinal motor neurons in three cases, although the motor neurons did not show an increase of nitrotyrosine, which was observed in adult-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In addition, the nuclei of neurons and glial cells in the precentral gyrus, thalamus or cerebellar cortex were immunoreactive for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine in two cases, which was one of the most commonly used markers for oxidative DNA damage. Regarding glial glutamate transporters, three of five cases of SMA type 1 showed a reduction in immunoreactivity for excitatory amino acid transporter-1 (GLAST) in the ventrolateral nucleus of the thalamus, in which there was neither neuronal loss nor gliosis in routine histochemistry. One case, having mechanical ventilation, demonstrated a reduced expression of another glial glutamate transporter (GLT-1) throughout the central nervous system. These data suggest that oxidative stress and disturbed glutamate transport can partly be involved in the motor neuron devastation and/or latent thalamic degeneration in SMA type 1.
Spatial working memory is a cognitive brain mechanism that enables the temporary maintenance and manipulation of spatial information. Recent neuroimaging and behavioral studies have led to the proposal that directed spatial attention is the mechanism by which location information is maintained in spatial working memory. Yet it is unclear whether attentional involvement is required throughout the period of active maintenance or is only invoked during discrete task-phases such as mnemonic encoding. In the current study, we aimed to track the time-course of attentional involvement during spatial working memory by recording event-related brain potentials (ERPs) from healthy volunteers. In Experiment 1, subjects performed a delayed-recognition task. Each trial began with the presentation of a brief stimulus (S1) that indicated the relevant location that subjects were to maintain in working memory. A 4.8-5.3 sec delay interval followed during which a single task-irrelevant probe was presented. The delay interval concluded with a test item (S2) to which subjects made a response indicating whether the S2-location was the same as the S1-memory location. To determine if attention was differentially engaged during discrete phases of the trial, task-irrelevant probes were presented early (400-800 msec following S1-offset) or late (2600-3000 msec following S1-offset) during the delay interval. Sensory-evoked ERPs (P1 and N1) elicited by these irrelevant probes showed attention-like modulations with greater amplitude responses for probes occurring at the S1-memory locations in comparison to probes presented at other locations. This pattern was obtained for both early- and late-delay probes. Probe-evoked activity during delayed-recognition trials was similar to activity observed when spatial attention was explicitly focused on a location in visual space (Experiment 2). These results are consistent with a model of spatial working memory in which perceptual level selective attention is utilized throughout the entire period of active maintenance to keep relevant spatial information in mind.
Various models of executive control predict that practice should modulate the recruitment of executive brain mechanisms. To investigate this issue, we asked 15 participants to perform a cued global/local attention task while brain activity was recorded with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Practice significantly reduced the recruitment of left inferior parietal regions that were engaged when participants oriented attention in response to global and local cue stimuli. In contrast, practice increased the recruitment of midline frontal regions that were engaged by interference between global and local forms during target processing. These findings support models of executive control in which practice increases the tendency for stimuli to automatically evoke task-relevant processes and responses.
The temporal dynamics of the effects of lateralized visual selective attention within the lower visual field were studied with the combined application of event-related potentials (ERPs) and positron emission tomography (15O PET). Bilateral stimuli were rapidly presented to the lower visual field while subjects either passively viewed them or covertly attended to a designated side to detect occasional targets. Lateralized attention resulted in strongly enhanced PET activity in contralateral dorsal occipital cortex, while ERPs showed an enhanced positivity (P1 effect, 80-160 ms) for all stimuli (both non-targets and targets) over contralateral occipital scalp. Dipole modeling seeded by the dorsal occipital PET foci yielded an excellent fit for the peak P1 attention effect. However, more detailed ERP modeling throughout the P1 latency window (90-160 ms) suggested a spatial-temporal movement of the attention-related enhancement that roughly paralleled the shape of the dorsal occipital PET attention-related activations-likely reflecting the sequential attention-related enhancement of early visual cortical areas. Lateralized spatial attention also resulted in a longer-latency contralateral enhanced negativity (N2 effect, 230-280 ms) with a highly similar distribution to the earlier P1 effect. Dipole modeling seeded by the same dorsal occipital PET foci also yielded an excellent fit. This pattern of results provides evidence for re-entrance of attention-enhanced activation to the same retinotopically organized region of dorsal extrastriate cortex. Finally, target stimuli in the attended location elicited an additional prolonged enhancement of the longer-latency negativity over contralateral occipital cortex. The combination of PET activation and dipole modeling suggested contribution from a ventral-occipital generator to this target-related activity.
Electroacupuncture (EA) has been used in China for many years to treat Parkinson's disease (PD) with reportedly effective results. However, the physiological and biological mechanism behind its effectiveness is still unknown. In the present study, different frequencies of chronic EA stimulation (0, 2, 100 Hz) were tested in a partially lesioned rat model of PD which was induced by transection of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB). After 24 sessions of EA stimulation (28 days after MFB transection), dopaminergic neurons in the ventral midbrain were examined by immunohistochemical staining, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA levels in ventral midbrain were measured by in situ hybridization. The results show a marked decrease of dopaminergic neurons on the lesioned side of the substantia nigra (SN) comparing with the unlesioned side. Zero Hz and 2 Hz EA stimulation had no effect on the disappearance of dopaminergic neurons. However, after 100 Hz EA, about 60% of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons remained on the lesioned side of the SN. In addition, levels of BDNF mRNA in the SN and ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the lesioned side were significantly increased in the 100 Hz EA group, but unchanged in the 0 and 2 Hz groups. Our results suggest that long-term high-frequency EA is effective in halting the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the SN and up-regulating the levels of BDNF mRNA in the subfields of the ventral midbrain. Activation of endogenous neurotrophins by EA may be involved in the regeneration of the injured dopaminergic neurons, which may underlie the effectiveness of EA in the treatment of PD.
Caspases, a family of cysteine proteases, are thought to be critical mediators of apoptosis. To examine the role of neuronal caspases in excitotoxic neurodegeneration in vivo, we have generated transgenic mice expressing the baculovirus protein p35, a potent viral caspase inhibitor, using the neuron-specific calmodulin dependent kinase-II alpha (CaMKII-alpha) promoter. The expression of p35 was confirmed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. We analyzed caspase activation and cell death by employing an experimental paradigm, in which the excitotoxin kainate (KA) was injected into CA1 of hippocampus and the distribution of the caspase-generated actin fragment was detected immunohistochemically. While kainate treatment led to selective neuronal death in the CA1, CA3 and CA4 of non-transgenic control mice, we observed restricted caspase activation only in the CA3 sector. The transgenic expression of p35 consistently inhibited the kainate-induced caspase activation, but failed to influence the death of neurons to any extent. In addition, we observed concomitant early calpain activation in the specific areas where neurons underwent degeneration in both the transgenic and non-transgenic mice. These results indicate that p35-inhibitable caspases play rather minor roles in the kainate-induced excitotoxicity and that the relative contribution of calpain is likely to be greater than that of caspases.
The corpus callosum is a large fiber tract that connects neurons in the right and left cerebral hemispheres. Agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC) is associated with a large number of human syndromes but little is known about why ACC occurs. In most cases of ACC, callosal axons are able to grow toward the midline but are unable to cross it, continuing to grow into large swirls of axons known as Probst bundles. This phenotype suggests that in some cases ACC may be due to defects in axonal guidance at the midline. General guidance mechanisms that influence the development of axons include chemoattraction and chemorepulsion, presented by either membrane-bound or diffusible molecules. These molecules are not only expressed by the final target but by intermediate targets along the pathway, and by pioneering axons that act as guides for later arriving axons. Midline glial populations are important intermediate targets for commissural axons in the spinal cord and brain, including the corpus callosum. The role of midline glial populations and pioneering axons in the formation of the corpus callosum are discussed. Finally the differential guidance of the ipsilaterally projecting perforating pathway and the contralaterally projecting corpus callosum is addressed. Development of the corpus callosum involves the coordination of a number of different guidance mechanisms and the probable involvement of a large number of molecules.
The discovery of cell cycle regulators has directed cell research into uncharted territory. In dividing cells, cell cycle-associated protein kinases, which are referred to as cyclin-dependent-kinases (Cdks), regulate proliferation, differentiation, senescence and apoptosis. In contrast, all Cdks in post-mitotic neurons, with the notable exception of Cdk5, are silenced. Surprisingly, misregulation of Cdks occurs in neurons in a wide diversity of neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Ectopic expression of these proteins in neurons potently induces cell death with hallmarks of apoptosis. Deregulation of the unique, cell cycle-unrelated Cdk5 by its truncated co-activator, p25 and p29, contributes to neurodegeneration by altering the phosphorylation state of non-membrane-associated proteins and possibly through the induction of cell cycle proteins. On the other hand, cycling Cdks such as Cdk2, Cdk4 and Cdk6, initiate death pathways by derepressing E2F-1/Rb-dependent transcription at the neuronal G1/S checkpoint. Thus, Cdk5 and cycling Cdks may have little in common in the healthy CNS, but they likely conspire in leading neurons to their demise.

Researchers in clinical and basic neuroscience frequently target structures of the human medial temporal lobe (MTL) for volumetric analysis with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In neurodegenerative diseases, a precise volumetric analysis of MTL structures can assist in differential diagnosis and can be used in guiding early treatment. Also, in functional neuroimaging, exact localization is crucial for the correct interpretation of focal MTL activations with respect to specific memory functions. In presently available protocols, precise and consistent volumetric analysis of MTL structures is compromised in numerous ways. Most importantly, in order to cover all structures of the MTL, the researcher is presently forced to combine independently developed segmentation protocols for different structures from different laboratories. This approach limits anatomical precision because these protocols are based on different anatomical guidelines and descriptions that cannot easily be integrated. The segmentation approach presented in this paper was designed to address this issue by presenting segmentation guidelines for all major structures of the parahippocampal gyrus (PHG). It was developed directly to complement a volumetric protocol for hippocampus and amygdala (Pruessner et al., 2000, Cereb Cortex 10:433-442), thus allowing volumetric assessment of all major MTL structures in an integrated and consistent manner. Furthermore, it takes into consideration the neuroanatomical appearance of the collateral sulcus by presenting a method to correct the volumes of the surrounding cortices for the variability of this sulcus. The protocol was validated using MR images of 40 healthy normal control subjects (20 men and 20 women, age range 18-42 years). Intra- and interrater coefficients are presented, together with mean values for the volumes of all PHG structures, correlations with age and sex, and tests for hemispheric differences.
Cortical areas engaged in knowledge manipulation during reasoning were identified with functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) while participants performed transitive inference (TI) on an ordered list of 11 items (e.g. if A &lt; B and B &lt; C, then A &lt; C). Initially, participants learned a list of arbitrarily ordered visual shapes. Learning occurred by exposure to pairs of list items that were adjacent in the sequence. Subsequently, functional MR images were acquired as participants performed TI on non-adjacent sequence items. Control tasks consisted of height comparisons (HT) and passive viewing (VIS). Comparison of the TI task with the HT task identified activation resulting from TI, termed 'reasoning', while controlling for rule application, decision processes, perception, and movement, collectively termed 'support processes'. The HT-VIS comparison revealed activation related to support processes. The TI reasoning network included bilateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA), premotor area (PMA), insula, precuneus, and lateral posterior parietal cortex. By contrast, cortical regions activated by support processes included the bilateral supplementary motor area (SMA), primary motor cortex (M1), somatic sensory cortices, and right PMA. These results emphasize the role of a prefrontal-parietal network in manipulating information to form new knowledge based on familiar facts. The findings also demonstrate PFC activation beyond short-term memory to include mental operations associated with reasoning.
On grounds of electrophysiological mapping, cytoarchitecture, myeloarchitecture and callosal and thalamic connectivity, we have identified two cortical areas in the posterior parietal cortex of the ferret: posterior parietal caudal and rostral (PPc and PPr). These areas occupy the lateral and suprasylvian gyri, from the cingulate sulcus (medially) to the suprasylvian sulcus (laterally) and lie between visual areas 18 and 21 (posteriorly) and the somatosensory areas (anteriorly). Within both areas a coarse representation of the visual field was found and within PPr there was also a representation of the body. Each representation mirrors those within neighboring areas. Cytoarchitectonic and myeloarchitectonic fields within this cortical region did not correspond in any simple way to the physiological representations. The architectonic differences correlate to differential callosal connectivity, with predominant connectivity corresponding to the upper hemifield/head representations. PPr and PPc receive thalamic projections from a different, but overlapping, complement of thalamic nuclei. The superimposition of somatic and visual maps in PPr might relate to the probable role of this area in transforming retinal-centered to body-centered spatial coordinates. The organization of the parietal areas in the ferret resembles that of the flying fox and might unveil a common organizational plan from which the primate posterior parietal cortex evolved.
The highly regular anatomy of the cerebellum that results from myriad genetic, environmental, and stochastic events during pre- and postnatal development is nonetheless quantitatively very different among individuals. Understanding the sources of these individual differences represents an immense challenge to those interested in the cerebellum. Here we highlight the use of new methods to dissect individual differences to their genetic sources by reviewing quantitative trait locus mapping efforts in the mouse model system. We further suggest and illustrate how to combine these methods with other modern genetic techniques to accelerate our understanding. Finally, we embed these methods in a hypothetical line of cerebellar research to illustrate the vast potential of combining complex trait analysis with a systems neuroscience perspective.



Despite the fact that hypoglycemia is an extremely common disorder of the newborn, consensus has been difficult to reach regarding definition, diagnosis, outcome, and treatment. With improved neuroradiologic techniques, such as MRI and PET scanning becoming increasingly available, studies to determine the correlation between hypoglycemia and outcome will help to clarify issues surrounding the effects of hypoglycemia on brain pathology. Long-term epidemiologic studies correlating the severity and duration of hypoglycemia with neurologic consequences are required, and can be complemented by appropriate parallel investigations in animal models of neonatal hypoglycemia.

Studies using operant training have demonstrated that laboratory animals can discriminate the number of objects or events based on either auditory or visual stimuli, as well as the integration of both auditory and visual modalities. To date, studies of spontaneous number discrimination in untrained animals have been restricted to the visual modality, leaving open the question of whether such capacities generalize to other modalities such as audition. To explore the capacity to spontaneously discriminate number based on auditory stimuli, and to assess the abstractness of the representation underlying this capacity, a habituation-discrimination procedure involving speech and pure tones was used with a colony of cotton-top tamarins. In the habituation phase, we presented subjects with either two- or three-speech syllable sequences that varied with respect to overall duration, inter-syllable duration, and pitch. In the test phase, we presented subjects with a counterbalanced order of either two- or three-tone sequences that also varied with respect to overall duration, inter-syllable duration, and pitch. The proportion of looking responses to test stimuli differing in number was significantly greater than to test stimuli consisting of the same number. Combined with earlier work, these results show that at least one non-human primate species can spontaneously discriminate number in both the visual and auditory domain, indicating that this capacity is not tied to a particular modality, and within a modality, can accommodate differences in format.
Ned Block's influential distinction between phenomenal and access consciousness has become a staple of current discussions of consciousness. It is not often noted, however, that his distinction tacitly embodies unargued theoretical assumptions that favor some theoretical treatments at the expense of others. This is equally so for his less widely discussed distinction between phenomenal consciousness and what he calls reflexive consciousness. I argue that the distinction between phenomenal and access consciousness, as Block draws it, is untenable. Though mental states that have qualitative character plainly differ from those with no mental qualities, a mental state's being conscious is the same property for both kinds of mental state. For one thing, as Block describes access consciousness, that notion does not pick out any property that we intuitively count as a mental state's being conscious. But the deeper problem is that Block's notion of phenomenal consciousness, or phenomenality, is ambiguous as between two very different mental properties. The failure to distinguish these results in the begging of important theoretical questions. Once the two kinds of phenomenality have been distinguished, the way is clear to explain qualitative consciousness by appeal to a model such as the higher-order-thought hypothesis.
Understanding the nature of pain at least partly depends on recognizing its inherent first person epistemology and on using a first person experiential and third person experimental approach to study it. This approach may help to understand some of the neural mechanisms of pain and consciousness by integrating experiential-phenomenological methods with those of neuroscience. Examples that approximate this strategy include studies of second pain summation and its relationship to neural activities and brain imaging-psychophysical studies wherein sensory and affective qualities of pain are correlated with cerebral cortical activity. The experiential paradigm of offers the possibility of improved designs and methods for investigating neural mechanisms underlying pain and consciousness.
Encoding sensory events entails processing of several physical attributes. Is the processing of any of these attributes a pre-requisite of conscious awareness? This selective review examines a recent set of behavioral and event-related potentials, studies conducted in patients with visual and auditory unilateral neglect or extinction, with the aim of establishing what aspects of initial processing are impaired in these patients. These studies suggest that extinguished visual stimuli excite the sensory cortices, but perhaps to a lesser degree than acknowledged stimuli do. However, encoding spatial attributes of auditory and visual stimuli appear to be preferentially impaired. In light of results from patients with other neuro-behavioral deficits, it is argued that egocentric spatial information is an essential pre-requisite for knowing that an external event occurred. In contrast, information handled by mostly domain-specific circuits, such as in the ventral temporal lobe, supports awareness of the identity of a stimulus, but not of its mere presence. Without spatial information, the stimulus identity will remain implicit.
We have only limited awareness of the system by which we control our actions and this limited awareness does not seem to be concerned with the control of action. Awareness of choosing one action rather than another comes after the choice has been made, while awareness of initiating an action occurs before the movement has begun. These temporal differences bind together in consciousness the intention to act and the consequences of the action. This creates our sense of agency. Activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and medial prefrontal cortex is associated with awareness of our own actions and also occurs when we think about the actions of others. I propose that the mechanism underlying awareness of how our own intentions lead to actions can also be used to represent the intentions that underlie the actions of others. This common system enables us to communicate mental states and thereby share our experiences.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder that also affects central cognitive processing; however, the extent to which high-order cognitive processes disrupted by PD affect complex motor function is incompletely explicated. The present analysis provides an examination of the relative contributions of simple motor versus complex cognitive functions involving sequencing, problem solving, and overall cognitive status to complex motor movements involving sequencing and temporal ordering in PD. Motor sequencing performance was videotaped for quantitative scoring. Compared with an age-matched control group, the PD group was impaired on motor agility and motor sequencing tasks in addition to cognitive sequencing and set shifting tasks. Neither current cognitive functioning, age, disease duration, nor overall intellectual abilities accounted for the relationships between motor sequencing and cognitive sequencing abilities in PD. By contrast, both sequencing and nonsequencing executive functions predicted motor sequencing performance as well as or better than motor rigidity or overall cognitive status. These relationships were strongest for the most challenging motor sequencing task, fist-edge-palm, and did not apply to the least challenging task, which required simple alternations of hand movements. Unlike PD, controls showed correlations between motor sequencing tests and executive functioning only tapping nonsequencing abilities. Thus, despite the predominant motor feature of PD, executive functions, as assessed by sequencing and set formation, predicted motor sequencing performance as well as or better than simple motor performance. The results further suggest that the more complex the motor sequencing task, the more susceptible it is to influence from generalized cognitive sequencing ability.
Important roles for connexins have emerged from studies linking connexin mutations to human disease. Use of connexins tagged with GFP have provided a clearer picture of the mechanisms that govern connexin channel function and it is now evident that functional forms of connexin channel include cell-cell channels and unapposed hemichannels. Clustering appears to be a requirement for opening of cell-cell channels and suggests that dynamic changes occur in plaques (clusters) as they form and grow that are critical for channel function. In particular, recruitment or generation of 'silent' channels has gained support as a mechanism by which coupling can be dynamically regulated within formed plaques. Two distinct voltage sensitive gating mechanisms appear to be built-into each hemichannel, one putatively located at the cytoplasmic entrance and the other at the extracellular end, each differing in sensitivity, kinetics and degree of channel/hemichannel closure. The extracellular gate may also be that which opens unapposed hemichannels in the plasma membrane and be the final target of many known chemical agents that act as uncouplers of cell-cell communication. An understanding of the structural requirements for regulation via gating and clustering represents an important preclinical step in the design of therapeutic agents to treat disorders arising from connexin channel and hemichannel dysfunction.
Connexin-null mice and human genetic gap junction diseases illustrate the important roles that gap junction channels play under normal conditions, and the neuro- and cardioprotective effects of gap junction blocking agents demonstrate that closure of these channels may be beneficial in certain pathological situations. This overview summarizes studies in which gap junction modifying reagents have been characterized, highlighting examples of agents for which selectivity for gap junction subtypes has been demonstrated. In addition, strategies for targeting connexin domains through peptide inhibitors are outlined, which may ultimately provide agents that are not only connexin-selective in their actions, but also affect only a subset of a gap junction channel's gating responses.
A body of evidence emerging in antidepressant and antidementia research has revealed a convergence of molecular events known to regulate neuronal plasticity in learning and memory with molecular actions of drugs for the treatment of depression. Many antidepressants are reported to have positive impact on learning and memory. These include agents acting through monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems, non-monoaminergic transmitter systems, and hormones. On the other hand, agents that appear to have memory-enhancing or antidementia value are frequently found to exhibit antidepressant activity in patients and animal depression models. It is becoming clear that the comorbidity of depression and dementia does not occur by chance, but rather is an inevitable consequence of pathologic relationships between the conditions. Molecular mechanisms and cascades that underlie memory may be shared by mood regulation and are vulnerable to stress and injuries. This review focuses on recent findings regarding effects of a variety of agents on dementia and depression and their common molecular mechanisms as well as their differences. A better understanding of the key underlying molecular components whose changed activities have dramatic influences on mood and cognition may lead to the development of novel and more effective therapeutic agents for the treatment of depression and dementia. In this review, some of the recent findings that suggest novel therapeutic strategies are also highlighted.
In addition to being the chief cause of death in developed countries, systemic hypertension is also a leading cause of visual impairment. The eye is an end arteriolar system and is therefore susceptible to changes in blood pressure. It is also the only place where blood vessels can be clearly viewed by noninvasive techniques. This paper reviews current research into premalignant and malignant retinal signs of systemic hypertension. Previous methods of classifying retinal hypertensive signs are identified, along with more recent image analysis techniques. The need for observing the retinal vasculature as well as measuring blood pressure for monitoring systemic hypertensive patients is discussed in relation to current research.
Centaur and AstraZeneca are developing NXY-059, an alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone derivative, free radical trapping agent, for the potential therapy of reperfusion injury following stroke. Phase II clinical trials are ongoing, with phase III trials in acute stroke planned for initiation in early 2003.
Apoptotic cell death has been implicated in the pathogenesis of both acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. The caspase family of cysteine proteases are involved both in the initiation and final execution of apoptosis. Inhibition of the caspase family prevents cell death in a number of models of neurodegenerative cell death in vivo and in vitro. This sparing of neurons does not always correlate with long-term functional recovery, possibly due to the limitations of the available inhibitors. In this review, the evidence for a neuroprotective role of caspase inhibition in models of Parkinson's disease and cerebral ischemia is critically evaluated.

In recent years, studies of nervous mechanisms for the control of body posture have been performed on animal models of different complexity - cat, rabbit, lamprey and the mollusc Clione. These studies have greatly expanded our knowledge of how the control system operates, how the system can change the stabilized body orientation and how the postural functions are distributed within different parts of the CNS. For simpler animal models, the postural network has been analyzed in considerable detail and main cell types and their interactions have been identified.



Recent insights in the field of functional gastrointestinal disorders have opened the way for novel pharmacological treatments directed at the central nervous system or peripheral targets. Now, universally accepted guidelines on therapeutic trial design and in the conduct and reporting of results of large clinical trials in these functional disorders are required. Several lessons have been learned from recent clinical and pharmacological trials of novel agents in irritable bowel syndrome and diabetic dyspepsia. Approaches that carefully characterize the pharmacokinetics, mechanism of action and pharmacodynamics of a drug, and that select subgroups of patients after a thorough understanding of the drug's effects, should facilitate and enhance the likelihood of accurate assessment of potential therapies.
The gastrointestinal tract contains the most extensive immune system in the body as well as the largest and most diverse collection of nerves outside of the central nervous system. These systems are continuously involved in ongoing physiological activities of the bowel and they play an active role in pathophysiological processes. It is becoming increasingly clear that intestinal inflammation involves a dynamic interplay between at least three different cell systems: immune cells, neurons and mucosal epithelial cells. A wide array of signalling molecules, including cytokines, neurotransmitters and neurotrophic factors mediate the exchange of information between these cells. Neuroimmune-epithelial interactions that take place in the wall of the gut explain many of pathophysiological features of intestinal inflammation.
Advances in understanding the pathophysiological role of neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter receptors that are expressed by neurons of the intrinsic circuits of the intestine will aid the selection of new drug targets for therapeutic compounds. The major components of the intrinsic circuits for motility, secretion and blood flow control in the small and large intestines have been identified in recent years, although the intrinsic circuits in the stomach are still not adequately determined. In the guinea-pig small intestine, where circuits have been most accurately defined, there are 14 functionally identified neuron types, each with a characterised pharmacology of transmission.
Hormone replacement therapy is now the standard of care for amelioration of the symptoms of menopause and prevention of osteoporosis. More recently, it has been appreciated that hormone replacement may also have beneficial effects on the brain. This review will contrast the biologic data showing that estrogen has significant neuroprotectant effects on the brain, with data from cross-sectional and epidemiologic studies of women showing that hormone replacement may have beneficial effects for cognition in aging. Together, studies suggest that the temporal pattern of hormone replacement may be critical for maintaining cognitive health in aging.
A revised fate map of the gastrula Xenopus embryo predicts the existence of patterning mechanisms that operate within the animal/vegetal axis of the mesoderm-forming marginal zone. We review here molecular and embryologic data that demonstrate that such mechanisms are present and that they operate independently of the Spemann organizer. Evidence suggests that polarized fibroblast growth factor activity in the animal/vegetal axis patterns this axis. We present a model of mesoderm induction and patterning that integrates the new data on Spemann organizer-independent animal/vegetal patterning with data on other inductive pathways known to act on the gastrula marginal zone.
Functional outcome and provision of care to 82 children (males:females 2.7:1; age range 0 to 16 years) with severe head injury were investigated. The children were admitted to the intensive care units of the Regional Neuroscience Units of the Greater Manchester and Lancashire districts of the North West Region of the UK between 1994 and 1996. A questionnaire was devised based on 12 areas of recovery and data were collected at discharge and 6 weeks, 6 months and 12 months from discharge. Data were collected during home visits and at joint assessment at 12 months with the district consultant community paediatrician (CCP). Early involvement of the CCP enhanced the provision of needs at discharge and 6 weeks after discharge, as did a period of stay in district-level care before discharge home. CCPs received formal notification of the injured child in only 32% of cases by discharge, and 54% of cases by 6 months. Sixty-five per cent of children required early educational support but structured help reached only 55% of these children by the end of the study. Integrated planning between health and education was achieved in about half of the study population. Good physical recovery was achieved by the majority of children but parents said they did not feel prepared for the degree of help which their child still required 12 months after discharge. Children who required anticonvulsants at 12 months' follow-up scored significantly lower on cognitive potential. Psychosocial family functioning deteriorated in a substantial number of families according to parental perception. Prevalence of this perception did not diminish over the study period. Aspects of caregivers' understanding and the child's language deficits, self-care skills, fine and gross motor performance, as well as family, social, and financial consequences were assessed. A dedicated and integrated approach to assessment and provision of care across the domains of hospital, education, and community is discussed.
Neural maps in the vertebrate central nervous system often show discontinuously segregated, domain-to-domain patterns. However, the molecular mechanism that establishes such maps is not well understood. Here we show that in the chicken olivocerebellar system, EphA receptors and ephrin-As are expressed with distinct levels and combinations in mapping domains. When ephrin-A2 is retrovirally overexpressed in the cerebellum, the olivocerebellar map is disrupted, excluding axons with high receptor activity from ectopic expression domains. Conversely, overexpression of a truncated EphA3 receptor in the cerebellum reduces endogenous ligand activity to undetectable levels and causes aberrant mapping, with high receptor axons invading high ligand domains. In vitro, ephrin-A2 inhibits outgrowth of inferior olive axons in a region-specific manner. These results suggest that Eph receptors and ephrins constitute domain-specific positional information, and the spatially accurate receptor-ligand interaction is essential to guide inferior olive axons to their correct target domains.

Neuroimaging techniques are increasingly being applied to the study of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This review focuses on magnetic resonance imaging studies of the brain anatomy of ADHD. Such studies were first conducted over a decade ago, and most focus on frontal-striatal regions and tend to find smaller volumes in ADHD children than in controls. Recently published analyses with the largest sample so far of patients and controls found that ADHD is associated with a statistically significant 3% to 4% global reduction in brain volume in both boys and girls, with abnormally small caudate nuclei only being found in younger patients. After adjusting for global brain differences, only cerebellar hemispheric volumes remained significantly smaller in ADHD, and these differences continued throughout childhood and adolescence. Pathophysiological models of ADHD need take into account cerebellar dysfunction, as well as prefrontal-striatal dysregulation.
Sleep laboratory investigations constitute a unique noninvasive tool to analyze brain functioning, Polysomnographic recordings, even in the very early phase of development in humans, are mandatory in a developmental plan of a new sleep-acting compound. Sleep is also an interesting tool for the development of other drugs acting on the central nervous system (CNS), Indeed, changes in sleep electroencephalographic (EEG) characteristics are a very sensitive indication of the objective central effects of psychoactive drugs, and these changes are specific to the way the drug acts on the brain neurotransmitter systems. Moreover, new compounds can be compared with reference drugs in terms of the sleep EEG profile they induce. For instance, cognitive enhancers involving cholinergic mechanism have been consistently demonstrated to increase rapid eye movement (REM) sleep pressure, and studying drug-induced slow wave sleep (SWS) alteration is a particularly useful tool for the development of CNS compounds acting at the 5-HT(2A/C) receptor, such as most atypical antipsychotics and some antidepressant drugs. The sleep EEG profile of antidepressants, and particularly their effects on REM sleep, are specific to their ability to enhance noradrenergic or serotonergic transmission, it is suggested that the effects of noradrenergic versus serotonergic reuptake inhibition could be disentangled using specific monoamine depletion tests and by studying drug effects on sleep microsiructure.
Despite the growing means devoted to research and development (R  D) and refinements in the preclinical stages, the efficiency of central nervous system (CMS) drug development is disappointing. Many drugs reach patient studies with an erroneous therapeutic indication andlor in incorrect doses. Apart from the first clinical studies, which are conducted in healthy volunteers and focus only on safety, iolerability, and pharmacokinetics, drug development mostly relies on patient studies. Psychiatric disorders are characterized by heterogeneity and a high rate of comorbidity. It is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit patients for clinical trials and there are many confounding factors in this population, for example, those related to treatments. In order to keep patient exposure and financial expenditure to a minimum, it is important to avoid ill-designed and inconclusive studies. This risk could be minimized by gathering pharmacodynamic data earlier in development and considering that the goal of a phase 1 plan is to reach patient studies with clear ideas about the compound's pharmacodynamic profile, its efficacy in the putative indication (proof of concept), and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships, in addition to safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics. Human models in healthy volunteers may be useful tools for this purpose, but their use necessitates a global adaptation of the phase scheme, favoring pharmacodynamic assessments without neglecting safety. We are engaged in an R  D program aimed to adapt existing models and develop new paradigms suitable for early proof of concept substantiation.
Disturbances in the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) system constitute the neurobiological abnormality most consistently associated with suicide. This abnormality could be a marker of vulnerability predisposing individuals to auto-aggressive and impulsive behavior. However, other abnormalities, such as hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, have also been described in suicide victims. While inhibitory effects of adrenocorticosteroids on 5-HT(1A) receptor function have been shown in animals, HPA axis hyperactivity does not seem to be responsible for the reduced 5-HT activity found in depressed patients with a history of suicidal behavior. On the other hand, hypothalamic-pituitarythyroid (HPT) axis dysfunction, frequently observed in depression, may represent a compensatory response to reduced central 5-HT neurotransmission. Moreover, in depressed patients with a history of suicidal behavior, the absence of a functional link between HPT and dopamine activity at the hypothalamic level may be implicated in the pathophysiology of suicidal behavior. Future research is needed to determine why compensatory mechanisms are not efficient in patients with suicidal behavior.
In order to stress the importance of P300 responses in drug development, we describe the spatiotemporal characteristics of this objective, evoked event-related potential. These brain activations reflect mnemonic function, in which limbic structures play a role. It is demonstrated that a pharmacological challenge concerning, for example, the cholinergic system in young healthy volunteers induces modifications in P300 reminiscent of the aging brain. We use this type of observation to build a model in which it can be verified whether the deterioration can be counteracted by treatment with &quot;cognition-enhancing&quot; drugs. If we accept the extrapolation of the pharmacological effects to symptomatology, scalp potential analysis offers an appropriate tool for the study of drug interactions in early proof-of-concept models.
J. Bowlby's attachment theory is used to explore a fundamental motivational force in human behaviour, namely the search for physical and emotional protective intimacy according to an integrated viewpoint remote from Freud's drive-based approach. This theory has received contributions from ethology, the neurosciences, psychoanalysis, cognitive psychology and evolutionary epistemology. Attachment patterns or styles express both the mental and behavioural strategies adopted by individuals to cope with their attachment needs, and their relational history in this area. Experiences of adequate quality promote metacognitive functions, namely a set of mental processes whose role is to protect the individual from psychopathological suffering and construct and articulate a sense of self. Attachment theory and metacognition are the underlying assumptions of reflections on the dynamics marking the development of sometimes very difficult relationships between therapists and eating disorder (ED) patients, who are being increasingly classed as &quot;severe patients&quot; on account of their interpersonal characteristics.

Biotechnology research will dramatically impact health care, and the pharmaceutical industry in particular, in the coming decade. Health outcomes may be improved in a cost-effective manner through the ability to selectively prescribe medications; safer, more effective treatment may reduce long-term health care costs. As genetic testing becomes the standard of care, new challenges will surface around how genetic information will be used or misused, and how and where health care dollars are spent.
Towards the end of the 1840s, Hermann von Helmholtz began to investigate experimentally the propagation of stimuli within nerves. Helmholtz's experiments on animals and human subjects opened a research field that in the following decades was intensively explored by neurophysiologists and experimental psychologists. Helmholtz's pioneering investigations justify the central place he occupies in accounts of the history of modern psychophysiology. Studying the concrete experimental settings and their local contexts shows how deeply the work of scholars such as Helmholtz is embedded in the history of culture and technology. In particular, the rapidly growing technologies of electromagnetism, which gave rise to telegraphy and electric clocks, facilitated the time measurements of 19th-century physiologists and psychologists.
Although estradiol (E2) triggers phasic increases in LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) synthesis and release, the neurocircuitry responsible for these changes is unclear. We used an ovariectomized, E2-treated animal model to investigate the possibility that glutamate, through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDAR), communicates E2 signals to LHRH neurons. A neuroanatomical analysis of the region containing LHRH neurons revealed that approximately 80% of LHRH neurons in medial, but less than 40% in lateral, nuclei of the preoptic area contained NMDAR1 mRNA. Consistent with this distribution pattern, NMDA doubled LHRH mRNA levels in medial neurons, but increased them by less than 30% in cells of the lateral nuclei. Steroids did not alter NMDAR1 mRNA levels in LHRH neurons or change the percentage of LHRH neurons expressing the gene. Furthermore, in contrast to the regionalized effects of NMDA, E2 treatment increased LHRH mRNA levels to the same extent in medial and lateral neurons, and MK801 failed to block E2-induced changes in LHRH gene expression. These results demonstrate that glutamatergic signaling via NMDA receptors is direct and preferentially targets LHRH neurons in medial nuclei of the preoptic area. However, it is unlikely that NMDAR activation mediates E2-dependent increases in LHRH mRNA levels before the LH surge.
In the pituitary, CRH-binding protein (CRH-BP) neutralizes the ACTH-releasing activity of CRH. Because sexual dimorphisms exist at multiple levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, these studies examined expression of pituitary CRH-BP in the male and female mouse pituitary. Ribonuclease protection assays and (125)I-CRH cross-linking assays demonstrate greater expression of pituitary CRH-BP in female than male mice. Normalized CRH-BP mRNA levels in female mice are 2.58 times greater at proestrus than diestrus. Ovariectomy reduces pituitary CRH-BP mRNA levels to 11% of sham-ovariectomy control levels, and estradiol benzoate treatment restores CRH-BP mRNA to control levels. These data suggest that estrogen positively regulates pituitary CRH-BP. Dual in situ hybridization analysis reveals that CRH-BP expression increases significantly in proopiomelanocortin-expressing cells at proestrus, compared with metestrus (P = 0.003), suggesting that CRH-BP expression is estrogen regulated in corticotropes. Further studies reveal that approximately 80% of the CRH-BP transcripts in the proestrus mouse pituitary localize to prolactin-expressing cells, a novel site for CRH-BP expression. CRH-BP mRNA levels increase significantly at proestrus, compared with metestrus in prolactin-positive cells (P &lt; 0.0001). This robust, estrogen-regulated expression of CRH-BP in lactotropes in female mice suggests that the pituitary is an important site for interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and other endocrine systems.
When allowed to drink sucrose, bilaterally adrenalectomized (ADX) rats exhibit normal weight gain, food intake, sympathetic neural activity, and ACTH compared with sham-ADX rats. Furthermore, ADX rats drinking sucrose have normal corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA throughout brain. In ADX rats without sucrose, all of these variables are abnormal. Systemic corticosterone (B) replacement also restores these variables in ADX rats to normal. To test whether B acts centrally, we infused B or saline intracerebroventricularly into ADX rats under basal conditions and after repeated restraint. Rats were exposed to no stress or 3 h/d restraint for 3 d. Body weights and food and fluid intakes were measured. Brains were analyzed using immunocytochemistry against glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and CRF. Intracerebroventricular B blocked the positive effects of sucrose on metabolism, increased basal ACTH concentrations, and augmented ACTH responses to restraint on d 3. B-infused rats exhibited nuclear GR staining in perirhinal cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei, showing that infused B spreads effectively. CRF staining in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was higher in B- than in saline-infused rats. We conclude that under basal conditions B acts systemically, but not in the brain, to restore metabolism and neuropeptides after adrenalectomy. By contrast, tonic GR occupancy in brain initiates metabolic and ACTH responses characteristic of stress.
Understanding the factors that contribute to the process of stigmatization of those with epilepsy may be an important element in the management of this condition. This study was designed to determine the contribution of clinical, demographic, and psychosocial variables to the stigma of epilepsy in adults. More than 6000 adults from 10 European countries were surveyed. Almost half of respondents reported that they had difficulty accepting their illness, and 17% felt stigmatized by it. A number of factors were predictive of stigma, including seizure frequency, knowledge of epilepsy, duration of epilepsy, and seizure type. The relative contributions of these factors varied depending on the country of origin of those surveyed. Further research is warranted to determine societal influences on the process of stigmatization.
The present case-control study was undertaken in order to investigate the long-term outcome with respect to personality disorder (PD) symptomatology in former child psychiatric in-patients as compared to matched controls from the general population. Altogether 359 former patients and 359 controls were invited to participate in the study. Of these, 164 (46 %) former patients and 193 (54 %) controls approved participation. From these, 137 age and sex-matched pairs with a mean age of 30.7 (SD = 6.8) years were constructed. Adult PD symptomatology was assessed by means of the DSM-IV and ICD-10 Personality Questionnaire (DIP-Q). There were 52 former patients (38 %) and 15 controls (10.9 %) who fulfilled criteria for at least one DSM-IV self-reported PD. There was a significantly higher prevalence for all specific self-reported PDs in former patients compared to controls. The mean number of disorders was 1.7 (SD = 2.6) in former patients and 0.3 (SD = 0.8) in controls. Moreover, former patients fulfilled more PD criteria than controls (23 vs. 11; median numbers). The former patients had significantly lower global functioning and more psychosocial problems than the controls. These problems were related to personality pathology. The results of this study indicate that child psychiatric morbidity seems to increase the risk for adult PD symptomatology. However, the results may be biased by the low participation rate.
We have recently identified an Ets element controlling over 90% of the basal expression of the human presenilin 1 (PS1) gene. We have also shown that Ets1 and Ets2 act as transactivators of the PS1 gene by cotransfection experiments in SK-N-SH neuronal cells. The PS1 gene is widely but differentially expressed across tissues and the expression in brain appears to be restricted to neurons. To gain further insight into the regulation of the gene we have examined the regulation of PS1 by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA). SK-N-SH neuronal cells were treated with 0.2 micro m TPA for 30 min to 24 h and the level of expression of the endogenous PS1 gene was measured by Northern blot analysis. A two- to threefold increase in the level of PS1 mRNA appeared 4-8 h after the addition of TPA. A similar increase in transcription activity was observed in nuclear run off experiments, indicating that the increased mRNA level results from an activation in the initiation of transcription of PS1. Consistently, TPA also increased the level of PS1 protein. No activation of the PS1 endogenous gene by TPA was observed in hepatoma HepG2 cells. Next we tested the effect of TPA on the expression of the PS1 promoter by transfecting fusion genes including various fragments of the PS1 promoter linked to a CAT reporter into SK-N-SH cells. TPA also stimulated the expression of the PS1CAT constructs. Generally wild type constructs -687/+178, -118/+178, -22/+178 including the short -35/+6 fragment showed a minor two- to threefold activation by TPA. Point mutations eliminating the -10 Ets motif or the -6 CREB/AP1 motif did not decrease the stimulation by TPA. Thus TPA appears to activate the transcription of the PS1 gene by a mechanism which does not require these elements.
Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse induces behavioural sensitization, i.e. a persistent hypersensitivity to the psychomotor stimulant effects of these drugs. This may be the result of increased responsiveness, to drugs, of mesostriatal dopamine systems and their projections, but it has also been suggested that acute and sensitized behavioural responses to psychostimulant drugs involve activation of distinct neuronal circuits. In order to distinguish between these possibilities, we studied amphetamine-induced c-fos immunoreactivity in subregions of rat striatum (patch and matrix compartments of caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens core and shell) in drug-naive rats, as well as during long-term expression of amphetamine sensitization. We found that, in sensitized animals, amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) evoked an increase in the ratio of c-fos-immunopositive cells in striatal patch and matrix compartments, suggesting a preferential involvement of striatal patches in the sensitized response to amphetamine. In drug-naive rats, amphetamine (0.5-5.0 mg/kg) dose-dependently increased c-fos expression in all striatal subregions. Remarkably, the highest dose of amphetamine also evoked an increase in patch : matrix ratio of c-fos immunoreactivity. In nucleus accumbens core and shell of amphetamine- and saline-pretreated animals, amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) evoked comparable increases in c-fos expression. These data indicate that distinct striatal compartments display a differential sensitivity to amphetamine in both drug-naive and amphetamine-sensitized animals. In addition, they suggest that the shift in amphetamine-induced c-fos expression from striatal matrix to patches in sensitized animals is the consequence of a change in the sensitivity to amphetamine, rather than a long-term circuitry reorganization that is exclusive to the sensitized state.
Declines in memory function and behavioural dysfunction accompany normal ageing in mammals. However, the cellular and morphological basis of this decline remains largely unknown. It was assumed for a long time that cell losses in the hippocampus accompany ageing. However, recent stereological studies have questioned this finding. In addition, the effect of ageing is largely unknown in another key structure of the memory system, the amygdala. In the present study, we have estimated neuronal density and total neuronal numbers as well as density of fragments of degenerated axons in different hippocampal subfields and amygdaloid nuclei. Comparisons were made among aged (21-26 months old) mice and normal adult littermates (8 months old). No significant volume loss occurs in the hippocampus of aged mice. Small but insignificant reductions in total neuronal numbers were found in the hippocampus and in the amygdaloid nuclei. In contrast to the mild effects of ageing upon neuronal numbers, fragments of degenerated axons were increased in both hippocampus and amygdala of aged mice. These data suggest that ageing does not induce prominent cell loss in the hippocampus or amygdala, but leads to degeneration of axons that innervate these forebrain structures. Thus, mechanisms underlying age-related dysfunction depend on parameters other than neuronal numbers, at least in the hippocampal formation and the amygdala.
The rat nucleus accumbens contains acetylcholine-releasing interneurons, presumed to play a regulatory role in the electrical activity of medium spiny output neurons. In order to examine this issue in detail, we made electrophysiological recordings in rat nucleus accumbens slices. These experiments showed that gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated inhibition of the output neurons might be facilitated by activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, in addition to being suppressed via activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. In contrast, glutamatergic excitation of output neurons appeared to be inhibited by activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and to be insensitive to activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The spontaneous firing frequency of cholinergic neurons appeared to be under control of both a muscarinic and a nicotinic pathway in a bi-directional manner. Finally, we made paired recordings in which the functional connection between cholinergic neurons and output neurons was monitored. Driving the cholinergic neurons at physiological firing frequencies stimulated gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated inhibition of the output neurons, via activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The onset of this effect was slow and lacked a fixed delay. These data indicate that activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in rat nucleus accumbens may mediate the facilitation of gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated inhibition of medium spiny output neurons. Possible mechanisms of neurotransmission, mediating this cholinergic modulation are discussed.
It has previously been shown that cholinergic blockade attenuates conditioning-related neuronal responses in human auditory cortex. The present study was conducted to investigate the effect of cholinergic enhancement on such experience-dependent cortical responses. The cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine, or a placebo control, were continuously infused into healthy young volunteers, during differential aversive conditioning whilst brain activity was measured using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Volunteers were presented with two tones, one of which (CS+) was conditioned by pairing with an electrical shock whereas the other was always presented without the shock (CS-). Conditioning-related activations, expressed as an enhanced blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response to the salient CS+, were evident in left auditory cortex under placebo but not under physostigmine. This absence of conditioning-related activations under physostigmine was due to enhanced responses to the CS- under physostigmine as compared to placebo. We suggest that an overactive cholinergic system leads to increased processing of behaviourally irrelevant stimuli and thus attenuates differential conditioning-related cortical activations.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, tyrosine receptor kinase (trk-B), play important roles in neural plasticity, long-term potentiation and memory formation. Sheep form a selective recognition memory for their lambs within 2 h of birth. Initially, this memory is exclusively based on olfactory cues; however, as it consolidates over a 12-h recognition period it extends to incorporate visual cues. We investigated whether changes in BDNF and trk-B mRNA expression occurred in both olfactory and visual processing systems at 4.5 h postpartum, 2-3 h after the behavioural manifestations of an olfactory recognition memory were found. Animals that formed a recognition memory showed increased BDNF mRNA expression in the inferior part of the temporal cortex, subfield CA1 of the hippocampus, the diagonal band, basolateral amygdala and the anterior cingulate, medial frontal, entorhinal and pyriform cortices. No increases were observed in either the olfactory bulbs or the dentate gyrus. Expression of trk-B mRNA was significantly increased only in the medial temporal, entorhinal and pyriform cortices. These findings demonstrate that by 2-3 h following the initial formation of olfactory recognition memory there are BDNF/trk-B-mediated plasticity changes in brain areas involved in the consolidation of olfactory memory (the pyriform and entorhinal cortices). However, similar changes also occur in areas of the brain involved in visual memory, face and object recognition (the temporal cortex, entorhinal cortex, hippocampal subfield CA1 and basolateral amygdala), and in areas of the brain with integrative and attentional functions (the medial frontal and anterior cingulate cortices and diagonal band). This suggests that reorganization of neural circuits underlying the visual recognition of lambs or the integration of olfactory/visual information is occurring even at this time even though accurate behavioural recognition at this stage can only be made using olfactory cues.
During bacterial infections of the CNS, activated microglia could support leucocyte recruitment to the brain through the synthesis of cyto- and chemokines. In turn, invading leucocytes may feedback on microglial cells to influence their chemokine release pattern. Here, we analyzed the capacity of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) to serve as such a leucocyte-to-microglia signal. Production of cyto- and chemokines was stimulated in mouse microglia cultures by treatments with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram-negative Escherichia coli or cell walls from Gram-positive Streptococcus pneumoniae (PCW). IFNgamma presence during the stimulation (0.1-100 ng/mL) modulated the patterns of LPS- and PCW-induced cyto- and chemokine release in a dose-dependent, potent and complex manner. While amounts of TNFalpha and IL-6 remained nearly unchanged, IFNgamma enhanced the production of IL-12, MCP-1 and RANTES, but attenuated that of KC, MIP-1alpha and MIP-2. Release modulation was obtained with IFNgamma preincubation (treatment of cells before LPS or PCW administration), coincubation and even delayed addition to an ongoing LPS or PCW stimulation. Together the changes observed for the microglial chemokine release under IFNgamma would shift the chemoattractive profile from favouring neutrophils to a preferential attraction of monocytes and T lymphocyte populations--as actually seen during the course of bacterial meningitis. The findings support the view of activated microglia as a major intrinsic source for an instant production of a variety of chemokines and suggest that leucocyte-derived IFNgamma could potentially regulate the microglial chemokine release pattern.
Analysis of recordings of single neuronal activity in the striatum of monkeys engaged in behavioural tasks has shown that tonically active neurons (TANs) can be distinguished by their distinct spontaneous firing and functional properties. As TANs are assumed to be cholinergic interneurons, the study of their physiological characteristics allows us to gain an insight into the role of a particular type of local-circuit neuron in the processing of information at the striatal level. In monkeys performing various behavioural tasks, the change in the activity of TANs, unlike the diversity of task-related activations exhibited by the phasically active population of striatal neurons, involves a transient depression of the tonic firing related to environmental events of motivational significance. Such events include primary rewards and stimuli that have acquired a reward value during associative learning. These neurons also respond to an aversive air puff, indicating that their responsiveness is not restricted to appetitive conditions. Another striking feature of the TANs is that their responses can be modulated by predictions about stimulus timing. Temporal variations in event occurrence have been found to favour the responses of TANs, whereas the responses are diminished or abolished in the presence of external cues that predict the time at which events will occur. These data suggest that the TANs respond as do detectors of motivationally relevant events, but they also demonstrate that these neurons are influenced by predictive information based on past experience with a given temporal context. TANs represent a unique subset of striatal neurons that might serve a modulatory function, monitoring for temporal relationships between environmental events.


Functional MRI is widely used to address basic and clinical neuroscience questions. In the key domains of fMRI experiments, i.e. acquisition, processing and analysis, and interpretation of data, developments are ongoing. The main issues are sensitivity for changes in fMRI signal that are associated with brain function, and the design of tasks with which brain functions are invoked. In this paper we address these issues, in terms of strengths, weaknesses and future developments. Acquisition of data is commonly achieved with techniques that measure blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal changes. Although the mechanisms that affect BOLD signal are complex and not well understood, fMRI yields results that agree with known functional topography. Sensitivity for task-related brain activity is expected to benefit from technological advances in acquisition, i.e. SENSE or parallel imaging, and higher field scanners (3 T). Data analysis is geared towards modelling sources of signal variation, i.e. reducing noise in the data time-series, and the cerebrovascular response to task-related changes in neuronal activity. Analytical algorithms such as connectivity and component analysis contribute to the extraction of meaningful information from fMRI datasets. The choice of tasks, and consequently of the statistical evaluation procedures, is best guided by the specific questions that are formulated a priori. The future is expected to bring more sophisticated questions, and tasks that allow for accurate modelling of involved brain functions. An example of a hypothesis-driven experiment is presented, where we investigated whether practise of a working memory task caused a shift in the neuronal representation of working memory or not.
Acetaminophen was administered acutely at the onset of reperfusion after 20 min of low-flow, global myocardial ischemia in isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts (Langendorff) to evaluate its influence in the postischemia, reperfused myocardium. Similarly prepared hearts were treated with vehicle or with uric acid (another phenol for comparison). Functionally, acetaminophen-treated hearts (0.35 mM) achieved significantly greater recovery during reperfusion. For example, left ventricular developed pressures at 40 min reperfusion were 38 +/- 3, 27 +/- 3, and 20 +/- 2 in the presence of acetaminophen (P &lt; 0.05, relative to the other two groups), vehicle, and uric acid, respectively. Coronary perfusion pressures and calculated coronary vascular resistances, in the acetaminophen-treated hearts, were significantly lower at the same time (e.g., coronary perfusion pressures in the three groups, respectively, were 40 +/- 2 [P &lt; 0.05], 51 +/- 3, and 65 +/- 12 mm Hg). Under baseline, control conditions, creatine kinase ranged from 12-15 units/liter in the three groups. It increased to 35-40 units/liter (P &lt; 0.05) during ischemia but was significantly reduced by acetaminophen during reperfusion (e.g., 5.3 +/- 0.8 units/liter at 40 min). Oxidant-mediated chemiluminescence in all three treatment groups during baseline conditions and ischemia was similar (i.e., approximately 1.5-2.0 min for peak luminescence to reach its half maximal value). It took significantly more time during reperfusion for the oxidation of luminol in the presence of acetaminophen (&gt;20 min, P &lt; 0.05) than in its absence (3-8 min in uric acid- and vehicle-treated hearts). These results suggest that administration of acetaminophen (0.35 mM), at the onset of reperfusion, provides anti-oxidant-mediated cardioprotection in the postischemia, reperfused myocardium.
Movement of large visual scenes induces an illusion of self-motion (vection) and postural responses. We investigated if the conscious perception of self-motion influences the magnitude and directional accuracy of visually evoked postural responses. Five normal subjects fixated the centre of a large disk rotating in the roll (coronal) plane. The disk was placed either in front of the subjects or obliquely 30 deg to their right or left; in these oblique positions disk fixation was achieved by horizontal ocular deviation alone (i.e. no neck deviation). Subjects indicated their subjective perceptual status, either vection or object motion, with a push button. The results confirmed that the direction of the visually evoked postural response was reoriented according to the different eye-disk positions. In addition, both the magnitude of the postural response and the accuracy of its alignment with the disk rotational plane were significantly increased during vection periods. The results show that conscious perception of self-motion enhances visuopostural performance. Since conscious perception is likely to arise at cortical levels, the findings indicate that the cortex is one of the sites where gaze direction interacts with retinal motion signals to provide a self-motion signal in body-centric co-ordinates. Such interaction provides a substrate for spatial representation during motion in the environment.
Previous studies showed that after stepping-in-place on a rotating turntable, blindfolded subjects cannot step-in-place on firm ground. Instead they involuntarily turn themselves relative to space in the same direction as they were turning relative to the rotating turntable. This phenomenon has been termed podokinetic after-rotation (PKAR). PKAR comprises a brief exponentially rising phase of response during the first 2 min followed by a prolonged second phase of slow exponential decline during the next 28 min. Here we ask whether PKAR is modified in patients with compensated unilateral vestibular loss. Eleven patients who had previous vestibular ablation underwent (1) a Fukuda-like control stepping test, (2) podokinetic adaptation to 30 min of stepping in place on the centre of a turntable rotating at 45 deg/s and (3) PKAR. Control tests showed that the blindfolded patients had no significant rotational bias while stepping-in-place on the ground for 1 min. After 30 min of adaptation, the 2-min rising phase of PKAR was indistinguishable from normal. In contrast, the subsequent 28-min phase of exponential decline showed a lesion-dependent asymmetry. PKAR had significantly higher mean velocities toward the side of the lesion than away from the lesion. The observed PKAR asymmetry may signify occult residual static vestibular imbalance.
One subtype of ATP-gated ion channel, the P2X(3) receptor, is expressed primarily on peripheral sensory neurons. While it is known that P2X(3) receptors can participate in certain forms of nociceptive signaling, their involvement in neuropathic pain transmission is not known. We have examined the expression and function of P2X(3) receptors in a rat spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain. Fourteen days following L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation, the corresponding dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were removed from animals exhibiting mechanical allodynia, and these were studied using immunohistochemical and electrophysiological techniques. Using a polyclonal antibody to label the P2X(3) receptor, a significant reduction in neuronal P2X(3) immunoreactivity was observed in the ipsilateral (injured) L5 and L6 DRG following nerve ligation. In vitro electrophysiological analysis of acutely isolated DRG neurons revealed a similar decrease in functional P2X(3)-containing receptors. In small diameter (22-25 micro m) neurons, a significant reduction in the number of cells exhibiting a response to alpha,beta-meATP was observed. However, a subset of small diameter neurons retained P2X(3) responses of equal amplitude to those recorded from naive and sham control DRG neurons. Interestingly, P2X(3) immunoreactivity and P2X(3)-like responses were also detected in a subset of larger diameter (50 micro m) neurons and the number and amplitude of these responses were unchanged after spinal nerve ligation. These results suggest that, while there appears to be a decrease in fast desensitizing P2X(3) receptors following L5/L6 nerve ligation injury, certain subsets of small and large DRG neurons maintain normal P2X(3) receptor expression and function. These remaining receptors may provide a P2X(3) receptor-mediated component to neuropathic pain.
The complex structure of the neck musculoskeletal system poses challenges to understanding central nervous system (CNS) control strategies. Examining muscle activation patterns in relation to musculoskeletal geometry and three-dimensional mechanics may reveal organizing principles. We analyzed the spatial tuning of neck muscle electromyographic (EMG) activity while subjects generated moments in three dimensions. EMG tuning curves were characterized by their orientation (mean direction) and focus (spread of activity). For the four muscles that were studied (sternocleidomastoid, splenius capitis, semispinalis capitis and trapezius), EMG tuning curves exhibited directional preference, with consistent orientation and focus among 12 subjects. However, the directional preference (orientation) of three of the four neck muscles did not correspond to the muscle's moment arm, indicating that maximizing a muscle's mechanical advantage is not the only factor in determining muscle activation. The focus of muscle tuning did not change with moment magnitude, demonstrating that co-contraction did not increase with load. Axial rotation was found to have a strong influence on neck muscle spatial tuning. The uniform results among subjects indicate that the CNS has consistent strategies for selecting neck muscle activations to generate moments in specific directions; however, these strategies depend on three-dimensional mechanics in a complex manner.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa-B (NF-kappaB) is now recognised as a key mediator of physiological and pathological plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS), and ionotropic glutamate receptor stimulation potently triggers NF-kappaB activation. This study was designed to identify the mechanisms responsible for the high basal levels of activated NF-kappaB present in neurons in the cerebral cortex. In cultured cortical neurons, the basal levels of activated NF-kappaB were reduced by the glutamate receptor antagonists MK801 and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), but were not affected by exposure to a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor, a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor or a cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-dependent protein kinase inhibitor. However, activated NF-kappaB levels were reduced by a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, the Src-family tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP1, or the farnesyl transferase inhibitors manumycin and farnesyl transferase (Ftase) inhibitor 1. There was no additive effect when MK801 was applied together with manumycin. These results suggest that the basal levels of activated NF-kappaB in cortical neurons are maintained partially by synaptic activity involving N-methyl- D-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors, coupled to activation of an Src-family tyrosine kinase and a p21(Ras)-like guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) in a cGMP-dependent manner. The results are intriguing in the light of the recent identification of a synaptic p21(Ras) activator stimulated by cGMP.
Many studies strongly suggest a causal link between oxidative stress and determination of life span. The relationship between oxidative stress and age-related functional declines, however, is less clear. Additionally, the full spectrum of functional declines associated with aging has not been systematically evaluated in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, one of the leading models for aging research. Toward a more comprehensive assessment of functional senescence in Drosophila, we evaluated a series of behaviors in control flies of increasing ages. Our studies reveal a novel age-dependent functional decline in the olfactory system and confirm previous reports of age-related locomotor defects in flies. Behavioral responses to electric shock and light are maintained in aged flies. Thus, some sensory systems senesce during the first several weeks of life while others do not. Interestingly, the age-dependent functional declines in olfactory and locomotor systems are indistinguishable in control flies and methuselah, a mutant with enhanced resistance to oxidative stress and increased life span. Our results indicate that enhanced resistance to oxidative stress and extension of life span do not necessarily confer protection from age-related functional declines.
Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase that adds repeats of a six-base DNA sequence to chromosome ends and thereby prevents their shortening during successive cell divisions. Telomerase activity and expression of the catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) are high in brain cells during embryonic development, but are undetectable in the adult. We now report that telomerase activity and expression of TERT are induced in the hippocampus of adult mice after administration of the seizure-inducing excitotoxin kainate. Telomerase activity is present at 24 h and 7 days after kainate administration, but is no longer detectable at 4 weeks. Because the time course of telomerase induction was similar to the time course of microglial activation, we performed studies to determine whether microglia were the source of the telomerase activity. Examination of brain sections immunostained with a TERT antibody and an antibody against a microglia-specific antigen revealed that TERT was not detectable in the uninjured brain, and was present in microglia 24 h and 7 days after kainate administration. This is the first evidence that telomerase can be induced by brain injury and the first evidence that TERT can be expressed in microglia, suggesting roles for telomerase in microglial responses to brain injury.
Intraparenchymal injections of glutamate analogues into the diencephalon near the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus selectively spare magnocellular neuroendocrine cells. In this study we investigated for the first time the susceptibility of this neuronal population to ischemia. Temporary focal ischemia was produced using a three-vessel occlusion method involving unilateral middle cerebral artery and bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (MCAO/CCAO). Most of the 3-h ischemic period was maintained without anesthesia and reversed by microclip removal of the contralateral common carotid artery occlusion. In one subset of rats transcardial perfusion with India ink was used to estimate the degree of ischemia produced during MCAO/CCAO in the SON, lateral magnocellular nucleus of the PVN (PVL), caudoputamen (CP), and frontoparietal cortex (COR). Computer-assisted densitometry measurements of ink density indicated significant reductions in ink penetration in the territory of the occluded MCA within the SON (46%), PVL (45%), CP (53%), and COR (76%). In contrast, neither sham-operated rats nor rats subjected to occlusion of the MCA alone showed differences in ink optical densities between the sides ipsilateral and contralateral to MCAO. The other subset of rats were perfused 48-72 h after recovery and brain sections were examined for neurodegenerative changes. While the incidences of cerebral and caudoputamen infarction after MCAO/CCAO were 98.4 and 52%, respectively, the histological features of the SON or PVL in ischemic rats were similar to those of control rats. Reduced susceptibility of magnocellular neuroendocrine cells to ischemia may be due to a number of mechanisms including neuronal resilience, neuroprotection by glia and vascular/perivascular cells, and access to perivascular cerebrospinal fluid.
Nonimmunosuppressant immunophilin ligands have been shown to have neurotrophic properties in rodent models of Parkinson's disease (PD), although little is known about the effects of these ligands in primates. The immunophilin ligand, GPI-1046, promotes the regeneration of dopamine (DA) cells in association with functional recovery in rodent models. We explored the regenerative effects of GPI-1046 in an MPTP primate model of PD. We used single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and the DA transporter tracer (DAT), [(123)I]beta-CIT, to evaluate DAT density and clinical recovery before and after treatment with GPI-1046 or vehicle. Subsequent histological studies were also performed. No effects of GPI-1046 were found on any of these measures. These findings show that GPI-1046 does not have regenerative effects in MPTP-treated primates and suggest that there may be species differences with respect to the trophic effects of GPI-1046 on nigrostriatal DA neurons.
The distribution of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), the development of CRF-binding sites, and the age at which application of CRF elicits a physiological response have been described previously in the postnatal mouse cerebellum. The intent of the present study was to determine the cellular and subcellular distribution of the CRF type 1 receptor (CRF-R1) in the vermis of the postnatal mouse cerebellum and to correlate these data with those presented in previous studies. On P0, CRF-R1 is present in the apical processes of migrating Purkinje cells. Between P0 and P8, CRF-R1 immunostaining is confined to a supranuclear position in Purkinje cell bodies. Between P9 and P14, the receptor immunolabeling circumscribes Purkinje cell nuclei and extends into their primary dendrites. An adult-like distribution is achieved between P16 and P21. Between P0 and P14, the CRF-R1 antibody also labels processes of migrating GABAergic interneurons that are directed toward the pial surface. By P12, labeling begins to circumscribe the nucleus of GABAergic cells in the internal granule cell layer. Finally, astrocytic processes in the white matter, as well as radial glial processes, show focal labeling with the CRF-R1 antibody beginning at P3 and throughout postnatal development. A previous study demonstrated that CRF does not elicit a physiological response in Purkinje cells until P9. This observation, together with the data presented in this study, suggests that the binding of CRF to the type 1 receptor may be involved in regulating the development of cerebellar neurons and glia immediately after birth, before CRF assumes its function as a neuromodulator later in postnatal development and in the adult.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), present in climbing and mossy fiber afferents to the adult mouse cerebellum, acts as a neuromodulator to enhance the spontaneous and amino-acid-induced firing rate of Purkinje cells. CRF also is present during development of the mouse cerebellum, at ages that precede synaptogenesis, which suggests that it may have a different function during development compared to its modulatory role in the adult. The intent of this study was to determine when CRF begins to affect the firing rate of Purkinje cells as well as the time course over which this effect matures. The earliest effect of CRF was elicited at postnatal day (P) 9 at which time a weak enhancement in the amplitude of the firing rate was recorded. However, the amplitude, time to peak, sustainability, and duration of the response were significantly different from that recorded in the older animals or adults. The excitatory effect of CRF became stronger and the duration of the response increased progressively from P9 until it was adult-like by P20. Purkinje cells in the posterior lobe vermis developed a mature response before those in the anterior lobe or hemispheres. Data from previous studies have shown that CRF and its type 1 receptor are present in the cerebellum before birth and that both undergo major reorganization around P10. Taken together, these immunohistochemical observations and the present physiologic data indicate that CRF does not modulate the activity of Purkinje cells until the peptide begins to assume an adult-like distribution in cerebellar afferents.
Long-term drug-induced alterations in gene expression underlying neuroplasticity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) may play a crucial role in relapse behavior in abstinent drug addicts. In this respect, stimulus-induced relapse behavior is considered as the retrieval of stored drug-related information. Because the NAc shell may determine the impact of external and internal stimuli on goal-directed behavior, we compared long-term gene expression in this brain region after active and passive administration of different drugs of abuse. We made use of a preselected set of transcripts that were down-regulated 3 wk after active i.v. heroin self-administration. We found that most of these transcripts were not down-regulated long after passive exposure to the opiate. Most of the active heroin administration-regulated transcripts were also down-regulated in the NAc shell following active cocaine administration (common denominators). As observed with passive administration of heroin, passive exposure to cocaine was found to be relatively ineffective in reducing the expression of these transcripts. This work reveals that active drug consumption during self-administration (instrumental learning) is a crucial psychological factor directing long-term genomic responses in the brain.
The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy, repeatability and resolution of a six-camera Motion Analysis system in a vertical split-volume configuration using a unique quasi-static methodology. The position of a reflective marker was recorded while it was moved quasi-statically over a range of 2.54 mm (0.100 inches) via a linearly-translating table. The table was placed at five different heights to cover both sub-volumes and the overlapping region. Data analysis showed that accuracy, repeatability and resolution values were consistent across all regions of the split-volume, including the overlapping section.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the coordination of the head relative to the trunk within a gait cycle during gaze fixation. Nine normal subjects walked on a motorized treadmill driven at 1.79 m/s (20 s trials) while fixing their gaze on a centrally located earth-fixed target positioned at a distance of 2 m from their eyes. The net and relative angular motions of the head about the three axes of rotations, as well as the corresponding values for the moments acting on it relative to the trunk during the gait cycle were quantified and used as measures of coordination. The average net moment, as well as the average moments about the different axes were significantly different (P&lt;0.01) between the high impact and low/no impact phases of the gait cycle. However, the average net angular displacement as well as the average angular displacement about the axial rotation axis of the head relative to the trunk was maintained uniform (P&gt;0.01) throughout the gait cycle. The average angular displacement about the lateral bending axis was significantly increased (P&lt;0.01) during the high impact phase while that about the flexion-extension axis was significantly decreased (P&lt;0.01) throughout the gait cycle. Thus, the coordination of the motion of the head relative to the trunk during walking is dynamically modulated depending on the behavioral events occurring in the gait cycle. This modulation may serve to aid stabilization of the head by counteracting the force variations acting on the upper body that may aid in the visual fixation of targets during walking.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked, lethal muscular disorder caused by a defect in the DMD gene. AAV vector-mediated micro-dystrophin cDNA transfer is an attractive approach to treatment of DMD. To establish effective gene transfer into skeletal muscle, we examined the transduction efficiency of an AAV vector in skeletal muscles of dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. When an AAV vector encoding the LacZ gene driven by a CMV promoter (AAV-CMVLacZ) was introduced, beta-galactosidase expression markedly decreased in mdx muscle 4 weeks after injection due to immune responses against the transgene product. We also injected AAV-CMVLacZ into skeletal muscles of mini-dystrophin-transgenic mdx mice (CVBA3'), which show ameliorated phenotypes without overt signs of muscle degeneration. AAV vector administration, however, evoked substantial immune responses in CVBA3' muscle. Importantly, AAV vector using muscle-specific MCK promoter also elicited responses in mdx muscle, but at a considerably later period. These results suggested that neo-antigens introduced by AAV vectors could evoke immune reactions in mdx muscle, since increased permeability allowed a leakage of neo-antigens from the dystrophin-deficient sarcolemma of muscle fibers. However, resident antigen-presenting cells, such as myoblasts, myotubes and regenerating immature myofibers, might also play a role in the immune response.

We cloned the mouse ortholog of DISC1 (Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia 1), a candidate gene for schizophrenia. Disc1 is 3163 nucleotides long and has 60% identity with the human DISC1. Disc1 encodes 851 amino acids and has 56% identity with the human protein. Disc1 maps to the DISC1 syntenic region in the mouse, and genomic structure is conserved. A Disc1 splice variant deletes a portion of Disc1 beginning at amino acids orthologous to the human truncation. Bioinformatic analysis and cross-species comparisons revealed sequence conservation distributed across the genes and conservation of leucine zipper and coiled-coil domains in both orthologs. In situ hybridization in adult mouse brain revealed a restricted expression pattern, with highest levels in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and lower expression in CA1-CA3 of the hippocampus, cerebellum, cerebral cortex, and olfactory bulbs. Identification of Disc1 will facilitate the study of DISC1's function and creation of mouse models of DISC1 disruption.
Previous studies identified the tetraspanin protein CD9 in myelinating oligodendrocytes. The present report extends these observations by identifying CD9 in a subpopulation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and in premyelinating oligodendrocytes in rodents. NG2-positive cells expressed CD9 in a temporal and spatial pattern during development that was consistent with CD9 expression in OPCs just prior to their differentiation into premyelinating oligodendrocytes. NG2-positive cells in mature brains were CD9-negative. CD9 expression during oligodendrocyte development in vitro supported this hypothesis, as all CD9-positive cells became O4-positive when switched to oligodendrocyte differentiating media. CD9 immunoreactivity was enriched in myelinating oligodendrocytes and their processes, and the outer aspects of myelin internodes. Immunoprecipitation of CD9 from postnatal rat cerebrum coprecipitated beta1 integrin, CD81, and Tspan-2, another tetraspanin protein recently identified in oligodendrocytes. Following surface biotinylation of oligodendrocytes in vitro, biotinylated beta1 integrin was identified in a CD9 immunoprecipitate. These data support a molecular link between surface integrins and a CD9, Tspan-2 molecular web during the differentiation of oligodendrocytes. Oligodendrocyte production and myelination appears to be normal in CD9-deficient mice. These data support the hypothesis that CD9 helps form the tetraspanin web beneath the plasma membranes of progenitor cells committed to oligodendrogenesis, but that CD9 is not essential for oligodendrogenesis and myelination.

Digital scans of the hands and feet were obtained from 62 heterosexual females and 60 heterosexual males. Scans only of the hands were obtained from 29 homosexual females and 35 homosexual males. The lengths of the individual fingers and toes were estimated from those images by two experienced judges, and length ratios were constructed for all possible pairs of fingers (or toes) on each hand (or foot). Thumbs were not measured, but the great toe was measured and used to construct length ratios. Past research had concentrated on the relative lengths of the index and ring fingers (the 2D:4D ratio). This ratio is close to 1.0 in females and smaller than 1.0 in males. Here 2D:4D did exhibit the largest sex difference, for both hands, followed by 2D:5D and 3D:4D. The sex differences were larger for the right hand than for the left. For both homosexual females and homosexual males, nearly all of the length ratios for fingers were intermediate to those for heterosexual females and heterosexual males; that is, the ratios of homosexual females were masculinized and those of homosexual males were hypomasculinized, but few of these differences were significant. Because many toes were substantially arched, acceptable estimates of length often could not be obtained from the two-dimensional scans, meaning that conclusions about toes are much less certain than those for fingers. Nevertheless, the length ratios were generally larger for toes than for fingers, and the sex differences were generally smaller for toes.
Previous studies have reported that the medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures contribute to the processing of relations among multiple stimuli in episodic encoding. There have been few studies, however, on the episodic retrieval requiring processing of relations among multiple components that was involved in our events. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate neural activities during the retrieval of relations within an organized episode and the recognition of an episodic component. Healthy, normal participants memorized 50 four-scene comic strips before fMRI scanning. In the retrieval phase with fMRI scanning, participants were engaged in three tasks: a visual identification (VI) task, a story recall (SR) task, and a picture recognition (PRe) task. In the VI task, participants were asked to judge whether they could identify at least one female character in the two scenes presented vertically. In the SR task, participants were shown the first and last scenes from strips memorized previously and asked to judge whether or not the two scenes were from the same strip. In the PRe task, participants were shown two scenes and asked to judge whether they both belonged to the memorized scenes. The two contrasts of SR with VI and PRe with VI demonstrated some commonly activated areas, such as the bilateral middle frontal gyrus and cerebellum. More importantly, the SR task differentially activated the bilateral parahippocampal gyrus, whereas the PRe task differentially activated right prefrontal areas, including the inferior frontal and precentral gyri. The results suggest that the activity of the MTL structures may be strongly associated with episodic memory retrieval requiring context-dependent relational processing.


The pharmacological properties of the kinin B1 receptor in binding the endogenous kinin peptides are known to differ across species. Molecular cloning has revealed that these pharmacological differences arise from the diversity within the BDKRB gene. In this report, the molecular diversity of the human BDKRB1 gene is expanded by the identification of eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the coding sequence of the receptor, three of which change the amino acid sequence of the receptor. The molecular cloning and pharmacological characterization of two primate B1 receptors, rhesus and African Green monkey, reveals that they exhibit the same high degree of selectivity for des-Arg10 kallidin (Lys-bradykinin) relative to des-Arg9 bradykinin that is observed with the human kinin B1 receptor. Previous mutagenesis studies of the human B1 receptor have implicated extracellular domain (EC) IV in conferring this selectivity for des-Arg10 kallidin, by interacting with the N-terminal Lys residue of the peptide. The pharmacological analysis of chimeric B1 receptors, in which EC-IV of the human B1 receptor is replaced with the corresponding domain of either rat or dog, supports the proposal that EC-IV is an important determinant in conferring ligand selectivity.
In the mammalian fetus, proliferation of the majority of cells destined for the cerebral cortex takes place within the transient proliferative zones of the cerebral wall. Recent investigations have demonstrated that cell of these zones express high levels of D1 dopamine receptors (D1Rs). However, the specific roles of these receptors have not been investigated. The present study tests the hypothesis that D1Rs are capable of regulating the cell cycle of cerebral cortical precursor cells. For this purpose, primary cultures of cells of the proliferative zones from the cerebral wall of 14-day-old mouse fetuses were generated and maintained in the presence of either fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) or epidermal growth factor (EGF). These growth factors were chosen as supporting two distinct populations of precursor cells in the fetal cortical proliferative matrix. The involvement of D1Rs in the regulation of proliferative activity was examined by the addition of a range of concentrations of the D1R-specific agonist, SKF82958, to the culture media. Bromodeoxyuridine incorporation assays demonstrated that exposure to this agonist led to a dose-dependent reduction of DNA synthesis in both FGF2- and EGF-supported cultures. Flow cytometric cell cycle assays further revealed that this was due to prevention of the transition of cells from the G1 phase to the S phase of the cell cycle. The D1R specificity of the effects of SKF82958 was supported in that they were blocked by the addition of the D1R antagonists, SCH23390 or NNC010756. We also found that D1R stimulation induced stronger suppression of proliferative activity in EGF-supported than in FGF2-supported cultures. Our observations suggest that D1Rs are capable of regulating the cell cycle during corticogenesis. Furthermore, they raise a possibility that these receptors may display different efficacies in affecting proliferative activity in FGF2-supported versus EGF-supported cerebral cortical precursor cells.

This report is based on a survey (performed 1996) of sex life in a nationally representative sample of Swedish women (n=1335) and men (n=1475) aged 18-74 y. From that survey we have previously reported on prevalence of sexual disabilities and problems caused by them (1). The main object of this article is to describe intra- and inter-gender concurrence of sexual disabilities and problems in sexually active subjects. Furthermore, the relative risk of low level of sexual well-being as predicted by sexual disabilities and distress is addressed. Respondents (59% of target sample) participated in an investigation which combined structured interviews with questionnaires/checklists. Main results are that within and across genders sexual disabilities concur to significant degrees. Of the women 48 and 26% reported at least one own and partner sexual disability or distress caused by them, respectively. For the men the corresponding proportions were 26 and 17%, respectively. Odds ratios showed that for the women low sexual interest, difficulties in obtaining orgasm and partner's early ejaculation were significant predictors of low level of sexual well-being. For the men low level of interest and partner's difficulties in obtaining orgasm were the only, but equally powerful, predictors. It is concluded that in clinical practice and for those who have a partner, sexual disabilities and distress caused by them should be regarded from the partner relationship perspective.
Incremental learning concepts are reviewed in machine learning and neurobiology. They are identified in evolution, neurodevelopment and learning. A timeline of qualitative axon, neuron and synapse development summarizes the review on neurodevelopment. A discussion of experimental results on data incremental learning with recurrent artificial neural networks reveals that incremental learning often seems to be more efficient or powerful than standard learning but can produce unexpected side effects. A characterization of incremental learning is proposed which takes the elaborated biological and machine learning concepts into account.
Stressful events have been implicated in the provocation of depressive illness. Inasmuch as immunological challenge, and particularly cytokine administration, engender neuroendocrine and central neurochemical changes reminiscent of those provoked by psychogenic stressors, it was suggested that immune activation may also contribute to affective illness. The present report provides a brief overview of the neurochemical sequelae of acute and repeated interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-2 treatment, describes some of the synergisms associated with these treatments, as well as their potential interactions with psychogenic stressors. In addition, a discussion is provided concerning the fact that cytokines, like stressors, may have time-dependent proactive effects, so that re-exposure to the treatments provoke greatly augmented neurochemical changes (sensitization). Given that the effects of cytokines are evident within hypothalamic, as well as extrahypothalamic sites, including various limbic regions, it is suggested that cytokines may impact on emotional changes, including depression.
The first part of this paper discusses the development of Freud's views on memory from the time of the Project up to the formulation of the second topography. Freud's attempts to match his psychological views with an organic model were necessarily inconclusive, but in the process many innovative ideas about memory can be seen to resonate with recent developments in cognitive neuroscience. A brief discussion of perceptual identity, internal perception and Freud's affect theory introduce the central theoretical idea in the second half of the paper, namely that Identification can be seen as a form of memory. Modern memory theory is linked with the superego, following which the author proposes that internal objects might be renamed 'memory-objects' and that these can be understood in terms of the distinction made in cognitive neuroscience between implicit and explicit memory and between different parts of the brain, in particular the amygdala, the basal ganglia and the hippocampus. Klein's 'memory in feeling' and the views of Fairbairn and Ogden in relation to the dynamic nature of internal objects are briefly discussed. The paper ends with a few comments on the aberrations of memory and some implications of the implicit memory-object system.
This review summarises the results of event-related potentials studies exploring the extent to which the human brain can extract semantic information from external stimuli during sleep. The persistence of a differential response to the subject's own name, relative to any other proper name, during stage 2 (S2) and paradoxical (REM) sleep (PS) suggests that the brain remains able to discriminate an intrinsically relevant word during these sleep stages. The similarities and the differences between these sleep cognitive responses and the waking P300 are stressed, and the functional significance of this component discussed especially in relation with consciousness and memory of the stimulus. Recent studies of the 'N400' potential evoked by semantically incongruous words, have shown that this component may be also elicited during S2 and PS, indicating preserved detection of semantic discordance during these sleep stages. However, linguistic incongruity appears to be processed in a different manner during PS than during waking, since words devoid of meaning (pseudo-words), which are detected as anomalous and evoke N400 during waking, yielded responses similar to those of congruous words in PS. All these data support the view that some semantic analysis of auditory stimuli remains possible in the human sleeping brain, and warrant further studies to elucidate the extent and limits of these capabilities.



Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is an insulinotropic hormone, secreted from the enteroendocrine L cells of the intestinal tract in response to nutrient ingestion. It enhances pancreatic islet beta-cell proliferation and glucose-dependent insulin secretion, and lowers blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. GLP-1 receptors, which are coupled to the cyclic AMP second messenger pathway, are expressed throughout the brains of rodents and humans. The chemoarchitecture of receptor distribution in the brain correlates well with a central role for GLP-1 in the regulation of food intake and response to aversive stress. We have recently reported that GLP-1 and several longer acting analogs that bind at the GLP-1 receptor, possess neurotrophic properties, and offer protection against glutamate-induced apoptosis and oxidative injury in cultured neuronal cells. Furthermore, GLP-1 can modify processing of the amyloid beta- protein precursor in cell culture and dose-dependently reduces amyloid beta-peptide levels in the brain in vivo. As such, this review discusses the known role of GLP-1 within the central nervous system, and considers the potential of GLP-1 and analogs as novel therapeutic targets for intervention in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and potentially other central and peripheral neurodegenerative conditions.
The sensory epithelia of the mammalian inner ear consist of a highly precise pattern of sensory hair cells and supporting cells. The mechanisms regulating this patterning are only beginning to be determined. The present study describes a method for culturing dissociated embryonic inner ear cells and the resulting patterning that occurs in these cultures. The results indicate that developing inner ear cells aggregate into precise patterns on a two-dimensional substrate, suggesting that intrinsic patterning mechanisms remain active in vitro. Using antibodies and scanning electron microscopy to detect hair cells and nonsensory cells, it was determined that only a subset of aggregates contained sensory hair cells. The hair cells were organized into specific patterns and surrounded by supporting cells, similar to the in vivo pattern. Additionally, hair cells increased their immunoreactivity and number of stereocilia over time, suggesting that hair cells continue to mature in vitro. Thus, the study reveals that the cells of the developing inner ear provide the necessary signals that direct sensory hair cells and supporting cells to reassociate into very precise patterns in vitro and that these patterns are reminiscent of the patterning that occurs in vivo.
FKBP12 is best known as the target of the widely used immunosuppressive drug FK506 but may also play a role in neuronal survival. Nonimmunosuppressive ligands of FKBP12 have been shown to have neuroprotective and neuroregenerative activity both in vitro and in vivo, stimulating interest in the development of high-throughput screens to rapidly identify novel ligands. FKBP12 was expressed as a His(6)-fusion in bacteria and purified by metal ion affinity and gel filtration chromatography. A high-throughput fluorescence polarization assay was developed to identify novel ligands of FKBP12. Dissociation constant values of known FKBP12 ligands measured by the new method agreed closely with K(i) values obtained by assaying inhibition of the rotamase activity of the enzyme. The fluorescence polarization assay is rapid, robust, and inexpensive and does not generate radioactive waste. It is very well suited for high-throughput screening efforts.

In this study, a role for cellular Src in muscle cell proliferation and differentiation was investigated. Pharmacological inhibition of Src-class kinases repressed proliferation and promoted differentiation of the C2C12 muscle cell line, even when the cells were cultured under growth-inducing conditions of high serum. Pharmacological inhibition of Src-class kinases also affected cellular components that regulate proliferation and differentiation in muscle; cyclin D1 levels were reduced while, myogenin was increased. Suppression of cyclin D1 and enhancement of myogenin levels also occurred upon expression of a dominant negative Src, corroborating a role for Src kinases in regulating proliferation and differentiation. Inhibition of Src-family kinases also blocked fibroblast growth factor (FGF) induced proliferation but, notably, did not reverse the effect of FGF to inhibit differentiation. Evidence for the Src-class kinase Src in myoblast mitogenesis was obtained by determining the pattern of protein expression and activity for this kinase. Under all conditions examined, Src's expression and enzymatic activity were high in cultures of myoblasts and down-regulated during differentiation. Importantly, Src's activity was rapidly stimulated by mitogen-containing serum and attenuated when myoblasts were switched to low serum-containing differentiation medium. These data indicate that Src is important for maintaining muscle cell proliferation.
The postsynaptic site of the excitatory synapse, which is composed of the postsynaptic density (PSD) attached to the postsynaptic membrane, is a center for synaptic plasticity. To reveal the molecular organization and functional regulation of the postsynaptic site, we cloned a 70 kDa protein that is concentrated in PSDs using a monoclonal antibody against the PSD. This protein, named PSD-Zip70, is highly homologous to the human FEZ1/LZTS1 gene product. PSD-Zip70 contains an N-myristoylation consensus sequence, a polybasic cluster in the N-terminal region and four leucine-zipper motifs in the C-terminal region. Light and electron microscopy showed that this protein was localized to the dendritic spines, especially in the PSD and the postsynaptic membrane. Fractionation of the synaptic plasma membrane demonstrated that PSD-Zip70 was localized to the PSD and the dendritic raft. In Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, exogenous PSD-Zip70 was targeted to the apical plasma membrane of microvilli, and its N-myristoylation was necessary for this targeting. In hippocampal neurons, N-myristoylation was also required for the membrane localization and the C-terminal region was critically involved in the synaptic targeting. These results suggest that PSD-Zip70 may be involved in the dynamic properties of the structure and function of the postsynaptic site.
We are in the midst of a North American epidemic of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Since patients with psychiatric disorders who receive psychopharmacologic treatments may be at even greater risk than the general population for weight gain, dyslipidemia, and diabetes and their complications, psychopharmacologists now need standards for how to monitor and manage these risks.

The effects of a GH secretagogue, L-692,585 (L-585), and human GH-releasing hormone (hGHRH) on calcium transient and GH release were investigated in isolated porcine pituitary cells using calcium imaging and the reverse hemolytic plaque assay (RHPA). Somatotropes were functionally identified by the application of hGHRH. All cells that responded to hGHRH responded to L-585 application. Perfusion application of 10 microM hGHRH and L-585 for 2 min resulted in an increase in intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) of 53+/-1 nM (mean+/-S.E.M.) (P &lt; 0.01) and 68+/-2 nM (P &lt; 0.01) respectively. The L-585 response was characterized by an initial increase in [Ca(2+)](i) followed by a decline to a plateau level above the baseline. Concurrent calcium imaging with RHPA indicated that the L-585-evoked increase in [Ca(2+)](i) coincided with GH release. L-585 significantly increased the percentage of plaque-forming cells (24+/-3 vs 40+/-6%; P &lt; 0.05) and mean area of plaques (1892+/-177 vs 3641+/-189 micro m(2); P &lt; 0.01) indicating increased GH release. Substance P (SP) analogue ([d -Arg(1),d -Phe(5),d -Trp(7,11)]-SP) blocked, and the hGHRH receptor antagonist ((Phenylac-Tyr(1),d -Arg(2), p-chloro-Phe(6), Homoarg(9), Tyr (Me)(10), Abu(15), Nle(27),d -Arg(28), Homoarg(29))-GRF (1-29) amide) decreased the stimulatory effect of hGHRH. These failed to block the stimulatory effect of L-585, suggesting a different receptor for L-585 from the GHRH receptor. The hGHRH-induced calcium transients and initial peak increase induced by L-585 were significantly decreased by removal of calcium from the bathing medium or the addition of nifedipine, an L-calcium channel blocker. The plateau component of L-585-induced calcium change was abolished by removal of calcium and nifedipine. These results suggest an involvement of calcium channels in GH release. Either SQ-22536, an adenylate cyclase inhibitor, or U73122, a phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor, blocked the stimulatory effects of hGHRH and L-585 on [Ca(2+)](i) transient, indicating the involvement of adenylate cyclase-cAMP and PLC-inositol triphosphate pathways. These results further suggested that calcium mobilization from internal stores during the first phase of the L-585 response induced an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) whereas calcium influx during the second phase is a consequence of somatotrope depolarization.
In larval lamprey, locomotor activity recorded from whole animals and in vitro brain/spinal cord preparations was analyzed to determine how two parameters of locomotor activity, burst proportion (BP; relative duration of motor burst activity) and intersegmental phase lag (phi; normalized delay of burst activity along one side of the body), vary with changes in cycle time (T). In individual animals, the slopes of BP and phi versus T were compared using linear regression analysis, followed by statistical analysis of the slopes to determine whether the parameters changed significantly with variations in cycle time. For locomotor muscle activity in whole animals, the BP values increased significantly with decreases in T (i.e. negative slopes), while the slopes for phi values versus T were not significantly different from zero. For locomotor activity in preparations in vitro, the mean slopes for BP values versus T, although negative, were not significantly different from zero, and phase lags were also relatively constant with changes in cycle time. Increases in BP with decreases in cycle time and increases in swimming speed can be expected to generate proportionately more force per cycle, presumably to compensate for the increase in viscous resistance of moving the body more rapidly through water. By contrast, constant intersegmental phase lags will ensure that the relative timing of locomotor burst activity is constant and that an approximately single S-wave along the body is retained during different swimming speeds.
Cilia are small organelles protruding from the cell surface that beat synchronously, producing biological transport. Despite intense research for over a century, the mechanisms underlying ciliary beating are still not well understood. Even the nature of the cytosolic molecules required for spontaneous and stimulated beating is debatable. In an effort to resolve fundamental questions related to cilia beating, we developed a method that integrates the whole-cell mode of the patch-clamp technique with ciliary beat frequency measurements on a single cell. This method enables to control the composition of the intracellular solution while the cilia remain intact, thus providing a unique tool to simultaneously investigate the biochemical and physiological mechanism of ciliary beating. Thus far, we investigated whether the spontaneous and stimulated states of cilia beating are controlled by the same intracellular molecular mechanisms. It was found that: (a) MgATP was sufficient to support spontaneous beating. (b) Ca(2+) alone or Ca(2+)-calmodulin at concentrations as high as 1 microM could not alter ciliary beating. (c) In the absence of Ca(2+), cyclic nucleotides produced a moderate rise in ciliary beating while in the presence of Ca(2+) robust enhancement was observed. These results suggest that the axonemal machinery can function in at least two different modes.
We have measured the sensitivity of rod photoreceptors from overnight-dark-adapted Xenopus laevis through developmental stages 46-66 into adulthood by using suction-pipette recording. The dark current increased gradually from approximately 5 pA at stage 46 to approximately 20 pA at stage 57, compared with an adult (metamorphosed) current of approximately 35 pA. This increase in dark current largely paralleled the progressive increase in length and diameter of the rod outer segment (ROS). Throughout stages 46-66, the dark current increased approximately linearly with ROS surface area. At stage 53, there was a steep (approximately 10-fold) increase in the rod flash sensitivity, accompanied by a steep increase in the time-to-peak of the half-saturated flash response. This covariance of sensitivity and time-to-peak suggested a change in the state of adaptation of rods at stage 53 and thereafter. When the isolated retina was preincubated with 11-cis-retinal, the flash sensitivity and the response time-to-peak of rods before stage 53 became similar to those at or after stage 53, suggesting that the presence of free opsin (i.e., visual pigment without chromophore) in rods before stage 53 was responsible for the adapted state (low sensitivity and short time-to-peak). By comparing the response sensitivity before stage 53 to the sensitivity at/after stage 53 measured from rods that had been subjected to various known bleaches, we estimated that 22-28% of rod opsin in stage 50-52 tadpoles (i.e., before stage 53) was devoid of chromophore despite overnight dark-adaptation. When continuously dark adapted for 7 d or longer, however, even tadpoles before stage 53 yielded rods with similar flash sensitivity and response time-to-peak as those of later-stage animals. In conclusion, it appears that chromophore regeneration is very slow in tadpoles before stage 53, but this regeneration becomes much more efficient at stage 53. A similar delay in the maturity of chromophore regeneration may partially underlie the low sensitivity of rods observed in newborn mammals, including human infants.
Since antiquity yawning has attracted a moderate interest among philosophers, psychologists, physiologists, as well as educators, moralists and physicians. Organisms from birds to men and from the womb to the deathbed were found to be displaying it. While sometimes satisfying to the producer, its display is offensive to the lay observer. Hippocrates had it on his lists of useful 'natures.' Aristotle dropped a few words on the matter. Boerhaave elevated its function to the intellect of animals. Haller has commented on its relation to the acoustic system, blood-flow, and baby sleep. Darwin mentioned it in connection with emotional behavior. Some modern authors praised its beneficial effects on respiration and smell. In the 1960s, Ashley Montagu tried to correct the contemporary failure to explain the behavior by the fact of raised CO2 and arterial compression. It also interested some neurologists, especially in its association with the encephalitis lethargica in the 1920s, with 'spasmodic yawning,' with epilepsy, not to speak of hysteria. As to boredom or its stimulus, a 40-page dissertation survives from the court of Frederick the Great of the 18th century condemning idleness, a subject that also inspired Blaise Pascal and William James. But in the Hindu world, public yawning was a religious offense.
More than a century and a half has elapsed since the first accounts of mesodermal phagocytic elements were proposed within the central nervous system. Over the intervening decades, body and substance were added to this concept through the advancement of histological techniques at the disposal of the researcher and the acute and keen-minded skills of the pathologist. Notable among these pioneering efforts were the contributions of W. Ford Robertson, Santiago Ramon y Cajal, Pio del Rio-Hortega and Wilder Penfield amongst an entire cavalcade of other noteworthy figures. The term 'mesoglia' and 'third element of the nervous system' was bestowed upon these cells towards the beginning of the twentieth century to account for their separate origins from neurons and macroglia. It was later amended by del Rio-Hortega in 1919, to 'microglia' in order to further discriminate between true mesodermal elements and oligodendrocytes, previously regarded as a component of 'mesoglia'. This particular contention sparked much controversy among del Rio-Hortega's peers and resulted in an escalation of fruitful research throughout Europe that eventually declined up to the outbreak of the Second World War. The post-war years were a period of the 'dark ages' that cast doubt on the very existence and nature of microglia, until the 'renaissance' of research was once again rejuvenated in the 1960s, by a new cohort of intrigued minds: Cammermeyer, Blinzinger, Kreutzberg and others who saw in the 'third element' the potential that is now commonly ascribed to microglia: the intrinsic immune effector cells of the CNS. It is now universally accepted that microglia are involved as the first line of rapid defence in any pathology of the nervous system, and as such, present a diagnostic tool for the neuropathologist. Although our knowledge of microglia stems from an extensive body of work conducted over the last two decades, much of the earlier work (pre-1960s) has remained somewhat obscure. This is partly accountable due to the limited availability of translated works, and additionally to the lack of a compendium of these articles. This paper will present a comprehensive overview of the pioneering research on mononuclear phagocytes within the central nervous system, which has direct bearing on our present-day understanding of the concept of microglia.
One of the unsolved key questions in neuroimmunomodulation is how peripheral immune signals are transmitted to the brain. It has been reported that the vagus might play a role in this regard. The underlying mechanism for this immune system-to-brain communication route is related to the binding of cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1beta originating from activated immune cells, to their receptors in glomus cells of the vagal paraganglia. The existence of IL-1 receptor type I (IL-1RI) in vagal paraganglia has been proved. On the basis of these studies, a hypothesis is raised that the carotid body, as the largest paraganglion, might play a similar role to that of its abdominal partner. In this study we examined the distribution of IL-1RI in the carotid body by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blotting techniques. The IHC results showed that almost all glomus cells in the carotid body displayed strong IL-1RI immunoreactivity. The IL-1RI-immunoreactive products were localized in the cytoplasm, nucleus, and cell membrane of the glomus cells. The Western blotting results also confirmed the existence of IL-1RI in both membranous and cytoplasmic elements of the carotid body. These results imply that the carotid body not only serves as a chemoreceptor for modulation of cardiorespiratory performance, as traditionally recognized, but also acts as a cytokine chemorereceptor for sensing immune signals.
Immunostaining in transgenic mice carrying the lac z gene can be used to map gene and protein distribution in a single tissue. In this study, we examined inner ears from ephrin-B3 homozygous and ephrin-B2 heterozygous mice. Ephrin-B3 lac z expression was limited in these mice. However, immunostaining revealed ephrin-B3 throughout cochlear and vestibular regions. Immunoreactivity was absent in ephrin-B3-homozygous null mutants, demonstrating the specificity of the antibody. Ephrin-B2 lac z reactivity was detected in a limited number of cells in cochlear and vestibular regions. Different immunostaining patterns were found with different antibodies. Comparison with lac z expression indicated which antibody was specific for the transmembrane-bound ephrin-B2 ligand.
Enhancing myelin repair remains an important therapeutic goal in primary demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) such as multiple sclerosis (MS). The emerging heterogeneity of pathology within MS lesions, and differential oligodendrocyte survival in particular, suggests that therapeutic strategies may need to be tailored to an individual patient's requirements. A number of therapeutic strategies have been proposed to enhance myelin repair in the CNS: cell transplantation, growth factor therapy, and antibody therapy, but each proposed therapy has different implications with respect to pathogenetic mechanisms of demyelination. Of these, antibody therapy is the most amenable to immediate application in patients-but a combination of therapeutic approaches may be required in practice.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disorder of the human brain caused by infection with the human polyomavirus, JC. Up to 80% of humans express serum antibodies to JC virus (JCV), yet considerably fewer people develop PML-predominantly those under immunosuppressive conditions. Recent research showed JCV infection in multiple tissues throughout the body, suggesting sites for viral latency. These observations allow the proposal of pathways that JCV may use from sites of initial infection to the brain. Results from investigations into cell-surface receptors, intracellular DNA-binding proteins, and variant viral regulatory regions also suggest mechanisms that may regulate cellular susceptibility to JCV infection. Together, these data elucidate how JCV may establish infection in various cell types, persist latently or become reactivated, and ultimately reach the brain to cause PML.
Chemokines and their receptors govern physiologic and pathologic leukocyte trafficking. The function of the chemokine system may be of particular interest for hematogenous leukocyte infiltration of the central nervous system (CNS) because of the distinct character of CNS inflammation and the exquisite specificity with which the chemokine system regulates cellular migration events. This review summarizes recent information about the expression and function of elements of the chemokine system in CNS inflammatory processes. Animal models of CNS demyelinating disease and the corresponding human disorder, multiple sclerosis are both considered.
In the central nervous system, activities of numerous neurons are integrated to constitute a number of major functional blocks, each characterized by unique structural and functional features. Five controller systems are centers of reflexes, compound movements and innate behaviors in the brainstem and spinal cord and those of the sensory/motor and executive/cognitive functions in the cerebral neocortex. Four regulator systems are the sleep-wakefulness centers in the brainstem, cerebellum, basal ganglia and limbic system. This article describes characteristic features of these nine systems based on current knowledge of neuroscience, and attempts to account for several important aspects of the central nervous system (hierarchy, top-down operation, internal model and will) by compounding these component functions.
There is significant interest amongst neuroscientists in sharing neuroscience data and analytical tools. The exchange of neuroscience data and tools between groups affords the opportunity to differently re-analyze previously collected data, encourage new neuroscience interpretations and foster otherwise uninitiated collaborations, and provide a framework for the further development of theoretically based models of brain function. Data sharing will ultimately reduce experimental and analytical error. Many small Internet accessible database initiatives have been developed and specialized analytical software and modeling tools are distributed within different fields of neuroscience. However, in addition large-scale international collaborations are required which involve new mechanisms of coordination and funding. Provided sufficient government support is given to such international initiatives, sharing of neuroscience data and tools can play a pivotal role in human brain research and lead to innovations in neuroscience, informatics and treatment of brain disorders. These innovations will enable application of theoretical modeling techniques to enhance our understanding of the integrative aspects of neuroscience. This article, authored by a multinational working group on neuroinformatics established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), articulates some of the challenges and lessons learned to date in efforts to achieve international collaborative neuroscience.
The polarized distribution of ion channels into an apical or a basolateral domain is a fundamental feature of the transporting-epithelial phenotype. To study the molecular motifs of the channel that may serve as addressing signal(s), as well as the cellular mechanisms that interpret it and deliver the protein accordingly, we study the fate of transfected ShIR K+ channels (a non-inactivating Shaker channel) tagged with an HA epitope, as well as several other deletants and mutants. Surface expression is triggered by Ca2+-activated cell-cell contacts, through a cascade including a phospholipase C, a protein kinase C, and the cytoskeleton of actin and tubulin, and is partially impaired by suppressing N-glycosylation with tunicamycin. Using domain-specific biotinylation we show that the channel is delivered preferentially to the basolateral domain thanks to a segment between amino acids 571 and 613, and is retained on the membrane surface due to a region involving the last three amino acids (threonine, aspartic acid, valine, TDV) of the COOH terminal. Its association with the cytoskeleton seems to take the form of a scaffold comprising actin, a-actinin, b-tubulin, mLin7 and CASK. We also observe that membrane expression of ShIR channels depends entirely on its sequence of amino acids and the conformation that the molecule may adopt, but not on its ability to translocate K+ across the membrane.
Filamentous inclusions made of phosphorylated tau constitute a neuropathologic hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Because abnormal accumulation of tau correlates with the decline in cognitive function, it is conceivable that effective intervention at the early stage of tau filament assembly could impede the progression of these neurodegnerative diseases. Cellular models recapitulating the tau aberration are useful for screening and identifying compounds that are capable of interfering with tau aggregation in a cost-effective manner. To develop such cell culture models, we have established from human neuroglioma [H4] and neuronal [BE(2)-M17D] cells conditional transfectants whose transgenic expression of wild-type or mutant tau via inducible expression mechanisms leads to tau aggregation and filament assembly.
Right- and left-handers (n = 16 in each group) were tested on a bimanual circle task that required drawing either in the same direction (parallel) or in a mirror symmetrical coordination mode with the two hands. The authors' primary purposes were to examine the effect of circle direction on within-hand and between-hands variables and to determine whether the relation between hand lead and coordination mode (parallel or mirror symmetrical) differs for left- and right-handers. A strong relation was found between lead hand and movement condition, which depended on the direction of the movements and whether the task was parallel or mirror symmetrical. The pattern of results was similar for left- and right-handers on parallel tasks, but group differences were found with respect to mirror symmetrical tasks. At odds with the general claim that the dominant hand leads, the present results indicated that hand dominance does not generally determine which hand leads.
Serum amyloid P component (SAP) and complement C1q are found highly co-localized with extracellular fibrillar amyloidbeta (Abeta) deposits in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Conflicting data were reported earlier about the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of SAP and C1q in AD compared to controls. The objective of the present study was to compare the levels of Abeta(1-42), tau, C1q and SAP in CSF of a well characterized group of AD patients and controls, and to assess the association with dementia severity. Significantly decreased CSF levels of Abeta(1-42) were observed in the AD group (480 +/- 104 ng/L) as compared to controls (1,040 +/- 213 ng/L), whereas tau levels were significantly higher in patients with AD (618 +/- 292 ng/L) than in controls (277 +/- 136 ng/L). Combining the results of Abeta(1-42) and tau measurements resulted in a clear separation between the AD group and the controls. No significant differences in CSF levels of SAP and C1q were observed between the well characterized AD patients and non demented control group. Furthermore, we could not demonstrate a correlation between SAP and C1q CSF levels and the severity of the disease, expressed in Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores. Therefore, in our opinion these factors can be excluded from the list of potentially interesting biomarkers for AD diagnosis and progression.
The antibody-mediated autoimmune response to alpha1 muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that causes myasthenia gravis is one of the best characterized autoimmune diseases. Antibody-mediated autoimmune responses to neuronal nicotinic receptors are just beginning to be discovered and characterized. One of these causes dysautonomia through antibodies to alpha 3 nicotinic receptors of autonomic ganglia. Another causes pemphigus through antibodies to alpha 9 nicotinic receptors in skin. Other autoimmune responses to nicotinic receptors may be discovered as the many functional roles of nicotinic receptors are revealed.
The neostriatum (dorsal striatum) is composed of the caudate and putamen. The ventral striatum is the ventral conjunction of the caudate and putamen that merges into and includes the nucleus accumbens and striatal portions of the olfactory tubercle. About 2% of the striatal neurons are cholinergic. Most cholinergic neurons in the central nervous system make diffuse projections that sparsely innervate relatively broad areas. In the striatum, however, the cholinergic neurons are interneurons that provide very dense local innervation. The cholinergic interneurons provide an ongoing acetylcholine (ACh) signal by firing action potentials tonically at about 5 Hz. A high concentration of acetylcholinesterase in the striatum rapidly terminates the ACh signal, and thereby minimizes desensitization of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Among the many muscarinic and nicotinic striatal mechanisms, the ongoing nicotinic activity potently enhances dopamine release. This process is among those in the striatum that link the two extensive and dense local arbors of the cholinergic interneurons and dopaminergic afferent fibers. During a conditioned motor task, cholinergic interneurons respond with a pause in their tonic firing. It is reasonable to hypothesize that this pause in the cholinergic activity alters action potential dependent dopamine release. The correlated response of these two broad and dense neurotransmitter systems helps to coordinate the output of the striatum, and is likely to be an important process in sensorimotor planning and learning.
Most visceral organs are under the control of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Information on the state and function of these organs is constantly relayed to the central nervous system (CNS) by sensory afferent fibers. The CNS integrates the sensory inputs and sends neural commands back to the organ through the ANS. The autonomic ganglia are the final site for the integration of the message traveling from the CNS. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are the main mediators of fast synaptic transmission in ganglia, and therefore, are key molecules for the processing of neural information in the ANS. This review focuses on the role of nAChRs in the control of organ systems such as heart, gut, and bladder. The autonomic control of these organ systems is discussed in the light of the results obtained from the analysis of mice carrying mutations targeted to nAChR subunits expressed in the ANS.
Individual cholinoceptive neurons express high levels of different neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes, and target them to the appropriate synaptic regions for proper function. This review focuses on the intercellular and intracellular processes that regulate nAChR expression in vertebrate peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) neurons. Specifically, we discuss the cellular and molecular mechanisms that govern the induction and maintenance of nAChR expression-innervation, target tissue interactions, soluble factors, and activity. We define the regulatory principles of interneuronal nicotinic synapse differentiation that have emerged from these studies. We also discuss the molecular players that target nAChRs to the surface membrane and the interneuronal synapse.
Neurogenesis occurs in the adult mammalian brain and may play roles in learning and memory processes and recovery from injury, suggesting that abnormalities in neural progenitor cells (NPC) might contribute to the pathogenesis of disorders of learning and memory in humans. The objectives of this study were to determine whether NPC proliferation, survival and neuronal differentiation are impaired in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and to determine the effects of the pathogenic form of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) on the survival and neuronal differentiation of cultured NPC. The proliferation and survival of NPC in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus was reduced in mice transgenic for a mutated form of amyloid precursor protein that causes early onset familial AD. Abeta impaired the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of cultured human and rodent NPC, and promoted apoptosis of neuron-restricted NPC by a mechanism involving dysregulation of cellular calcium homeostasis and the activation of calpains and caspases. Adverse effects of Abeta on NPC may contribute to the depletion of neurons and cognitive impairment in AD.
Transgenic mice (JNPL3), which develop neurofibrillary degeneration and express four-repeat human tau with P301L missense mutation, were characterized biochemically to determine whether the development of aggregated tau from soluble tau involves an intermediate stage. Homogenates from mice of different ages were separated into buffer-soluble (S1), sarkosyl- and salt-extractable (S2) and sarkosyl-insoluble pellet (P3) fractions, and analyzed for human tau distribution, phosphorylation and filament formation. S1 and S2 fractions contained 50-60-kDa tau whereas the S2 fraction also had 64-kDa tau. The level of tau in the P3 fraction increased in an age-dependent manner and correlated positively with the soluble tau concentration. The P3 fraction from 2.5-6.5-month-old mice contained 64- and 50-60-kDa tau, whereas that from 8.5-month and older transgenic animals contained mostly 64-kDa and higher molecular weight tau. The S2 and P3 fractions contained comparable amounts of 64-kDa tau. The 64-kDa tau was predominantly human, and phosphorylated at multiple sites: Thr181, Ser202/Thr205, Thr212, Thr231, Ser262, Ser396/Ser404, Ser409 and Ser422. Most of these sites were phosphorylated to a lesser extent in S2 than in P3 fractions. Tau polymers were detected in P3 fractions from 3-month and older female JNPL3 mice, but not in non-transgenic controls. The results suggest that tau in S2 represents an intermediate from which insoluble tau is derived, and that phosphorylation may play a role in filament formation and/or stabilization.
To access and compare gene expression in fetal neuroepithelial cells (NEPs) and progenitor cells, we have used microarrays containing approximately 500 known genes related to cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, growth and differentiation. We have identified 152 genes that are expressed in NEPs and 209 genes expressed by progenitor cells. The majority of genes (141) detected in NEPs are also present in progenitor populations. There are 68 genes specifically expressed in progenitors with little or no expression in NEPs, and a few genes that appear to be present exclusively in NEPs. Using cell sorting, RT-PCR, in situ hybridization or immunocytochemistry, we have examined the segregation of expression to neuronal and glial progenitors, and identified several that appeared to be enriched in neuronal (e.g. CDK5, neuropilin, EphrinB2, FGF11) or glial (e.g. CXCR4, RhoC, CD44, tenascin C) precursors. Our data provide a first report of gene expression profiles of neural stem and progenitor cells at early stages of development, and provide evidence for the potential roles of specific cell cycle regulators, chemokines, cytokines and extracellular matrix molecules in neural development and lineage segregation.
We have introduced a series of point mutations into the human opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor and characterized them for their ability to constitutively activate G protein-coupled receptor signalling pathways. Among the 12 mutants generated, mutation at Asn133 (N133W) gave increased basal signalling through three separate pathways. N133W increased the basal activity of G14- and G16-dependent pathways by two- to three-fold. The constitutive activity of the mutant was confirmed by the finding that the enhanced activity is dependent on the level of receptor expression. In HEK-293 cells stably expressing N133W, signalling through Gi/o-dependent pathways was also observed. Radioligand binding studies revealed that the affinity for nociceptin of the wild-type ORL1 receptor and the N133W mutant do not differ significantly, suggesting that the ligand binding and signalling functions of constitutively active mutants of G protein-coupled receptors are not necessarily intrinsically linked. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that a mutation in the third transmembrane domain is able to increase the basal signalling activity of the human ORL1 receptor.
The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is the receptor portion of the accessory olfactory system and transduces chemical cues that identify social hierarchy, reproductive status, conspecifics and prey. Signal transduction in VNO neurons is apparently accomplished via an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-activated calcium conductance that includes a different set of G proteins than those identified in vertebrate olfactory sensory neurons. We used immunohistochemical (IHC) and SDS-PAGE/western analysis to localize three IP3 receptors (IP3R) in the rat VNO epithelium. Type-I IP3R expression was weak or absent. Antisera for type-II and -III IP3R recognized appropriate molecular weight proteins by SDS-PAGE, and labeled protein could be abolished by pre-adsorption of the respective antibody with antigenic peptide. In tissue sections, type-II IP3R immunoreactivity was present in the supporting cell zone but not in the sensory cell zone. Type-III IP3R immunoreactivity was present throughout the sensory zone and overlapped that of transient receptor potential channel 2 (TRPC2) in the microvillar layer of sensory epithelium. Co-immunoprecipitation of type-III IP3R and TRPC2 from VNO lysates confirmed the overlapping immunoreactivity patterns. The protein-protein interaction complex between type-III IP3R and TRPC2 could initiate calcium signaling leading to electrical signal production in VNO neurons.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) promotes neurite outgrowth and inhibits proliferation of rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Characterizing the PACAP-differentiated PC12 cell transcriptome should provide genetic insight into how these processes occur in these cells, and in neuronal precursors in vivo. For this purpose, RNA samples were collected from PC12 cells before or after a 6-h treatment with PACAP, from which a labeled cDNA was hybridized to a high-density cDNA array containing 15 365 genes. The genomic response to PACAP involves at least 73 genes. Among the genes differentially expressed in the presence of PACAP, 71% were up regulated, and 29% down regulated, 2-fold or more. Sixty-six percent of the messages affected by PACAP code for functionally categorized proteins, most not previously known to be regulated during PC12 cell differentiation. PACAP has been shown to induce PC12 cell neurite outgrowth through the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) pathway independently of protein kinase A (PKA). Therefore treatments were conducted in the absence or presence of the PKA inhibitor H89, or the MEK inhibitor U0126 in order to identify subsets of genes involved in specific aspects of PC12 cell differentiation. Co-treatment of PC12 cells with PACAP plus H89 revealed a cluster of five genes specifically regulated through the PKA pathway and co-treatment of the cells with PACAP and U0126 revealed a cluster of 13 messages specifically activated through the MEK pathway. Many of the known genes regulated by PACAP have been associated with neuritogenesis (i.e. villin 2 or annexin A2) or cell growth (i.e. growth arrest specific 1 or cyclin B2). Thus, some of the expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that exhibit the same regulation pattern (i.e. AU016391 or AW552690) may also be involved in the neuritogenic and anti-mitogenic effects of PACAP in PC12 cells. Among the 73 PACAP regulated genes, 10 are disqualified on pharmacological grounds as actors in PACAP-mediated neurite outgrowth or growth arrest, leaving 63 new PACAP-regulated genes implicated in neuronal differentiation. Thirteen of these are candidates for mediating ERK-dependent neurite outgrowth, and 47 are possibly involved in the ERK-independent growth arrest induced by PACAP.
The effect of Gi/o protein-coupled receptors on adenylyl cyclase type 2 (AC2) has been studied in Sf9 insect cells. Stimulation of cells expressing AC2 with the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) led to a twofold stimulation of cAMP synthesis that could be blocked with the protein kinase C inhibitor GF109203X. Activation of a coexpressed alpha2A-adrenoceptor or muscarinic M4 receptor inhibited the stimulation by TPA almost completely in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. Activation of Gs proteins switched the response of the alpha2A-adrenoceptor to potentiation of prestimulated AC2 activity. The potentiation, but not the inhibition, could be blocked by a Gbetagamma scavenger. A novel methodological approach, whereby signalling through endogenous G proteins was ablated, was used to assess specific G protein species in the signal pathway. Expression of Go proteins (alphao1 + beta1gamma2) restored both the inhibition and the potentiation, whereas expression of Gi proteins (alphai1 + beta1gamma2) resulted in a potentiation of both the TPA- and the Gs-stimulated AC2 activity. The data presented supports the view of AC2 as a molecular switch and implicates this isoform as a target for Go protein-linked signalling.
CD44 is a transmembrane glycoprotein known to be involved in endothelial cell recognition, lymphocyte trafficking, and regulation of cytokine gene expression in inflammatory diseases. In the present study, we demonstrated that the expression of CD44 mRNA was induced in a mouse model of cerebral ischemia. A potential role of CD44 in ischemic brain injury was investigated using CD44-deficient (CD44-/-) mice. Over 50% (p &lt; 0.05, n = 14) and 78% (p &lt; 0.05, n = 10) reduction in ischemic infarct was observed in CD44-/- mice compared with that of wild-type mice following transient (30 min ischemia) and permanent (24 h) occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO), respectively. Similarly, significant improvement was observed in neurological function in CD44-/- mice as evidenced by spontaneous and forced motor task scores. The marked protection from ischemic brain injury in CD44-/- mice was associated with normal physiological parameters, cytokine gene expression, astrocyte and microglia activation as compared with wild-type mice. However, in CD44-/- mice, significantly lower expression of soluble interleukin-1beta protein was noted after brain ischemia. Our data provide new evidence on the potential role of CD44 in brain tissue in response to ischemia and may suggest that this effect might be associated with selective reduction in inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1beta.
In this study, we monitored the direct expression of P2 receptors for extracellular ATP in cerebellar granule neurons undergoing metabolism impairment. Glucose deprivation for 30-60 min inhibited P2Y1 receptor protein, only weakly modulated P2X1, P2X2 and P2X3, and up-regulated by about two-fold P2X4, P2X7 and P2Y4. The P2X/Y antagonist basilen blue, protecting cerebellar neurons from hypoglycemic cell death, maintained within basal levels only the expression of P2X7 and P2Y4 proteins, but not P2X4 or P2Y1. Glucose starvation transiently increased (up to three-fold) the expression of NGFRp75 receptor protein and strongly stimulated the extracellular release of nerve growth factor (NGF; about 10-fold). Exogenously added NGF then augmented hypoglycemic neuronal death by about 60%, increasing the percentage of Hechst-positive nuclei (from approximately 62 to 95%), reducing lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release (from about 50 to 14%) and significantly overstimulating the hypoglycemia-induced expression of P2X7 and P2Y4. Conversely, extracellular ATP augmented hypoglycemic neuronal death by about 80%, reducing the number of Hechst-positive nuclei (from approximately 62% to 14%), augmenting LDH outflow (by about 30%) and further increasing the hypoglycemia-induced expression of NGFRp75. Our results indicate that P2 and NGFRp75 receptors are modulated during glucose starvation and that extracellular ATP and NGF drive features of, respectively, necrotic and apoptotic hypoglycemic cell death, aggravating the consequences of metabolism impairment in cerebellar primary neurons.
22R-hydroxycholesterol, a steroid intermediate in the pathway of pregnenolone formation from cholesterol, was found at lower levels in Alzheimer's disease (AD) hippocampus and frontal cortex tissue specimens compared to age-matched controls. beta-Amyloid (Abeta) peptide has been shown to be neurotoxic and its presence in brain has been linked to AD pathology. 22R-hydroxycholesterol was found to protect, in a dose-dependent manner, against Abeta-induced rat sympathetic nerve pheochromocytoma (PC12) and differentiated human Ntera2/D1 teratocarcinoma (NT2N) neuron cell death. Other steroids tested were either inactive or acted on rodent neurons only. The effect of 22R-hydroxycholesterol was found to be stereospecific because its enantiomer 22S-hydroxycholesterol failed to protect the neurons from Abeta-induced cell death. Moreover, the effect of 22R-hydroxycholesterol was specific for Abeta-induced cell death because it did not protect against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. The neuroprotective effect of 22R-hydroxycholesterol was seen when using Abeta1-42 but not the Abeta25-35 peptide. To investigate the mechanism of action of 22R-hydroxycholesterol we examined the direct binding of this steroid to Abeta using a novel cholesterol-protein binding blot assay. Using this method the direct specific binding, under native conditions, of 22R-hydroxycholesterol to Abeta1-42 and Abeta17-40, but not Abeta25-35, was observed. These data suggest that 22R-hydroxycholesterol binds to Abeta and the formed 22R-hydroxycholesterol/Abeta complex is not toxic to rodent and human neurons. We propose that 22R-hydroxycholesterol offers a new means of neuroprotection against Abeta toxicity by inactivating the peptide.
Nicastrin, a type-I transmembrane glycoprotein, is a necessary component of the high molecular weight presenilin (PS) complexes that mediate intramembranous cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and Notch. Nicastrin undergoes trafficking-dependent glycosylation maturation, and PS1 interacts preferentially with these maturely glycosylated forms of nicastrin. We investigated the effects of differing levels of the immature and mature endoglycosidase-H-resistant forms of nicastrin on Abeta40- and Abeta42-peptide secretion in several cell lines stably expressing a mutant nicastrin (D336A/Y337A) that increases Abeta secretion. There was no correlation between Abeta secretion and the level of over-expression of the immature forms of nicastrin. The total level of mature nicastrin remained constant, but mutant nicastrin replaced endogenous mature nicastrin in varying degrees. Differences in the levels of mature mutant nicastrin positively correlated with Abeta secretion, but did not influence either betaAPP trafficking or processing by alpha- and beta-secretases. Proper trafficking and terminal maturation of nicastrin is therefore a necessary event for the regulated intramembranous proteolysis of betaAPP.
Dominant subordinate relationships are formed as the result of social conflict and are maintained at least in part by communication. At this time, little is known about the neural mechanisms that are responsible for coordinating the social behaviours (e.g. aggression) that occur in association with the formation and maintenance of these relationships. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of oxytocin (OXT) within the medial preoptic anterior hypothalamic continuum (MPOA-AH) in the control of aggression in female hamsters. OXT injected into the MPOA-AH immediately before testing significantly reduced the duration of aggression in a dose-dependent manner. Injection of an OXT antagonist 30 min before testing significantly increased the duration of aggression. In contrast, the duration of aggression was not altered when hamsters were tested either 30 min after injection of OXT or immediately following injection of an OXT-antagonist. These data support the hypothesis that OXT release within the MPOA-AH regulates social behaviours important in the formation and maintenance of dominant subordinate relationships in female hamsters.
Parvocellular neurones of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) comprise neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory subpopulations. We labelled neurosecretory neurones with intravenous injection of the retrograde tracer, fluoro-gold, and recorded from fluoro-gold-positive and negative PVN parvocellular neurones in hypothalamic slices. Non-neurosecretory parvocellular neurones generated a low-threshold spike (LTS) and robust T-type Ca2+ current, whereas neurosecretory neurones showed no LTS and a small T-current. LTS neurones were located in non-neurosecretory regions of the PVN, and non-LTS neurones were located in neurosecretory regions of the PVN. These findings indicate that neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory subtypes of parvocellular PVN neurones express distinct membrane electrical properties.
In the present study, we characterized the intracellular pathway involved in the macrophage production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and the molecular mechanisms by which cyclic AMP (cAMP) regulates the neurotoxic inflammatory signaling cascade in response to the 105 amino acid carboxyl-terminal fragment (CT105) of amyloid precursor protein, a candidate of alternative toxic elements in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. CT105 in combination with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) elicited a robust and sustained increase of TNF-alpha production due to enhanced TNF-alpha mRNA transcription, mediated via increased nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in human macrophages derived from monocytic THP-1 cells. A mechanistic analysis revealed that the cAMP analog, dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP), or the adenyl cyclase activator, forskolin, effectively suppressed the stimulant-induced TNF-alpha production by reducing the nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB. The inhibitory mechanisms manifested by dbcAMP included the decreased phosphorylation/degradation of NF-kappaB inhibitor (IkappaB) followed by its increased synthesis/stability. Importantly, this macrophage derived TNF-alpha appears to be a key pathological mediator of the resultant neurotoxicity, which was attenuated by increased cAMP levels during macrophage stimulation with CT105. These findings provide evidence, which supports an important role of CT105 as a potent macrophage stimulator eliciting NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory signals for excess TNF-alpha production, which in turn ultimately leads to the neurotoxicity. In addition, the detailed inhibitory mechanism of cAMP action implies that an increased cAMP level could be benefit against AD progression.

The cause of peripheral neuropathy associated with tuberculosis is controversial. Possibilities include an immune mediated neuropathy, direct invasion of nerves, vasculitic neuropathy, compressive neuropathy, a meningitic reaction, and the toxic effects of antituberculous chemotherapy. This report describes the unusual finding of granulomas in the peripheral nerve of a patient with tuberculosis. The pathological findings were of a delayed hypersensitivity reaction, but with no more specific indications of the mechanism of the neuropathy.


The growing use of email and the world wide web (WWW), by the public, academics, and clinicians-as well as the increasing availability of high quality information on the WWW-make a working knowledge of the internet important. Although this article aims to enhance readers' existing use of the internet and medical resources on the WWW, it is also intelligible to someone unfamiliar with the internet. A web browser is one of the central pieces of software in modern computing: it is a window on the WWW, file transfer protocol sites, networked newsgroups, and your own computer's files. Effective use of the internet for professional purposes requires an understanding of the best strategies to search the WWW and the mechanisms for ensuring secure data transfer, as well as a compendium of online resources including journals, textbooks, medical portals, and sites providing high quality patient information. This article summarises these resources, available to incorporate into your web browser as downloadable &quot;Favorites&quot; or &quot;Bookmarks&quot; from www.jnnp.com, where there are also freely accessible hypertext links to the recommended sites.
While it is known that autoimmune cells can protect against cell damage following traumatic injury of the brain, the role of autoantibodies in brain injury is less clear. Here we present evidence in adult rats that following a cortical lesion of the brain, circulating IgG autoantibodies bind to dying neurons in the vicinity of the lesion. At intervals that ranged from 4 h to 7 days after making a unilateral lesion of visual cortex, we observed neurons near the lesion that were immunopositive for rat IgG. Many of these IgG-positive neurons were in advanced stages of degeneration. The magnitude of the immunostaining observed was directly proportional to the percent reactivity to rat IgG of the antibodies that were used. Preadsorption of the antibodies with rat serum eliminated the immunostaining. In addition, immunostaining for serum albumin in sections through the cortical lesion was negative, supporting the conclusion that the positive staining for IgG does not result from the passive diffusion of serum proteins into injured cells. Instead, the evidence presented here strongly suggests that naturally occurring IgG autoantibodies bind specifically to dying neurons in the injured brain. We propose that this autoantibody binding may participate in the phagocytosis and removal of injured neurons.
The CA2 sector of the hippocampus is relatively resistant to neurofibrillary tangles in aging and Alzheimer disease; however, some cases have selective neurofibrillary degeneration in CA2 with sparing of the more vulnerable CA1 sector. Cases such as this do not fit in the Braak and Braak staging scheme and can be considered to have an atypical pattern of neurofibrillary degeneration. We identified 24 atypical cases with an average age at death of 78.6 +/- 1.4 yr and average Braak stage of 3.2 +/- 0.4 and describe their pathologic and genetic characteristics with Gallyas silver staining, immunohistochemistry for tau and alphaB-crystallin, as well as apolipoprotein-E (ApoE) and tau genotyping. Three cases were excluded from further analysis due to presence of hippocampal sclerosis. All but 1 of the remaining 21 atypical cases were four-repeat (4R) tauopathies, including progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and argyrophilic grain disease (AGD). Remarkably, 19 of the 21 atypical cases were pure or mixed cases of AGD. The ApoE epsilon4 allele frequency was similar to normal controls, while there was a trend for an increased frequency of the extended tau H1 haplotype in atypical cases. Selective neurofibrillary degeneration in CA2 sector of the hippocampus is not widely recognized, but when detected should suggest the possibility of a 4R-tauopathy, particularly AGD.
Previous work in squirrel monkeys has demonstrated the presence of linear and nonlinear components to the horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) evoked by high-acceleration rotations. The nonlinear component is seen as a rise in gain with increasing velocity of rotation at frequencies more than 2 Hz (a velocity-dependent gain enhancement). We have shown that there are greater changes in the nonlinear than linear component of the response after spectacle-induced adaptation. The present study was conducted to determine if the two components of the response share a common adaptive process. The gain of the VOR, in the dark, to sinusoidal stimuli at 4 Hz (peak velocities: 20-150 degrees /s) and 10 Hz (peak velocities: 20 and 100 degrees /s) was measured pre- and postadaptation. Adaptation was induced over 4 h with x0.45 minimizing spectacles. Sum-of-sines stimuli were used to induce adaptation, and the parameters of the stimuli were adjusted to invoke only the linear or both linear and nonlinear components of the response. Preadaptation, there was a velocity-dependent gain enhancement at 4 and 10 Hz. In postadaptation with the paradigms that only recruited the linear component, there was a decrease in gain and a persistent velocity-dependent gain enhancement (indicating adaptation of only the linear component). After adaptation with the paradigm designed to recruit both the linear and nonlinear components, there was a decrease in gain and no velocity-dependent gain enhancement (indicating adaptation of both components). There were comparable changes in the response to steps of acceleration. We interpret these results to indicate that separate processes drive the adaptation of the linear and nonlinear components of the response.
Sensory signal convergence is a fundamental and important aspect of brain function. Such convergence may often involve complex multidimensional interactions as those proposed for the processing of otolith and semicircular canal (SCC) information for the detection of translational head movements and the effective discrimination from physically congruent gravity signals. In the present study, we have examined the responses of primate rostral vestibular nuclei (VN) neurons that do not exhibit any eye movement-related activity using 0.5-Hz translational and three-dimensional (3D) rotational motion. Three distinct neural populations were identified. Approximately one-fourth of the cells exclusively encoded rotational movements (canal-only neurons) and were unresponsive to translation. The canal-only central neurons encoded head rotation in SCC coordinates, exhibited little orthogonal canal convergence, and were characterized with significantly higher sensitivities to rotation as compared to primary SCC afferents. Another fourth of the neurons modulated their firing rates during translation (otolith-only cells). During rotations, these neurons only responded when the axis of rotation was earth-horizontal and the head was changing orientation relative to gravity. The remaining one-half of VN neurons were sensitive to both rotations and translations (otolith + canal neurons). Unlike primary otolith afferents, however, central neurons often exhibited significant spatiotemporal (noncosine) tuning properties and a wide variety of response dynamics to translation. To characterize the pattern of SCC inputs to otolith + canal neurons, their rotational maximum sensitivity vectors were computed using exclusively responses during earth-vertical axis rotations (EVA). Maximum sensitivity vectors were distributed throughout the 3D space, suggesting strong convergence from multiple SCCs. These neurons were also tested with earth-horizontal axis rotations (EHA), which would activate both vertical canals and otolith organs. However, the recorded responses could not be predicted from a linear combination of EVA rotational and translational responses. In contrast, one-third of the neurons responded similarly during EVA and EHA rotations, although a significant response modulation was present during translation. Thus this subpopulation of otolith + canal cells, which included neurons with either high- or low-pass dynamics to translation, appear to selectively ignore the component of otolith-selective activation that is due to changes in the orientation of the head relative to gravity. Thus contrary to primary otolith afferents and otolith-only central neurons that respond equivalently to tilts relative to gravity and translational movements, approximately one-third of the otolith + canal cells seem to encode a true estimate of the translational component of the imposed passive head and body movement.
In many sensory systems, exposure to a prolonged stimulus causes adaptation, which tends to reduce neural responses to subsequent stimuli. Such effects are usually stimulus-specific, making adaptation a powerful probe into information processing. We used dynamic random dot kinematograms to test the magnitude and selectivity of adaptation effects in the middle temporal area (MT) and to compare them to effects on human motion discrimination. After 3 s of adaptation to a random dot pattern moving in the preferred direction, MT neuronal responses to subsequent test patterns were reduced by 26% on average compared with adaptation to a static pattern. This reduction in response magnitude was largely independent of what test stimulus was presented. However, adaptation in the opposite direction changed responses less often and very inconsistently. Therefore motion adaptation systematically and profoundly affects the neurons in MT representing the adapted direction, but much less those representing the opposite direction. In human psychophysical experiments, such adapting stimuli affected direction discrimination, biasing choices away from the adaptation direction. The magnitude of this perceptual shift was consistent with the magnitude of the changes seen in area MT, if one assumes that a motion comparison step occurs after MT.
Cortical neurons respond in a variety of ways to locally applied dopamine, perhaps because of the activation of different receptors within or among subpopulations of cells. This study was conducted to assess the effects of dopamine and the receptor subtypes that mediate the responses of a specific population of neurons, the pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) in the rodent motor cortex. The specific subfamilies of dopamine receptors expressed by PTNs also were determined. PTNs were identified by antidromic stimulation in intact animals. Extracellular recordings of their spontaneous activity and glutamate-induced excitation were performed with multi-barrel pipettes to allow simultaneous recording and iontophoresis of several drugs. Prolonged (30 s) application of dopamine caused a progressive, nonlinear decrease in spontaneous firing rates for nearly all PTNs, with significant reductions from baseline spontaneous activity (71% of baseline levels) occurring between 20 and 30 s of iontophoresis. The D1 selective (SCH23390) and the D2 selective (eticlopride) antagonists were both effective in blocking dopamine-induced inhibition in nearly all PTNs. Mean firing levels were maintained within 3% of baseline levels during co-application of the D1 antagonist with dopamine and within 11% of baseline levels during co-application of the D2 antagonist and dopamine. SCH23390 was ineffective however, in 2 of 16 PTNs, and eticlopride was ineffective in 3 PTNs. The dopamine blockade by both antagonists in most neurons, along with the selective blockade by one, but not the other antagonist in a few neurons indicate that the overall population of PTNs exhibits a heterogeneous expression of dopamine receptors. The firing rate of PTNs was significantly enhanced by iontophoresis of glutamate (mean = 141% of baseline levels). These increases were attenuated significantly (mean= 98% of baseline) by co-application with dopamine in all PTNs, indicating dopaminergic interactions with glutamate transmission. The expression of dopamine receptors was studied with dual-labeling techniques. PTNs were identified by retrograde labeling with fast blue and the D1a, D2, or D5 receptor proteins were stained immunohistochemically. Some, but not all PTNs, showed labeling for D1a, D2, or D5 receptors. The D1a and D2 receptor immunoreactivity was observed primarily in the somata of PTNs, whereas D5 immunoreactivity extended well into the apical dendrites of PTNs. In accordance with findings of D1 and D2 receptor antagonism of dopamine's actions, the identification of three DA receptor subtypes on PTNs suggests that dopamine can directly modulate PTN activity through one or more receptor subtypes.
Primates engage in auditory behaviors under a broad range of signal-to-noise conditions. In this study, optimal linear receptive fields were measured in alert primate primary auditory cortex (A1) in response to stimuli that vary in spectrotemporal density. As density increased, A1 excitatory receptive fields systematically changed. Receptive field sensitivity, expressed as the expected change in firing rate after a tone pip onset, decreased by an order of magnitude. Spectral selectivity more than doubled. Inhibitory subfields, which were rarely recorded at low sound densities, emerged at higher sound densities. The ratio of excitatory to inhibitory population strength changed from 14.4:1 to 1.4:1. At low sound densities, the sound associated with the evocation of an action potential from an A1 neuron was broad in spectrum and time. At high sound densities, a spike-evoking sound was more likely to be a spectral or temporal edge and was narrower in time and frequency range. Receptive fields were used to predict responses to a novel high-noise-density stimulus. The predictions were highly correlated with the actual responses to the 2-s complex sound excerpt. The structure of prediction failures revealed that neurons with prominent inhibitory fields had relatively poor linear predictions. Further, the finding that stochastic variance is limiting in prediction even after averaging 150 repetitions means that high-fidelity representations of simple sounds in A1 must be distributed over at least hundreds of neurons. Auditory context alters A1 responses across multiple parameter spaces; this presents a challenge for reconstructing neural codes.
Contrast normalization is a process whereby responses of neurons are scaled according to the total amount of contrast in a region of the image nearby the receptive field of a neuron. This process allows neurons to code for informative scene or object attributes in a manner unaffected by changes in illumination. Evidence for normalization is seen in striate and extrastriate cortex from experiments where multiple stimuli are presented with a single receptive field (RF). Neuronal responses in such experiments are smaller than that predicted by linear summation, revealing the presence of normalization. While the presence of normalization is often clear, its mechanism is less so. To study the mechanism of normalization, we measured the interaction between pairs of brief local stimuli (spatial Gabor functions) within the RFs of cells in the middle temporal (MT or V5) area of monkeys and varied both the location and contrast of the stimuli. We found response summed approximately linearly when contrast was low but rapidly became normalized as stimulus contrast increased. The rapid transition to effective normalization at low contrasts suggested cooperativity in the normalization, and a model embodying such a cooperative step provided a good account of our data.
The caudal aspect of the parabrachial (PBN) and Klliker-Fuse (KF) nuclei receive vestibular nuclear and visceral afferent information and are connected reciprocally with the spinal cord, hypothalamus, amygdala, and limbic cortex. Hence, they may be important sites of vestibulo-visceral integration, particularly for the development of affective responses to gravitoinertial challenges. Extracellular recordings were made from caudal PBN cells in three alert, adult female Macaca nemestrina through an implanted chamber. Sinusoidal and position trapezoid angular whole body rotation was delivered in yaw, roll, pitch, and vertical semicircular canal planes. Sites were confirmed histologically. Units that responded during rotation were located in lateral and medial PBN and KF caudal to the trochlear nerve at sites that were confirmed anatomically to receive superior vestibular nucleus afferents. Responses to whole-body angular rotation were modeled as a sum of three signals: angular velocity, a leaky integration of angular velocity, and vertical position. All neurons displayed angular velocity and integrated angular velocity sensitivity, but only 60% of the neurons were position-sensitive. These responses to vertical rotation could display symmetric, asymmetric, or fully rectified cosinusoidal spatial tuning about a best orientation in different cells. The spatial properties of velocity and integrated velocity and position responses were independent for all position-sensitive neurons; the angular velocity and integrated angular velocity signals showed independent spatial tuning in the position-insensitive neurons. Individual units showed one of three different orientations of their excitatory axis of velocity rotation sensitivity: vertical-plane-only responses, positive elevation responses (vertical plane plus ipsilateral yaw), and negative elevation axis responses (vertical plane plus negative yaw). The interactions between the velocity and integrated velocity components also produced variations in the temporal pattern of responses as a function of rotation direction. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that a vestibulorecipient region of the PBN and KF integrates signals from the vestibular nuclei and relay information about changes in whole-body orientation to pathways that produce homeostatic and affective responses.
Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells receive two kinetic classes of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition: slow dendritic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (GABA(A,slow) IPSCs) and fast perisomatic (GABA(A,fast)) IPSCs. These two classes of IPSCs are likely generated by two distinct groups of interneurons, and we have previously shown that the kinetics of the IPSCs have important functional consequences for generating synchronous firing patterns. Here, we studied developmental changes in the properties of GABA(A,fast) and GABA(A,slow) spontaneous, miniature, and evoked IPSCs (sIPSCs, mIPSCs, and eIPSCs, respectively) using whole cell voltage-clamp recordings in brain slices from animals aged P10-P35. We found that the rate of GABA(A,slow) sIPSCs increased by over 70-fold between P11 and P35 (from 0.0017 to 0.12 s(-1)). Over this same age range, we observed a &gt;3.5-fold increase in the maximal amplitude of GABA(A,slow) eIPSCs evoked by stratum lacunosum-moleculare (SL-M) stimuli. However, the rate and amplitude of GABA(A,slow) mIPSCs remained unchanged between P10 and P30, suggesting that the properties of GABA(A,slow) synapses remained stable over this age range, and that the increase in sIPSC rate and in eIPSC amplitude was due to increased excitability or excitation of GABA(A,slow) interneurons. This hypothesis was tested using bath application of norepinephrine (NE), which we found at low concentrations (1 microM) selectively increased the rate of GABA(A,slow) sIPSCs while leaving GABA(A,fast) sIPSCs unchanged. This effect was observed in animals as young as P13 and was blocked by coapplication of tetrodotoxin, suggesting that NE was acting to increase the spontaneous firing rate of GABA(A,slow) interneurons and consistent with our hypothesis that developmental changes in GABA(A,slow) IPSCs are due to changes in presynaptic excitability. In contrast to the changes we observed in GABA(A,slow) IPSCs, the properties of GABA(A,fast) sIPSCs remained largely constant between P11 and P35, whereas the rate, amplitude, and kinetics of GABA(A,fast) mIPSCs showed significant changes between P10 and P30, suggesting counterbalancing changes in action potential-dependent GABA(A,fast) sIPSCs. These observations suggest differential developmental regulation of the firing properties of GABA(A,fast) and GABA(A,slow) interneurons in CA1 between P10 and P35.
Intracellular recordings of cells, classified according to the criteria of Colom and Bland as phasic theta-ON or phasic theta-OFF cells, were carried out in the dorsal region of the hippocampal formation in urethan-anesthetized rats. Cells were studied during two spontaneously occurring hippocampal field conditions, asynchrony, termed large-amplitude irregular activity, and synchrony, termed theta. During the spontaneous cycling between these two field states, the effect of four levels of intracellular depolarizing and hyperpolarizing constant current injections on the amplitude and phase of membrane potential oscillations (MPOs) and the rate and pattern of cell discharges was assessed. Labeled CA1 pyramidal cells and bistratified cells met the criteria for classification as phasic theta-ON cells and labeled CA1 pyramidal layer basket cells, mossy hilar cells, and granule cells met the criteria for classification as phasic theta-OFF cells. MPOs were recorded in CA1 pyramidal cells, CA1 layer basket cells, mossy interneurons, and granule cells only during theta field activity, their onset in theta-ON cells signaled by a depolarizing shift of 5-10 mV and in theta-OFF cells by a hyperpolarizing shift of 5-10 mV, in membrane potential. The effect of current injections in phasic theta-ON and theta-OFF cells during the theta field condition revealed that MPO amplitude was voltage dependent and frequency was voltage independent. There were no phase changes observed in phasic theta-ON cells during current injections; however, amplitude analysis revealed an inverted U-shaped curve asymmetrically distributed around the average value of the membrane potential occurring during the spontaneous theta (no current) control condition. The occurrence and rate of rhythmical cell discharges in CA1 pyramidal phasic theta-ON cells during the theta condition was precisely controlled within a critical range of membrane potential values from approximately -57 to -68 mV, corresponding to a range of MPO amplitudes of approximately 4-7 mV. Outside the critical range, rhythmic cell discharges were abolished. Membrane potential oscillations in CA1 pyramidal layer basket cells underwent an approximate 180 degrees phase reversal when the membrane potential was depolarized above -65 mV. The occurrence and rate of rhythmic cell discharges in CA1 pyramidal layer basket cell phasic theta-OFF cells during the theta condition was precisely controlled within a critical range of membrane potential values from approximately -62 to -60 mV, corresponding to a range of MPO amplitudes of approximately 7-7.5 mV. Outside the critical range, cell discharges were absent or occurred singly.
Previous studies have shown a modulatory influence of forebrain gustatory areas, such as the gustatory cortex and lateral hypothalamus, on the activity of taste-responsive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST). The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), which receives gustatory afferent information, also exerts descending control over taste neurons in the parabrachial nuclei (PbN) of the pons. The present studies were designed to investigate the role of descending amgydaloid projections to the NST in the modulation of gustatory activity. Extracellular action potentials were recorded from 109 taste-responsive cells in the NST of urethan-anesthetized hamsters and analyzed for a change in excitability following electrical and chemical stimulation of the CeA. Electrical stimulation of the CeA orthodromically modulated 36 of 109 (33.0%) taste-responsive NST cells. An excitatory response was observed in 33 (30.28%) cells. An initial decrease in excitability to electrical stimulation of the CeA, suggestive of postsynaptic inhibition, was observed in three (2.75%) NST taste cells. NST cells modulated by the CeA were significantly less responsive to taste stimuli than cells that were not. Many of these cells were under the modulatory influence of the contralateral CeA (28/36 = 77.8%) as well as the ipsilateral (22/36 = 61.1%); 14 (38.9%) were excited bilaterally. Latencies for excitation were longer after ipsilateral than after contralateral CeA stimulation. Microinjection of DL-homocysteic acid (DLH) into the CeA mimicked the effect of electrical stimulation on each of the nine cells tested: DLH excited eight and inhibited one of these electrically activated NST cells. Application of subthreshold electrical stimulation to the CeA during taste trials increased the taste responses of every CeA-responsive NST cell (n = 7) tested with this protocol. These effects would enhance taste discriminability by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio of taste-evoked activity.
Transient, elevated concentrations of extracellular dopamine were characterized in the dorsal and ventral striatum of male rats during solitude, brief interaction with a conspecific, and copulation. Conspecific rats were systematically presented to male rats and allowed to interact for 30 sec; the males were kept in solitude between each presentation. During these episodes, 125 dopamine concentration transients from 17 rats were detected with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes (peak amplitude, 210 +/- 10 nm; duration, 530 +/- 20 msec). The frequency of dopamine transients increased sixfold during conspecific episodes compared with solitude. However, the phasic dopamine activity habituated on the second presentation of the conspecifics. When males were allowed to copulate with receptive females, additional dopamine transients were observed at frequencies approximately 20% of those during the previous interaction episodes. A subset of these transients immediately preceded intromission. Overall, phasic dopamine activity appeared to be associated with input from multiple sensory modalities and was followed by a variety of approach and appetitive behaviors, consistent with electrophysiological observations of dopaminergic neuron burst-firing. In summary, (1) dopamine concentration transients occur in awake rats during solitude, in the absence of overt external cues; (2) dopamine transients are significantly more frequent in the presence of a conspecific, although this effect habituates; and (3) dopamine transients are less frequent during copulation than during brief conspecific episodes. These results establish for the first time that transient dopamine fluctuations occur throughout the dorsal and ventral striatum and demonstrate that they are more frequent with salient stimuli that elicit a response behavior.
We describe the first systematic functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements of visual field maps in macaque visual cortex. The boundaries of visual areas V1, V2, V3, V3A, V4, MT/V5, and TEO/V4A were identified using stimuli that create traveling waves of activity in retinotopically organized areas of the visual cortex. Furthermore, these stimuli were used to measure the dimensions of the representations of the central 11 degrees in V1-V3, quantitative visual field eccentricity functions for V1-V3 and MT, and the distribution of foveal and peripheral signals within the occipital lobe. Within areas V1, V2, MT, and portions of V4, the fMRI signals were 5-10 times the noise level (3 mm3 volumes of interest). Signals were weaker but still significant in other cortical regions, including V3, V3A, and TEO. There is good agreement between the fMRI maps and the visual area maps discovered using local anatomical and physiological measurements. The fMRI measurements allow one to obtain a broad view of the distribution of cortical signals, spanning multiple visual areas at a single point in time. The combination of scale and sensitivity demonstrated here create a good foundation for measuring how localized signals and lesions influence the responses and reorganization in widely separated cortical regions. The ability to measure human and macaque maps using the same technology will make it possible to define computational homologies between the two species.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in activity-dependent modifications of neuronal connectivity and synaptic strength, including establishment of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). To shed light on mechanisms underlying BDNF-dependent synaptic plasticity, the present study was undertaken to characterize release of native BDNF from newborn rat hippocampal neurons in response to physiologically relevant patterns of electrical field stimulation in culture, including tonic stimulation at 5 Hz, bursting stimulation at 25 and 100 Hz, and theta-burst stimulation (TBS). Release was measured using the ELISA in situ technique, developed in our laboratory to quantify secretion of native BDNF without the need to first overexpress the protein to nonphysiological levels. Each stimulation protocol resulted in a significant increase in BDNF release that was tetrodotoxin sensitive and occurred in the absence of glutamate receptor activation. However, 100 Hz tetanus and TBS, stimulus patterns that are most effective in inducing hippocampal LTP, were significantly more effective in releasing native BDNF than lower-frequency stimulation. For all stimulation protocols tested, removal of extracellular calcium, or blockade of N-type calcium channels, prevented BDNF release. Similarly, depletion of intracellular calcium stores with thapsigargin and treatment with dantrolene, an inhibitor of calcium release from caffeine-ryanodine-sensitive stores, markedly inhibited activity-dependent BDNF release. Our results indicate that BDNF release can encode temporal features of hippocampal neuronal activity. The dual requirement for calcium influx through N-type calcium channels and calcium mobilization from intracellular stores strongly implicates a role for calcium-induced calcium release in activity-dependent BDNF secretion.
Gene expression can be modulated by chromatin changes induced by histone acetylation and deacetylation. Acetylation of histone lysine residues by acetyltransferases is associated with transcriptionally active chromatin, whereas the removal of acetyl groups by histone deacetylases (HDACs) correlates with repressed chromatin. Recent evidence has shown that histone deacetylation is responsible for restricting neuronal gene expression, whereas histone acetylation is necessary for astrocytic differentiation We now asked whether histone acetylation or deacetylation was necessary for oligodendrocyte differentiation. Neonatal rat cortical progenitors were kept proliferating and undifferentiated in the presence of mitogens and induced to stop proliferating and differentiate into oligodendrocytes by mitogen removal. Histone deacetylation was observed during the temporal window between exit from the cell cycle and onset of differentiation, which was characterized by acquisition of branched morphology and myelin gene expression. Blocking HDAC activity during this critical window using the inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) prevented the progression of progenitors into mature oligodendrocytes. TSA-treated progenitors were able to exit from the cell cycle but did not progress to oligodendrocytes. Their development was arrested at the progenitor stage, characterized by simple morphology and lack of myelin gene expression. The effect of TSA on progenitor differentiation was lineage specific, because TSA did not affect the ability of these cells to differentiate into type II astrocytes when cultured in the presence of serum. From these data, we conclude that histone deacetylation is a necessary component of the oligodendrocyte differentiation program.
Endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) are endogenous compounds that resemble the active ingredient of marijuana and activate the cannabinoid receptor in the brain. They mediate retrograde signaling from principal cells to both inhibitory [&quot;depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition&quot; (DSI)] and excitatory (&quot;depolarization-induced suppression of excitation&quot;) afferent fibers. Transient endocannabinoid release is triggered by voltage-dependent Ca(2+) influx and is upregulated by group I metabotropic glutamate receptor activation. Here we show that muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) activation also enhances transient endocannabinoid release (DSI) and induces persistent release. Inhibitory synapses in the rat hippocampal CA1 region of acute slices were studied using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. We found that low concentrations (0.2-0.5 microm) of carbachol (CCh) enhanced DSI without affecting basal evoked IPSCs (eIPSCs) by activating mAChRs on postsynaptic cells. Higher concentrations of CCh (&gt; or =1 microm) enhanced DSI and also persistently depressed basal eIPSCs, mainly by releasing endocannabinoids. Persistent CCh-induced endocannabinoid release did not require an increase in [Ca2+]i but was dependent on G-proteins. Although they were independent at the receptor level, muscarinic and glutamatergic mechanisms of endocannabinoid release shared intracellular machinery. Replication of the effects of CCh by blocking acetylcholinesterase with eserine suggests that mAChR-mediated endocannabinoid release is physiologically relevant. This study reveals a new role of the muscarinic cholinergic system in mammalian brain.
Activity-dependent changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic strength are thought to underlie memory encoding. In hippocampal CA1 neurons, small conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (SK) channels contribute to the afterhyperpolarization, affecting neuronal excitability. In the present study, we examined the effect of apamin-sensitive SK channels on the induction of hippocampal synaptic plasticity in response to a range of stimulation frequencies. In addition, the role of apamin-sensitive SK channels on hippocampal-dependent memory encoding and retention was also tested. The results show that blocking SK channels with apamin increased the excitability of hippocampal neurons and facilitated the induction of synaptic plasticity by shifting the modification threshold to lower frequencies. This facilitation was NMDA receptor (NMDAR) dependent and appeared to be postsynaptic. Mice treated with apamin demonstrated accelerated hippocampal-dependent spatial and nonspatial memory encoding. They required fewer trials to learn the location of a hidden platform in the Morris water maze and less time to encode object memory in an object-recognition task compared with saline-treated mice. Apamin did not influence long-term retention of spatial or nonspatial memory. These data support a role for SK channels in the modulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and hippocampal-dependent memory encoding.
P/Q-type (Ca(v)2.1) calcium channels support a host of Ca2+-driven neuronal functions in the mammalian brain. Alternative splicing of the main alpha1A (alpha1(2.1)) subunit of these channels may thereby represent a rich strategy for tuning the functional profile of diverse neurobiological processes. Here, we applied a recently developed &quot;transcript-scanning&quot; method for systematic determination of splice variant transcripts of the human alpha1(2.1) gene. This screen identified seven loci of variation, which together have never been fully defined in humans. Genomic sequence analysis clarified the splicing mechanisms underlying the observed variation. Electrophysiological characterization and a novel analytical paradigm, termed strength-current analysis, revealed that one focus of variation, involving combinatorial inclusion and exclusion of exons 43 and 44, exerted a primary effect on current amplitude and a corollary effect on Ca2+-dependent channel inactivation. These findings significantly expand the anticipated scope of functional diversity produced by splice variation of P/Q-type channels.
A-type channels, encoded by the pore-forming alpha-subunits of the Kv4.x family, are particularly important in regulating membrane excitability in the CNS and the heart. Given the key role of modulation of A currents by kinases, we sought to investigate the protein structure-function relationships underlying the regulation of these currents by PKA. We have previously shown the existence of two PKA phosphorylation sites in the Kv4.2 sequence; therefore, we focused this study on the Kv4.2 primary subunit. In the present studies we made the surprising finding that PKA phosphorylation of the Kv4.2 alpha-subunit is necessary but not sufficient for channel modulation; channel modulation by PKA required the presence of an ancillary subunit, the K+ channel interacting protein (KChIP3). Therefore, these findings indicate a surprising complexity to kinase regulation of A currents, in that an interaction of two separate molecular events, alpha-subunit phosphorylation and the association of an ancillary subunit (KChIP3), are necessary for phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Kv4.2-encoded A channels by PKA. Overall, our studies indicate that PKA must of necessity act on a supramolecular complex of pore-forming alpha-subunits plus ancillary subunits to alter channel properties.
Methylphenidate (Ritalin) is a commonly used central nervous stimulant. It has been used in various neurological conditions, including attention deficit disorder, depression, and narcolepsy. Methylphenidate has been advocated in patients with traumatic brain injury and stroke for a variety of cognitive, attention, and behavioral problems. It also has been shown to speed recovery from poststroke depression so that patients can participate more fully in rehabilitation programs. Research suggests that it also may have a role in augmenting activity of injured neuronal tissue in the comatose patient, thus facilitating a return to consciousness. The neuroscience nurse plays an important role in monitoring response to Ritalin, including identifying its side effects. A review of the limited studies on the use of Ritalin, its mechanisms of action, dosing, and weaning provide a current understanding of this adjunctive agent's role in treatment for the neurological population.
Etoposide, an inhibitor of topoisomerase II that induces DNA damage and can trigger cell death, is used as a chemotherapeutic agent. Because chemotherapies can result in neurological complications and because DNA damage in neurons is implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders, we studied the effects of etoposide on cultured hippocampal neurons. We found that etoposide induces neuronal apoptosis and that, prior to the cell death commitment point, there is an increase in whole-cell alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)-induced current but no change in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced current. Associated with the increase in AMPA-induced current was an increase in the amounts of AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR4, whereas levels of the NMDA receptor subunit NR1 were unaffected by etoposide. AMPA receptor activation can result in excitotoxic cell death but can also activate signaling pathways that promote synaptic plasticity and cell survival. We found that etoposide increases the activation of p42 and p44 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, and that activation of the MAP kinases by etoposide requires AMPA receptor activation. Pharmacological blockade of AMPA receptors and p42/p44 MAP kinases, but not of NMDA receptors, exacerbated etoposide-induced cell death. These findings suggest that, although etoposide is neurotoxic, it also activates a cell survival pathway involving AMPA receptor-mediated activation of p42/p44 MAP kinases. Agents that selectively inhibit the cell life or death pathways triggered by DNA damage may prove useful in the settings of cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, respectively.
The factors that regulate oligodendrogenesis have been studied extensively in optic nerve, where oligodendrocyte production and myelination quickly follow colonization of the nerve by progenitor cells. In contrast, oligodendrocyte production in the cerebral cortex begins approximately 1 week after progenitor cell colonization and continues for 3-4 weeks. This and other observations raise the possibility that oligodendrogenesis is regulated by different mechanisms in white and gray matter. The present study examined oligodendrocyte production in the developing cerebral cortex of jimpy (jp) and jimpy(msd) (msd) mice, which exhibit hypomyelination and oligodendrocyte death due to mutations in and toxic accumulations of proteolipid protein, the major structural protein of CNS myelin. Proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitors and production of myelinating oligodendrocytes was reduced in jp cerebral cortex when compared to wild-type (wt) and msd mice. The incidence of oligodendrocyte cell death was similar in jp and msd cortex, but total dying oligodendrocytes were greater in msd. We confirm previous reports of increased oligodendrocyte production in white matter of both jp and msd mice. The jp mutation, therefore, reduces oligodendrocyte production in cerebral cortex but not in white matter. These data provide additional evidence that oligodendrogenesis is differentially regulated in white matter and gray matter and implicate PLP/DM20 as a modulator of these differences.
Fragile X syndrome is the most common cause of mental retardation known to be inherited. The syndrome results from the suppressed expression of a single protein, the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Understanding the function and regulation of FMRP can, therefore, offer insights into both the pathophysiology of fragile X syndrome and the molecular mechanisms of learning and memory. We provide an overview of current concepts of how FMRP functions in the nervous system, with special emphasis on recent evidence that FMRP has a role in metabotropic glutamate receptor-activated protein translation and synaptic plasticity.


Vincent van Gogh's life, letters, and art are the framework for this existential speech about the nature of alienation, as well as its threat to humanity and to the artful practice of medicine. The honest, human voice expressed in van Gogh's art stands in opposition to alienation, which occurs when we divide the world into two parts: the &quot;perfect&quot; world of science versus the &quot;flawed&quot; world of human experience. Bridging this divide allows for an &quot;authentic&quot; life, one which honestly defines itself and faces difficult human truths. The most difficult truth relates to our own mortality, but it must be faced if we are to understand the value of existence. Film clips from Woody Allen's Hannah and Her Sisters illustrate how an artist's portrayal of these issues can be both profound and humorous, and how art brings us closer to our own humanity and to the essence of medicine. Neurosurgeons are warned about the lure of science and technology as a substitute for purpose and meaning, both as physicians and as human beings. The role of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons is explored and found to offer neurosurgeons a bridge away from alienation and toward a neurosurgical community. Neurosurgeons are urged to find meaning through service to their profession and to find the voice and art of medicine. [Note: Actual film clips were used when this address was delivered. Unofficial transcripts of the clips have been included in this article so that the integrity of the speech would not be compromised.]



Oculomotor palsy related to the presence of an intracranial aneurysm arising from the supraclinoid internal carotid artery (ICA) is a well known and described clinical condition. Recent microanatomical and clinical evidences seem to demonstrate that the pathophysiology of the aneurysm-related III nerve palsy could be interpreted as that of any other cranial nerve's neurovascular compression syndrome. The authors review their personal experience with supraclinoid ICA aneurysms related to oculomotor palsy and the data of the literature, aiming to elucidate a better clinical, therapeutic and prognostic correlation to these factors.
In the central nervous system, the Japanese encephalitis virus can replicate only in neurons. The mechanism of the type of neurotropism was analyzed. The susceptibility to Japanese encephalitis virus infection in the rat brain was closely associated with neuronal immaturity. The initial specific binding of the virus to cells is one of the reasons for neurotropism of the Japanese encephalitis virus. The treatment of Japanese encephalitis virus infection with the neutralizing monoclonal antibody against the E protein did not inhibit the virus from binding to the cell surfaces, but strongly inhibited Japanese encephalitis virus-induced cell fusion and internalization of the virus into the host cells. One of the genome regions responsible for neuropathogenesis of the Japanese encephalitis virus was located on the E protein-coding region. The 138th amino acid of the E protein was important for neuropathogenesis expression of the Japanese encephalitis virus. The cell fusion activity of the E protein was closely correlated with neuropathogenesis of the virus.
The 10th International Conference on Neuroscience of HIV Infection was held conjointly with the 4th International Symposium on NeuroVirology. This review summarizes a number of important topics addressed at the conference including clinical aspects of HIV-1 associated dementia and peripheral nervous system pathology and their epidemiology in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy. The neuropathogenesis was discussed with a special focus on different cellular compartments involved, viral and non-viral factors, immune activation, and alterations of the blood-brain barrier, animal models and their relevance for understanding HIV dementia. New aspects of antiretroviral therapy as well as immunization were covered. Neuroradiological approaches including new MR techniques and neuropsychological tests were presented. Viral opportunistic infections (e.g., JCV infection resulting in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy) as well as coinfection with hepatitis C represented a further topic.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). The loss of these neurons is associated with a glial response composed mainly of activated microglial cells and, to a lesser extent, of reactive astrocytes. This glial response may be the source of trophic factors and can protect against reactive oxygen species and glutamate. Alternatively, this glial response can also mediate a variety of deleterious events related to the production of pro-oxidant reactive species, proinflammatory prostaglandin, and cytokines. In this review, the authors discuss the potential protective and deleterious effects of glial cells in the SNpc of PD and examine how these factors may contribute to the pathogenesis of this disease.
Although Alzheimer's disease (AD) may not involve a transmissible agent, it does involve a pathogenic process similar to that of transmissible prion disorders (both involve a protein that adopts an abnormal pathogenic conformation in which it self-aggregates, forming amyloid deposits in and surrounding neurons) and viral dementias such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) encephalitis. The clinical presentation of patients with AD is dominated by cognitive deficits and emotional disturbances that result from dysfunction and degeneration of neurons in the limbic system and cerebral cortex. The pathogenic process in the brain involves deposition of insoluble aggregates of amyloid beta-peptide, oxidative stress and calcium dysregulation in neurons, and activation of inflammatory cytokine cascades involving microglia. However, AD patients also exhibit alterations in immune function. Studies of lymphocytes and lymphoblast cell lines from AD patients and age-matched normal control patients have documented alterations in cytokine and calcium signaling and increased levels of oxidative stress in immune cells from the AD patients. Studies of the pathogenic actions of mutations in presenilins and amyloid precursor protein that cause early-onset familial AD have established central roles for perturbed cellular calcium homeostasis and oxidative stress in the neurodegenerative process. Presenilin and amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutations also increase oxidative stress and perturb calcium signaling in lymphocytes in ways that alter their production of cytokines that are critical for proper immune responses. Immune dysfunction occurs prior to clinical symptoms in mouse models of AD, and brain cytokine responses to immune challenge are altered in presenilin mutant mice, suggesting a causal role for altered immune function in the disease process. Interestingly, immunization of AD mice with amyloid beta-peptide can stimulate the immune system to remove amyloid from the brain and can ameliorate memory deficits, suggesting that it may be possible to prevent AD by bolstering immune function.
The articles compiled in this special edition of Journal of NeuroVirology target a developing field of investigation seeking to uncover how the immune system affects both the pathogenic process and protection against the ravages of neurodegenerative processes. Whether caused by a microbe, trauma, toxic metabolite, autoimmunity, or part of a wide degenerative process, immune dysfunction commonly affects central nervous system (CNS) disease. All together, the work presented here proved to be a unique undertaking with contributing scientists outside the field of neurovirology. Indeed, multiple disciplines including molecular neuroscience, neuroimmunology, virology, cellular immunology, receptor pharmacology, neuronal electrophysiology, neurochemistry, clinical neurology, and development neurobiology were joined. The basis of this work rests with the hypothesis that brain mononuclear phagocytes (MP; perivascular and brain macrophages and microglia) act as inducers of disease by engaging the immune system to protect, defend, or induce neural injury. Indeed, it is the brain MP that act as scavengers killing microblial pathogens, regulate immune responses through antigen presentation and mobilization of adaptive immune activities, and affect the production of neurotrophic or toxic secretory factors that incite disease processes. For many years, these responses were thought to be reactive to ongoing disease mechanisms with little effects on disease itself, let alone repair. The works compiled in this issue demonstrate quite clearly this is no longer true. Immune responses cannot be directed only against a microbe but also against self-antigens that are expressed in damaged CNS, leading to innate neurotoxic or adaptive anti-self immunity that commonly follow viral infections. Importantly, therapeutic modalities may take advantage of CNS immune responses through vaccination generating neuroprotection. Together, these articles serve to bring together common neuroimmune links between highly divergent diseases (for example, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease and human immunodeficiency virus type-one dementia). In the end, I hope this work will serve as discussion points for future collaborations and began to break down the barriers of disease, enabling targeted research activities toward what we have in common.
Plasma glutamate concentrations were examined in male rats following oral intubation of monosodium L-glutamic acid (MSG, 250 mg/kg) soon after ingesting one of several meals differing in carbohydrate content. Intubation of MSG alone produced a 4-fold rise in plasma glutamate that peaked at 15 min, and returned to baseline by 60 min. Red blood cell glutamate concentrations were unchanged. The ingestion of a meal lacking carbohydrate produced a modest attenuation of the post-MSG intubation rise in plasma glutamate concentrations. This attenuating effect increased progressively with the carbohydrate content of the meal (and as the protein content declined, to maintain isocaloric meals), though as little as 5% carbohydrate marked attenuated the plasma glutamate rise. This effect diminished as the time interval between the meal and MSG intubation increased from 1 to 4 hrs. Similar, but not identical effects were noted when meals substituted fat (instead of protein) for carbohydrate. The intubation of MSG alone produced a slight increase in plasma alanine concentrations over the 60-min post-intubation period examined. The ingestion of any of the meals just prior to intubation did not influence this effect. Overall, the results indicate that although the ingestion of carbohydrate can markedly attenuate the rise in plasma glutamate that follows MSG consumption in rats, this effect is also influenced by the other macronutrients present. The absence of notable, meal related changes in plasma alanine suggests that this parameter does not provide a useful indication of gut glutamate transamination.
We evaluated the diagnostic sensitivity of quantitative sensory testing (QST), using the CASE IV system, in 14 patients with clinically diagnosed small-fiber neuropathy and normal traditional electrodiagnostic studies. All patients had at least 1 abnormal threshold, 13 patients had abnormal heat-pain thresholds, 8 had abnormal cold thresholds, and 7 had abnormal vibration thresholds. QST is therefore highly effective in documenting dysfunction in small fiber neuropathy patients.
We have synthesized iodinated resiniferatoxin bearing a 4-hydroxy-5-iodo-3-methoxyphenylacetate ester (I-RTX) and have characterized its activity on rat and human TRPV1 (VR1) receptors, as well as in behavioral assays of nociception. In whole cell patch-clamp recordings from transfected cells the functional activity of I-RTX was determined. Currents activated by capsaicin exhibited characteristic outward rectification and were antagonized by capsazepine and I-RTX. On rat TRPV1 the affinity of I-RTX was 800-fold higher than that of capsazepine (IC50 = 0.7 and 562 nM, respectively) and 10-fold higher on rat versus human receptors (IC50 = 0.7 and 5.4 nM, respectively). The same difference was observed when comparing the inhibition of [3H]RTX binding to rat and human TRPV1 membranes for both RTX and I-RTX. Additional pharmacological differences were revealed using protons as the stimulus. Under these conditions capsazepine only partly blocked currents through rat TRPV1 receptors (by 70 to 80% block), yet was a full antagonist on human receptors. In contrast, I-RTX completely blocked proton-induced currents in both species and that activated by noxious heat. I-RTX also blocked capsaicin-induced firing of C-fibers in a rat in vitro skin-nerve assay. Despite this activity and the high affinity of I-RTX for rat TRPV1, only capsazepine proved to be an effective antagonist of capsaicin-induced paw flinching in rats. Thus, although I-RTX has limited utility for in vivo behavioral studies it is a high-affinity TRPV1 receptor antagonist that will be useful to characterize the functional properties of cloned and native vanilloid receptor subtypes in vitro.
The effects of ganaxolone, a synthetic analog of the endogenous neuroactive steroid allopregnanolone, on the function and expression of GABA(A) receptors were determined. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that ganaxolone potentiated with a potency and efficacy similar to those of allopregnanolone the Cl- currents evoked by GABA at recombinant human GABA(A) receptors (comprising alpha1beta2gamma2L or alpha2beta2gamma2L subunit assemblies) expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Exposure of cultured rat cerebellar granule cells to 1 microM ganaxolone for 5 days had no effect on the abundance of mRNAs encoding the alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, gamma2L, or gamma2S subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. Withdrawal of ganaxolone after such long-term treatment, however, induced an increase in the abundance of alpha2, alpha4, and alpha5 subunit mRNAs and a decrease in the amounts of alpha1, gamma2L, and gamma2S subunit mRNAs. These changes were maximal 3 to 6 h after drug withdrawal and were reversible, being no longer apparent after 24 h. These results suggest that long-term exposure of cerebellar granule cells to ganaxolone does not affect the sensitivity of the GABA(A) receptor to several positive modulators. Nevertheless, the reduction in the amounts of the alpha1 and gamma2 subunit mRNAs together with the increase in the abundance of the alpha4 subunit mRNA induced by abrupt discontinuation of long-term treatment with ganaxolone suggest that withdrawal of this drug might result in a reduced response to classic benzodiazepines.
Spontaneous, rhythmical contractions, or vasomotion, can be recorded from cerebral vessels under both normal physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Using electrophysiology to study changes in membrane potential, the ratiometric calcium indicator Fura-2 AM to study changes in [Ca(2+)](i) in both the arterial wall and in individual smooth muscle cells (SMCs), and video microscopy to study changes in vessel diameter, we have investigated the cellular mechanisms underlying vasomotion in the juvenile rat basilar artery. During vasomotion, rhythmical oscillations in both membrane potential and [Ca(2+)](i) were found to precede rhythmical contractions. Nifedipine depolarized SMCs and abolished rhythmical contractions and depolarizations. [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in the arterial wall became reduced and irregular, while [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in adjacent SMCs were no longer synchronized. BAPTA-AM, thapsigargin and U73122 hyperpolarized SMCs, relaxed the vessel, decreased basal calcium levels and abolished vasomotion. Chloride substitution abolished rhythmical activity, depolarized SMCs, increased basal calcium levels and constricted the vessel, while niflumic acid and DIDS abolished vasomotion. Ryanodine, charybdotoxin and TRAM-34, but not iberiotoxin, 4-aminopyridine or apamin, each depolarized SMCs and increased the frequency of rhythmical depolarizations and [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations. We conclude that vasomotion in the basilar artery depends on the release of intracellular calcium from IP(3) (inositol 1,4,5,-trisphosphate)-sensitive stores which activates calcium-dependent chloride channels to depolarize SMCs. Depolarization in turn activates voltage-dependent calcium channels, synchronizing contractions of adjacent cells through influx of extracellular calcium. Subsequent calcium-induced calcium release from ryanodine-sensitive stores activates an intermediate conductance potassium channel, hyperpolarizing the SMCs and providing a negative feedback pathway for regeneration of the contractile cycle.
Depolarizing afterpotentials (DAPs) that follow action potentials in magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) are thought to underlie the generation of phasic firing, a pattern that optimizes vasopressin release from the neurohypophysis. Previous work has suggested that the DAP may result from the Ca(2+)-dependent reduction of a resting K(+) conductance. Here we examined the effects of flufenamic acid (FFA), a blocker of Ca(2+)-dependent non-selective cation (CAN) channels, on DAPs and phasic firing using intracellular recordings from supraoptic MNCs in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Application of FFA, but not solvent (0.1 % DMSO), reversibly inhibited (IC(50) = 13.8 microM; R = 0.97) DAPs and phasic firing with a similar time course, but had no significant effects (P &gt; 0.05) on membrane potential, spike threshold and input resistance, nor on the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous synaptic potentials. Moreover, FFA did not affect (P &gt; 0.05) the amplitude, duration, undershoot, or frequency-dependent broadening of action potentials elicited during the spike trains used to evoke DAPs. These findings suggest that FFA inhibits the DAP by directly blocking the channels responsible for its production, rather than by interfering with Ca(2+) influx. They also support a role for DAPs in the generation of phasic firing in MNCs. Finally, the absence of a depolarization and increased membrane resistance upon application of FFA suggests that the DAP in MNCs may not be due to the inhibition of resting K(+) current, but to the activation of CAN channels.
The present study employed in-vivo microdialysis techniques in the freely moving rat to systematically compare the neurochemical effects of various antidepressant agents on extracellular concentrations of norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT) in the frontal cortex. We found that acute administration of the tricyclic antidepressant, desipramine (3-30 mg/kg, s.c.) and the dual serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, venlafaxine (3-30 mg/kg, s.c.), produced dose-dependent and robust increases in cortical NE concentrations (498% and 403%, respectively). Conversely, acute injection of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, fluoxetine (30 mg/kg, s.c.) and paroxetine (1-10 mg/kg, s.c.), did not alter forebrain NE concentrations. However, paroxetine did produce a significant increase in cortical NE concentrations (164%) when administered at 30 mg/kg. These changes in NE were not paralleled by 5-HT, which showed no increase following administration of desipramine, venlafaxine, paroxetine or fluoxetine. Combination treatment with the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY-100635 (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.), significantly enhanced extracellular 5-HT concentrations following venlafaxine (10 and 30 mg/kg), fluoxetine (30 mg/kg) and paroxetine (3-30 mg/kg). Alternatively, WAY-100635 produced no augmentation of the antidepressant-induced changes in extracellular NE. Collectively, these studies show that paroxetine, at low to intermediate doses, and fluoxetine are selective for 5-HT versus NE systems, whereas venlafaxine produces similar effects on both 5-HT and NE levels at the effective doses tested.
The immune system plays an important role in facilitating the spread of prion infections from the periphery to the central nervous system. CD11c(+) myeloid dendritic cells (DC) could, due to their subepithelial location and their migratory capacity, be early targets for prion infection and contribute to the spread of infection. In order to analyze mechanisms by which these cells may affect prion propagation, we studied in vitro the effect of exposing such DC to scrapie-infected GT1-1 cells, which produce the scrapie prion protein PrP(Sc). In this system, the DC efficiently engulfed the infected GT1-1 cells. Unexpectedly, PrP(Sc), which is generally resistant to protease digestion, was processed and rapidly degraded. Based on this observation we speculate that CD11c(+) DC may play a dual role in prion infections: on one hand they may facilitate neuroinvasion by transfer of the infectious agent as suggested from in vivo studies, but on the other hand they may protect against the infection by causing an efficient degradation of PrP(Sc). Thus, the migrating and highly proteolytic CD11c(+) myeloid DC may affect the balance between propagation and clearance of PrP(Sc) in the organism.
Although murine coronavirus mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) enters cells by virus-cell membrane fusion triggered by its spike (S) protein, it is not well known how the S protein participates in fusion events. We reported that the soluble form of MHV receptor (soMHVR) transformed a nonfusogenic S protein into a fusogenic one (F. Taguchi and S. Matsuyama, J. Virol. 76:950-958, 2002). In the present study, we demonstrate that soMHVR induces the conformational changes of the S protein, as shown by the proteinase digestion test. A cl-2 mutant, srr7, of the MHV JHM virus (JHMV) was digested with proteinase K after treatment with soMHVR, and the resultant S protein was analyzed by Western blotting using monoclonal antibody (MAb) 10G, specific for the membrane-anchored S2 subunit. A 58-kDa fragment, encompassing the two heptad repeats in S2, was detected when srr7 was digested after soMHVR treatment, while no band was seen when the virus was untreated. The appearance of the proteinase-resistant fragment was dependent on the temperature and time of srr7 incubation with soMHVR and also on the concentration of soMHVR. Coimmunoprecipitation indicated that the direct binding of soMHVR to srr7 S protein induced these conformational changes; this was also suggested by the inhibition of the changes following pretreatment of soMHVR with anti-MHVR MAb CC1. soMHVR induced conformational changes of the S proteins of wild-type (wt) JHMV cl-2, as well as revertants from srr7, srr7A and srr7B; however, a major proportion of these S proteins were resistant to proteinase K even without soMHVR treatment. The implications of this proteinase-resistant fraction are discussed. This is the first report on receptor-induced conformational changes of the membrane-anchored fragment of the coronavirus S protein.
Inflammation has always been thought of as detrimental in the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, emerging genetic data, magnetic-resonance-imaging studies, and immunopathological evidence challenge this simplistic view. The evidence leads to the conclusion that inflammation is tightly regulated, and that its net effect may be beneficial in MS, thus explaining some of the results from recent trials of anti-inflammatory agents. We argue that the use of anti-inflammatory drugs to treat MS may not be appropriate in all cases. Precise identification of the inflammatory pathways to be targeted in the different phases of the disease and the timing of such interventions are therefore crucial.
Vagus-nerve stimulation (VNS) is now an accepted treatment for patients with refractory epilepsy. There have been many studies suggesting that VNS affects the brain in such areas as the thalamus and other limbic structures. In addition, there is some evidence that norepinephrine is important in the prophylactic antiseizure effects of VNS. The efficacy of VNS has been established for partial seizure types, even in refractory patients who did not respond to surgical treatment for epilepsy. There are also data, from open-label studies, that suggest efficacy in other seizure types. Therefore, VNS seems to be a broad-spectrum treatment for epilepsy. Improvement is not immediate but increases over 18-24 months of treatment. Most studies report subjective improvements in various quality-of-life measurements during treatment with VNS--objective trials have confirmed this observation. Side-effects are mainly stimulation related and reversible and they tend to decrease over time. They are generally mild to moderate and seldom necessitate the removal of the device. No idiosyncratic side-effects have been reported in 12 years of experience, and VNS does not interact with antiepileptic drugs. Most adverse events are predictable and related to the specific stimulation regimen. VNS does not have cognitive and systemic side-effects and can, therefore, be a valuable treatment approach even for patients who have poor tolerance of antiepileptic drugs.




Mild hypothermia (32 degrees C-35 degrees C) reduces intracranial pressure in patients with acute liver failure and may offer an effective adjunct therapy in the management of these patients. Studies in experimental animals suggest that this beneficial effect of hypothermia is the result of a decrease in blood-brain ammonia transfer resulting in improvement in brain energy metabolism and normalization of glutamatergic synaptic regulation. Improvement in brain energy metabolism by hypothermia may result from a reduction in ammonia-induced decrease of brain glucose (pyruvate) oxidation. Restoration of normal glutamatergic synaptic regulation by hypothermia may be the consequence of the removal of ammonia-induced decreases in expression of astrocytic glutamate transporters resulting in normal glutamate neurotransmitter inactivation in brain. Randomized controlled clinical trials of hypothermia are required to further evaluate its clinical impact.
A growing body of evidence suggests that alterations in N-methyl-D-asparate NMDA-mediated excitatory neurotransmission may be involved in the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in acute liver failure (ALF). The NMDA receptor requires glycine as a positive allosteric modulator. One of the glycine transporters Glyt-1 is expressed primarily in astrocytes of the cerebral cortex in association with regions of high NMDA receptor expression. As astrocytic transporters regulate the amino acid concentrations within excitatory synapses, the expression of Glyt-1 was studied in cortical preparations from rats with ischemic liver failure induced by portacaval anastomosis followed 24 hr later by hepatic artery ligation and from appropriate sham-operated controls. Expression of Glyt-1 mRNA, studied by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, was significantly decreased in the brain at coma stages of encephalopathy (to approximately 50% of control) concomitant with a significant threefold increase of extracellular glycine, measured by in vivo cerebral microdialysis. These findings suggest that loss of expression of the Glyt-1 transporter may cause an impairment of regulation of glycine concentration at synaptic level and contribute to an overactivation of the NMDA receptor in ALF. The use of NMDA receptor antagonists, aimed specifically at the glycine modulatory site, could offer novel approaches to the prevention and treatment of HE in ALF.
Glutamatergic dysfunction has been suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in acute liver failure (ALF). Increased extracellular brain glutamate concentrations have consistently been described in different experimental animal models of ALF and in patients with increased intracranial pressure due to ALF. High brain ammonia levels remain the leading candidate in the pathogenesis of HE in ALF and studies have demonstrated a correlation between ammonia and increased concentrations of extracellular brain glutamate both clinically and in experimental animal models of ALE Inhibition of glutamate uptake or increased glutamate release from neurons and/or astrocytes could cause an increase in extracellular glutamate. This review analyses the effect of ammonia on glutamate release from (and uptake into) both neurons and astrocytes and how these pathophysiological mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of HE in ALF.
Results of neuropathologic, spectroscopic, and neurochemical studies continue to confirm a major role for ammonia in the pathogenesis of the central nervous system complications of both acute and chronic liver failure. Damage to astrocytes characterized by cell swelling (acute liver failure) or Alzheimer Type II astrocytosis (chronic liver failure) can be readily reproduced by acute or chronic exposure of these cells in vitro to pathophysiologically relevant concentrations of ammonia. Furthermore, exposure of the brain or cultured astrocytes to ammonia results in similar alterations in expression of genes coding for key astrocytic proteins. Such proteins include the structural glial fibrillary acidic protein, glutamate transporters, and peripheral-type (mitochondrial) benzodiazepine receptors. Brain-blood ammonia concentration ratios (normally of the order of 2) are increased up to fourfold in liver failure and arterial blood ammonia concentrations are good predictors of cerebral herniation in patients with acute liver failure. Studies using 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy in patients with chronic liver failure reveal a positive correlation between the severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms and brain concentrations of the brain ammonia-detoxification product glutamine. Increased intracellular glutamine may be a contributory cause of brain edema in hyperammonemia. Positron emission tomography studies using 13HN3 provide evidence of increased blood-brain ammonia transfer and brain ammonia utilization rates in patients with chronic liver failure. In addition to the use of nonabsorbable disaccharides and antibiotics to reduce gut ammonia production, new approaches to the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy by lowering of brain ammonia include the use of L-ornithine-L-aspartate and mild hypothermia.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) acts as central pain neuromodulator. We examined the ability of different types of peripheral stimulation to activate the BDNF high-affinity receptor, TrkB, in the spinal cord. We found that noxious chemical, mechanical, or thermal stimuli, but not innocuous stimuli, caused Trk phosphorylation in the spinal cord. These changes were rapid and transient and restricted to somatotopically appropriate spinal segments. We observed, both in vitro and in vivo, that exogenous BDNF induced a rapid activation of ERK, a signaling kinase important in the development of acute pain. Finally, we found that sequestering BDNF in vivo with a TrkB-IgG fusion molecule significantly reduced the activation of ERK evoked by noxious stimulation. These data suggest that BDNF, once released with activity from primary afferent nociceptors, exerts a neuromodulatory role in pain processing through stimulation of postsynaptic TrkB receptors and subsequent activation of ERK.
We have studied the molecular specification of precursor cells in expanded neurosphere cultures derived from distinct subregions of the embryonic mouse telencephalon. These regionally derived cultures exhibited differential responses to the mitogens EGF and bFGF, suggesting that the precursors in these cultures were differentially specified as is the case in situ. To examine this further, cultures from each of the telencephalic subregions were expanded in both EGF and bFGF before differentiation. The neurons produced displayed molecular phenotypes similar to those normally derived from each of these regions in vivo. Moreover, analysis of gene expression in the undifferentiated cultures showed that the regionally derived neurospheres express many of the same developmental control genes as their in vivo counterparts. Taken together, the present findings suggest that precursor cells in neurosphere cultures, derived from distinct subregions of the embryonic telencephalon, maintain at least certain aspects of their molecular specification, even after significant expansion in vitro.
Abnormal splicing of astroglial glutamate transporter EAAT2 mRNA has been suggested to account for the loss of EAAT2 protein in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have identified several clones of human U251 glioma cells which express varying amounts of aberrantly spliced EAAT2 mRNA; these clones do not express any detectable EAAT2 protein. When the wild-type EAAT2 cDNA was expressed in each of these clones, we found that the amount of EAAT2 protein inversely correlated with the levels of endogenous aberrant EAAT2 mRNA. We also observed that ectopic expression of normal EAAT2 protein is toxic to U251 cells as well as to undifferentiated primary astrocytes. We conclude that expression of aberrant EAAT2 mRNA may be one possible mechanism to repress normal EAAT2 protein expression. The implication of this study for the mechanisms of EAAT2 protein loss in ALS and AD is discussed.

Lead (Pb(2+)) is a well-known inhibitor of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels in their native environments in several types of cells. However, its effects on discrete Ca(2+) channel phenotypes in isolation have not been well studied. We compared how specific subtypes of human neuronal high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels were affected by acute exposure to Pb(2+). Expression cDNA clones of human alpha(1C), alpha(1B), or alpha(1E) subunit genes encoding neuronal L-, N-, and R-subtypes of Ca(2+) channels, respectively, along with a constant alpha(2)delta and beta(3) subunits were transfected into human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Currents through the respective transiently expressed channels were measured using whole-cell recording techniques with Ba(2+) (20 mM) as charge carrier. Extracellular bath applications of Pb(2+) significantly reduced current amplitude through all three types of Ca(2+) channels in a concentration-dependent manner. The order of potency was: alpha(1E) (IC(50) = 0.10 microM), followed by alpha(1C) (IC(50) = 0.38 microM) and alpha(1B) (IC(50) = 1.31 microM). Pb(2+)-induced perturbation of function of alpha(1C) and alpha(1B) containing Ca(2+) channels was more easily reversed than for alpha(1E)-containing Ca(2+) channels after washing with Pb(2+) free solution. The current-voltage relationships were not altered after 3-min exposure to Pb(2+) for any of the three types. However, the steady-state inactivation relationships were shifted to more negative potentials for channels containing alpha(1B) and alpha(1E) subunits, but not for those containing alpha(1C) subunits. Pb(2+) accelerated the inactivation time of current in all three subtypes of Ca(2+) channels in a concentration- and voltage-dependent manner. Therefore, different subtypes of Ca(2+) channels exhibit differential susceptibility to Pb(2+) even when expressed in the same cell type. Current expressed by alpha(1E)-containing channels is more sensitive to Pb(2+) than that expressed by alpha(1C)- or alpha(1B)-containing channels. Several Ca(2+) channel phenotypes are quite sensitive to the inhibitory action of Pb(2+). Furthermore, it seems that Pb(2+) is more likely to combine with Ca(2+) channels in the closed state.
The occurrence of a first epileptic seizure, spinal or brainstem paroxysmal symptom and cranial neuralgia during 25 years after onset was studied in a population-based multiple sclerosis (MS) cohort of 255 patients. Epileptic seizures occurred in 20, paroxysmal symptoms in 11 and cranial (trigeminal, intermedius, retroauricular or occipital) neuralgia in 11 patients. The yearly incidence of epileptic seizures in MS was estimated to be 349(+/-153)/100,000, approximately seven times higher than in the general population. The yearly incidence of a first paroxysmal symptom in the present material was calculated to be 190 cases in 100,000 MS patients, and the yearly incidence of cranial neuralgia was 189 cases in 100,000 MS patients. The epileptic seizures were more frequent during the progressive course than in the relapsing-remitting (RR) course. The frequencies of paroxysmal symptoms and cranial neuralgia did not differ between these two disease courses. A coincidence of epileptic seizures and a decline in cognitive functioning not seen among patients with paroxysmal symptoms was found The relatively late occurrence of epileptic seizures indicates that the frequency of epileptogenesis, known to involve neuronal damage, increases in the later stages of MS.
Electrophysiological studies in some secretory and non-secretory cells have identified an extensive form of calcium-induced exocytosis that is rapid (hundreds of milliseconds), insensitive to tetanus toxin and distinct from regulated secretion. We have now identified a marker of the process, desmoyokin-AHNAK, in a clonal derivative of the neuronal cell line, PC12. In resting cells, desmoyokin-AHNAK is localized within the lumen of specific vesicles, but appears on the cell surface during stimulation. Desmoyokin-AHNAK-positive vesicles exist in a variety of cells and tissues and are distinct from the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, trans-Golgi, endosomes and lysosomes, and from Glut4 and constitutive secretion vesicles. They seem to be involved in two models of plasmalemma enlargement: differentiation and membrane repair. We therefore propose that these vesicles should be called 'enlargosomes'.
It is widely held that long-term memories are established by consolidation of newly acquired information into stable neural representations, a process that requires protein synthesis and synaptic plasticity. Plasticity within the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a major component of the ventral striatum, is thought to mediate instrumental learning processes and many aspects of drug addiction. Here we show that the inhibition of protein synthesis within the NAc disrupts consolidation of an appetitive instrumental learning task (lever-pressing for food) in rats. Post-trial infusions of anisomycin immediately after the first several training sessions prevented consolidation, whereas infusions delayed by 2 or 4 hours had no effect. However, if the rats were allowed to learn the task, the behavior was not sensitive to disruption by intra-accumbens anisomycin. Control infusions into the medial NAc shell or the dorsolateral striatum did not impair learning; in fact, an enhancement was observed in the latter case. These results show that de novo protein synthesis within the NAc is necessary for the consolidation, but not reconsolidation, of appetitive instrumental memories.
Neuroimaging studies show that the efficacy of long-term memory encoding of a stimulus is indexed by transient neural activity elicited by that stimulus. Here, we show that successful memory encoding is also indexed by neural activity that is tonically maintained throughout a study task. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), transient and sustained neural activity were dissociated with a mixed event-related and blocked design. In a series of short task blocks, human subjects made semantic or phonological decisions about visually presented words. After statistically removing item-related activity, we found that the mean level of activity across a task block was correlated with the number of words subsequently remembered from that block. These correlations were found in inferior medial parietal and left prefrontal cortex for the semantic task, and in superior medial parietal cortex for the phonological task. Our findings suggest that state-related activity in these brain regions is involved in memory encoding.




Visual processing in the cortex can be characterized by a predominantly hierarchical architecture, in which specialized brain regions along the processing pathways extract visual features of increasing complexity, accompanied by greater invariance in stimulus properties such as size and position. Various studies have postulated that a nonlinear pooling function such as the maximum (MAX) operation could be fundamental in achieving such selectivity and invariance. In this article, we are concerned with neurally plausible mechanisms that may be involved in realizing the MAX operation. Different canonical models are proposed, each based on neural mechanisms that have been previously discussed in the context of cortical processing. Through simulations and mathematical analysis, we compare the performance and robustness of these mechanisms. We derive experimentally verifiable predictions for each model and discuss the relevant physiological considerations.
Evolutionary psychologists often overlook a wealth of information existing between the proximate genotypic level and the ultimate phenotypic level. This commonly ignored level of biological organization is the ongoing activity of neurobiological systems. In this paper, we extend our previous arguments concerning strategic weaknesses of evolutionary psychology by advocating a foundational view that focuses on similarities in brain, behavior, and various basic psychological features across mammalian species. Such an approach offers the potential to link the emerging discipline of evolutionary psychology to its parent scientific disciplines such as biochemistry, physiology, molecular genetics, developmental biology and the neuroscientific analysis of animal behavior. We detail an example of this through our impending work using gene microarray technology to characterize gene expression patterns in rats during aggressive and playful social interactions. Through a focus on functional homologies and the experimental analysis of conserved, subcortical emotional and motivational brain systems, neuroevolutionary psychobiology can reveal ancient features of the human mind that are still shared with other animals. Claims regarding evolved, uniquely human, psychological constructs should be constrained by the rigorous evidentiary standards that are routine in other sciences.
In this paper, we discuss the concept of mental disorder from the perspective of Darwinian psychiatry. Using this perspective does not resolve all of the quandaries which philosophers of medicine face when trying to provide a general definition of disease. However, it does take an important step toward clarifying why current methods of psychiatric diagnosis are criticizable and how clinicians can improve the identification of true mental disorders. According to Darwinian psychiatry, the validity of the conventional criteria of psychiatric morbidity is dependent on their association with functional impairment. Suffering, statistical deviance, and physical lesion are frequent correlates of mental disorders but, in absence of dysfunctional consequences, none of these criteria is sufficient for considering a psychological or behavioral condition as a psychiatric disorder. The Darwinian concept of mental disorder builds from two basic ideas: (1) the capacity to achieve biological goals is the best single attribute that characterizes mental health; and (2), the assessment of functional capacities cannot be properly made without consideration of the environment in which the individual lives. These two ideas reflect a concept of mental disorder that is both functional and ecological. A correct application of evolutionary knowledge should not necessarily lead to the conclusion that therapeutic intervention should be limited to conditions that jeopardize biological adaptation. Because one of the basic aims of medicine is to alleviate human suffering, an understanding of the evolutionary foundations of the concept of mental disorder should translate into more effective ways for promoting individual and social well-being, not into the search for natural laws determining what is therapeutically right or wrong.


We examined heterozygous transgenic (Tg) mice that overexpress V717F amyloid precursor protein (APP) for delay eyeblink conditioning (EBC) and hippocampal volume with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Platelet-derived APP mice were significantly impaired on EBC relative to wild type (WT) litter-mate controls. T2-weighted spin echo images (62.5 x 125 x 500 microm) of the same mice were acquired under anesthesia using a 9.4T magnet. Tg mice had hippocampal to brain volume ratios that were significantly smaller than WT controls (31% smaller in the rostral dorsal hippocampus, 13-22% smaller among equal dorsal-ventral thirds of a caudal section). These results indicate that overexpression of APP or beta amyloid profoundly affects learning and memory and hippocampal volume. The results also indicate that eyeblink conditioning and quantitative MRI in mice may be useful assays to follow the progression of disease-related changes, and to test the effectiveness of potential therapeutics against Alzheimer's disease.
A very large body of evidence from in vivo studies has been accumulated on a link between the change of energy and cell survival/apoptosis. Using an in vitro ischemia model, we have previously shown that ischemia could induce apoptosis in astrocytes. In this study, we utilized the same in vitro model to investigate changes in ATP and ADP levels in cultured astrocytes and attempted to demonstrate an energy-cell death linkage. Astrocytes remained unaltered after 2 hr of ischemia but were moderately or severely damaged after 4 or 6-8 hr, respectively. The astrocytes that survived various lengths of in vitro ischemic incubation retained their ability to produce ATP after ischemia. Both ATP and ADP levels were increased in astrocytes that remained alive under in vitro ischemia for over 6 hr. The largest decline in the percent of viable astrocytes during ischemia corresponded well to the reduction in ATP and ADP levels in these cultures.

We evaluated the effects of 2 h of warm (24 degrees C) and cold (6 degrees C) exposure on metabolism and ventilation (V(E)) in conscious male and female Harlan ICR Swiss Webster mice exposed to air, and 8% O(2) in N(2) (hypoxia) and to 5% CO(2) in O(2) (hypercapnia) for 2 min each at both temperatures. All cold-exposed mice increased O(2) consumption (V(O2)), and maintained body temperature. Cold-exposed females doubled their tidal volume, increased their V(E) fivefold, and doubled their ventilatory equivalent to V(O2) (V(E)/V(O2)). In contrast, cold-exposed males decreased tidal volume and doubled V(E) relative to warm exposure. The ventilatory equivalent of males was similar during warm and cold exposure. During warm exposure, mice of both genders increased their ventilatory responses to both hypoxia and to hypercapnia by different mechanisms. In contrast, during cold exposure, these responses were blunted relative to air measurements in females and decreased below air values in males. Thus, cold exposure was able to elicit gender-specific ventilatory and metabolic responses.
There are many cell surface receptors expressed by neurones in the enteric nervous system (ENS). These receptors respond to synaptically released neurotransmitters, circulating hormones and locally released substances. Cell surface receptors are also targets for many therapeutically used drugs. This review will focus on ligand-gated ion channels, i.e. receptors in which the ligand binding site and the ion channel are parts of a single multimeric receptor. Ligand-gated ion channels expressed by enteric nerves are: nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), P2X receptors, 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors,alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and glycine receptors. P2X, 5-HT3 and nAChRs participate in fast synaptic transmission in S-type neurones in the ENS. Fast synaptic transmission occurs in some AH-type neurones, and AH neurones express all the ligand-gated ion channels listed above. Ligand-gated ion channels may be localized at extra-synaptic sites in some AH neurones and these extra-synaptic receptors may be useful targets for drugs that can be used to treat disorders of gastrointestinal function.
The regulation of blood flow during neuronal activation is poorly understood. Current explanations of the mismatch between increased blood flow and oxygen consumption during neuronal excitation hold that blood flow must rise more than oxygen consumption to compensate for a low oxygen reserve in brain mitochondria. Contrary to the result of a previous study by Mintun et al. (2001), the present test of the hypothesis revealed no conflicts among the claims of unidirectional blood-brain transfer of oxygen, negligible oxygen in mitochondria, and measurements of cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption. With a simple compartmental model of oxygen delivery to brain tissue, the test showed that neuronal excitation elicits identical increases of cerebral blood flow in normoxemia and hypoxemia, in complete agreement with the claim of a negligible reserve of oxygen in brain mitochondria in vivo.
This study introduces a direct method of assessing cerebral lateralization for language based on fMRI activation. The method, derived from a voxel-based morphometry study by C. H. Salmond et al. (2000, Hum. Brain Mapping 11, 223-232), bases lateralization on the direct statistical comparison of the magnitude of task-induced activation in homotopic regions of the two hemispheres. Lateralization results obtained with this direct method were compared to those obtained with a widely used method which involves the calculation of a laterality index (LI) based on the number of significantly activated voxels in the inferior frontal gyrus of each hemisphere. In order to compare the validity of the two methods, a covert verb-generation task was performed by eight children with epilepsy whose language lateralization was examined using invasive techniques. Lateralization results derived from fMRI activation showed that the calculation of a LI presented some limitations. Importantly, the LI value was dependent on the activation threshold chosen to calculate that LI. As a consequence, the correlation between the LI and the invasive methods could vary with the chosen threshold. By contrast, the proposed direct method gave some indication of the reliability of the lateralization and provided results that, in all eight children, were consistent with those obtained using invasive techniques. It is suggested that the direct method could be used in future fMRI studies to establish hemispheric lateralization for cognitive functions.
The current event-related fMRI study specifies the neuroanatomical correlates of semantic priming and differences in semantic relation types using an auditory primed lexical decision task (LDT). Word pairs consisted of different relation types, associations (key-chain), pure categorical relations (cow-dog), and unrelated words (table-window), as well as word-pseudoword (way-tinne) and pseudoword-pseudoword (ahurn-dva) pairs. The factor lexical status, i.e., the processing of words compared to pseudowords, was associated with activation in the middle temporal gyri and the left striatum. The factor relatedness, i.e., the contrast between unrelated and related target words, was associated with increased activation of the left inferior frontal gyrus, the deep frontal operculum bilaterally, and the middle frontal gyri. A direct contrast between the two semantic relation types indicated that the processing of purely categorical compared to associative information recruits the right precuneus, the isthmus gyrus cinguli, and the cuneus, suggesting more effortful processing of the former information type. The present data show that the factors lexical status, semantic relatedness, and type of semantic relation in a primed LDT modulate the hemodynamic response in cerebral areas that subserve auditory word recognition and subsequent lexical-semantic processing.
Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) may afford a more rapid and extensive survey of gray matter abnormalities in schizophrenia than manually drawn region of interest (ROI) analysis, the current gold standard in structural MRI. Unfortunately, VBM has not been validated by comparison with ROI analyses, nor used in first-episode patients with schizophrenia or affective psychosis, who lack structural changes associated with chronicity. An SPM99-based implementation of VBM was used to compare a group of 16 patients with first-episode schizophrenia and a group of 18 normal controls and, as a further comparison, 16 first-episode patients with affective psychosis. All groups were matched for age and handedness. High spatial resolution structural images were normalized to the SPM99 template and then segmented, smoothed, and subjected to an ANCOVA. Schizophrenia vs control group comparisons: Voxel-by-voxel comparison of gray matter densities showed that only the left STG region was significantly different when corrected for multiple comparisons (P &lt;.05), consistent with our previously reported manual ROI results. Analysis of the extent of voxel clusters, replicated with permutation analyses, revealed group differences in bilateral anterior cingulate gyri and insula (not previously examined by us with manually drawn ROI) and unilateral parietal lobe, but not in medial temporal lobe (where our ROI analysis had shown differences). However, use of a smaller smoothing kernel and a small volume correction revealed left-sided hippocampal group differences. Affective psychosis comparisons: When the same statistical thresholding criteria were used, no significant differences between affective psychosis patients and controls were noted. Since a major interest was whether patients with affective psychosis shared some anatomical abnormalities with schizophrenia, we applied a small volume correction and searched within the regions that were significantly less dense in schizophrenia compared to control subjects. With this statistical correction, the insula showed, bilaterally, the same pattern of differences in affective disorder subjects as that in schizophrenic subjects, whereas both left STG and left hippocampus showed statistical differences between affectives and schizophrenics, indicating the abnormalities specific to first-episode schizophrenia. These findings suggest both the promise and utility of VBM in evaluating gray matter abnormalities. They further suggest the importance of comparing VBM findings with more traditional ROI analyses until the reasons for the differences between methods are determined.
It is generally held that motor imagery is the internal simulation of movements involving one's own body in the absence of overt execution. Consistent with this hypothesis, results from numerous functional neuroimaging studies indicate that motor imagery activates a large variety of motor-related brain regions. However, it is unclear precisely which of these areas are involved in motor imagery per se as opposed to other planning processes that do not involve movement simulation. In an attempt to resolve this issue, we employed event-related fMRI to separate activations related to hand preparation-a task component that does not demand imagining movements-from grip selection-a component previously shown to require the internal simulation of reaching movements. Our results show that in contrast to preparation of overt actions, preparation of either hand for covert movement simulation activates a large network of motor-related areas located primarily within the left cerebral and right cerebellar hemispheres. By contrast, imagined grip selection activates a distinct parietofrontal circuit that includes the bilateral dorsal premotor cortex, contralateral intraparietal sulcus, and right superior parietal lobule. Because these areas are highly consistent with the frontoparietal reach circuit identified in monkeys, we conclude that motor imagery involves action-specific motor representations computed in parietofrontal circuits.
The recovery from stroke is often slow and incomplete, leading to partial or complete loss of locomotion, activities of daily living (ADL), cognition and communication skills. Aim of stroke rehabilitation is to reduce the disabilities and enable the patient to return to community, which is achieved by joint efforts of physicians, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, nurses, social workers and psychologists. Rehabilitation of a stroke patient begins as soon as any impairment is perceived and comprises traditional exercise programmes and neuropsychological approaches with the primary aim of restoring mobility of patient. It also deals with issues related to dysphagia, bowel and bladder care, shoulder dislocation, pressure sores, and prevention of deep venous thrombosis. A good rehabilitation programme helps in promoting natural recovery, preventing complications due to disabilities and adapting to disabilities.
A large number of prothrombotic states both inherited and acquired, have been linked with ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Inherited deficiencies of the plasma coagulant inhibitory proteins, mainly protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, heparin cofactor-II, and protein Z, defects in the coagulation cascade proteins such as Factor V Leiden and prothrombin gene G20210A mutation, abnormalities of fibrinolysis and hyperhomocystinemia have been associated with stroke. Patients with disorders of the formed blood elements like polycythemia vera, sickle cell anaemia and essential thrombocythemia can also be predisposed to stroke. The most frequently identified acquired states associated with ischemic stroke are the anticardiolipin antibodies and lupus anticoagulants. Screening for occult prothrombotic diathesis is necessary for young patients with stroke of unidentifiable cause, for those with prior venous thrombosis and those with a family history of thrombosis. Knowledge in this area is still incomplete and evolving rapidly.
The pathophysiology of stroke is complex and involves an abnormal interaction between vessel wall and platelets. Of late many genetic and environmental factors impinging on the vessel wall have been identified which may determine the susceptibility of an individual to stroke. These include elevated homocysteine levels, chronic chalymydial and periodontal infection, plaque characteristics and genetic susceptibility. Intervention with HMG CO enzyme A reductase inhibitors, Angiotensin Enzyme Inhibitors and vitamins have been shown to offer protection.
Intradural extramedullary epidermoid cysts are rare tumors especially those not associated with spinal dysraphism. We report 3 cases of spinal intradural extramedullary epidermoid cysts. In all the cases, the lesion was situated at dorsal level. The clinical features, MRI characteristics and surgical treatment of such rare intradural extramedullary benign tumors are discussed and relevant literature is reviewed.
A 14 year old girl presented with a 6-month history of headaches and visual blurring. CT showed a right tentorial enhancing lesion. Angiogram showed no enhancement. Histopathological examination of the excised material was consistent with tuberculoma. The presentation of such unusual intracranial tuberculoma is reported and the literature reviewed on the subject.
Five cases of spinal intramedullary tuberculomas (IMT) and one case of spinal intramedullary tuberculous abscess (ITA) are presented. Gd enhanced MRI revealed ring enhancing lesion with central hypodensity, suggesting granulomatous pathology. Surgical excision of the intramedullary lesions was carried out in four cases, while two patients received presumptive anti-tuberculous chemotherapy only. Repeat MRI after completion of anti-tuberculous therapy showed total resolution of the lesion. In other cases following surgical excision, the patients improved significantly. The management of these rare lesions is discussed and the literature reviewed.

Limb-girdle myasthenia is an uncommon disease and includes familial and autoimmune forms. Patients present proximal muscle weakness and wasting, and sometimes fatigability, without cranial nerve involvement and fluctuations. We observed, during a 15-year period, nine subjects with limb-girdle myasthenia, (24-55 years; 8 males, 1 female) who constituted 3.2% of 281 myasthenic patients attending our department. All had previously received a diagnosis different from myasthenia. Diagnosis of limb-girdle myasthenia was established by clinical, muscle biopsy and electrophysiological assessment including repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber electromyography. Five patients had the familial form with tubular aggregates in skeletal muscle; four patients had the autoimmune form. Patients with the familial form had a good response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, and the patients with the autoimmune form responded to immunotherapy. Our findings reinforce the opportunity to suspect limb-girdle myasthenia in unclassifiable proximal myopathies and to differentiate familial from autoimmune cases, especially for therapeutic implications.

Nur-related factor 1 (Nurr1), nerve growth factor-induced gene B (NGFI-B) and neuron-derived orphan receptor-1 (NOR-1) constitute the orphan nuclear receptor subfamily of transcription factors. Previous studies showed that midbrain dopaminergic neuronal precursor cells failed to differentiate in Nurr1-deficient mice. To investigate a role of Nurr1 in human neuronal function, Nurr1 mRNA expression was studied in human neural cell lines by RT-PCR and northern blot analysis. Nurr1, NGFI-B and NOR-1 mRNA were coexpressed in all human neural and nonneural cell lines under the serum-containing culture condition, except for SK-N-SH neuroblastoma, in which Nurr1 mRNA was undetectable. The levels of Nurr1, NGFI-B and NOR-1 mRNA were elevated markedly in NTera2 teratocarcinoma-derived neurons (NTera2-N), a model of differentiated human neurons, following a 1.5 or 3 h-exposure to 1 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP or 100 nm phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. NGFI-B mRNA levels were also elevated in NTera2-N cells by exposure to 100 ng/mL brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). To identify Nurr1-target genes, the mRNA expression of 27 genes potentially involved in dopaminergic neuronal differentiation and survival, including BDNF, glia-derived neurotrophic factor, their receptors, tyrosine hydroxylase and alpha-synuclein, were studied in HEK293 cells following overexpression of Nurr1. None of these genes examined, however, showed significant changes. These results indicate that Nurr1, NGFI-B and NOR-1 mRNA are expressed constitutively in various human neural and non-neural cell lines under the serum-containing culture condition, and their levels are up-regulated in human neurons by activation of protein kinase A or protein kinase C pathway, although putative coactivators expressed in dopaminergic neuronal precursor cells might be required for efficient transcriptional activation of Nurr1-target genes.
The melanocortin receptors are peptide binding G-protein coupled receptors that play a role in important physiological functions such as energy balance, inflammatory processes and several aspects of reproduction. In this study, we synthesised 11 new linear MSH analogues and tested their binding to the human MC receptors (MC1, MC3, MC4 and MC5) expressed in COS cells. Our results show that introduction of Asp in position 4 similarly affects the binding to the MC1, MC4 and MC5 receptors, but drastically lowers the binding to the MC3 receptor. Arg(5) substitution shows relatively high affinity for the MC4 receptor, while the results also give further support for specific importance of His(6) for the MC1 receptor. Introduction of Asp in position 10, mimicking gamma-MSH, decreased the affinity for the MC3 receptor in similar manner as for the MC4 receptor, suggesting that there are important differences in the binding conformation of gamma-MSH and NPD-MSH. Our results provide further information about the ligand binding requirements for each of the MC receptor subtypes, and highlights differential influence of the core residues in the MSH peptides. The data set also provides useful information for further calculations and modeling of MC receptor binders.
Alpha2-adrenergic drugs modulate cortical arousal and EEG. However, the role of individual alpha2-adrenoceptor (alpha(2)-AR) subtypes in these functions is not clear. We investigated the role of alpha(2C)-ARs in the modulation of baseline cortical EEG activity and EEG responses to the alpha(2)-AR selective agonist, dexmedetomidine (3-300 microg/kg, s.c.), and antagonist, atipamezole (3-1000 microg/kg, s.c.), by using alpha(2C)-AR knockout (KO) and wildtype (WT) mice. The overall amplitude (1-30 Hz) was not significantly altered in KO mice although the activity of theta band (4-8 Hz) was increased in these mice. The main finding was that dexmedetomidine (30-300 microg/kg) more effectively slowed and atipamezole (30-1000 microg/kg) less effectively increased cortical EEG arousal in KO mice compared to WT controls. Importantly, autoradiographical results showed no compensatory increase in other alpha(2)-AR subtypes in cortical, thalamic or other brain structures of KO mice. Furthermore, there were no differences between the genotypes in the levels of hippocampal choline acetyltransferase, monoamines or their metabolites. Altered baseline cortical EEG activity and EEG responses to alpha(2)-AR selective drugs in KO mice indicate that alpha(2C)-ARs are involved in regulation of cortical arousal. These results suggest that alpha(2C)-ARs may antagonize the sedative effect of alpha(2)-AR agonists mediated by activation of alpha(2A)-ARs.
We conducted studies to examine the potential role of glutamate in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during conditioned responses to stimuli (flashing light and metronome) previously associated with cocaine administration. During training, PAIRED subjects received cocaine injections (15 mg/kg) during stimuli sessions while UNPAIRED subjects received saline injections (but received cocaine in the home cage an hour later). We showed previously that PAIRED subjects exhibit conditioned locomotion when tested with the stimuli alone. In this study, we further demonstrated that the expression of behavioral sensitization in response to cocaine challenge is under conditioned control in PAIRED subjects. Then, we used microdialysis to examine extracellular levels of glutamate in the PFC in response to presentation of the conditioned stimuli alone and challenge with cocaine in the presence of the conditioned stimuli. Although PAIRED subjects demonstrated conditioned locomotion and conditioned control of sensitization during the microdialysis experiment, PFC glutamate levels were unaltered during the tests and did not differ between the PAIRED and UNPAIRED subjects.
Phencyclidine (PCP), a non-competitive antagonist of ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, produces psychotomimetic effects, such as a disruption in prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle response. NMDA antagonists also induce locomotor hyperactivity in rodents. We hypothesized that, like NMDA receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) modulate PPI and locomotor activity either alone or, in the case of mGluR5, via interaction with NMDA receptors. Rats treated with the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP (2-methyl-6-phenylethynylpyridine) or the mGluR2/3 agonist LY314582, either alone or in combination with PCP, were tested in PPI and locomotor activity paradigms. Neither MPEP nor LY314582 altered PPI. MPEP, but not LY314582, potentiated the PPI-disruptive effects of PCP. MPEP alone did not alter locomotor or exploratory behavior, but augmented the complex, time-dependent locomotor-stimulating effects of PCP. LY314582 dose-dependently decreased locomotor activity and exploratory holepokes. LY314582 did not alter the PCP-induced increases in locomotor activity, but further decreased the number of holepokes. The effects of MPEP on the response to PCP may reflect the cooperation and co-localization of NMDA and mGlu5 receptors.
The objective of the present study was to determine whether an olfactory prime could modulate behavior and visual event-related potentials (ERPs) obtained in response to a visual stimulation representing female faces. More specifically, we tested the hypothesis that a pleasant odor could have effects on face perception: behavioral effects on subjective emotional estimation of faces, and on associated response times, and electrophysiological effects on the N400 and late positive complex or LPC. Experiments were performed in which subjects had to decide whether the presented face was pleasant or not, while visual ERPs were recorded. Faces were always primed with either a pleasant odor or a neutral olfactory stimulus (pure air). In order to test the effect of subject's awareness, participants were not informed that an odor would be presented in the experimental sessions. Responses were significantly shorter for unpleasant faces. However, no behavioral effects of the pleasant odor on response time or on evaluation of face pleasantness were observed. Late ERPs evoked by faces were modulated by the presence of a pleasant odor, even when subjects were neither warned nor aware of the presence of the odor: in a frontal site and after the diffusion of the odor, the LPC (appearing 550 ms after the presentation of the visual stimulus) evoked by unpleasant faces was significantly more positive than the LPC evoked by pleasant faces. This effect could reflect an enhanced alert reaction to unpleasant faces are preceded by an (incongrous) pleasant odor.
We recently found that in rats trained to self-administer a heroin-cocaine mixture, exposure to the drug self-administration environment, after extinction of the drug-reinforced behavior in a different context, leads to renewal of drug seeking. Here we further explored the role of contextual stimuli in drug seeking by characterizing the effect of drug-associated environmental stimuli on renewal of cocaine seeking. We also investigated whether activation of dopamine receptors contributes to context-induced renewal of cocaine seeking by testing the effects of selective D1-like (SCH 23390) and D2-like (raclopride) receptor antagonists. Rats were trained for 10 days to self-administer cocaine by pressing a lever. Next, lever pressing was extinguished in the presence of the discrete cues associated with cocaine infusions for 10 days in a context that was distinctively different from the drug-taking context. On the test days, rats were pretreated with SCH 23390 (0, 5 or 10 microg/kg) or raclopride (0, 50 or 100 microg/kg) and non-reinforced lever-pressing behavior was determined either in the extinction context (Control group) or the cocaine-associated context (Renewal group). Consistent with our previous report, cocaine seeking was renewed when rats were exposed to the drug-associated context after extinction in a different context. Furthermore, pretreatment with the D1-like or the D2-like receptor antagonists attenuated context-induced renewal of cocaine seeking. These data suggest that activation of dopamine receptors is involved in reinstatement of cocaine seeking induced by exposure to the drug self-administration context.
Stimulation of dopamine (DA) receptors in the striatum evokes a number of alterations in motor behavior in rats, as well as causing several alterations in cellular physiology, including changes in membrane potential, cell excitability, afferent drive, and electrotonic coupling. One cellular property that is potently modulated by DA stimulation is electrotonic coupling, a process shown to subserve motor pattern generation. To examine whether electrotonic coupling plays a role in mediating a specific set of DA receptor-mediated motor behaviors, we tested the effects of two inhibitors of gap junction conductance, carbenoxolone (CARB) and anandamide (AEA), on apomorphine (APO)-induced motor responses. We then used intra-striatal infusions of CARB to determine the role of electrotonic coupling specifically in the ventral striatum in the expression of APO-induced behaviors. APO (2.5-3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased motor activity (a composite score) and the frequencies of oral and sniffing stereotypies. APO also disrupted grooming initiation and completion. APO-induced oral stereotypies were selectively blocked by systemic administration of CARB (7.0, 35.0 mg/kg). Moreover, although CARB alone disrupted the initiation and completion of grooming sequences, it also partially normalized APO-induced disruptions in grooming. AEA (0.5, 1.5 mg/kg) also blocked APO-induced oral stereotypies at the higher dose, but differed from CARB in that it did not restore normal grooming behaviors but, instead, appeared to &quot;release&quot; locomotion. Bilateral infusion of carbenoxolone (50 pmol) into the ventral striatum also blocked the oral stereotypies induced by systemic APO. We conclude from these and previous experiments that gap junctions play an important role in normal motor behavior, and furthermore that disruption of motor behavior in the form of oral and sniffing stereotypies associated with systemic APO administration may be a consequence of this heightened electrotonic coupling in the striatum. These results may be relevant to diseases and pharmacotherapies associated with disruptions of motor and possibly cognitive sequencing.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine consists of equal amounts of R and S stereoisomers. In this study, we investigated the pharmacologic properties of the stereoisomers using transporter and receptor binding assays and in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. Binding to the transporter confirmed selectivity of R- and S-fluoxetine for the 5-HT transporter versus the dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) human transporters. Receptor binding studies demonstrated significant affinity of R-fluoxetine, but not S-fluoxetine, for human 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptor subtypes. Functional GTPgammaS binding studies indicated that R-fluoxetine is an antagonist at 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors. In microdialysis studies, acute R- and S-fluoxetine increased extracellular levels of 5-HT, DA, and NE in prefrontal cortex (PFC), but R-fluoxetine caused significantly greater increases of catecholamines. R-fluoxetine increased extracellular levels of 5-HT and NE in PFC, nucleus accumbens, and hypothalamus, whereas it increased dopamine in PFC and hypothalamus, but not in DA-rich nucleus accumbens and striatum, thus indicating a regionally selective effect. The unexpected increases of extracellular catecholamines by a selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor like R-fluoxetine may be due to its antagonism of 5-HT(2C) receptors.
Pre-clinical and clinical studies have demonstrated the importance of associative factors in regulating craving for drugs of abuse. To model these conditioned effects, we have examine cue-induced conditioned locomotion in rodents. The present study involved analysis of several of our prior studies to evaluate the relationship between conditioned locomotion and behavioral sensitization using a within-subjects analysis. Both are animal models used to study addiction, so it is important to know if one is predictive of the other, and more generally, if drug effects are predictive of conditioned effects. In all of our studies, Paired subjects received cocaine during presentation of conditioned stimuli while Unpaired subjects received saline with the stimuli and cocaine at the home cages an hour later. Paired subjects typically displayed behavioral sensitization over the course of training. After the completion of training, all subjects were tested with the conditioned stimuli in the absence of drug and conditioned locomotion was measured. The response of Unpaired subjects on the last training day was positively correlated with their response on test day, as expected since both days were nearly identical (stimuli presented without cocaine). However, for Paired subjects, the magnitude of conditioned locomotion on the drug-free test day was not positively correlated with the magnitude of behavioral sensitization. These results underscore the importance of focusing research on drug-free conditioned behaviors when attempting to model conditioned responses to drug related cues in human addicts.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor hypofunction has been suggested to play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. New glutamatergic mechanisms involving metabotropic receptors have been recently proposed to further expand this hypothesis. &quot;Homer&quot; is a family of postsynaptic density proteins functionally and physically attached to glutamate metabotropic receptors. We investigated the activation of the early gene form of Homer after acute treatment with typical or atypical antipsychotic drugs alone or with the adjunction of D-cycloserine. This activation was compared with that of c-fos, considered a putative molecular marker of brain regions activated by antipsychotics. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated intraperitoneally with haloperidol (0.8 mg/Kg) or clozapine (15 mg/Kg) alone or with the adjunction of D-cycloserine (20 mg/Kg). Rats were sacrificed ninety minutes after injection and the brains were processed for quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. Haloperidol induced a statistically significant increase of Homer both in caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens compared with controls; clozapine induced Homer significantly only in the accumbens. The adjunction of D-cycloserine attenuated the haloperidol-induced increase of Homer expression in caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens and attenuated the clozapine-induced increase in the accumbens. The c-fos gene expression was potently induced by haloperidol in caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens, and by clozapine only in the accumbens. The adjunction of D-cycloserine enhanced c-fos expression only for clozapine in both regions of the forebrain. These results demonstrate a differential involvement of glutamatergic metabotropic system in gene expression modulation induced by typical or atypical antipsychotic drugs and may suggest new molecular basis for the augmentation strategy by a glycine site partial agonist.
The objective of this roundtable discussion of experts in the field of multiple sclerosis (MS) was to summarize the current understanding of MS and its therapeutic options. The experts discussed subjects ranging from the etiology of MS to the current standards for patient care. Specific topics included the subtypes of MS, with a focus on the benign subtype, brain atrophy, the role of magnetic resonance imaging or &quot;neuroimaging studies,&quot; disease-modifying therapies, biological markers as indicators of drug efficacy, and combination therapies. In addition, the experts speculated as to what will be available in the near future for the improved diagnosis and management of MS. This review summarizes the main points of this discussion and is intended to serve as a reference for neurologists involved in the care of patients with MS.
Parental animals of many rodent species display fierce and persistent aggression toward unfamiliar conspecifics that appears to protect their often altricial and defenseless young. We herein review studies of the sensory, hormonal, neuroanatomical, and neurochemical mechanisms underlying maternal aggression in laboratory rodents. The relationship between maternal aggression and fearfulness or anxiety is also discussed.


Methylmercury (MeHg) is a highly neurotoxic, environmentally ubiquitous chemical that exerts its toxic effects by largely unknown mechanisms. Maintenance of optimal intracellular concentrations of glutathione (GSH) is vital for cellular defenses against damage from free radicals. Since astrocytes play an essential role in providing GSH precursors to neurons, studies were directed at the effect of MeHg on cystine transport in both cell types. Astrocytes accumulated cystine via three independent transporters, referred to as system XAG-, system XC-, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT). In contrast, neurons accumulated cystine exclusively via system XC- and GGT. MeHg potently inhibited cystine uptake in astrocytes (but not in neurons), and this effect could be fully accounted for by inhibition of the system XAG- transporter. The transport of glutamate in astrocytes is also inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Accordingly, additional studies examined the ability of thiol reducing or oxidizing agents to inhibit the astrocytic transport of 3H-D-aspartate, a glutamate analog. The antioxidant catalase significantly attenuated MeHg-induced inhibition of astrocytic 3H-aspartate uptake. Combinedly, these studies suggest that inhibition of cystine uptake and decreased astrocytic GSH levels and efflux reduce the availability of precursors for GSH synthesis in neurons. In addition, MeHg-induced generation of H2O2 plays a role in the inhibition of astrocytic glutamate transport. These effects likely increase neuronal vulnerability to MeHg-induced oxidative stress, and excess N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation leading to neuronal demise.
The textbook view that projections of the arachnoid membrane into the cranial venous sinuses represent the primary cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption sites seems incompatible with many clinical and experimental observations. On balance, there is more quantitative evidence suggesting a function for extracranial lymphatic vessels than exists to support a role for arachnoid villi and granulations in CSF transport.

Many decades have passed since the pain-producing properties of ATP were demonstrated in both animals and humans. However, the more recent discovery of a family of ion channels for which ATP is a ligand and which are expressed by nociceptive neurons, has led to a resurgence of interest into the physiological and pathophysiological actions of ATP. This article considers the extent to which available evidence supports the notion that ATP receptors might be important novel analgesic targets. The hypothesis that ATP is a pain mediator is considered in terms of: the distribution of ATP receptors (specifically the P2X ion channel family); whether ATP release occurs under appropriate conditions; the evidence that ATP is capable of initiating pain in humans and pain-related behaviour in animals; and, lastly, the analgesic effects of pharmacological or molecular block of ATP receptors.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, matched elderly controls, and normal young subjects were tested using a visuo-motor adaptation paradigm in which the gain of the vertical component of the visual feedback of handwriting was manipulated in real-time. Handwriting was performed on a digitizer tablet and displayed in real-time on a computer screen in front of the participant. Vision of the hand and pen was occluded. Feedback could be normal (pre- and post-exposure conditions), smaller, or larger than the actual handwriting (exposure conditions). All groups showed a gradual adaptation that compensated for the distorted visual feedback during the exposure conditions. Moreover, all the groups showed significant after-effects during the post-exposure conditions suggesting that all the participants learned to compensate for the novel display gains. Taken together, these data suggest that the mechanisms for visuo-motor adaptation to changes in vertical display gain during handwriting are robust to aging and early stage of PD. These results may have implications for the treatment of micrographia in Parkinsonism.
Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) for obstructive hydrocephalus has a failure rate of 20-50% in various series. The present study analyzes ETV failures in 72 patients over a 2-year period and attempts to outline a management plan. Of the 72 patients who underwent ETV, it failed in 13. Seven of these failures occurred within 1 month, and in 5 others, ETV failed after 1-2 months. Another patient had a delayed failure 2 years after the initial surgery. Upon clinical failure, MRI scans were performed in all patients using either T2 fast spin echo or two-dimensional phase contrast MRI techniques. Of these, no flow could be demonstrated in 12 patients, whereas in 1 patient, good flow was observed. Endoscopic exploration was undertaken in the 12 patients in whom flow could not be demonstrated. Of the 12 who underwent endoscopic exploration, a patent stoma was observed in 7, necessitating insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS). In the other 5, the stoma had closed by gliosis and a repeat ETV was performed. In 3 of these patients, in addition to the ETV, a VPS was also inserted in accordance with the family's wishes. VPS insertion was carried out in the patient with suggestion of good flow through the stoma. In failed ETV, MRI with flow studies is essential to identify the possible cause of failure. Endoscopic exploration is indicated for patients with no evidence of flow. A repeat ETV is indicated in patients with a closed stoma. Patients with a patent stoma could require insertion of a cerebrospinal fluid shunt.
Energy homeostasis is controlled by a complex neuroendocrine system consisting of peripheral signals like leptin and central signals, in particular, neuropeptides. Several neuropeptides with anorexigenic (POMC, CART, and CRH) as well as orexigenic (NPY, AgRP, and MCH) actions are involved in this complex (partly redundant) controlling system. Starvation as well as overfeeding lead to changes in expression levels of these neuropeptides, which act downstream of leptin, resulting in a physiological response. In this review the role of several anorexigenic and orexigenic (hypothalamic) neuropeptides on food intake and body weight regulation is summarized.
The present study tested the hypothesis that there is increased visual dependence perceptually in patients with Parkinson's disease. We also evaluated whether the visual control of posture and locomotion was related to perceptual visual field dependence. 21 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and 22 age-matched normal subjects were compared on judgment of the visual vertical using the Rod-and-Frame test with visual perturbations in the frontal plane with a tilted frame. Patients had significantly larger errors than controls in the estimation of the subjective vertical. In the same experiment, we performed a posture and a gait analysis in both groups. Posturographic evaluation did not indicate significant differences in unsteadiness between patients and controls. Gait analysis indicated a typical pattern of reduced velocity, shortened stride length, and normal step width. A significant correlation of .89 was found only in the Parkinsonian group between their errors in estimating subjective visual vertical and the Romberg quotient evaluating visual contribution to postural control. No specific locomotor pattern was correlated with visual dependence. Considering our results and previous reports on the visual control of posture, we conclude that patients with Parkinson's disease showed a significantly increased dependence upon visual information both perceptually and motorically, with an increased perceptual visual dependence in the patients being predictive of an equivalent visual dependence or visual control of posture and equilibrium.
To identify whether spontaneous motor rhythm is influenced by external or internal events and whether this rhythm fluctuates across the day in parallel with heart rate diurnal variations, we simultaneously recorded heart rate and spontaneous motor rate before and after a pedaling task performed five times a day by 10 healthy human subjects. Each subject performed a Spontaneous Motor Tempo, i.e., a finger-tapping task, at a comfortable and spontaneous cadence. Pre- and postexercise Spontaneous Motor Tempo was measured as well as heart rate. There were diurnal variations in Spontaneous Motor Tempo. Both measures increased significantly after pedaling, suggesting that cardiac and spontaneous rhythms are influenced simultaneously after a moderate exercise. Also, finger-taps occurred most frequently around the initiation of the heart systole. These results suggest that a putative internal clock might regulate Spontaneous Motor Tempo and that cardiac rhythm might influence this tempo.
Male rats were seized with lithium and pilocarpine and then injected within 30 min. with either acepromazine or ketamine. These rats as well as age-matched normal rats were observed daily for one year. The rats which had received the ketamine after the seizures were significantly heavier than either the normal rats or the other group of seized rats. The bulk of this increased weight was due to the marked increase in white, extremely dense adipose tissue. Compared to the acepromazine-treated rats, the ketamine-treated rats did not exhibit spontaneous seizures and exhibited cerebral widths comparable to normal rats. These results suggest that the multifocal, graded neuronal loss associated with this seizure model may allow other &quot;configurations&quot; to emerge that can support normal behaviors as well as new characteristics.
The effects of formalin-induced tonic pain (FITP) on testosterone (T) concentrations in the central nervous system (CNS) and serum were investigated in rats. T was nearly eliminated from the brain and spinal cord 1.5 and 24 h after a single subcutaneous injection (100 microl/rat, sc) of 5% formalin and its levels were similar to that seen following castration. In serum, T concentrations were decreased significantly 1.5 h following formalin injection, but after 24 h, the serum level of T was within normal range. T concentrations in the brain, spinal cord, and serum were not modified 20 min after formalin injection. Pretreatment of rats with finasteride, a 5alpha-reductase (5alpha-R) inhibitor (5 mg/kg, sc) blocked T elimination from the brain and spinal cord by FITP, but it failed to prevent decrease in serum T. However, 3 h after administration of exogenous T (5 mg/kg, sc), FITP did not cause a significant decrease in T levels in the CNS and serum. These results suggest that FITP eliminates endogenous T in the brain and spinal cord by increasing 5alpha-R activity in the CNS.
A majority of beta-lactam antibiotics (e.g., cephalosporins and penicillins) have convulsive activity to a greater or lesser extent. (6R,7R)-3-[[3-Amino-2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2H-pyrazol-1-ium-1-yl]methyl]-7-[(Z)-2-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-methoxyiminoacetylamino]-8-oxo-5-thia-1-azabicyclo[4.2.0]oct-2-ene-2-carboxylate monosulfate (cefoselis), a newly developed injectable beta-lactam antibiotic with activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), might induce convulsions if cerebral concentrations become highly elevated. In the present study, we examined whether or not cefoselis had convulsive activity after direct brain administration, and we attempted to clarify the pharmacological mechanism of action. When cefoselis was injected into the lateral ventricle of the mouse brain at doses higher than 20 microg/animal, it produced convulsions dose-dependently. Cefoselis (50 microg/animal)-induced convulsions were prevented by pretreatment with 5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801), diazepam and phenobarbital (ED(50) values (mg/kg) of 0.78, 1.59 and 33.0, respectively), but not by carbamazepine or phenytoin. When the effects of these anticonvulsants on the convulsions induced by intracerebral injection of bicuculline methiodide (BMI) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were investigated, the inhibitory profile of anticonvulsants on cefoselis-induced convulsions was similar to those induced by BMI (125 ng/animal) but differed markedly in their inhibitory activity on NMDA (100 ng/animal)-induced convulsions, which were not inhibited by diazepam. These results suggest that cefoselis may be convulsive at higher concentrations through a mechanism involving inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors.
Antiretrovirals have progressively entered clinical practice since the discovery of the association between the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Among the classes of drugs which have shown efficacy against HIV, nucleoside-based reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) have been extensively investigated in both their basic and therapeutic aspects. The basic mechanism of the effects of NRTIs relies on interaction with both viral and host cell functions. This implies that NRTIs could act not only by inhibiting viral genome replication, but also by interfering with some basic mechanism regulating cell growth and death. According to these characteristics, NRTIs might share several similarities with antineoplastic agents, including side effects. In this article, we have briefly reviewed the pharmacological activities of NRTIs in viral replication, neoplastic growth and cellular functions. These aspects might be involved both in the beneficial and adverse effects of NRTIs.
The distribution of some cholecystokinin (CCK) systems in the rat brain is reviewed focusing on mesencephalic dopamine neurones which coexpress CCK and, in particular, on cortico-striatal CCK neurones which probably have glutamate as their co-transmitter. Functional studies based on the effect of several CCK(B) antagonists on phencyclidine-induced motility suggest that CCK is involved in locomotor behaviour causing inhibition in phencyclidine-treated habituated rats. In contrast, in unhabituated rats CCK stimulates exploratory behaviour. These effects may be related to the cortico-striatal CCK/glutamatergic pathway. Moreover, these studies provide evidence for endogenous release of a neuropeptide with behavioural consequences.
Protein interaction screens have revealed an interaction between the D2 dopamine receptor and the actin cross-linking protein filamin A. However, the physiological significance of this interaction has not been explained. To better understand the role of filamin A in D2 receptor-mediated signaling, we examined the effect of disrupting filamin A/D2 receptor interaction. Overexpression of a truncated form of filamin A (repeat units 18-19 containing the D2, but not the actin, binding domain) caused a marked reduction in both the number and half-life of cell surface D2 receptors. These results suggest that disruption of the linkage between D2 receptors and the actin cytoskeleton destabilizes plasma membrane-associated D2 receptors. Several missense mutations within repeat unit 19 of filamin A were identified that abrogate filamin A/D2 receptor interaction. Introduction of mutant and wild-type filamin A into filamin A-deficient M2 cells demonstrated that wild-type filamin A, but not the filamin A-binding mutants, was able to promote cell-surface expression of D2 receptors. Together, these studies provide evidence that filamin A/D2 receptor interaction is required for the proper targeting or stabilization of D2 dopamine receptors at the plasma membrane.
Head direction cells (HDC) located in several regions of the brain, including the anterior dorsal nucleus of the thalamus (ADN), postsubiculum (PoS), and lateral mammillary nuclei (LMN), provide the neural substrate for the determination of head direction. Although activity of HDC is influenced by various sensory signals and internally generated cues, lesion studies and some anatomical and physiological evidence suggest that vestibular inputs are critical for the maintenance of directional sensitivity of these cells. However, vestibular inputs must be transformed considerably in order to signal head direction, and the neuronal circuitry that accomplishes this signal processing has not been fully established. Furthermore, it is unclear why the removal of vestibular inputs abolishes the directional sensitivity of HDC, as visual and other sensory inputs and motor feedback signals strongly affect the firing of these neurons and would be expected to maintain their directional-related activity. Further physiological studies will be required to establish the role of vestibular system in producing HDC responses, and anatomical studies are needed to determine the neural circuitry that mediates vestibular influences on determination of head direction.
Much attention has focused on the role of the locus coeruleus (LC) as a component of the central neural circuitry involved in stress. Many, though not all, stressful stimuli produce activation of LC neurons, as reflected by increased Fos expression in these neurons. Stimulation of the LC elicits many stress-like responses, including increased ACTH secretion, though not all responses to LC stimulation are readily interpretable in the context of stress. In particular, stimulation of the LC, at least in anesthetized rats, elicits a decrease in blood pressure and heart rate. Inhibition of the LC has been reported to inhibit certain responses to stress, including inhibition of ACTH release in response to certain stressors. Furthermore, local inhibition of the LC prevents foot shock-evoked Fos expression in certain brain areas. In the studies of the role of the LC in stress, one complicating factor has been the inadequate attention given to Barrington's nucleus (BN), which is located adjacent to the LC. Although BN is best recognized for its role in the control of micturition, the fact that it is activated by a great variety of stressful stimuli, and that it is anatomically connected to multiple output systems involved in stress responses, suggest that it may play a role in the neural circuitry subserving responses to stress.
RATS HAVE TWO PROMINENT RESPONSES TO DEHYDRATION: secretion of the antidiuretic hormone, vasopressin (VP), and thirst. Many signals directly affect both responses. These include two excitatory signals associated with increased plasma osmolality (pOsm) and two inhibitory signals associated with decreased pOsm (one each from cerebral and visceral osmoreceptors). In addition, both VP secretion and thirst during hypovolemia are stimulated by at least two signals, one neural (from cardiac baroreceptors) and one humoral (i.e., angiotensin II). In contrast to these evident similarities, there are definite dissimilarities in the signals for VP secretion and thirst. For example, acute hypervolemia inhibits VP secretion but not thirst, whereas acute hypertension inhibits thirst but not VP secretion. Thirst and VP secretion in rats each are stimulated by acute arterial hypotension, albeit not by the same signals; water intake is mediated by activation of the renin-angiotensin system but not by a neural signal from arterial baroreceptors, whereas the reverse may be true for the stimulation of VP secretion. These dissimilarities indicate that VP secretion and thirst in rats are neither invariably linked nor controlled by the same mechanisms.
Norepinephrine (NE) acts in the amygdala to regulate processes underlying acquisition and expression of emotional learning. The present study investigated whether stimulation of gastric vagal sensory afferents activates neurons immunoreactive for the NE synthetic enzyme, dopamine beta hydroxylase (DbetaH), in medullary and pontine cell groups that innervate the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in rats. To identify such neurons, retrograde neural tracers were microinjected bilaterally into the CeA. Seven to 10 days later, rats were injected intraperitoneally with saline vehicle (controls) or cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK, 10 microgram/kg) to stimulate gastric vagal afferents, then perfused with fixative 60-90 min later. Brain sections were processed for localization of neural tracer and cFos protein (to identify activated cells). Approximately 30% of retrogradely labeled neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST, A2/C2 region) and 19% of retrogradely labeled neurons in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM, A1/C1 region) were activated in rats after CCK treatment. Triple immunolabeling of cFos, neural tracer, and DbetaH confirmed that the large majority of activated, CeA-projecting neurons were noradrenergic (or adrenergic). Conversely, CCK activated less than 4% of CeA-projecting neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC, A6 cell group), similar to control cases. These findings suggest that vagal afferent stimulation may modify amygdalar processes of emotional learning via direct noradrenergic/adrenergic projections from the caudal medulla to the CeA.
The performance of spatial working memory tasks is known to evoke activity in a set of higher-order association areas, including the prefrontal cortex, posterior parietal cortex and the frontal and supplementary eye fields. Recent physiological studies in monkey have shown that memory-related activity also is found in extrastriate cortex [J. Neurophysiol. 84 (2000) 677]. We conducted functional magnetic resonance imaging studies to determine whether human extrastriate cortex contributes to the on-line maintenance of spatial information in an eye movement task. We found that performance of memory-guided saccades, as compared to visually guided saccades, elicited significant activation in two areas of extrastriate cortex: the posterior superior temporal sulcus (PST) and lateral occipitotemporal cortex (LOT). Both areas also were activated during the basic sensorimotor task of visually guided saccades as compared to fixation. We further determined that area LOT is close to but distinct from motion-sensitive area MT+. These findings demonstrate that areas PST and LOT, along with higher-level association cortex, help to encode and maintain spatial representations.
The reactive oxygen species (ROS) superoxide is well known for its role in disease mechanisms. Mounting evidence indicates, however, that superoxide also is generated for useful purposes and contributes to normal physiologic function. Studies with transgenic mice that overexpress superoxide scavengers show that certain types of memory function and underlying neuronal processes are impaired under conditions of severely reduced superoxide signaling. These findings have implications for the use of antioxidant treatments as well as for our understanding of the signaling events involved in cognition.
Glutamate receptors specifically activated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA receptors) are ion channels that play multiple fundamental roles in the physiology of vertebrate nervous systems. The mechanisms that control the opening and closing, or gating, of the channel of NMDA receptors are among the most basic determinants of receptor function, and yet are not well understood. Here we consider current understanding of the link between agonist binding and NMDA receptor channel gating, of the conformational changes that occur during gating, and of the location of the channel gate. Information is drawn from studies of NMDA receptors themselves, of other types of glutamate receptors, and of more distantly related potassium channels.
In addition to its role as a neurotransmitter, studies have postulated both neuroprotective and neurotoxic roles for nitric oxide (NO) generated in response to infections with neurotropic viruses. This study examined the expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) isoforms of NOS induced by neuronal infection with virulent and attenuated strains of pseudorabies virus (PRV). Caudal brainstem neurons infected by peripheral inoculation of the viscera served as the model system. Neuronal infection induced the expression of nNOS and iNOS, but the timing and the apparent magnitude of NOS expression varied according to the virulence of the infecting strain of virus. Expression of nNOS was observed in infected neurons that did not express this enzyme in control animals, and the onset of expression was earlier in animals infected with virulent PRV. Expression of iNOS was largely restricted to monocytes and macrophages that invaded the brain in response to PRV infection. These iNOS-expressing cells were observed earlier in animals infected with the virulent virus, and were differentially concentrated in areas exhibiting virus-induced neuropathology. Collectively, these data suggest functionally diverse roles for NO in the brain response to PRV neuronal infection.
We developed a brain slice preparation that allowed us to apply whole-cell recordings to examine the electrophysiological properties of identified synapses, neurons, and local circuits in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of macaque monkeys. In this article, we summarize the results from some of our recent and current in vitro studies in the DLPFC with special emphasis on the modulatory effects of dopamine (DA) receptor activation on pyramidal and nonpyramidal cell function in superficial layers in DLPFC areas 46 and 9.
Dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) form several projection systems with diverse functions, such as motor planning through the striatum, reward seeking via the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and cognitive control through the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Disruptions in DA cell activity profoundly impair these functions and contribute to serious clinical conditions such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. DA neurons have been extensively investigated in studies detailing their anatomy, physiology, and neurochemical regulation. Moreoever, recordings from behaving animals suggest that phasic changes in DA cell firing signal expectancy or attentional shifts associated with approach/avoidance behavior. These ideas raise interesting questions regarding how DA neurons are regulated to produce such phasic signals. For example, it is not yet known how different classes of DA projection neurons are regulated by specific inputs. In the first study of its kind within the VTA, our laboratory recently demonstrated that excitatory inputs from the PFC synapse selectively onto DA neurons that project back to the PFC but not onto DA cells that project to the NAc. These findings may explain some of the unique functional properties of mesoprefrontal DA neurons. Moreover, the results are important for understanding the pathophysiology of mental disorders such as schizophrenia.
The synapse between a spinal motor neuron and a muscle cell is normally very effective at eliciting muscle contraction. A reliable connection between these two cells occurs because a single action potential reaching the motor nerve terminal normally releases hundreds of packets of transmitter containing thousands of chemical transmitter molecules, which cross the synapse and encounter a specialized region of postsynaptic muscle. Within the muscle membrane are thousands of receptor proteins specific for this transmitter. Activation of these postsynaptic receptors allows positively charged ions to cross the muscle membrane, generating a muscle cell action potential that leads to muscle contraction. Because of its size, contraction of a muscle cell requires the activation of an exceptionally large number of neurotransmitter receptors. To understand the regulation of this reliable communication and to elucidate details of pathological conditions that lead to muscle weakness, we have studied the subcellular mechanisms that govern synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This article will review recent electron microscopic, electrophysiological, and imaging data in a discussion of the function of the motor nerve terminal in both normal and diseased states. Taken together, the existing data lead us to hypothesize that a small fraction of available calcium channels open within the transmitter releasing regions of the NMJ and that each vesicle fusion event is triggered by calcium flux through a single channel opening.
In schizophrenia, critical deficits in cognitive functions appear to reflect altered neural processing in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Given the essential role of inhibitory neurotransmission in mediating these cognitive functions, we sought to determine whether abnormalities in the inhibitory circuitry of the PFC may contribute to the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. In situ hybridization analyses in postmortem brain tissue from subjects with schizophrenia revealed that a subset of GABA neurons in PFC layers 1-5 do not express detectable levels of the mRNAs encoding glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(67)), a synthesizing enzyme for GABA, or the GABA membrane transporter (GAT-1), which is responsible for the reuptake of GABA into the nerve terminal. Furthermore, the affected GABA neurons appear to include chandelier cells, since decreased expression of GAT-1 mRNA is associated with decreased GAT-1 protein immunoreactivity in chandelier neuron axon terminals. Finally, immunocytochemical studies revealed that decreased GAT-1 immunoreactivity in chandelier neuron axon terminals is associated with an increase in a marker of GABA(A) receptors at the postsynaptic targets of chandelier neuron axons, the axon initial segment (AIS) of pyramidal neurons. These findings suggest that schizophrenia is associated with an up-regulation of GABA(A) receptors at pyramidal neuron AIS in response to deficient GABAergic input from chandelier neurons. Selective disruptions in inhibitory neurotransmission are likely to distort aspects of pyramidal neuron function important for working memory tasks, and thus may contribute to cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is a component of a system that drives and modulates affective behavior. Some forms of affective behavior are regulated by the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and enhanced by dopamine (DA). By using intracellular and extracellular electrophysiological techniques in anesthetized rats, our studies attempt to uncover cellular mechanisms that allow for regulation of affect by PFC-induced inhibition of BLA output and plasticity, as well as mechanisms by which DA enhances affective behavior via modulation of BLA neuronal excitability, afferent input and plasticity. We have found that stimulation of medial PFC (mPFC) results in a profound inhibition of BLA output, manifest as a suppression of spontaneous, intracellular current-driven or sensory cortical afferent-driven spike firing of BLA projection neurons. This inhibition is mediated by excitation of GABAergic interneurons of the BLA. Activation of DA receptors attenuates this inhibitory action of the mPFC, while enhancing other (i.e., sensory-related) inputs by increases in postsynaptic excitability of BLA projection neurons. Furthermore, Pavlovian conditioning procedures that pair an odor with a footshock result in enhanced odor-evoked postsynaptic potentials. This plasticity of odor-evoked responses is blocked by antagonism of DA receptors and by stimulation of mPFC. Our data indicate that the mPFC exerts regulatory control over BLA via suppression of spontaneous and sensory-driven activity, as well as BLA plasticity. Activation of DA receptors suppresses the inhibitory influence of the mPFC, allowing sensory-driven BLA activity and plasticity. Functionally, in the presence of high DA levels, which suppresses mPFC-evoked inhibition, one source of affective control will be dampened. Furthermore, sensory-related inputs will be further enhanced by the increased excitability of BLA neurons. This situation is expected to maximize affective responses to sensory stimuli, as well as plasticity.
This communication provides an update of our understanding of the neurological bases for the close association between balance control and anxiety. New data suggest that a vestibulo-recipient region of the parabrachial nucleus (PBN) contains cells that respond to body rotation and position relative to gravity. The PBN, with its reciprocal relationships with the extended central amygdaloid nucleus, infralimbic cortex, and hypothalamus, appears to be an important node in a primary network that processes convergent vestibular, somatic, and visceral information processing to mediate avoidance conditioning, anxiety, and conditioned fear responses. Noradrenergic and serotonergic projections to the vestibular nuclei also have parallel connections with anxiety pathways. The coeruleo-vestibular pathway originates in caudal locus coeruleus (LC) and provides regionally specialized noradrenergic input to the vestibular nuclei, which likely mediate effects of alerting and vigilance on the sensitivity of vestibulo-motor circuits. Both serotonergic and nonserotonergic pathways from the dorsal raphe nucleus and the nucleus raphe obscurus also project differentially to the vestibular nuclei, and 5-HT(2A) receptors are expressed in amygdaloid and cortical targets of the PBN. It is proposed that the dorsal raphe nucleus pathway contributes to both (a) a tradeoff between motor and sensory (information gathering) aspects of responses to self-motion and (b) a calibration of the sensitivity of affective responses to aversive aspects of motion. This updated neurologic model continues to be a synthetic schema for investigating the neurological and neurochemical bases for comorbidity of balance disorders and anxiety disorders.


During development of the central nervous system, growth cones navigate along specific pathways, recognize their targets and then form synaptic connections by elaborating terminal arbors. To date, a number of developmental and in vitro studies have characterized the nature of the guidance cues that underlie various types of axonal behavior, from initial outgrowth to synapse formation, including pathway selection, polarized growth, orientated growth, termination and branching. New approaches in molecular biology have identified several types of guidance cues, most of which are likely to act as local cues. Moreover, recent studies have indicated that axonal responsiveness to guidance cues changes dynamically, which appears to be elicited by environmental factors encountered by the navigating growth cones. This article addresses what molecular cues are responsible for guidance mechanisms including axonal responsiveness, focusing on axonal behavior in the developmental stages.
Adenosine is a ubiquitous homeostatic substance released from most cells, including neurones and glia. Once in the extracellular space, adenosine modifies cell functioning by operating G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR; A(1), A(2A), A(2B), A(3)) that can inhibit (A(1)) or enhance (A(2)) neuronal communication. Interactions between adenosine receptors and other G-protein-coupled receptors, ionotropic receptors and receptors for neurotrophins also occur, and this might contribute to a fine-tuning of neuronal function. Manipulations of adenosine receptors influence sleep and arousal, cognition and memory, neuronal damage and degeneration, as well as neuronal maturation. These actions might have therapeutic implications for neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, as well as for other neurological situations such as epilepsy, idiopathic pain or even drug addition. Peripheral side effects associated with adenosine receptor agonists limit their usefulness in therapeutics; in contrast, adenosine receptor antagonists appear to have less side effects as it is the case of the well-known non-selective antagonists theophylline (present in tea) or caffeine (abundant in coffee and tea), and their emerging beneficial actions in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are encouraging. A(1) receptor antagonism may also be useful to enhance cognition and facilitate arousal, as well as in the periphery when deficits of neurotransmitter release occur (e.g. myasthenic syndromes). Enhancement of extracellular adenosine levels through drugs that influence its metabolism might prove useful approaches in situations such as neuropathic pain, where enhanced activation of inhibitory adenosine A(1) receptors is beneficial. One might then consider adenosine as a fine-tuning modulator of neuronal activity, which via subtle effects causes harmonic actions on neuronal activity. Whenever this homeostasis is disrupted, pathology may be installed and selective receptor antagonism or agonism required.
A very large pedigree derived from the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean region of Quebec contains a branch where a distal chromosome 5q haplotype seems to cosegregate with bipolar affective disorder. The authors used a diagnosis model where Bipolar Types I and II and schizoaffective disorder bipolar type were considered as affected, while single or recurrent episode major depression was classified as unknown and all the others diagnoses as unaffected. Model-free two-point LOD score values of 3.41 and 2.21 were observed at D5S432 in the 5p region with sib_ibd and sib_phase from the ASPEX package, but simulation studies did not permit the conclusion of a significant linkage because associated empirical P values were equal to .0026 and .0037. A parametric LOD score value of 2.15 was obtained at locus D5S412 in the distal chromosome 5q area. In order to investigate heterogeneity in the single multigenerational family, the pedigree was divided into five branches. Our simulation study suggested that the five branches of the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean bipolar pedigree had low power to detect linkage under intrapedigree heterogeneity in this region.
The present exploratory study was attempted to investigate the relationship between components of event-related potential (ERP) and Cloninger's personality dimensions. The ERP was measured using the auditory oddball paradigm, and personality was evaluated by Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) in 25 healthy subjects. The results showed that P300 amplitude at Fz was significantly associated with reward dependence, and that P300 latency was positively correlated with persistence, and negatively correlated with novelty seeking. No correlations were found between N100, P200 and personality dimensions. These results indicate that personality dimension is related to information-processing in the brain. The neurobiological and psychological aspects of personality, which may relate to the P300 were considered.
We provide an &quot;executive-attention&quot; framework for organizing the cognitive neuroscience research on the constructs of working-memory capacity (WMC), general fluid intelligence, and prefrontal cortex (PFC) function. Rather than provide a novel theory of PFC function, we synthesize a wealth of single-cell, brain-imaging, and neuropsychological research through the lens of our theory of normal individual differences in WMC and attention control (Engle, Kane, &amp; Tuholski, 1999; Engle, Tuholski, Laughlin, &amp; Conway, 1999). Our critical review confirms the prevalent view that dorsolateral PFC circuitry is critical to executive-attention functions. Moreover, although the dorsolateral PFC is but one critical structure in a network of anterior and posterior &quot;attention control&quot; areas, it does have a unique executive-attention role in actively maintaining access to stimulus representations and goals in interference-rich contexts. Our review suggests the utility of an executive-attention framework for guiding future research on both PFC function and cognitive control.

Neurological manifestations are uncommon after taking kava-kava. We report three cases of meningismus, two of them with focal neurological manifestations, after kava-kava absorption.
Brain transplantation of neurons may reach two different targets: (1) drug delivery system: e.g. dopaminergic (DA) neurons in Parkinson's Disease (PD) or indirect gene therapy in Huntington's disease (HD), and (2) organotypic reconstruction: e.g. striatal neurons in HD. Most published reports are phase 1, pilot trials: not all patients are responders, graft is followed by a 30 p. 100 decrease of daily levodopa intake, with an improvement of duration and severity of defined &quot;off&quot; periods and a decrease of the UPDRS score measured in &quot;off&quot;. Only one phase 2 trial is completed. A moderate improvement of motor symptoms was observed along with a decrease of daily antiparkinsonian drug intake. PET imaging with labelled fluorodopa shows typically an increase of Ki, meaning an increase of uptake in the striatum as compared to the cortex. Dyskinesias seen in some patients suggest either a lesion effect into the striatum, or indicate that the heterotopy of the grafted neurons may be partially harmful to the motor pathways. Xenografts with porcine neurons led to poor survival. More than ten years following the first published results, whereas improvement of motor symptoms and reduction or cessation of dopaminergic drugs may be observed, transplantation remains a matter of technical and ethical concerns. It remains in the field of medical research. Many questions remain unanswered, namely: the best location and size of transplantation; the amount of grafted neurons; the need and duration of immunosuppressive treatments; the best source of neurons to be tarnsplanted and the long term effect as compared to other medical or surgical treatments. Nevertheless one can be convinced that this method may be not harmful to patients and thus deserves new clinical trials aimed at giving logical and documented answers to the many questions asked above.
The effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) or the internal pallidum (GPi) on the parkinsonian triad and on levodopa-induced dyskinesias are very similar. The antiakinetic effect of STN DBS seems to be slightly better. On the contrary to pallidal DBS, stimulation of the STN allows to reduce dopaminergic treatment by more than 50 p. 100 on average. Moreover, the current drain is smaller in STN. Thus, the STN is a low budget target compared to the GPi. STN DBS seems to be as effective on PD tremor as stimulation of the classic thalamic target, the ventral intermediate nucleus (Vim), whereas Vim stimulation has no effect on akinesia and very little on levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Thus, the STN has become the main target nucleus for DBS in PD, which is most often performed bilaterally in one surgical procedure. There is a good correlation of the preoperative response to levodopa and postoperative effects of bilateral STN DBS and this defines the patient population. Given the large patient population, simple guidelines for patient selection are developed. The referring physician can preselect patients based mainly on age (less than 70), absence of dementia and presence of severe disability related to motor fluctuations or dyskinesias. It is the responsibility of the operating centre to determine the levodopa response, to confirm the diagnosis, to rule out contraindications and to make sure that the medical treatment cannot be further optimised. Severe surgical complications with permanent sequels are relatively rare, about 1 p. 100 per implanted side. The patient selection, the precision of the surgery and the quality of the postoperative follow-up are the three main determinants of success.

The alpha-globin mRNA contains a C-rich stability element (CRE) in its 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) which is critical for the stability of this long-lived mRNA. A protein complex, termed the alpha-complex, forms on the CRE and has been shown to contribute to stabilization of the mRNA by at least two mechanisms, first by interacting with the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) to prevent deadenylation, and second by protecting the mRNA from attack by an erythroid endoribonuclease. In this report, we demonstrate that the alpha-globin 3' UTR can confer stability on a heterologous mRNA in cells, and this stability is dependent on the alpha-complex. Moreover, the stability was exclusively detected with cytoplasmic mRNA, suggesting that the regulation of alpha-globin mRNA stability is a cytoplasmic event. An additional mechanism by which the alpha-complex can confer stability on an RNA in vitro was also identified and shown to involve inhibition of 3' to 5' exonucleolytic degradation. Furthermore, using an in vitro mRNA decay system, we were able to follow the demise of the alpha-globin RNA and demonstrate that the decay was initiated by deadenylation followed by 3'-to-5' decay carried out by the exosome and ultimately hydrolysis of the residual cap structure.
Previous magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have reported various subtle brain abnormalities in schizophrenic patients, including temporal lobe abnormalities, which are of particular interest given the role of this brain region in auditory and language processing, and the characteristic deficits in these processes in schizophrenia. Subjects in this study were 16 male patients diagnosed with chronic schizophrenia and 15 healthy male comparison subjects. These patients were characterized by negative symptoms. High spatial resolution coronal MRI 1.5-mm-thick slices were used to measure the gray matter volume of the superior temporal gyrus, anterior and posterior amygdala/hippocampal complex, and parahippocampal gyrus. Patients, relative to normal comparison subjects, evinced a reduction of gray matter volume in bilateral superior temporal gyri and anterior amygdala/hippocampal complex. The reduction in gray matter of the superior temporal gyrus in patients with schizophrenia is consistent with previous findings, and is noteworthy in that it was found in this group of patients with predominantly negative symptoms. The reduction in the anterior amygdala/hippocampal complex was an additional temporal lobe finding. These results underscore the role of temporal lobe structures in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Studies using 31P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) reported on abnormalities in frontal lobe metabolism in schizophrenia. The most consistent findings were a reduction in the resonances of phosphomonoesters (PME) and/or increased phosphodiesters (PDE), which are, respectively, the precursors and the metabolites of membrane phospholipids, thus suggesting an accelerated phospholipid metabolism in the disease. Other studies reported increased high-energy phosphates (ATP-adenosine triphosphate and PCr-phosphocreatine) in schizophrenia, reflecting decreased use of energy in the frontal lobe. We investigated 53 schizophrenic patients (DSM-IV) and 35 healthy controls. Eighteen from these patients were drug nai;ve and the remaining 35 were drug-free for an average of 6 months. Phospholipid metabolism and high-energy phosphates were assessed in the left frontal lobe using 31P-MRS. Psychopathological evaluation was done with the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and the Negative Symptoms Rating Scale (NSRS). Neuropsychological evaluation was performed with the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Stroop Test and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Drug-nai;ve patients showed reduced PDE in the left frontal lobe compared to controls and to previously medicated patients (p&lt;0.05). No differences among the three groups were found regarding the other spectroscopy parameters. In healthy controls, but not in schizophrenics, a negative (and probably physiological) correlation was found between PME and PDE (p&lt;0.01). In schizophrenic patients, ATP was correlated with negative symptoms and with neuropsychological impairment (p&lt;0.01). The lack of a correlation between PME and PDE, as well as the reduction of PDE in schizophrenia, suggest a disrupted phospholipid metabolism in the disease, albeit on a contrary direction of that reported in literature. The relationships of ATP with negative symptoms and neuropsychological deficit suggest an alteration of energetic demand in the frontal lobe of schizophrenic patients, which is in line with the hypofrontality hypothesis of the disease.
The risk of an adverse outcome to pregnancy is increased in women with epilepsy. This is partly attributable to antiepileptic drugs. Guidelines for the management of pregnancy in women with epilepsy generally advise against polytherapy but make no distinction between the risks of different drugs. Several recent studies have however shown greater risk of adverse outcome in offspring exposed to sodium valproate in utero, particularly at higher doses. The outcome of pregnancy was monitored to identify antiepileptic drug treatment associated with a poor outcome in a mainly prospective study of women attending an outpatient clinic. From January 1990 to December 1999 all 69 pregnancies in women referred to the clinic were monitored. Drug treatments and other risk factors were recorded. In each child dysmorphic features, developmental delay and structural anomalies were assessed and graded. Data were analysed for drug- and dosage-dependent differences in outcome. In each assessment area a positive association between adverse outcome and dose was found for sodium valproate but not for carbamazepine. Severe adverse outcomes were found only in children exposed to sodium valproate at maternal doses above 1000 mg per day.
Formal testing of sensation as part of the neurological examination followed the improvements in examination techniques as well as advances in neuroscience. By the 1890s, the observation that temperature sense was frequently impaired at the same time that pain was appreciated led to the supposition that the two paths traveled closely. Through the works of Brown-Squard and Edinger the existence of a crossed afferent tract was verified. The distinction between two sensory pathways was clear by 1898, when van Gehuchten reported a case of syringomyelia and suggested that the pain and temperature fibers were carried anterolaterally and the position sense fibers carried posteriorly in the spinal cord. Many authors describing patients with tabes dorsalis suspected the posterior columns of the spinal cord played a key role in position sense. It is difficult to determine in the 19th century who first employed the use of movements of joints as a test for proprioceptive function; however, Bell in 1826 recognized what he termed a sixth sense, which later was characterized as proprioceptive function. Goldscheider went on to report the degrees of movement that were considered normal for each joint. Although vibratory sense had been described by Cardano and Ingrassia in the 16th century and tests had been developed by Rinne and Rumpf by the 19th century, it was not until 1903 that Rydel and Seiffer found that vibratory sense and proprioceptive sense were closely related and that both senses were carried in the posterior columns of the spinal cord. By 1955, the sensory examination included tests for light-touch, superficial pain, temperature, position sense, vibration, muscle (deep pain), and two-point discrimination. Tests for these sensibilities still remain in use. We will review the origins of the understanding of sensation, which ultimately led to the development of the sensory examination. We will highlight individuals who made important discoveries and observations, as well as review the history of each of the elements of the sensory examination.
Although the deep tendon reflexes (DTRs) were first introduced simultaneously into the medical literature by Erb and Westphal (1875), there is some evidence that the knee jerk response was well known to laymen prior to that time. Erb wrote that while he was not calling attention to anything new, he realized the utility of the phenomenon in diagnosing certain disease states. Erb viewed the phenomenon more clearly as a true reflex arc, whereas Westphal interpreted it as a local muscle phenomenon. By 1885, the maneuver was used in Europe and across the Atlantic in America. By then, the DTRs had become one of the cardinal features of the neurological examination.
The content of the neurological examination of the motor cranial nerves is a reflection of the current understanding of the neuroanatomy and clinical neurophysiology of the brain stem. The history of the neuroanatomy of the cranial nerves extends from Galen's investigations c. 200 CE to the determination of the innervations of the facial nerve by Charles Bell in the early 19th century. Scientific clinical neurophysiology first appears in the work of John Hughlings Jackson in the mid- to late 19th century. The modern model of the organization and function of the nervous system results in a clinical examination that can be called neurological. The codification of the technique of the neurological examination of the cranial nerves mirrors the institutional and social history of neurology and is reflected in the changing role of neurology textbooks in the 19th and 20th centuries. The texts develop through stages of classification, pedagogy, reference, and institutionalization and illustrate the development of a specialized medical discipline.
Sleep disorders are prevalent although they go unrecognized by clinicians, partially because of limited exposure to sleep medicine topics during medical school. Sleep topics can be integrated during both the preclinical and clinical years of the medical school curriculum by developing an integration strategy and action plan. Components of the action plan include examining the current medical school curriculum and the teaching infrastructure. Understanding curricular governance issues and how curriculum time is allocated will allow development of an effective integrative strategy. Sleep topics can be integrated into neuroscience, neuroanatomy, physiology, and behavioral science courses during the preclinical years. The sleep history and physical can be integrated into the physical diagnosis course. Sleep disorders can be introduced in clinical correlation courses. Integration strategies during the clinical years may include computer-based simulations. Careful assessment of the existing curriculum, curricular governance processes, and available educational resources will optimize the probability of successfully integrating sleep topics into the medical school curriculum.

Repairing the spinal cord has for a long time been a 'holy grail' for neuroscientists. No achievement in neuroscience is more difficult to achieve, and none would have the same impact amongst the medical profession and the public. Yet no patient has yet benefited from a regeneration therapy. At last sufficient progress has been made in the basic science of axon regeneration that treatments that would partially repair a spinal injury are imminent. A full repair of spinal injury still remains elusive. This review summarises progress to date, and suggests ways in which progress towards treatment of spinal injury patients might be made.
Sex differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function were examined in gonadectomized male and female rats given equivalent sex hormone replacement regimens either using subcutaneous silastic implants (Experiment 1) or cannula implants in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) (Experiment 2) containing either dihydrotestosterone (DHT), testosterone propionate (TP), estradiol benzoate (EB), or left empty (control). Plasma was obtained before and after 20 min of restraint stress to determine plasma ACTH, corticosterone, and CBG levels as measures of HPA function. Consistent with the literature, androgens decreased, and estrogen increased these measures of HPA function, although peripheral implants were more effective than MPOA implants. Gonadectomy and sex hormone treatment did not eliminate sex differences; overall, females had higher levels than males on measures of HPA function. Analyses of variance (ANOVA) indicated interactions of sex and sex hormone treatment on CBG levels and post-stress corticosterone levels in Expt. 1. The results suggest that sexual dimorphisms influence HPA function even when males and females are given equivalent physiological doses of gonadal steroids, and that the relevant sexual dimorphisms involve both the periphery and the CNS.
It is a universally accepted fact that the number of neurosurgeons in developing countries is woefully inadequate. It is also unrealistic to expect this limited number to work in professional isolation, in suburban and rural areas, without adequate infrastructure. Therefore, this has resulted in concentration of neurosurgeons in developing countries, in metropolitan areas, even at the risk of being underemployed. The phenomenal advances in communications and information technology in India are resulting in a new look at how secondary and tertiary health care can be provided to the underprivileged masses. Following a proof of concept validation ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization) in conjunction with the Apollo Hospitals, is ready to use satellite technology to provide specialist care not only to suburban and rural India but to other countries as well, by using the large number of highly qualified and trained specialists in urban India. The implications of these developments for the delivery of neurosurgical care to suburban and rural India is briefly reviewed.
Glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmitter systems exist in equilibrium to maintain &quot;normal&quot; brain function. Evidence is accumulating that disturbance of this equilibrium may be one of the key factors giving rise to schizophrenia. While there is widespread evidence that the psychotomimetic phencyclidine (PCP) induces schizophrenia-related symptoms, it is not clear how this dramatic effect is mediated. This study was designed to investigate acute and delayed effects of PCP on the mRNA expression of a range of markers of neuronal function associated with the glutamatergic and GABAergic systems within the rat brain. The mRNA levels of CaMKIIalpha, an enzyme which is located within the postsynaptic density and phosphorylates AMPA receptors, remained unaltered both 2 and 24 h posttreatment. Homer 1a, an immediate early gene associated with metabotropic glutamate receptors within the postsynaptic density, displayed region-specific differential changes within the prefrontal, primary auditory, and retrosplenial cortices 2 and 24 h posttreatment. Parvalbumin, a calcium-binding protein located within a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurones, displayed altered mRNA levels within the reticular nucleus of the thalamus at 2 and 24 h posttreatment and the substantia nigra pars reticulata 24 h posttreatment only. These phencyclidine-induced changes in mRNA expression were not accompanied by any changes in hsp-70 mRNA levels, a marker of NMDA antagonist-induced reversible neurotoxicity. These results indicate that the glutamatergic (group I metabotropic glutamate receptors) and GABAergic (parvalbumin-containing interneurones) neurotransmitter systems are differentially modulated in a region- and time-dependent manner by exposure to phencyclidine.
Stimulation-induced increases in synaptic efficacy have been described as being composed of multiple independent processes that arise from the activation of distinct mechanisms at the presynaptic terminal. In the chick ciliary ganglion, four components of short-term synaptic plasticity have been described: F1 and F2 components of facilitation, augmentation, and potentiation. In the present study, intracellular recording from the presynaptic calyciform nerve terminal of the chick ciliary ganglion revealed that the late repolarization and afterhypolarization (AHP) phases of the presynaptic action potential are affected by repetitive stimulation and that the time course of these effects parallel that of facilitation. The effects of these changes in the presynaptic action potential time course on calcium influx were tested by using the recorded action potential waveforms as voltage command stimuli during whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from acutely isolated chick ciliary ganglion neurons. The &quot;facilitated&quot; action potential waveform (slowed repolarization, decreased AHP amplitude) evoked calcium current with slightly but significantly greater total calcium influx. Taken together, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that activity-dependent changes in the presynaptic action potential are one of several mechanisms contributing to the facilitation phase of stimulation-induced increases in transmitter release in this preparation.
The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamatergic receptors have been linked to survival signaling, especially when the receptors are allosterically modulated by members of the Ampakine family. While increased glutamatergic communication through AMPA receptors has been shown to protect against toxic conditions that target hippocampal subfield CA1, protection in other subfields has not been shown. Accordingly, positive modulation of AMPA receptors by Ampakine compounds CX727 and CX516 was tested for effects on trimethyltin (TMT) neurotoxicity in rat hippocampal slice cultures. TMT was applied for 4 h followed by a rapid washout and antagonistic quenching of AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. After a 24-h period, the TMT-exposed slices exhibited increased levels of calpain-mediated spectrin breakdown as well as synaptic deterioration. TMT selectively targeted CA3 pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells as evidenced by degeneration and neuronal loss. The cytoskeletal and synaptic damage was reduced when Ampakine modulation was initiated during the postinsult period. Furthermore, the extent of protection was comparable to that produced by the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5. The above results were substantiated by histological experiments, revealing that Ampakine treatment prevented TMT-induced cell loss in CA3 and DG. These results indicate that AMPA receptor signals are part of cellular repair responses following exposure to an environmental toxin.

ADF/cofilins are key regulators of actin dynamics in normal cells. Recent findings suggest that, under cellular stress, the wild-type proteins might form complexes with actin that can alter cell function. Owing to their rapid formation, these complexes might initiate or aid in the progression of diseases as diverse as Alzheimer's disease and ischemic kidney disease. Although evidence for their involvement in diseases other than Alzheimer's and ischemic kidney disease is tenuous, recent studies suggest that altered production, regulation or localization of these proteins might lead to cognitive impairment, inflammation, infertility, immune deficiencies and other pathophysiological defects.
The control of standing is a complicated task that involves the action of muscles distributed over the whole body. Forces arising from gravity, external events or our own actions all tend to disturb the unstable equilibrium that preserves posture. For the central nervous system the problem of standing can be cast in terms of finding appropriate relations among body segments to maintain the desired position of the body as a whole with respect to the environment. In this review we evaluate some recent discoveries on the effects of predictable and unpredictable perturbations, and the role of perceptual information, attention and cognitive processes in the control of upright stance.
Moral psychology has long focused on reasoning, but recent evidence suggests that moral judgment is more a matter of emotion and affective intuition than deliberate reasoning. Here we discuss recent findings in psychology and cognitive neuroscience, including several studies that specifically investigate moral judgment. These findings indicate the importance of affect, although they allow that reasoning can play a restricted but significant role in moral judgment. They also point towards a preliminary account of the functional neuroanatomy of moral judgment, according to which many brain areas make important contributions to moral judgment although none is devoted specifically to it.
Genes involved in psychiatric disorders are difficult to identify, and those that have been proposed so far remain ambiguous. As it is unrealistic to expect the development of, say, a 'schizophrenic' or 'autistic' mouse, mice are unlikely to have the same role in gene identification in psychiatry as circling mice did in the discovery of human deafness genes. However, many psychiatric disorders are associated with intermediate phenotypes that can be modeled and studied in mice, including physiological or anatomical brain changes and behavioral traits. Mouse models help to evaluate the effect of a human candidate gene mutation on an intermediate trait, and to identify new candidate genes. Once a gene or pathway has been identified, mice are also used to study the interplay of different genes in that system.
Nerve activity controls muscle contractile function and muscle gene expression. Although excitation-contraction coupling is well characterized, excitation-transcription coupling is still poorly understood. Pharmacological and genetic approaches have been used to dissect the signaling pathways that mediate the effect of nerve activity on muscle fiber type and size. In particular, the role of calcineurin has recently been the subject of intensive investigation and debate. The identification of the transduction pathways involved in neuromuscular signaling has implications for the development of new therapeutic strategies to prevent muscle wasting and loss of muscle power resulting from aging, disuse and neuromuscular disorders.
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) is a member of the diverse major intrinsic protein family of water and solute channels. AQP1 is known as an osmotic water channel in kidney, brain, vascular system and other tissues, and recently has been demonstrated to function as a cation channel gated by cGMP. Electrophysiology and binding assays implicate direct cGMP binding in the AQP1 C-terminus and sequence similarities with cyclic-nucleotide-gated channels support the idea that the AQP1 C-terminus mediates ion channel activation. In this article, new data show that the AQP1 C-terminus also exhibits homology, at key residues, with the substrate-selectivity subdomain of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases. Distinct pathways for fluxes of water and ions in the tetrameric AQP1 channel indicate an intriguing multifunctional capacity. The physiological role of AQP1 in transmembrane signaling remains to be elucidated for these channels expressed in native tissues.
The Second Conference on the Neuroscience of Drug Addiction was a one-day meeting held in Rome, Italy at the Istituto Superiore di Sanit on 27 September 2002. Molecular, behavioral, pharmacological and clinical aspects of drug addiction were covered.
The reading strategies in individuals with central scotomas and more than one preferred retinal locus (PRL) were investigated using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope in order to understand the visual requirements that lead to the need to use more than one PRL during reading. It was found that: (1) PRL function can be deduced from variation in PRL usage for different size and length of isolated words; (2) each subject used two or more PRL to accomplish the functions of global viewing and discrimination, suggesting that these are two of the minimum requirements for reading; (3) reading strategies can change depending on the position of words in visual space; (4) line-changing strategies can revert to horizontal and vertical component movements. These findings have implications for improving reading performance through training in patients with central scotomas.
Historically, the psychophysical evidence for &quot;selective attention&quot; originated mainly from visual search experiments. A first important distinction in the processing of information in visual search tasks is its separation in two stages. The first, early &quot;preattentive&quot; stage operates in parallel across the entire visual field extracting single &quot;primitive features&quot; without integrating them. The second &quot;attentive&quot; stage corresponds to the specialized integration of information from a limited part of the field at any one time, i.e. serially. So far, models based on the above mentioned two-stage processes have been able to distinguish features from conjunction search conditions based on the observed slopes of the linear relation between reaction time (i.e., search time) and the number of items in the stimulus array. We propose a neuroscience based model for visual attention that works across the visual field in parallel, but due to its intrinsic dynamics can show the two experimentally observed modes of visual attention, namely: the serial focal attention and the parallel spread of attention over space. The model demonstrates that neither explicit serial focal search nor saliency maps need to be assumed. In the present model the focus of attention is not included in the system but only emerges after convergence of the dynamical behaviour of the neural networks. Furthermore, existing models have not been able to explain the variation of slopes observed in different kinds of conjunction search modes. We hypothesize that the different slopes can be explained by assuming that selective attention is guided by an independent mechanism which corresponds to the independent search for each feature. The model consistently integrates the different neuroscience levels by considering the microscopic neurodynamical mechanism that underlies visual attention, the different brain areas of the dorsal or &quot;where&quot; and ventral or &quot;what&quot; paths of the visual cortex, and behavioural data.
Central cholinergic systems differentially modulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity in female and male animals (sexual diergism). We previously reported that male rats had significantly greater HPA axis responses to stimulation by physostigmine (PHYSO), an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, compared to females. Females in defined estrous cycle stages, however, were not studied because of sample size limitations. We, therefore, determined HPA axis responses to stimulation by PHYSO in females during all estrous cycle stages (n = 78), and in male rats (n = 75). Plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and corticosterone (CORT) were measured. Estrous cycle stage was determined by light microscopy of vaginal smears. Proestrous and estrous females had higher ACTH and CORT responses compared to metestrous and diestrous females. Males had higher ACTH and AVP responses compared to females in all cycle stages. CORT responses followed the ACTH responses, except that females started from a higher baseline in all estrous stages, compared to males. These results suggest that cholinergic regulation of the HPA axis differs among females across stages of the estrous cycle, as well as between males and females. These effects are likely due to differences in circulating sex steroids and their actions within the brain.
Intracortical microstimulation of the frontal cortex evokes movements in the contralateral limbs, paws, and digits of placental mammals including the laboratory rat. The topographic representation of movement in the rat consists of a rostral forelimb area (RFA), a caudal forelimb area (CFA), and a hind limb area (HLA). The size of these representations can vary between individual animals and the proportional representation of the body parts within regions can also change as a function of experience. To date, there have been no investigations of strain differences in the cortical map of rats, and this was the objective of the present investigation. The effect of cortical stimulation was compared in young male Long-Evans rats and Fischer-344 rats. The overall size of the motor cortex representation was greater in Long-Evans rats compared to Fischer-344 rats and the threshold required to elicit a movement was higher in the Fischer-344 rats. An additional set of animals were trained in a skilled reaching task to rule out the possibility that experiential differences in the groups could account for the result and to examine the relationship between the differences in topography of cortical movement representations and motor performance. The Long-Evans rats were quantitatively and qualitatively better in skilled reaching than the Fischer-344 rats. Also, Long-Evans rats exhibited a relatively larger area of the topographic representation and lower thresholds for eliciting movement in the contralateral forelimb. This is the first study to describe pronounced strain-related differences in the microstimulation-topographic map of the motor cortex. The results are discussed in relation to using strain differences as a way of examining the behavioral, the physiological, and the anatomical organization of the motor system.
The effects of the GABAB-selective agonist baclofen were studied on guinea pig nodose ganglion neurones using grease gap and intracellular recording techniques, and on peripheral mechanosensitive endings in the guinea pig oesophagus and stomach with extracellular recordings. GABA dose-dependently reduced the amplitude of the compound action potential of C-type neurones (C spikes, EC50 = 30.9 microM), which was prevented by the GABAA antagonist bicuculline (10 microM). The GABAB agonist baclofen (1-300 microM) did not produce any significant effect on the amplitude of C spikes. In microelectrode studies, baclofen (100 microM) evoked hyperpolarisation (by 2.53 +/- 0.51 mV, n = 6, N = 5) in a subset of nodose neurones (6 out of 26, N = 18). In seven out of eight neurones (N = 8) with a slow after-hyperpolarisation following action potentials, baclofen significantly inhibited its amplitude by 19 +/- 4% (n = 7, p &lt; 0.05). GABA (100 microM) evoked a depolarisation of 9.3 +/- 2.4 mV (10 nodose neurones, N = 9, p &lt; 0.05) associated with a decrease in input impedance of 49 +/- 12% (N = 4, p &lt; 0.05). Baclofen (100-200 microM) did not affect either spontaneous or stretch-evoked firing of distension-sensitive vagal mechanoreceptors of the guinea pig oesophagus and stomach but did inhibit mechanoreceptors in the ferret oesophagus. Antibodies to GABAB receptor 1a splice variants labelled most of the neurones and numerous fibres in the guinea pig nodose ganglion while antibodies to GABAB receptor 1b splice variants stained only nerve cell bodies. There were numerous nerve fibres showing GABAB receptor 1a- and 1b-like immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus in the guinea pig oesophagus and stomach but not in anterogradely labelled extrinsic vagal nerve fibres. The result indicates that most guinea pig C-type nodose ganglion neurones have GABAB receptors on their cell bodies but their density on distension-sensitive peripheral endings is too low to allow modulation of mechanotransduction. There is a significant species-dependent difference in the expression of GABAB receptors on peripheral vagal mechanosensitive endings.
C(2)-ceramide, a cell-permeable analog of ceramide, caused cell death in cultured rat cortical neuronal cells. C(2)-ceramide-induced neuronal loss was accompanied by upregulation of caspase-3 activity, measured by cleavage of its fluorogenic substrate Ac-DEVD-AMC. Similar results were obtained when cortical neuronal cultures were treated with sphingomyelinase, an enzyme responsible for ceramide formation in the cell. Morphological evaluation of C(2)-ceramide-treated cortical neurons showed nuclear condensation and fragmentation as visualized by Hoechst 33258 staining. Co-administration of the selective caspase-3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk or caspase-9 inhibitor z-LEHD-fmk significantly reduced C(2)-ceramide-induced cell death, while co-application of the caspase-8, inhibitor z-IETD-fmk, was without effect. Immunoblot analysis of protein extracts from C(2)-ceramide-treated cortical neuronal cultures revealed upregulation of active caspase-9 and caspase-3 protein levels, whereas presence of active caspase-8 immunoreactivity was undetectable in this system. Administration of C(2)-ceramide to SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells also caused apoptotic cell death. Moreover, ceramide-induced cell death was significantly decreased in caspase-9 dominant-negative SH-SY5Y cells, while both caspase-8 dominant-negative cultures and mock-transfected cells showed equally high levels of cell death following C(2)-ceramide treatment. Taken together, these data suggest that neuronal death induced by ceramide may be linked to the caspase-9/caspase-3 regulated intrinsic pathway of cellular apoptosis.
Reductions in the number of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been shown to occur in connection with Parkinson's disease (PD), but it is still unclear which subtype of this receptor is affected. In the present study we examined various nAChR subtypes employing ligand binding, as well as levels of subunit protein and mRNA in the brains of PD patients and age-matched controls. Binding of [3H]epibatidine and levels of alpha3 mRNA in the caudate nucleus and temporal cortex, but not in the hippocampus were significantly decreased in the PD brain. The level of the alpha3 protein subunit was significantly reduced in all these brain regions but there was no change in the level of alpha4. The level of the beta2 protein subunit in the temporal cortex and hippocampus and the beta2 mRNA in the temporal cortex was lowered. Both the levels of the alpha7 subunit protein and [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding were significantly increased in the temporal cortex of PD patients whereas the alpha7 mRNA level was unchanged. These findings reveal selective losses of the alpha3- and beta2-containing nAChRs and an increase in the alpha7 nAChRs that might be related to the pathogenesis of PD.
We examined the swallowing-related intracellular activity of motoneurons of the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) in decerebrate, paralyzed and artificially-ventilated rats, to elucidate the neuronal mechanism of the pharyngo-esophageal and laryngo-esophageal coordination during swallowing. The majority of the SLN motoneurons exhibited respiratory rhythm (n=16; 13 inspiratory, one expiratory and two non-respiratory neurons). During fictive swallowing evoked by electrical stimulation of the SLN, all these motoneurons showed a hyperpolarization-depolarization sequence in their membrane potentials. The hyperpolarization, which was shown to consist of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, started at the onset of the hypoglossal swallowing burst, lasted during the burst, and was followed by a depolarization at the end of the burst. This hyperpolarization-depolarization pattern implies that the SLN motoneurons may be involved in the 'inhibitory chain' within the swallowing pattern generator, which may be cardinal in the sequential activation of different populations of motoneurons innervating the swallowing-related muscles.
Evidence that Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (K(Ca)) channels play a role in cell volume changes and K(+) homeostasis led to a prediction that astrocytes would have K(Ca) channels near blood vessels in order to maintain K(+) homeostasis. Consistent with this thinking the present study demonstrates that rSlo K(Ca) channels are in glial cells of the adult rat central nervous system (CNS) and highly localized to specializations of astrocytes associated with the brain vasculature. Using confocal and thin-section electron microscopic immunolabeling methods the distribution of rSlo was examined in adult rat brain. Strong rSlo immunolabeling was present around the vasculature of most brain regions. Examination of dye-filled hippocampal astrocytes revealed rSlo immunolabeling polarized in astrocytic endfeet. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed that the rSlo staining was concentrated in astrocytic endfeet ensheathing capillaries as well as abutting the pia mater. Immunostaining within the endfeet was predominantly distributed at the plasma membrane directly adjacent to either the vascular basal lamina or the pial surface. The distribution of the aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) water channel was also examined using dye-filled hippocampal astrocytes. In confirmation of earlier reports, intense AQP-4 immunolabeling was generally observed at the perimeter of blood vessels, and coincided with perivascular endfeet and rSlo labeling. We propose that rSlo K(Ca) channels, with their sensitivity to membrane depolarization and intracellular calcium, play a role in the K(+) modulation of cerebral blood flow. Additional knowledge of the molecular and cellular machinery present at perivascular endfeet may provide insight into the structural and functional molecular elements responsible for the neuronal activity-dependent regulation of cerebral blood flow.
Regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins constitute a large family of GTPase-activating proteins for heterotrimeric G proteins. More than 20 RGS genes have been identified in mammals. One of these, the Galpha-interacting protein (GAIP), preferentially interacts with members of the G(i)/G(o) subfamily of G proteins in mammalian cells, but its selectivity among members of this subfamily in vitro is limited. Here we report the cloning and functional characterization of a unique cDNA isoform of GAIP, derived from embryonic chicken dorsal root ganglion neurons. Chick GAIP is composed of 199 amino acids, organized into a conserved RGS domain (85% identical to human GAIP), and a unique, short N terminus (only 41% identical, 50% homologous to known mammalian orthologues). Consistent with this unique primary structure, chick GAIP has physiological properties that distinguish it from mammalian GAIPs. We have explored the selectivity of chick GAIP in electrophysiological assays of two G(o)-mediated forms of Ca(2+) channel inhibition produced by gamma-aminobutyric acid in chick dorsal root ganglion neurons, voltage-independent inhibition (mediated by G(o)alpha) and voltage-dependent inhibition (mediated by G(o)betagamma). Dialyzing recombinant chick GAIP in these cells selectively reduced voltage-independent inhibition without affecting voltage-dependent inhibition. Mammalian GAIP, tested under identical conditions in previous studies, demonstrated no selectivity between these two inhibitory processes; thus, our results suggest that the functional specificity of chick GAIP is likely to be determined by its unique N terminus.
Affective states are regulated mainly by serotonin and noradrenaline. However the opioid system has been also related to antidepressant-induced mood improvement, and the mu-opioid receptor has been involved in affective responses to a sustained painful stimulus. Similarly, antidepressant drugs induce an antinociceptive effect via both the monoaminergic and opioid systems, probably involving sensorial and affective dimensions of pain. The aim of this study was to test three opiate analgesics, which also inhibit monoamine reuptake, in the learned helplessness model of depression in rats. Helpless rats receiving (+/-)tramadol (10, 20 mg/Kg) or (-)methadone (2, 4 mg/Kg) showed a decreased number of failures to avoid or escape aversive stimulus (shock) in both the second and the third daily sessions, compared with controls. Rats receiving levorphanol (0.5, 1 mg/Kg) showed a decreased number of such failures in the third session. The number of crossings in the intertrial interval (ITI) was not significantly modified by (+/-)tramadol or (-)methadone. Levorphanol enhanced ITI crosses at 1 mg/Kg. These results, together with other clinical and experimental data, suggest that analgesics with monoaminergic properties improve mood and that this effect may account for their analgesic effect in regulating the affective dimension of pain. From this, it seems probable that the analgesic effect of opiates could be induced by adding together the attenuation produced of both the sensorial and the affective dimensions of pain.
Based on previous studies which suggest that blood polyamines fluctuate during the menstrual cycle, the present study was set to determine whether plasma concentrations of the polyamine spermine show menstrual cycle-associated changes and if so, how these changes relate to phasic variations in other female hormones. Blood samples were collected from a group of 9 healthy women of various ages at 5 defined periods during their menstrual cycle including 1 woman on oral contraceptives. Spermine concentrations were determined in plasma acid extracts by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography method. Plasma estradiol, LH and FSH were measured by microparticle enzyme immunoassay using an automatic analyzer. Spermine concentrations, 104.4 +/- 12.2 nmol/ml at 1-3 day of the cycle, were increased transiently with a peak (263.8 +/- 22.1 nmol/ml) at 8-10 day and declined to 85.4 +/- 29.8 nmol/ml by 21-23 day of the cycle. The peak spermine concentrations coincided with the first increase in plasma estrogen levels. The individual variations in the temporal profile of spermine concentrations were of similar magnitude as individual differences in other female hormones. We conclude that: a) Plasma spermine concentrations undergo distinct cyclic alterations during the menstrual cycle with peak concentrations coinciding with the first estradiol increase, and b) Peak plasma spermine concentrations occur during the follicular phase, just prior to ovulation, during the period of rapid endometrial growth.



The authors describe an Alberta family with levodopa-responsive parkinsonism without cerebellar abnormalities. Genetic testing showed expanded repeats for SCA-2; other mutations for parkinsonism were excluded. The expanded allele shows interruption of the CAG repeat with CAA. PET in two affected members showed reduced fluorodopa uptake in striatum and normal raclopride binding. Families with autosomal dominant, levodopa-responsive parkinsonism should be tested for the SCA-2 mutation.


Striatal inhibition plays an important role in models of cortex-basal ganglia function and is altered in many basal ganglia diseases. The gamma-aminobutyric acid ergic spiny projection neuron comprises &gt;95% of striatal neurons, but despite strong anatomical evidence, the electrophysiological properties and functions of their local axon collaterals are unknown. We simultaneously recorded from adjacent spiny projection neurons (&lt;5-10 microm) in whole-cell patch mode and demonstrated a fast synaptic connection between 2669 pairs in cortex-striatum-substantia nigra organotypic cultures and 538 pairs in acute striatal slices. The synapse, which was blocked by gamma-aminobutyric acid type A antagonists, displayed a wide range of failure rates, was depolarizing at rest, and reversed above -60 mV. Presynaptic bursts of action potentials were highly correlated with total postsynaptic depolarization at rest. Synaptic transmission was optimized for burst discharge &gt;14 Hz and showed considerable short-term plasticity, including paired-pulse depression at intervals &lt;25 ms, intraburst facilitation, and interburst augmentation. This activity-dependent collateral interaction provides the basis for a new class of basal ganglia models in which striatal neurons cooperate as well as compete during processing of cortical inputs.


A significant number of brain neurons in the rabbit brain were immunostained with anti-rabbit gamma-immunoglobulin (IgG). IgG-positive neurons were often found in the cerebellum, lower brainstem and motor nuclei. Similar IgG-positive neurons were occasionally found in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and midbrain, but not in the striatum and thalamus. These neurons showed very clear Golgi-like staining of soma and dendrites but IgG staining was absent from the cell nuclei and axons. In particular, groups of Purkinje neurons in the rabbit cerebellum showed strong IgG-positive staining. To confirm whether the staining reflected the existence of IgG molecules in these neurons, staining specificity was carefully evaluated. Staining was specifically eliminated by pre-absorption of the antibodies with the purified rabbit IgG. An antibody to the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM or CD56), a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, exhibited a completely different pattern of staining as that for IgG. To determine whether IgG-like immunoreactivity was a general feature of mammalian brain, brain sections of rabbits, rats, and mice were immunostained with antibodies to IgGs of each of the three species. Similar IgG-positive neurons were observed in all three species, although the distribution and frequency was characteristic for each species. In rabbit brain, anti-rabbit IgG stained-neurons were more abundant compared to rat and mouse brain. IgG-positive microglia-like cells were evident in mouse brain, but less frequent in rabbit and were hardly observed in rat brain. To evaluate whether stained neurons could synthesize IgG, in situ hybridization was carried out using an antisense oligonucleotide probe to rabbit IgG DNA. No significant label was observed in cerebellum. These results suggest that a significant number of neurons in the intact rabbit brain take up IgGs and concentrate them in their cytoplasm, although the molecular uptake mechanism is retained for future studies. Our results also suggest that the rabbit may be a suitable animal to study the function(s) of IgG in brain neurons.
The morphological changes that occur during normal brain aging are not well understood. This study used modern stereology to assess the effects of age and gender on total numbers of astrocytes and microglia in the hippocampal formation in C57Bl/6NNIA (B6) mice. Astrocytes and microglia were visualized using immunocytochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and complement receptor 3 (Mac-1), respectively, and numbers of each cell type in dentate gyrus (DG) and CA1 regions were estimated using the optical fractionator method. The results reveal significantly greater ( approximately 20%) numbers of microglia and astrocytes in aged females compared to young female B6 mice. We also report that on average female B6 mice have 25-40% more astrocytes and microglia in DG and CA1 regions than age-matched male C57Bl/6J mice. Since astrocytes and microglia are thought to be targets of gonadal hormones, the effects of sex hormones and reproductive aging may be responsible for these findings.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the apoptotic process contributes to the delayed infarction that follows a middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion of 20 min (mild ischemia group) and to compare this with the delayed component of infarct following 2 h of MCA occlusion (severe ischemia group). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent left MCA occlusion for either 20 min or 2 h and were reperfused for 12, 24 and 72 h. On 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride-stained coronal sections, delayed infarction was observed to develop in the whole MCA territory after mild ischemia, and also in the frontoparietal cortex after severe ischemia. At 24 h after 20 min of MCA occlusion, characteristic apoptotic features, including chromatin condensation and apoptotic bodies were frequently observed by electron microscopy. In both ischemic groups, Hoechst 33342 staining showed typically condensed and fragmented nuclei in the area showing delayed infarction, where TdT-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were also significantly increased. Caspase-3 activity was also found to be elevated 24 and 72 h after reperfusion and this peaked at 24 h in both groups. These findings suggest that ischemic severity may influence the distribution of delayed infarction, and that apoptosis is the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism.
The present study examined the effects of meta-chlorophenyl piperazine (mCPP) and mianserin on the sleep-wake cycle of the clomipramine-induced behaviorally screened depressed rats. Six-hour polygraphic recordings were made between 06:00 and 12:00 h, after a single injection of either saline or mianserin or mCPP into the lateral cerebral ventricle (i.c.v.) of both the depressed (n=12) and control rats (n=12). The injection of mCPP in the depressed rats caused a significant reduction in the total duration and number of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep episodes while it increased the REM sleep onset latency compared to the control saline injections. The injection of mianserin in the depressed rats also caused a significant reduction in the total duration and number of REM sleep episodes without changing the REM sleep latency. These results demonstrate for the first time that the central administration of mCPP and mianserin could act as an antidepressant in the clomipramine-induced rat model of depression.
Presenilin and nicastrin are essential components of the gamma-secretase complex that is required for the intramembrane proteolysis of an increasing number of membrane proteins including the amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) and Notch. By using co-immunoprecipitation and nickel affinity pull-down approaches, we now show that mammalian APH-1 (mAPH-1), a conserved multipass membrane protein, physically associates with nicastrin and the heterodimers of the presenilin amino- and carboxyl-terminal fragments in human cell lines and in rat brain. Similar to the loss of presenilin or nicastrin, the inactivation of endogenous mAPH-1 using small interfering RNAs results in the decrease of presenilin levels, accumulation of gamma-secretase substrates (APP carboxyl-terminal fragments), and reduction of gamma-secretase products (amyloid-beta peptides and the intracellular domains of APP and Notch). These data indicate that mAPH-1 is probably a functional component of the gamma-secretase complex required for the intramembrane proteolysis of APP and Notch.
Oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been suggested to be a key factor in the etiologies of many diseases and in the normal process of aging. Although the presence of a repair system to remove this damage has been demonstrated, the mechanisms involved in this repair have not been well defined. In an effort to better understand the physiological role of recombinant 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase/apurinic lyase (OGG1) in mtDNA repair, we constructed an expression vector containing the gene for OGG1 downstream of the mitochondrial localization sequence from manganese-superoxide dismutase. This gene construct was placed under the control of a tetracycline-regulated promoter. Transfected cells that conditionally expressed OGG1 in the absence of the tetracycline analogue doxycycline and targeted this recombinant protein to mitochondria were generated. Western blots of mitochondrial extracts from vector- and OGG1-transfected clones with and without doxycycline revealed that removal of doxycycline for 4 days caused an approximate 8-fold increase in the amount of OGG1 protein in mitochondria. Enzyme activity assays and DNA repair studies showed that the doxycycline-dependent recombinant OGG1 is functional. Functional studies revealed that cells containing recombinant OGG1 were more proficient at repairing oxidative damage in their mtDNA, and this increased repair led to increased cellular survival following oxidative stress.
Previously, we reported that (S)-3,5-dihydroxypenylglycine (DHPG), an agonist for group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), stimulates CK1 and Cdk5 kinase activities in neostriatal neurons, leading to enhanced phosphorylation, respectively, of Ser-137 and Thr-75 of DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa). We have now investigated the signaling pathway that leads from mGluRs to casein kinase 1 (CK1) activation. In mouse neostriatal slices, the effect of DHPG on phosphorylation of Ser-137 or Thr-75 of DARPP-32 was blocked by the phospholipase Cbeta inhibitor, the Ca(2+) chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA/AM), and the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporin A. In neuroblastoma N2a cells, the effect of DHPG on the activity of transfected HA-tagged CK1(epsilon) was blocked by BAPTA/AM and cyclosporin A. In neostriatal slices, the effect of DHPG on Cdk5 activity was also abolished by BAPTA/AM and cyclosporin A, presumably through blocking activation of CK1. Metabolic labeling studies and phosphopeptide mapping revealed that a set of C-terminal sites in HA-CK1epsilon were transiently dephosphorylated in N2a cells upon treatment with DHPG, and this was blocked by cyclosporin A. A mutant CK1epsilon with a nonphosphorylatable C-terminal domain was not activated by DHPG. Together, these studies suggest that DHPG activates CK1(epsilon) via Ca(2+)-dependent stimulation of calcineurin and subsequent dephosphorylation of inhibitory C-terminal autophosphorylation sites.
Previous studies show that neuropeptide Y (NPY) inhibits in vitro seizures in rodent hippocampus. Here, we explored the effect of NPY application on epileptiform discharges induced by perfusion with magnesium-free solution in slices of entorhinal cortex from two different mouse strains. NPY significantly reduced the duration of epileptiform discharges with a peak effect of 36-50%. This is the first study showing anti-epileptiform effect of NPY in the entorhinal cortex and also the first evidence that NPY inhibits seizures in a cortical region in mice. The entorhinal cortex has a central role in transferring information between the hippocampus and the rest of the brain. Therefore our data further strengthen the concept of NPY and its receptors as widespread regulators of epileptiform activity and as a potential future target for antiepileptic therapy.
We argue that an understanding of the faculty of language requires substantial interdisciplinary cooperation. We suggest how current developments in linguistics can be profitably wedded to work in evolutionary biology, anthropology, psychology, and neuroscience. We submit that a distinction should be made between the faculty of language in the broad sense (FLB) and in the narrow sense (FLN). FLB includes a sensory-motor system, a conceptual-intentional system, and the computational mechanisms for recursion, providing the capacity to generate an infinite range of expressions from a finite set of elements. We hypothesize that FLN only includes recursion and is the only uniquely human component of the faculty of language. We further argue that FLN may have evolved for reasons other than language, hence comparative studies might look for evidence of such computations outside of the domain of communication (for example, number, navigation, and social relations).
Phosphorylated tau is deposited as insoluble inclusion bodies in the tauopathies. We have used a new efficient method to dephosphorylate tau extracted from control and tauopathy brain. In some tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, the pattern of insoluble tau isoforms reflected that of soluble tau. In contrast, in corticobasal degeneration, Pick's disease, and some forms of fronto-temporal dementia, specific tau isoforms were selectively sequestered into insoluble inclusion-forming tau. Therefore the overall expression of individual tau isoforms does not predict which tau isoforms are deposited in all tauopathies and different mechanisms must operate that result in the deposition of specific tau isoforms.
We report eight novel members of the superfamily of human G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) found by searches in the human genome databases, termed GPR97, GPR110, GPR111, GPR112, GPR113, GPR114, GPR115 and GPR116. Phylogenetic analysis shows that these are additional members of a family of GPCRs with long N-termini, previously termed EGF-7TM, LNB-7TM, B2 or LN-7TM. Five of the receptors form their own phylogenetic cluster, while three others form a cluster with the previously reported HE6 and GPR56 (TM7XN1). All the receptors have a GPS domain in their N-terminus and long Ser/Thr-rich regions forming mucin-like stalks. GPR113 has a hormone binding domain and one EGF domain. GPR112 has over 20 Ser/Thr repeats and a pentraxin domain. GPR116 has two immunoglobulin-like repeats and a SEA box. We found several human EST sequences for most of the receptors showing differential expression patterns, which may indicate that some of these receptors participate in reproductive functions while others are more likely to have a role in the immune system.
Extended periods of rest in Drosophila melanogaster resemble mammalian sleep states in that they are characterized by heightened arousal thresholds and specific alterations in gene expression. Defined as inactivity periods spanning 5 or more min, amounts of this sleep-like state are, as in mammals, sensitive to prior amounts of waking activity, time of day, and pharmacological intervention. Clearly recognizable changes in the pattern and amount of brain electrical activity accompany changes in motor activity and arousal thresholds originally used to identify mammalian sleeping behavior. Electroencephalograms (EEGs) and/or local field potentials (LFPs) are now widely used to quantify sleep state amounts and define types of sleep. Thus, slow-wave sleep (SWS) is characterized by EEG spindles and large-amplitude delta-frequency (0-3.5 Hz) waves. Rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep is characterized by irregular gamma-frequency cortical EEG patterns and rhythmic theta-frequency (5-9 Hz) hippocampal EEG activity. It is unknown whether rest and activity in Drosophila are associated with distinct electrophysiological correlates. To address this issue, we monitored motor activity levels and recorded LFPs in the medial brain between the mushroom bodies, structures implicated in the modulation of locomotor activity, of Drosophila. The results indicate that LFPs can be reliably recorded from the brains of awake, moving fruit flies, that targeted genetic manipulations can be used to localize sources of LFP activity, and that brain electrical activity of Drosophila is reliably correlated with activity state.
Nogo (reticulon-4) is a myelin-associated protein that is expressed in three different splice variants, Nogo-A, Nogo-B, and Nogo-C. Nogo-A inhibits neurite regeneration in the central nervous system. Messenger RNA encoding Nogo is expressed in oligodendrocytes and central and peripheral neurons, but not in astrocytes or Schwann cells. Nogo is a transmembraneous protein; the extracellular domain is termed Nogo-66, and a Nogo-66-receptor (Nogo-R) has been identified. We performed in situ hybridization in human and mouse nervous tissues to map the cellular distribution of Nogo-R gene activity patterns in fetal and adult human spinal cord and sensory ganglia, adult human brain, and the nervous systems of developing and adult mice. In the human fetus Nogo-R was transcribed in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and in dorsal root ganglia. In adult human tissues Nogo-R gene activity was found in neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala, and a subset of large and medium-sized neurons of the dorsal root ganglia. Nogo-R mRNA was not expressed in the adult human spinal cord at detectable levels. In the fetal mouse, Nogo-R was diffusely expressed in brain, brainstem, trigeminal ganglion, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia at all stages. In the adult mouse strong Nogo-R mRNA expression was found in neurons in neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala, habenula, thalamic nuclei, brainstem, the granular cell layer of cerebellum, and the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb. Neurons in the adult mouse striatum, the medial septal nucleus, and spinal cord did not express Nogo-R mRNA at detectable levels. In summary, Nogo-66-R mRNA expression in humans and mice was observed in neurons of the developing nervous system Expression was downregulated in the adult spinal cord of both species, and specific expression patterns were seen in the adult brain.
As our knowledge of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome increases, so does our appreciation for the pathogenic complexity of this disorder and the challenges associated with its treatment. Advances in the neurosciences have led to new models of pathogenesis, whereas clinical studies have reinvigorated early hypotheses. The interdependent roles of genes and environment in disease formation have yet to be fully elucidated. Results of epidemiological studies have prompted debate on how best to characterise and diagnose this disorder. Absence of ideal anti-tic drugs, combined with knowledge that uncomplicated cases of childhood Tourette's syndrome frequently have a favourable outcome, has led to striking changes in care and treatment of patients. This seminar focuses on these changing views and offers a new perspective on our understanding of the pathogenesis of Tourette's syndrome and on principles for treatment of patients with this disorder.
Sedative medications are widely used in intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Structured assessment of sedation and agitation is useful to titrate sedative medications and to evaluate agitated behavior, yet existing sedation scales have limitations. We measured inter-rater reliability and validity of a new 10-level (+4 &quot;combative&quot; to -5 &quot;unarousable&quot;) scale, the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS), in two phases. In phase 1, we demonstrated excellent (r = 0.956, lower 90% confidence limit = 0.948; kappa = 0.73, 95% confidence interval = 0.71, 0.75) inter-rater reliability among five investigators (two physicians, two nurses, and one pharmacist) in adult ICU patient encounters (n = 192). Robust inter-rater reliability (r = 0.922-0.983) (kappa = 0.64-0.82) was demonstrated for patients from medical, surgical, cardiac surgery, coronary, and neuroscience ICUs, patients with and without mechanical ventilation, and patients with and without sedative medications. In validity testing, RASS correlated highly (r = 0.93) with a visual analog scale anchored by &quot;combative&quot; and &quot;unresponsive,&quot; including all patient subgroups (r = 0.84-0.98). In the second phase, after implementation of RASS in our medical ICU, inter-rater reliability between a nurse educator and 27 RASS-trained bedside nurses in 101 patient encounters was high (r = 0.964, lower 90% confidence limit = 0.950; kappa = 0.80, 95% confidence interval = 0.69, 0.90) and very good for all subgroups (r = 0.773-0.970, kappa = 0.66-0.89). Correlations between RASS and the Ramsay sedation scale (r = -0.78) and the Sedation Agitation Scale (r = 0.78) confirmed validity. Our nurses described RASS as logical, easy to administer, and readily recalled. RASS has high reliability and validity in medical and surgical, ventilated and nonventilated, and sedated and nonsedated adult ICU patients.
Disruption of normal social behaviour is seen in psychiatric neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia or autism. In a rat model of neurodevelopmental disorders we investigated the social behavioural changes after damage of limbic brain areas, at two early stages of life. The effects of ibotenic acid lesions made on day 7 or 21 of life in the amygdala (AM) ((baso)lateral/medical) or ventral hippocampal area on social play behaviour, social behaviour unrelated to social play behaviour early in life, and social behaviour in adulthood were assessed. Lesions of the AM, but not lesions of the ventral hippocampal area, resulted in decreased social play behaviour, and no differences were found between lesions made on day 7 or 21 of life. Social behaviour unrelated to social play behaviour early in life and in adulthood was decreased in animals lesioned in the AM on day 7 but not in animals lesioned on day 21 of life. This effect was particularly present in animals with an additional lesion in the medial nuclei of the AM. Lesions in the ventral hippocampal area did not affect social behaviour. It is concluded that the AM is an important structure for social play behaviour. The effects on social behaviour that are dependent on the day of lesioning (day 7 vs. 21) are an indication of a neurodevelopmental deficit of structures connected to the (medial part) of the AM.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a devastating human neurodegenerative disorder associated with progressive deterioration of cognitive abilities. The APP(V717F) mouse, an animal model of AD showing robust overexpression of the human amyloid precursor protein (APP) carrying the mutation 717 V --&gt; F, was also shown to exhibit learning and memory performance deficits. However, AD patients suffer from other abnormalities including altered emotionality. Emotionality has not been analyzed in AD mouse models. Here, motor and posture patterns exhibited by APP(V717F) mice are described in a detailed manner in fear conditioning, a paradigm that allows one to test both mnemonic and emotional characteristics of mice. Our results revealed a complex set of behavioral alterations in APP(V717F) mice in measures of exploratory behavior and fear suggesting that the effects of APP(V717F) overexpression in this mouse model are not limited to cognition and may need to be thoroughly examined in the future in a broad range of behavioral tests.
Knockout mice are generated by using ES cells from 129 mouse strains and are frequently backcrossed with other strains, like C57BL/6. It is important to characterise the physiological and, in particular, the behavioural profile of each strain in order to correctly analyse the functional contribution of a single gene mutation on the 'cognitive' phenotype. The present study compared 129T2/Sv (129) and C57BL/6J (C57) mice in three different spatial learning protocols in the water maze, using a hidden platform. In the 'standard' reference memory protocol, 129 and C57 attained an equivalent level of performance as assessed by accuracy in reaching the platform (path length), despite a faster swim speed exhibited by C57 mice. In a stepwise learning task, C57 mice showed poorer performances over all stages of learning. However they performed better than 129 in a massed learning protocol which taxes short-term memory, and in which they exhibited lower levels of perseveration. The results emphasize the importance of using various tasks differing in cognitive demand, but using the same experimental environment and motivation, in order to 1) evaluate strain- or mutation-dependent learning abilities, and 2) dissociate the roles played by cognitive and non-cognitive factors in the behavioural requirements of the tasks.
Behavioral sensitization following repeated intermittent cocaine administrations is thought to involve alterations in cocaine regulation of neural activity within the accumbens and caudate brain regions. Although Fos immunohistochemistry and c-fos in situ hybridization have frequently been used to assess changes in cocaine-induced neural activity following prior cocaine exposure, these techniques have rarely been used to examine neural activity in the accumbens of behaviorally sensitized animals. In the present experiment, we compared the ability of increasing doses of cocaine to induce Fos in the accumbens and caudate of rats following a treatment procedure (7 once daily injections of 15 mg/kg of cocaine or the saline vehicle) shown to produce robust and persistent (1 week) locomotor sensitization. In sensitized animals, there was a leftward shift in the dose-response curve for cocaine induction of Fos in the accumbens, but not in the caudate. These results provide the first parametric evidence for sensitization of cocaine-induced Fos expression in the accumbens.
Physical stress (PS) and emotional stress (ES) have opposite long-term effects on open field behaviour. PS consisted of a repeated mild foot shock treatment, which the ES animals witnessed. PS caused a long-term decrease in locomotor activity and exploration behaviours and increased immobility. ES induced an increase in locomotor activity. These changes in open field behaviour could be the result of several factors such as increased anxiety, a shift in coping strategy or simply a change in locomotor activity. To investigate the effect of the PS and ES treatment on these separate factors, the following behavioural tests were performed: defensive withdrawal, shock prod bury, large open field and social interaction. PS animals initially showed immobility in the shock prod bury test and the large open field, while the differences measured over the entire test period were small or not present. PS did not induce differences in the defensive withdrawal and the social interaction tests. ES and control animals did not differ significantly in any of the tests. The effects of PS in the shock prod bury test in particular can be interpreted as an indication of a passive coping style. However, PS animals showed the same behaviour as controls, but started displaying the behaviour after the initial immobility response. It is concluded that neither PS nor ES affects the coping style and anxiety level of the rats. PS induces a delay in behavioural responding and ES induces locomotor activation per se. It seems that the shock prod bury test is most suitable to distinguish between exploration and coping style.
Many researchers assume that laboratory rats have poor vision, and accordingly, that they need not consider differences in the visual function of rats as a consequence of strain or experience. Currently, it is not specifically known whether rat domestication has negatively affected the visual function of laboratory rat strains, what the effects of strain albinism are on rat visual function, or whether there are strain differences in the visual function of laboratory rats that are independent of pigmentation. In order to address these questions, we measured psychophysically the vertical grating acuity of three pigmented (Dark Agouti, Fisher-Norway, Long-Evans) and three albino (Fisher-344, Sprague-Dawley, Wistar) strains of laboratory rats, and compared their acuity with that of wild rats. The grating thresholds of Dark Agouti, Long-Evans and wild strains clustered around 1.0 cycle/degree (c/d) and did not significantly differ from one another. Fisher-Norway rats, however, had a significantly higher threshold of 1.5 c/d. The grating thresholds of Fisher-344, Sprague-Dawley, and Wistar strains, which were clustered around 0.5 c/d, were significantly lower than those of the pigmented strains. These data demonstrate that there is significant strain variability in the visual function of laboratory rats. Domestication of Long-Evans and Dark Agouti strains does not appear to have compromised visual acuity, but in the case of Fisher-Norway rats, selective breeding may have enhanced their acuity. Strain selection associated with albinism, however, appears to have consistently impaired visual acuity. Therefore, a consideration of strain differences in visual function should accompany the selection of a rat model for behavioral tasks that involve vision, or when comparing visuo-behavioral measurements across rat strains.
The anterior thalamic nuclei appear to play an important role in learning and memory. Connectionally and structurally, the lateral dorsal nucleus is similar to the anterior nuclei. This study tested the hypothesis that the laterodorsal thalamic nucleus (LD) also contributes to these functions. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of LD, and 2 weeks later the rats were tested in a repeated acquisition water maze task. The control groups displayed a short final escape latency and showed a preference for the correct quadrant in the probe trial. Rats with a lesion restricted to LD (LDL) were mildly impaired in the task, but rats with lesions that destroyed LD and also significantly (50%) damaged the adjacent anterior thalamic nuclei (LDL+) were severely impaired, displaying no improvement in performing the spatial task. In a second experiment, training in the same paradigm for 2 weeks resulted in improved final performance by LDL and control rats but not by LDL+ rats. These findings support the hypothesis that together with the anterior thalamic nuclei, LD plays a role in spatial learning and memory.
Hyperphosphorylated tau protein is the primary component of neurofibrillary tangles observed in several neurodegenerative disorders. It has been hypothesized that in certain pathological conditions, the calcium activated protease, calpain, would cleave the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) activator p35 to a p25 fragment, which would lead to augmented cdk5 activity, and cdk5-mediated tau hyperphosphorylation. To test this hypothesis, we induced calpain-mediated p35 cleavage in rat hippocampal neuronal cultures and studied the relationship between p25 production, cdk5 activity, and tau phosphorylation. In glutamate-treated cells p35 was cleaved to p25 and this was associated with elevated cdk5 activity. However, tau phosphorylation was concomitantly decreased at multiple sites. The calpain inhibitor MDL28170 prevented the cleavage of p35 but had no effect on tau phosphorylation, suggesting that calpain-mediated processes, i.e., the cleavage of p35 to p25 and cdk5 activation, do not contribute to tau phosphorylation in these conditions. Treatment of the neuronal cultures with N-methyl-D-aspartic acid or with calcium ionophores resulted in an outcome highly similar to that of glutamate. We conclude that, in neuronal cells, the cleavage of p35 to p25 is associated with increased activity of cdk5 but not with tau hyperphosphorylation.
The aim of this article is to review studies on human anxiety using the startle reflex methodology and to apply the literature on context conditioning in rats to interpret the results. A distinction is made between cued fear (as in specific phobia), a phasic response to an explicit threat cue, and anxiety, a more sustained and future-oriented response not linked to a specific discrete cue. Experimentally, contextual fear, as opposed to cued fear, may best reflect the feeling of aversive expectation about potential future dangers that characterizes anxiety. Following a brief description of the neurobiology of cued fear and context conditioning, evidence is presented showing that anxious patients are overly sensitive to threatening contexts. It is then argued that the degree to which contextual fear is prompted by threat depends on whether the danger is predictable or unpredictable. Consistent with animal data, unpredictable shocks in humans result in greater context conditioning compared to predictable shocks. Because conditioning promotes predictability, it is proposed to use conditioning procedures to study the development of appropriate and inappropriate aversive expectations. Cued fear learning is seen as an adaptive process by which undifferentiated fear becomes cue-specific. Deficits in cued fear learning lead to the development of nonadaptive aversive expectancies and an attentional bias toward generalized threat. Lacking a cue for threat, the organism cannot identify periods of danger and safety and remains in a chronic state of anxiety. Factors that may affect conditioning are discussed.
Death of transplanted dopaminergic neurons is induced both during preparation of donor tissue and after intrastriatal grafting. Oxidative stress is thought to be partly responsible for this cell death. In the present study we compared the effects of three lipid peroxidation inhibitors, the lazaroids Tirilazad mesylate, U-83836E and U-101033, on survival of embryonic mesencephalic neurons in different paradigms. The lazaroids were equally potent in preventing serum deprivation-induced death of cultured dopaminergic neurons. In a second set of experiments, mesencephalic suspensions were pretreated with lazaroids and cell survival was analyzed immediately after dissociation, after 2 or 24 h in culture or after intrastriatal transplantation. Lazaroid pretreatment failed to protect mesencephalic neurons in the in vitro paradigms and U-101033E did not protect grafted dopaminergic neurons in contrast to the neuroprotective effects previously reported for U-83836E and Tirilazad. Pretreatment with the iron chelator deferoxamine mesylate did not protect cultured or grafted dopaminergic neurons, nor did it improve neuronal survival in the serum deprivation model. U-83836E and U-101033E, but not Tirilazad, prevented cell death induced by the pro-oxidant tert-butyl hydroperoxide in suspensions. In a final experiment, we found that systemic treatment of the graft recipient rat with Tirilazad mesylate (before and during the first 3 days after grafting) improved survival of transplanted dopaminergic neurons to 180% of control values. Our results show that systemic treatment with a lipid peroxidation inhibitor for 3 days can promote graft survival, but also highlights the poor correlation between neuroprotective effect of pharmacological compounds in vitro and in grafts.
We have recently reported a critical role for apolipoprotein E (apoE) in the process of amyloid deposition and neuritic plaque formation in APP(V717F) transgenic (Tg) mice, an animal model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we have investigated whether the presence or absence of apoE alters the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to various fragments, including the beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta). Here we show that, in contrast to APP(V717F) Tg mice expressing apoE, APP(V717F) Tg mice deficient in apoE develop anti-Abeta immunoreactive multifocal aggregates, which contain the beta-cleaved C-terminal fragments (beta-CTFs) of APP. Tg mice deficient in apoE also display altered levels of mature full-length APP, increased amounts of beta-CTFs, as well as elevated levels of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) in an age- and region-dependent manner when compared to Tg mice expressing apoE. Taken together, these data support a role for apoE in APP processing in vivo.
Inter-neuronal coupling is a relatively recently documented property of a wide variety of cell groups in the mammalian central nervous system. For many of these groups there is evidence that the coupling can be modulated by synaptic inputs. Incidence of dye coupling among vasopressin (VP) neurons of the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) has been shown to increase in response to either activation of histamine H(1)-receptors or to increased NO production. Both of these effects involve activation of cGMP-dependent pathways. We tested the hypothesis that activation of H(1)-receptors resulted in downstream activation of NO synthase, which then mediated the H(1)-receptor effects. Putative VP neurons were intracellularly recorded and dye-injected in horizontal slices of hypothalamus, in which monosynaptic connections from the tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) were intact and electrically stimulated. Single-pulse TM stimulation evoked EPSPs and repetitive stimulation resulted in a nearly 3-fold increase in coupling incidence over unstimulated slices. TM-stimulated increased coupling was completely blocked by inhibitors of NO synthase (L-NAME) or of soluble guanylyl cyclase (ODQ or methylene blue), or pyrilamine, suggesting that the H(1)-receptor is not directly linked to guanylyl cyclase. Addition of the NO precursor, L-arginine or the NO donor, SNP, in combination with TM stimulation produced increases in coupling that were not significantly larger than those seen with stimulation alone, supporting the idea that a common pathway was used. We conclude that H(1)-receptors activate NO synthase via G-protein-coupled pathways and that NO working though its receptor, induces the downstream cGMP-dependent processes that result in increased inter-neuronal coupling.
We investigated the expressions of KCC1, KCC2 and NKCC1 mRNAs in the developing rat brain. The neuroepithelium showed abundant KCC1 and NKCC1 mRNA expressions, while KCC2 mRNA was not detected there. In contrast, KCC2 mRNA was preferentially expressed in postmitotic mature neurons. These results suggest that the appearance of KCC2 expression mainly depends on the maturation of individual neurons.
Photoreception is best understood in retinal rods and cones, but it is not confined to these cells. In non-mammals, intrinsically photosensitive cells have been identified within several structures including the pineal, hypothalamus and skin. More recently novel light sensitive cells have been identified in the inner/basal retina of both teleosts and rodents. Melanopsin has been proposed as the photopigment mediating many of these non-rod, non-cone responses to light. However, much about the melanopsin gene family remains to be clarified including their potential role as photopigments, and taxonomic distribution. We have isolated the first orthologue of melanopsin from a teleost fish and show expression of this gene in a sub-set of retinal horizontal cells (type B). Zebrafish melanopsin, and orthologues of this gene, differ markedly from the vertebrate photopigment opsins. The putative counterion is not a glutamate but a tyrosine, the putative G-protein binding domain in the third cytoplasmic loop is not conserved, and they show low levels of amino acid identity (approximately 27%) to both the known photopigment opsins and to other members of the melanopsin family. Mouse melanopsin is only 58% identical to Xenopus, and 68% identical to zebrafish. By contrast, the photosensory opsin families show approximately 75% conservation. On the basis of their structure, genomic organisation, discrete evolutionary lineage, and their co-expression with other opsins, the melanopins are not obvious photosensory opsins. They might represent a separate branch of photopigment evolution in the vertebrates or they may have a non-direct photosensory function, perhaps as a photoisomerase, in non-rod, non-cone light detection.
The silencer factor NRSF/REST has been reported to restrict expression to neurons of a variety of genes, including that encoding NMDA receptor subunit type 1 (NR1), by suppressing transcription in nonneuronal cells. However, we recently reported that in addition to the absence of NRSF/REST-binding activity, another neuron-specific mechanism is necessary for high level expression of the NR1 gene in neurons. In this study, we explored the mechanism of induction of NR1 promoter activity during neuronal differentiation of the P19 cell line. We identified a 27 base pair GC-rich region in the promoter as an important element responsible for induction of the NR1 gene after neuronal differentiation. We found that the ubiquitous transcription factors SP1 and MAZ bind to this GC-rich region. Surprisingly, the binding activities of SP1 and MAZ are not remarkably changed after neuronal differentiation. Mutations in the SP1 and MAZ sites impair binding of SP1 and MAZ proteins and also decrease NR1 promoter activity. These findings suggest that SP1 and MAZ mediate enhancement of NR1 promoter activity during neuronal differentiation despite the fact that their binding activity does not change.
We report here that PLC-gamma isoforms are required for agonist-induced Ca2+ entry (ACE). Overexpressed wild-type PLC-gamma1 or a lipase-inactive mutant PLC-gamma1 each augmented ACE in PC12 cells, while a deletion mutant lacking the region containing the SH3 domain of PLC-gamma1 was ineffective. RNA interference to deplete either PLC-gamma1 or PLC-gamma2 in PC12 and A7r5 cells inhibited ACE. In DT40 B lymphocytes expressing only PLC-gamma2, overexpressed muscarinic M5 receptors (M5R) activated ACE. Using DT40 PLC-gamma2 knockout cells, M5R stimulation of ER Ca2+ store release was unaffected, but ACE was abolished. Normal ACE was restored by transient expression of PLC-gamma2 or a lipase-inactive PLC-gamma2 mutant. The results indicate a lipase-independent role of PLC-gamma in the physiological agonist-induced activation of Ca2+ entry.
Multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs) present in the developing neural tube (E10.5, neuroepithelial cells; NEP) were examined for the expression of candidate stem cell markers, and the expression of these markers was compared with later appearing precursor cells (E14.5) that can be distinguished by the expression of embryonic neural cell adhesion molecule (E-NCAM) and A2B5. NEP cells possess gap junctions, express connexins, and appear to lack long cilia. Most candidate markers, including Nestin, Presenilin, Notch, and Numb, were expressed by both NEP cells as well as other cell populations. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4), Frizzled 9 (Fz9), and SRY box-containing gene 2 (Sox2) as assessed by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization are markers that appear to distinguish NSCs from other precursor cells. Neither Hoechst 33342 nor rhodamine-123 staining, telomerase (Tert) expression, telomerase activity, or breakpoint cluster region protein 1 (Bcrp1) transporter expression could be used to distinguish NEP stem cells from other dividing cells. NEP cells, however, lacked expression of several lineage markers that are expressed by later appearing cells. These included absence of expression of CD44, E-NCAM, A2B5, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFR alpha), suggesting that negative selection using cell surface epitopes could be used to isolate stem cell populations from mixed cultures of cells. Using mixed cultures of cells isolated from E14.5 stage embryos, we show that NEP cells can be enriched by depleting differentiating cells that express E-NCAM or A2B5 immunoreactivity. Overall, our results show that a spectrum of markers used in combination can reliably distinguish multipotent NSCs from other precursor cells as well as differentiated cells present in the CNS.
Previous studies have shown that a single point mutation (S(750)Q) in the splice variant region of rat Glu(1) subunits can eliminate positive allosteric modulation by cyclothiazide. The present study investigated the effects of mutating the equivalent residue (S(776)Q) in the human Glu(4) subunit on the activity and binding of a novel AMPA receptor potentiator, LY395153 (N-2-(4-benzamidophenylpropyl-2-propanesulfonamide)). The mutation markedly attenuated, but did not eliminate, potentiation by LY395153 and cyclothiazide. In addition, binding of [3H]LY395153 was significantly reduced by this mutation. These effects occurred in the absence of any change in the response to glutamate or the binding of a competitive AMPA receptor antagonist, [3H]Ro 48-8587 ([2,4,5-3H]9-imidazol-1-yl-8-nitro-2,3,5,6-tetrahydro[1,2,4]-triazolo[1,5-c]quinazoline-2,5-dione triethylammonium salt). Collectively, these results demonstrate that structurally diverse classes of potentiators are sensitive to mutations of this single Ser residue, suggesting that binding to this residue may be necessary for positive allosteric modulation of AMPA receptors.
Many congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are associated with mutations in the genes encoding the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), an oligomeric protein with the structure alpha(2)betadelta epsilon. AChR deficiency is frequently due to homozygous or heteroallelic mutations in the AChR epsilon subunit, most of which cause truncation of the polypeptide chain and loss of surface expression of AChR. Here we identified mutations epsilon 1369delG and epsilon Y458X, located in the 18 amino acid epsilon subunit C-terminus that lies extracellular to the M4 transmembrane domain. We then incorporated green fluorescent protein (GFP) into the intracellular loop between M3 and M4 of mutant or wild-type epsilon subunits and expressed the AChRs in RD or HEK 293 cells. AChR containing wild-type GFP-tagged epsilon subunits were incorporated into the surface membrane, whereas the GFP-tagged AChR mutant epsilon subunits co-localized with an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker and were not expressed on the cell surface. In addition, mutant AChRs did not reach the cell surface, as measured by labelling of intact cells with (125)I-alpha-bungarotoxin and precipitation with an epsilon-subunit-specific antiserum. Mutagenesis studies showed that cysteine 470, located four amino acids from the C-terminus, is essential for alpha/epsilon assembly and surface expression of adult AChR. Replacement of cysteine 470 by serine does not restore alpha/epsilon assembly or surface expression. Our results provide the first use of GFP-tagged AChR as a tool for investigation of CMS and demonstrate a previously undetermined role for a disulphide-bonded cystine in the epsilon subunit C-terminus, which plays a crucial role in expression of the adult AChR.
Brain cells in situ contain low concentrations of free polyunsaturated fatty acids such as arachidonic acid (AA) that are released following pathological insults. As a large rise in extracellular [K(+)] accompanies cerebral ischemia, we explored whether this was a stimulus for cellular AA release employing a murine mixed cortical cell culture preparation radiolabeled with AA. Elevating the [K(+)](o) from 5 to 52 mm induced a time-dependent increase in [(3)H]AA release, which reached a plateau after 15 min. Removal of [Ca(2+)](o) or addition of CdCl(2) (100 microm) diminished the net high K(+)-induced AA release, as did treatment of the cultures with tetanus toxin (300 ng/ml) to block endogenous neurotransmitter release. Pharmacological antagonism of both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors completely prevented high K(+)-evoked AA release, indicating that glutamate was the neurotransmitter in question. Addition of exogenous glutamate mimicked precisely the characteristics of AA release that followed increases in [K(+)](o). Finally, glutamate and AA were released solely from neurons as tetanus toxin did not cleave astrocytic synaptobrevin-2, nor was AA released from pure astrocyte cultures using the same stimuli that were effective in mixed cultures. Taken in toto, our data are consistent with the following scenario: high [K(+)](o) depolarizes neurons, causing an influx of Ca(2+) via voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. This Ca(2+) influx stimulates the release of glutamate into the synaptic cleft, where it activates postsynaptic glutamate receptors. Events likely converge on the activation of a phospholipase A(2) family member and possibly the enzymes diacylglycerol and monoacylglycerol lipases to yield free AA.
Large conductance Ca(2+)-dependent potassium (K(Ca) or maxi K) channels are composed of a pore-forming alpha subunit and an auxiliary beta subunit. We have shown that the brain-specific beta4 subunit modulates the voltage dependence, activation kinetics, and toxin sensitivity of the hSlo channel (Weiger, T. M., Holmqvist, M. H., Levitan, I. B., Clark, F. T., Sprague, S., Huang, W. J., Ge, P., Wang, C., Lawson, D., Jurman, M. E., Glucksmann, M. A., Silos-Santiago, I., DiStefano, P. S., and Curtis, R. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 3563-3570). We investigated here the N-linked glycosylation of the beta4 subunit and its effect on the modulation of the hSlo alpha subunit. When expressed alone in HEK293 cells, the beta4 subunit runs as a single molecular weight band on an SDS gel. However, when coexpressed with the hSlo alpha subunit, the beta4 subunit appears as two different molecular weight bands. Enzymatic deglycosylation or mutation of the N-linked glycosylation residues in beta4 converts it to a single lower molecular weight band, even in the presence of the hSlo alpha subunit, suggesting that the beta4 subunit can be present as an immature, core glycosylated form and a mature, highly glycosylated form. Blockage of protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi compartment with brefeldin A abolishes the mature, highly glycosylated beta4 band. Glycosylation of the beta4 subunit is not required for its binding to the hSlo channel alpha subunit. It also is not necessary for cell membrane targeting of the beta4 subunit, as demonstrated by surface biotinylation experiments. However, the double glycosylation site mutant beta4 (beta4 N53A/N90A) protects the channel less against toxin blockade, as compared with the hSlo channel coexpressed with wild type beta4 subunit. Taken together, these data show that the pore-forming alpha subunit of the hSlo channel promotes N-linked glycosylation of its auxiliary beta4 subunit, and this in turn influences the modulation of the channel by the beta4 subunit.
The phenomenon of inhibition of return (IOR) has generated considerable interest in cognitive neuroscience because of its putative functional role in visual search, that of placing inhibitory tags on objects that have been recently inspected so as to direct further search to novel items. Many behavioral parameters of this phenomenon have been clearly delineated, and based on indirect but converging evidence, the widely held consensus is that the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) is involved in the generation of IOR. We had previously trained monkeys on a saccadic IOR task and showed that they displayed IOR in a manner similar to that observed in humans. Here we recorded the activity of single neurons in the superficial and intermediate layers of the SC while the monkeys performed this IOR task. We found that when the target was presented at a previously cued location, the stimulus-related response was attenuated and the magnitude of this response was correlated with subsequent saccadic reaction times. Surprisingly, this observed attenuation of activity during IOR was not caused by active inhibition of these neurons because (a) they were, in fact, more active following the presentation of the cue in their response field, and (b) when we repeated the same experiment while using the saccadic response time induced by electrical micro-stimulation of the SC to judge the level of excitability of the SC circuitry during the IOR task, we found faster saccades were elicited from the cued location. Our findings demonstrate that the primate SC participates in the expression of IOR; however, the SC is not the site of the inhibition. Instead, the reduced activity in the SC reflects a signal reduction that has taken place upstream.
We report a study that investigated the neuroanatomical correlates of executive functions in dual-task performance with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Participants performed an auditory and a visual three-choice reaction task either separately as single tasks or concurrently as dual tasks. In the dual-task condition, two stimuli were presented in rapid succession to ensure interference between the component tasks (psychological refractory period). The behavioral data showed considerable performance decrements in the dual-task compared to the single-task condition. Dual-task-related activation was detected with two different neuroimaging methods. First, we determined dual-task-related activation according to the method of cognitive subtraction. For that purpose, activation in the dual-task was compared directly with activation in the single-task conditions. This analysis revealed that cortical areas along the inferior frontal sulcus (IFS), the middle frontal gyrus (MFG), and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) are involved in dual-task performance. The results of the subtraction method were validated with the method of parametric manipulation. For this purpose, a second dual-task condition was introduced, where the difficulty of the dual-task coordination was increased compared with the first dual-task condition. As expected, behavioral dual-task performance decreased with increased dual-task difficulty. Furthermore, the increased dual-task difficulty led to an increase of activation in those cortical regions that proved to be dual-task related with the subtraction method, that is, the IFS, the MFG, and the IPS. These results support the conclusion that dorsolateral prefrontal and superior parietal cortices are involved in the coordination of concurrent and interfering task processing.
We measured simple reaction time (RT) to light flashes, presented either singly or in pairs, in two people who had undergone callosotomy, one person with agenesis of the corpus callosum, and 17 normal subjects. The three split-brained subjects' RTs were decreased to bilateral pairs beyond predictions based on a simple race between independent unilateral processes, while those of the normal subjects were actually longer than predicted by the race model. This effect was present whether the bilateral pairs were in mirror-image locations or not, but was not present when the pairs were presented unilaterally. Since summation does not depend on close spatial correspondence, and also occurs when inputs are staggered in time, we suggest that it is due to cortical projection to a subcortical arousal system, and is normally inhibited by the corpus callosum.
Several behavioral and brain imaging studies have demonstrated a significant interaction between speech perception and speech production. In this study, auditory cortical responses to speech were examined during self-production and feedback alteration. Magnetic field recordings were obtained from both hemispheres in subjects who spoke while hearing controlled acoustic versions of their speech feedback via earphones. These responses were compared to recordings made while subjects listened to a tape playback of their production. The amplitude of tape playback was adjusted to match the amplitude of self-produced speech. Recordings of evoked responses to both self-produced and tape-recorded speech were obtained free of movement-related artifacts. Responses to self-produced speech were weaker than were responses to tape-recorded speech. Responses to tones were also weaker during speech production, when compared with responses to tones recorded in the presence of speech from tape playback. However, responses evoked by gated noise stimuli did not differ for recordings made during self-produced speech versus recordings made during tape-recorded speech playback. These data suggest that during speech production, the auditory cortex (1) attenuates its sensitivity and (2) modulates its activity as a function of the expected acoustic feedback.
Vascular dementia (VaD) has a great deal of overlap (in terms of features and symptoms) with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mixed dementia, or AD with concomitant cerebrovascular disease (AD with CVD), is increasingly being recognized as a distinct clinical condition that occurs with substantial frequency. The robust evidence for the effectiveness of cholinergic treatments such as galantamine (Reminyl) in AD suggests its potential use in the treatment of dementias related to CVD, and preclinical evidence supports this rationale. Galantamine, which has a unique dual cholinergic mode of action, may be of particular benefit in VaD and AD with CVD. For example, behavioral symptoms, which can be more severe in VaD than in AD and are important determinants of the impact of dementia, may be especially benefited by galantamine. This results from its potential to modulate systems involving other neurotransmitters such as 5-HT (serotonin) and dopamine, which affect mood and emotional balance. The results of a recent landmark clinical trial with galantamine in patients with VaD, or AD with CVD, indicate that galantamine produces benefits across a broad range of symptoms of dementia in both patient populations. Significant cognitive improvements over 6 months, long-term maintenance of cognition for at least 12 months, and global benefits, as well as efficacy in both behavioral and functional symptoms, indicate efficacy with galantamine that is so far unsurpassed by any other drug treatment for dementia. Galantamine therefore has potential to benefit a wide range of patients with dementia in the clinic.

There is increasing evidence to suggest that patients with vascular dementia (VaD) exhibit a cholinergic deficit. These patients may therefore benefit from treatment with cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors such as donepezil. However, there are difficulties in accurately defining patients with VaD. Clinical trials to assess the efficacy and tolerability of donepezil in patients with VaD have been completed. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria were used to establish inclusion and exclusion criteria: evidence of dementia (impaired memory and two other cognitive domains), and evidence of cerebrovascular disease (CVD) from neuroimaging and physical examination and a possible or probable relationship between dementia and CVD were required for enrollment. Patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or dementia caused by other conditions not associated with the cardiovascular system (e.g., MS, chronic infections, hypothyroidism) were excluded. These criteria ensured that only patients with probable or possible VaD were enrolled. Enrolled patients had a mean Hachinski score of 9.7, with memory impairment the most prominent feature of their dementia. Sixty percent of patients had a history of at least one stroke and 18% of patients had a history of transient ischemic attack (TIA) pre-dementia. Cortical and subcortical infarcts were among the lesions observed on computer-assisted tomography and magnetic resonance imaging scans with significant white matter lesions also present in some patients. Placebo-treated patients demonstrated stable cognitive and global function over the 24 weeks of the study. These observations suggest that the patients enrolled in these trials have a broad range of CVD, and are different from those enrolled in AD trials.
Dead reckoning is an on-line form of spatial navigation used by an animal to identify its present location and return directly to a starting location, even after circuitous outward trips. At present, it is not known which of several self-movement cues (efferent copy from movement commands, proprioceptive information, sensory flow, or vestibular information) are used to compute homeward trajectories. To determine whether vestibular information is important for dead reckoning, the impact of chemical labyrinthectomy was evaluated in a test that demanded on-line computation of a homeward trajectory. Rats were habituated to leave a refuge that was visible from all locations on a circular table to forage for large food pellets, which they carried back to the refuge to eat. Two different probe trials were given: (1) the rats foraged from the same spatial location from a hidden refuge in the light and so were able to use visual cues to navigate; (2) the same procedure took place in the dark, constraining the animals to dead reckon. Although control rats carried food directly and rapidly back to the refuge on both probes, the rats with vestibular lesions were able to do so on the hidden refuge but not on the dark probe. The scores of vestibular reflex tests predicted the dead reckoning deficit. The vestibular animals were also impaired in learning a new piloting task. This is the first unambiguous demonstration that vestibular information is used in dead reckoning and also contributes to piloting.
We describe here the robust synchronization of motor neurons at a millisecond time scale during locomotor activity in the neonatal rat. Action potential activity of motor neuron pairs was recorded extracellularly using tetrodes during locomotor activity in the in vitro neonatal rat spinal cord. Approximately 40% of motor neuron pairs recorded in the same spinal segment showed significant synchronization, with the duration of the central peak in cross-correlograms between motor neurons typically ranging between approximately 30 and 100 msec. The percentage of synchronized motor neuron pairs was considerably higher for pairs with similar locomotor-related activity and strong rhythmic modulation. We also found synchronization between the activities of different motor pools, even if located several segments apart. Such distant synchronization was abolished in the absence of chemical synapses, although local coupling between motor neurons persisted. On the other hand, both local and distant coupling between motor neurons were preserved after antagonism of gap junction coupling between motor neurons. These results demonstrate that motor neuron activity is strongly synchronized at a millisecond time scale during the production of locomotor activity in the neonatal rat. These results also demonstrate that chemical synaptic inputs, in addition to electrical synapses, contribute to this synchronization, suggesting the existence of multiple mechanisms underlying motor neuron synchronization in the neonatal rat. The fast synchronization described here might be involved in activity-dependent processes during development or in the coordination of individual motor neurons into a functional population underlying behavior.
Little is known about the network structure of the central pattern generator (CPG) controlling locomotor movements in mammals. The present experiments aim at providing such knowledge by focusing on commissural interneurons (CINs) involved in left-right coordination. During NMDA and 5-HT-initiated locomotor-like activity, we recorded intracellularly from caudally or descending projecting L2 and L3 CINs (dCINs) located in the ventromedial area of the lumbar spinal cord in newborn rats. This region is crucial for rhythmic motor output and left-right coordination. The overall sample of dCINs represented a heterogenous population with neurons that fired in all phases of the locomotor cycle and exhibited varying degrees of rhythmicity, from strongly rhythmic to nonrhythmic. Among the rhythmic, putative CPG dCINs were populations that fired in-phase with the ipsilateral or with the contralateral L2 locomotor-like activity. There was a high degree of organization in the dorsoventral location of rhythmic dCINs, with neurons in-phase with the ipsilateral L2 activity located more ventrally. Spikes of rhythmically active dCINs were superimposed on membrane oscillations that were generated predominantly by synaptic input, with little direct contribution from the intrinsic pacemaker hyperpolarization-activated inward current. For both ipsilaterally and contralaterally firing dCINs the dominant synaptic drive was in-phase with the ipsilateral L2 motor activity. This study provides the first characterization of putative CPG interneurons in the mammalian spinal cord. Our results suggest an anatomical and physiological separation of CPG commissural interneurons in the ventral horn and demonstrate that it is possible to target specific interneuron subpopulations in the mammalian locomotor network.
Recent evidence suggests that abnormal expression of GABA(A) receptors may underlie epileptogenesis. We observed previously that rats selectively bred to be seizure-prone naturally overexpressed, as adults, GABA alpha subunits (alpha2, alpha3, and alpha5) seen at birth, whereas those selected to be seizure-resistant overexpressed the adult, alpha1 subunit. In this experiment, we gathered GABA miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) from these strains and correlated their attributes with the subunit expression profile of each strain compared with a normal control strain. The mIPSCs were collected from both cortical pyramidal and nonpyramidal neurons. In seizure-prone rats, mIPSCs were smaller and decayed more slowly than in normal rats, which in turn were smaller and slower than in seizure-resistant rats. A detailed analysis of individual mIPSCs revealed two kinds of postsynaptic responses (those with monoexponential vs biexponential decay) that were differentially altered in the three strains. The properties of monoexponentially decaying mIPSCs did not differ between pyramidal and nonpyramidal neurons within a strain but differed between strains. In contrast, an interaction was observed between cell morphology and strain for biexponentially decaying mIPSCs. Here, the mIPSCs of pyramidal neurons in the seizure-resistant rats formed a distinct subpopulation compared with the seizure-prone rats; yet in the latter rats, it was the mIPSCs of the nonpyramidal neurons that were unique. Given these differences, we were surprised to find that the total inhibitory charge transfer between the strains was similar. This suggests that the timing of inhibition, particularly slow inhibitory neurotransmission between nonpyramidal neurons, may be a contributing factor in seizure genesis.
Basolateral amygdala (BLA) activation by emotional arousal modulates memory-related processes in the hippocampus. We have shown (Akirav and Richter-Levin, 1999b) that activating the BLA before perforant path (PP) tetanization has a biphasic effect on hippocampal plasticity; priming the BLA immediately before PP tetanization results in the enhancement of dentate gyrus (DG) long-term potentiation (LTP) (an &quot;emotional tag&quot;), whereas stimulation in a spaced interval results in the suppression of DG-LTP. Here, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying BLA modulation of DG-LTP and specifically to examine whether the stress hormones norepinephrine (NE) and corticosterone (CORT) are main mediators of the BLA biphasic effects. We found that the BLA affects hippocampal plasticity in a complex manner; BLA priming enhanced DG-LTP, and both NE and CORT mediated this effect. Furthermore, we found that ipsilateral BLA spaced activation (2 hr before PP tetanization) suppressed DG-LTP and that this suppressive effect was also mediated by NE and CORT. Priming the contralateral BLA enhanced DG-LTP similarly to the ipsilateral enhancement, but neither NE nor CORT mediated this effect. The spaced activation of the contralateral BLA did not suppress DG-LTP. Taken together, these results suggest that differential mechanisms underlie the ipsilateral and contralateral BLA effects on hippocampal plasticity. Hence, the BLA modulates hippocampal memory processes, presumably via the mediation of the stress hormones NE and CORT, to establish a diverse memory of the experience. Possibly, at the onset of an emotional event the stress hormones permissively mediate plasticity. However, their prolonged presence in the system may suppress the cognitive response to stress.
The vibration of the hearing organ that occurs during sound stimulation is based on mechanical interactions between different cellular structures inside the organ of Corti. The exact nature of these interactions is unclear and subject to debate. In this study, dynamic structural changes were produced by stepwise alterations of scala tympani pressure in an in vitro preparation of the guinea pig temporal bone. Confocal images were acquired at each level of pressure. In this way, the motion of several structures could be observed simultaneously with high resolution in a nearly intact system. Images were analyzed using a novel wavelet-based optical flow estimation algorithm. Under these conditions, the reticular lamina moved as a stiff plate with a center of rotation in the region of the inner hair cells. Despite being enclosed in several types of supporting cells, the inner hair cells, together with the adjacent inner pillar cells, moved in a manner signifying high compliance. The outer hair cells displayed radial motion indicative of cellular bending. Together, these results show that shearing motion occurs between several parts of the organ, and that structural relationships within the organ change dynamically during displacement of the basilar membrane.
At excitatory synapses, the postsynaptic scaffolding protein postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) couples NMDA receptors (NMDARs) to the Ras GTPase-activating protein SynGAP. The close association of SynGAP and NMDARs suggests that SynGAP may have an important role in NMDAR-dependent activation of Ras signaling pathways, such as the MAP kinase pathway, and in synaptic plasticity. To explore this issue, we examined long-term potentiation (LTP), p42 MAPK (ERK2) signaling, and spatial learning in mice with a heterozygous null mutation of the SynGAP gene (SynGAP(-/+)). In SynGAP(-/+) mutant mice, the induction of LTP in the hippocampal CA1 region was strongly reduced in the absence of any detectable alteration in basal synaptic transmission and NMDAR-mediated synaptic currents. Although basal levels of activated ERK2 were elevated in hippocampal extracts from SynGAP(-/+) mice, NMDAR stimulation still induced a robust increase in ERK activation in slices from SynGAP(-/+) mice. Thus, although SynGAP may regulate the ERK pathway, its role in LTP most likely involves additional downstream targets. Consistent with this, the amount of potentiation induced by stimulation protocols that induce an ERK-independent form of LTP were also significantly reduced in slices from SynGAP(-/+) mice. An elevation of basal phospho-ERK2 levels and LTP deficits were also observed in SynGAP(-/+)/H-Ras(-)/- double mutants, suggesting that SynGAP may normally regulate Ras isoforms other than H-Ras. A comparison of SynGAP and PSD-95 mutants suggests that PSD-95 couples NMDARs to multiple downstream signaling pathways with very different roles in LTP and learning.
Previously, we developed technology that coupled high-speed chronoamperometry with microejections of dopamine (DA) to measure DA clearance in the brains of freely-behaving rats. Here, by varying the ejection volumes of DA across a 200-fold difference, the kinetics of striatal clearance were analyzed as a function of time and DA volume from 289 chronoamperometric signals (n=20 rats). Each DA clearance trace was fitted to a first-order exponential decay function to determine the rate constant for DA clearance (k). Additionally, the apparent Michaelis-Menten V(max) and K(m) kinetic constants were determined in freely-moving rats, enabling quantitative comparison of our values with other models of reuptake. The first-order rate constant for DA clearance, which reflects the V(max)/K(m) ratio or clearance efficiency, did not vary significantly when small volumes of DA were ejected resulting in peak DA signal amplitudes (A(max)) of &lt;5 microM. However, following nomifensine-induced DAT inhibition, A(max) was increased and k was attenuated simultaneously with behavioral activation; and A(max) and behavior remained elevated beyond the initial period. Our results indicate that the analysis of kinetic parameters from chronoamperometric DA signals may be useful for investigating drug-induced regulation of DAT kinetics in relation to the behavior of freely-moving rats.
Microinjections of the excitatory amino acid, L-glutamate into the cholinergic cell compartment of the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) of the rat induces both wakefulness and/or rapid eye movement (REM) sleep depending on the glutamate dosage. However, no studies have systematically recorded the electrical activity of these cells in the freely moving rat across the sleep-wake cycle. In this study, we have recorded the spontaneous activity patterns of single PPT cells (n = 70) in the freely moving rat across the sleep-wake cycle. PPT neurons were classified into three groups based on patterns in their spontaneous activity. The first group of cells (12.86%) was more active during REM sleep than they were during wakefulness or slow-wave sleep (SWS). The second group of cells (60.0%) was more active during REM and wakefulness than during SWS. The firing rate of the third group of cells (27.14%) did not change as a function of behavioral state. This study also demonstrated that the level of activity within the cholinergic cell compartment of the PPT during SWS drops to 7.4% of that observed during wakefulness and that during REM sleep it changes to 65.5% of wakefulness levels. These findings indicate that in the freely moving rat, the discharging of PPT neurons correlates with wakefulness and REM sleep. Additionally, these neurons may be an integral part of the brainstem wakefulness and REM sleep-generating mechanisms in the rat.
Epilepsy occurs in a small proportion of patients with spinal cord injury (SCI), but whether it is due to concomitant traumatic head injury or to changes in cortical motor neurons secondary to axotomy within the spinal cord is not known. Na(v)1.3/brain type III sodium channel expression is up-regulated following peripheral axotomy of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and facial motor neurons, but, to date, Na(v)1.3 expression has not been examined in upper (cortical) motor neurons following axotomy associated with SCI. In the present study, we examine Na(v)1.3 expression in upper motor neurons within rat primary motor cortex following midthoracic (T9) dorsal column transection, which severs the axons of those cells. Axotomized pyramidal cells were identified by retrograde transport of fluorogold. Immunolabeled cells were confined to layer V of the primary motor cortex and exhibited low levels of Na(v)1.3 staining. After axotomy, no significant changes were detected in Na(v)1.3 density or distribution in injured or uninjured cells, compared with control brains, in contrast to up-regulation of Na(v)1.3 in ipsilateral DRG neurons after sciatic nerve transection. These results do not preclude a role for voltage-gated sodium channels in post-SCI epilepsy but suggest that up-regulated expression of Na(v)1.3 channel is not involved.
Each GABA(A) receptor consists of two alpha and three other subunits. The spatial and temporal distribution of different alpha subunit isomeres expressed by the CNS is highly regulated. Here we study changes in functional contribution of different alpha subunits during neonatal development in rat visual cortex. First, we characterized postsynaptic alpha subunit expression in layer II-III neurons, using subunit-specific pharmacology combined with electrophysiological recordings in acutely prepared brain slices. This showed clear developmental downregulation of the effects of bretazenil (1 microm) and marked upregulation of the effect of 100 nM of zolpidem on the decay of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). Given the concentrations used we interpret this as downregulation of the synaptic alpha3 and upregulation of alpha1 subunit. Furthermore, the effect of furosemide, being indicative of the functional contribution of alpha4, was increased between postnatal days 6 and 21. Our second aim was to study the effects of plasticity in alpha subunit expression on decay properties of GABAergic IPSCs. We found that bretazenil-sensitive IPSCs have the longest decay time constant in juvenile neurons. In mature neurons, zolpidem- and furosemide-sensitive IPSCs have relatively fast decay kinetics, whereas bretazenil-sensitive IPSCs decay relatively slowly. Analysis of alpha1 deficient mice and alpha1 antisense oligonucleotide deletion in rat explants showed similar results to those obtained by zolpidem application. Thus, distinct alpha subunit contributions create heterogeneity in developmental acceleration of IPSC decay in neocortex.
The GFR alpha2 receptor is the cognate co-receptor for the neurotrophic factor neurturin and GFR alpha2 is selectively expressed by isolectin B(4) (IB(4))-binding nociceptive sensory neurons. Here, we used two physiological approaches in combination with mice that have a targeted deletion of the GFR alpha2 gene (GFR alpha2 -/- mice) in order to determine whether GFR alpha2/neurturin signalling regulates the functional properties or the survival of IB(4)-binding nociceptors. Because 50 % of IB(4)-binding neurons respond to noxious heat and because patch clamp recordings of isolated dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons allow one to neurochemically identify subpopulations of neurons, we analysed the noxious heat responsiveness of IB(4)-positive and -negative small-diameter neurons isolated from adult GFR alpha2 -/- and littermate control mice. The percentage of IB(4)-positive neurons that had large (&gt; 100 pA) heat-evoked inward currents was severely reduced in GFR alpha2 -/- mice (12 %) compared to wild-type littermates (47 %), and this loss in large-magnitude heat currents was accounted for by an increase in neurons with very small (&lt; 100 pA) heat-evoked currents as well as an increase in neurons with no detectable heat current. Counts of IB(4)-positive and -negative neurons, as well as counts of unmyelinated axons in the saphenous nerve, confirmed that the loss in neurons with large-amplitude heat currents was due to a deficit in heat transduction and not a decrease in cell survival. The effect was modality specific for heat because mechanical transduction of all fibre types, including IB(4)-positive C fibres, was normal. Our data are the first to indicate a transduction-function role for GFR alpha2/neurturin signalling in a specific class of sensory neurons.
For nearly 70 years it has been recognized that reduction in caloric intake by 30-40% from ad libitum levels leads to a significant extension of mean and maximal lifespan in a variety of short-lived species. This effect of caloric restriction (CR) on lifespan has been reported in nearly all species tested and has been reproduced hundreds of times under a variety of different laboratory conditions. In addition to prolonging lifespan, CR also prevents or delays the onset of age-related disease and maintains many physiological functions at more youthful levels. Studies in longer-lived species, specifically rhesus and squirrel monkeys, have been underway since the late 1980s. The studies in nonhuman primates are beginning to yield valuable information suggesting that the effect of CR on aging is universal across species and that this nutritional paradigm will have similar effects in humans. Even if CR can be shown to impact upon human aging, it is unlikely that most people will be able to maintain the strict dietary control required for this regimen. Thus, elucidation of the biological mechanisms of CR and development of alternative strategies to yield similar benefits is of primary importance. CR mimetics, or interventions that &quot;mimic&quot; certain protective effects of CR, may represent one such alternative strategy.
Adenosine and adenosine A1 receptor agonists are often, but not always, protective against metabolic insults. The effects of an A1 agonist and antagonist on neuronal death were determined in cortical cell cultures. The A1 agonist cyclohexyladenosine did not attenuate neuronal death induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation, but did attenuate death caused by glucose deprivation or NMDA. Extracellular adenosine levels during oxygen-glucose deprivation were significantly higher than those during glucose deprivation or NMDA exposure. The A1 antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline increased death induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation, but not that caused by glucose deprivation or NMDA exposure. Thus, while activation of A1 receptors can provide neuroprotection, the protective effect appears to become saturated by high levels of endogenous extracellular adenosine during oxygen-glucose deprivation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of CHF3381, a novel putative NMDA antagonist characterized by a good therapeutic index. We have compared the effects of CHF3381 on kainate seizure-induced neurodegeneration with those produced by the non competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and by the Na channel blocker lamotrigine. All compounds have been employed at doses incapable of preventing or attenuating seizures. The fluorescent marker Fluoro-Jade B has been used to identify degenerating cells. Animals pretreated with lamotrigine presented the same degree of cell damage as the controls. As for the controls, a clear correlation was also observed between seizure severity and neurodegeneration. In contrast, MK-801 and CHF3381 completely prevented cell damage. These data indicate that CHF3381 may be successfully utilized in neurological disorders characterized by or associated with neurodegenerative excitotoxicity.
Simultaneous electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements were performed in six healthy subjects to determine the representation of stimulation of the right thumb in somatosensory cortex. In all subjects EEG-based dipole locations could be determined in primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortex. The stimulus-induced blood oxygenation level dependent response of the fMRI showed deviations of 23.5 mm (standard deviation, SD = 6.9) for S1 and 15.7 mm (SD = 3.5) for S2 cortex. fMRI constrained dipole searches lead to higher residual variances. The data show that simultaneous EEG and fMRI measurements of somatosensory activity are feasible and yield reliable and valid results.
Immunoreactivity (IR) for the interleukin-1 receptor type I (IL1RI) was examined in sympathetic neurons in guinea-pig coeliac ganglion using multiple-labelling immunofluorescence. IL1RI-IR was present in 8% of sympathetic neurons in untreated preparations. The proportion of neurons with IL1RI-IR increased significantly after incubation in interleukin-6 (200 ng/ml) for 2-4 h (16-26% neurons), or after incubation for 4 h without cytokine (16%), with interleukin-1beta (IL1beta, 200 ng/ml; 18%) or tumour necrosis factor-alpha (200 ng/ml; 16%). This increase occurred predominantly in neuropeptide Y-IR, vasoconstrictor neurons. IL1RI-IR also was present in varicose axons, some of which projected from the gut, and in vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelium. These potential binding sites for the proinflammatory cytokine, IL1beta, on vasoconstrictor neurons and blood vessels may modulate sympathetic regulation of intestinal blood flow in inflammatory conditions.
The capacity to prevent neuronal degeneration and death during the course of progressive neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease (AD) would represent a significant advance in therapy. Nervous system growth factors are families of naturally produced proteins that, in animal models, exhibit extensive potency in preventing neuronal death due to a variety of causes, reversing age-related atrophy of neurons, and ameliorating functional deficits. The main challenge in translating growth factor therapy to the clinic has been delivery of growth factors to the brain in sufficient concentrations to influence neuronal function. One means of achieving growth factor delivery to the central nervous system in a highly targeted, effective manner may be gene therapy. In this article the authors summarize the development and implementation of nerve growth factor gene delivery as a potential means of reducing cell loss in AD.
Clinical studies involving intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic mesencephalic tissue in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) have provided proof-of-principle for the cell replacement strategy in this disorder. The grafted dopaminergic neurons can reinnervate the denervated striatum, restore regulated dopamine release and movement-related frontal cortical activation, and produce significant symptomatic relief. In the most successful cases, patients have been able to withdraw from levodopa treatment after undergoing transplantation and resume an independent life. There are, however, several problems linked to the use of primary embryonic tissue: 1) lack of sufficient amounts of tissue for transplantation in a large number of patients; 2) variability of functional outcome (major improvement in some and modest if any clinical benefit in others); and 3) occurrence of troublesome dyskinesias in a significant proportion of patients after transplantation. Thus, neural transplantation is still at an experimental stage in the treatment of PD. For the development of a clinically useful cell therapy we need to define better criteria for patient selection and how graft placement should be optimized in each individual. Most importantly, we need to generate large numbers of viable dopamine neurons in preparations that are standardized and quality controlled. Stem cells could be useful as an unlimited source of dopamine neurons. Thus far, neurons with at least some dopaminergic characteristics have been generated from stem cells. In most cases, however, their survival after grafting in animals has been poor, and it is also unclear if they function as normal dopamine neurons. Several scientific issues need to be addressed before stem cell-based therapies can be tested in PD patients.

Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are crucial for visual and olfactory transductions. These channels are tetramers and in their native forms are composed of A and B subunits, with a stoichiometry thought to be 2A:2B (refs 6, 7). Here we report the identification of a leucine-zipper-homology domain named CLZ (for carboxy-terminal leucine zipper). This domain is present in the distal C terminus of CNG channel A subunits but is absent from B subunits, and mediates an inter-subunit interaction. With cross-linking, non-denaturing gel electrophoresis and analytical centrifugation, this CLZ domain was found to mediate a trimeric interaction. In addition, a mutant cone CNG channel A subunit with its CLZ domain replaced by a generic trimeric leucine zipper produced channels that behaved much like the wild type, but less so if replaced by a dimeric or tetrameric leucine zipper. This A-subunit-only, trimeric interaction suggests that heteromeric CNG channels actually adopt a 3A:1B stoichiometry. Biochemical analysis of the purified bovine rod CNG channel confirmed this conclusion. This revised stoichiometry provides a new foundation for understanding the structure and function of the CNG channel family.
Proteins that bind to the cytoplasmic tails of AMPA receptors control receptor trafficking and thus the strength of postsynaptic responses. Here we show that AP2, a clathrin adaptor complex important for endocytosis, associates with a region of GluR2 that overlaps the NSF binding site. Peptides used previously to interfere with NSF binding also antagonize GluR2-AP2 interaction. Using GluR2 mutants and peptide variants that dissociate NSF and AP2 interaction, we find that AP2 is involved specifically in NMDA receptor-induced (but not ligand-dependent) internalization of AMPA receptors, and is essential for hippocampal long-term depression (LTD). NSF function, on the other hand, is needed to maintain synaptic AMPA receptor responses, but is not directly required for NMDA receptor-mediated internalization and LTD.
We used electron tomography of frog saccular hair cells to reconstruct presynaptic ultrastructure at synapses specialized for sustained transmitter release. Synaptic vesicles at inhibited synapses were abundant in the cytoplasm and covered the synaptic body at high density. Continuous maximal stimulation depleted 73% of the vesicles within 800 nm of the synapse, with a concomitant increase in surface area of intracellular cisterns and plasmalemmal infoldings. Docked vesicles were depleted 60%-80% regardless of their distance from the active zone. Vesicles on the synaptic body were depleted primarily in the hemisphere facing the plasmalemma, creating a gradient of vesicles on its surface. We conclude that formation of new synaptic vesicles from cisterns is rate limiting in the vesicle cycle.
We demonstrate that Drosophila capulet (capt), a homolog of the adenylyl cyclase-associated protein that binds and regulates actin in yeast, associates with Abl in Drosophila cells, suggesting a functional relationship in vivo. We find a robust and specific genetic interaction between capt and Abl at the midline choice point where the growth cone repellent Slit functions to restrict axon crossing. Genetic interactions between capt and slit support a model where Capt and Abl collaborate as part of the repellent response. Further support for this model is provided by genetic interactions that both capt and Abl display with multiple members of the Roundabout receptor family. These studies identify Capulet as part of an emerging pathway linking guidance signals to regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics and suggest that the Abl pathway mediates signals downstream of multiple Roundabout receptors.
Chemical genetics, or the specific modulation of cellular systems by small molecules, has complemented classical genetic analysis throughout the history of neurobiology. We outline several of its contributions to the understanding of ion channel biology, heat and cold signal transduction, sleep and diurnal rhythm regulation, effects of immunophilin ligands, and cell surface oligosaccharides with respect to neurobiology.
Chemical genetics is an emerging technology for revealing the signaling networks that regulate biological phenotypes using exogenous reagents such as small organic molecules. To study neurobiology using chemical genetics, high-throughput cell and organismal assays can be created to identify compounds and proteins that regulate diverse neuronal phenotypes, such as cell viability, gene expression level, protein association, protein aggregation, glutamate uptake, membrane polarization, mitochondrial function, neurite outgrowth, and growth cone composition. This powerful set of tools will enable the molecular dissection of complex processes that occur within the nervous system.
Rod signals reach ganglion cells via at least five pathways. A new study in this issue of Neuron shows that all pathways from rods to ON-type ganglion cells require connexin36. This is the first physiological demonstration in mammals that a well-defined neural circuit requires a gap junction as an obligatory transmission step.
In this issue of Neuron, Zhang and Poo present evidence for localized BDNF-induced synaptic potentiation that is accompanied by spatially restricted calcium influx and requires local axonal protein synthesis. These results are consistent with a synapse-specific role for BDNF and provide a potentially novel way to think about cellular mechanisms for potentiation of neurotransmitter release.
Reaction between ethyl 3-N,N-(dimethylamino)-2-isocyanoacrylate (1) and a primary amine (2) regioselectively affords 1-alkyl-4-imidazolecarboxylates (3) in good yields (52-89%). The method is applicable to unhindered and hindered amine substrates, as well as those containing reactive functionality such as alcohols and secondary and tertiary amines. [reaction: see text]
Allopregnanolone is a neurosteroid which exhibits anxiolytic and anticonvulsant activities through potentiation of the GABA(A) receptor. The reduction of 5alpha-dihydroprogesterone (5alpha-DHP), the last step in allopregnanolone biosynthesis, is catalyzed by 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (3alpha-HSDs). While the mechanism of action of allopregnanolone and the physiological and pharmacological modulation of allopregnanolone concentrations in vivo have been extensively studied, there has been little characterization of the kinetics of human 3alpha-HSD catalyzed allopregnanolone formation. We report here determination of the kinetic mechanism for 5alpha-DHP reduction catalyzed by human 3alpha-HSD type III by using steady-state kinetics studies and assessment of the ability of fluoxetine and various other small molecules to activate 3alpha-HSD type III catalyzed allopregnanolone formation. Enzyme-catalyzed 5alpha-DHP reduction yielded two products, allopregnanolone and 5alpha,20alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone, as measured by using a radiometric thin-layer chromatography assay, while 5beta-DHP reduction yielded the neurosteroid pregnanolone as the only product. 5Beta-DHP reduction proceeded with a catalytic efficiency 10 times higher than that of 5alpha-DHP reduction. Two-substrate kinetic analysis and dead-end inhibition studies for 5alpha-DHP reduction and allopregnanolone oxidation indicated that 3alpha-HSD type III utilized a ternary complex (sequential) kinetic mechanism, with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cofactor binding before steroid substrate and leaving after steroid product. Since previous reports suggested that fluoxetine and certain other small molecules increased allopregnanolone concentrations in vivo by activating 3alpha-HSD type III, we investigated whether these small molecules were able to activate human 3alpha-HSD type III. Our results showed that, at concentrations up to 50 microM, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, norfluoxetine, carbamazepine, clozapine, flurbiprofen, and sulfobromophthalein did not activate the enzyme. These results characterize the role of 3alpha-HSD type III in allopregnanolone formation and suggest that activation of this enzyme by fluoxetine is likely not the mechanism by which fluoxetine increases allopregnanolone concentrations.
Serum glutathione levels were assessed in a patient with genetically proven Unverricht-Lundborg disease (ULD) before and during treatment with the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Glutathione levels were low before treatment, and increased during treatment. This increase was mirrored by an improvement in seizures, but not in myoclonus or ataxia. Three other patients with clinically determined ULD showed a variable response and some notable side effects during treatment with NAC.
This baseline-vs-treatment study of 20 patients with relapsing-remitting MS investigated whether glatiramer acetate (GA) has a graduated effect on MS inflammatory activity, which was measured using monthly, standard, and triple dose gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced MRI. GA significantly reduced the mean numbers of enhancing lesions/patient/month on both standard dose and triple dose scans, without interactions with the Gd dose. GA is effective in reducing MS activity, independent of the severity of the MRI-detectable inflammatory process.

Active visual perception relies on the ability to interpret correctly retinal motion signals induced either by moving objects viewed with static eyes or by stationary objects viewed with moving eyes. A motionless environment is not normally perceived as moving during saccadic eye movements. It is commonly believed that this phenomenon involves central oculomotor signals that inhibit intrasaccadic visual motion processing. The keystone of this extraretinal theory relies on experimental reports showing that physically stationary scenes displayed only during saccades, thus producing high retinal velocities, are never perceived as moving but appear as static blurred images. We, however, provide evidence that stimuli optimized for high-speed motion detection elicit clear motion perception against saccade direction, thus making the search for extraretinal suppression superfluous. The data indicate that visual motion is the main cue used by observers to perform the task independently of other perceptual factors covarying with intrasaccadic stimulation. By using stimuli of different durations, we show that the probability of perceiving the stimulus as static, rather than moving, increases when the intrasaccadic stimulation is preceded or followed by a significant extrasaccadic stimulation. We suggest that intrasaccadic motion perception is accomplished by motion-selective magnocellular neurons through temporal integration of rapidly increasing retinal velocities. The functional mechanism that usually prevents this intrasaccadic activity from being perceived seems to rely on temporal masking effects induced by the static retinal images present before and/or after the saccade.
Visual perception involves the grouping of individual elements into coherent patterns that reduce the descriptive complexity of a visual scene. The physiological basis of this perceptual simplification remains poorly understood. We used functional MRI to measure activity in a higher object processing area, the lateral occipital complex, and in primary visual cortex in response to visual elements that were either grouped into objects or randomly arranged. We observed significant activity increases in the lateral occipital complex and concurrent reductions of activity in primary visual cortex when elements formed coherent shapes, suggesting that activity in early visual areas is reduced as a result of grouping processes performed in higher areas. These findings are consistent with predictive coding models of vision that postulate that inferences of high-level areas are subtracted from incoming sensory information in lower areas through cortical feedback.
The ability to make sensitive measurements of protein-protein interaction kinetics in single neurons is critical for understanding the molecular and cellular basis of neuronal function. We have developed a reporter technology based on the differential induction of Escherichia coli TEM-1 beta-lactamase (Bla) enzymatic activity that can function as a sensor of the interaction state of two target proteins within single neurons in vivo. To modulate Bla enzymatic activity, we first split the enzyme into two separate, complementary protein fragments that we identified by using a functional screening approach based on circular permutation of the Bla enzyme. The split enzyme was then brought together by the phosphorylation-dependent association of the kinase inducible domain of the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the KIX domain of the CREB binding protein. Using an intracellular substrate whose fluorescence spectrum changes after hydrolysis by Bla, we performed time-lapse ratiometric imaging measurements of Bla enzymatic induction after association of the CREB and CREB binding protein interaction domains. This approach permits direct imaging of protein-protein interactions in single cells with high signal discrimination.
Systems neuroscience addresses the complex circuits made by populations of neurons in the CNS and the cooperative function of these neurons. Improved approaches to the neuroanatomical analysis of CNS circuits are thus of great interest. In fact, significant advances in tract-tracing methods have recently been made by using transgenic mice that express transneuronal lectin tracers under the control of neuron-specific promoters. The utility of those animals, however, is limited to the CNS circuit influenced by the particular promoter. Here, we describe a new transgenic mouse that can be used for transneuronal tracing analysis of circuits in any region of the brain or spinal cord. The transgene in these mice results in expression of LacZ in neurons throughout the CNS. Excision of the LacZ gene by Cre-mediated recombination initiates expression of the lectin, wheat germ agglutinin (WGA). To illustrate the diverse uses of these ZW (LacZ-WGA) mice, we triggered WGA expression either by crossing the mice with two Cre-expressing transgenic mouse lines or by microinjecting a Cre-expressing adeno-associated virus into the cerebellum or cerebral cortex. Both approaches resulted in extensive WGA expression in the cell bodies and dendrites of neurons in which the recombination event occurred, as well as anterograde and transneuronal transport of the lectin to second and third order neurons. Because the lectin can be induced in developing and adult animals, and in all regions of the brain and spinal cord, these ZW may prove extremely valuable for numerous studies of CNS circuit analysis.
We have studied the distribution of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), histamine, octopamine and serotonin in the larval chemosensory system of Drosophila melanogaster. Colocalization at the confocal level with green fluorescent protein (GFP) or Tau-GFP reporters, expressed in selected P[GAL4] enhancer trap lines, was used to identify the cells making up these neurotransmitters. As in the adult fly, larval olfactory afferents project into the (larval) antennal lobe (LAL), where they synapse onto local interneurons and projection neurons, whereas gustatory afferents terminate essentially in the tritocerebral-subesophageal (TR-SOG) region. We demonstrate that the neuropils of the LAL and the TR-SOG are immunoreactive to ChAT and GABA. In addition, serotonin- and octopamine-immunoreactive fibers are present in the LAL. ChAT immunostaining is localized in subsets of olfactory and gustatory afferents and in many of the projection neurons. In contrast, GABA is expressed in most, and perhaps all, of the local interneurons. Serotonin immunoreactivity in the LAL derives from a single neuron that is situated close to the LAL and projects to additional neuropil regions. Taken together, these findings resemble the situation in the adult fly. Hence, given the highly reduced numbers of odorant receptor neurons in the larva, as shown in a previous study (Python and Stocker [2002] J. Comp. Neurol. 445:374-387), the larval system may become an attractive model system for studying the roles of neurotransmitters in olfactory processing.
Adolescence is a critical stage for the development of emotional maturity and diverse forms of psychopathology. The posterior basolateral nucleus of the amygdala is known to mediate fear and anxiety and is important in assigning emotional valence to cognitive processes. The medial prefrontal cortex, a homologue of the human anterior cingulate cortex, mediates emotional, attentional, and motivational behaviors at the cortical level. We postulate that the development of connectivity between these two corticolimbic regions contributes to an enhanced integration of emotion and cognition during the postnatal period. In order to characterize the development of this relay, injections of the anterograde tracer biocytin were stereotaxically placed within the posterior basolateral nucleus of the amygdala of rats at successive postnatal time points (postnatal days 6-120). Labeled fibers in the medial prefrontal cortex were evaluated using a combination of brightfield, confocal, and electron microscopy. We found that the density of labeled fibers originating from the posterior basolateral nucleus shows a sharp curvilinear increase within layers II and V of the anterior cingulate cortex and the infralimbic subdivisions of medial prefrontal cortex during the late postweanling period. This increase was paralleled by a linear rise in the number of axospinous and axodendritic synapses present in the neuropil. Based on these results, we propose that late maturation of amygdalo-cortical connectivity may provide an anatomical basis for the development and integration of normal and possibly abnormal emotional behavior during adolescence and early adulthood.
Separate sub-populations of benzodiazepine receptors are involved in determining hippocampal theta frequency in freely moving rats. Systemic injection of the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (CDP) reduced the frequency of theta elicited by stimulation of the brainstem reticular formation, and theta recorded during fixed interval (FI) bar pressing. Infusion of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil into the supramammillary nucleus (mSuM) or the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) antagonised CDP in both cases. Flumazenil was similarly effective in mSuM and PH, suggesting that these nuclei are jointly involved in the coding of theta frequency during FI and during high levels of reticular activation. However, benzodiazepine receptors in other brain regions probably participate in determining the frequency of theta at other times.
Serotonin (5-HT) 1A receptors have been implicated in a variety of conditions including, depression, suicidal behavior, and aggression. Post-mortem brain studies and in vivo imaging studies report a variety of age and sex effects on brain 5-HT(1A) binding. Behavioral data from 5-HT(1A) specific pharmacological challenges suggest a role for 5-HT(1A) receptors in aggression. The goal of the present study was to determine age, sex, and severity of life-time aggression effects on 5-HT(1A) binding potential (BP) in vivo using positron emission tomography (PET) and the high affinity 5-HT(1A) antagonist, [carbonyl-C-11]WAY-100635 in 12 healthy females (ages 41.0+/-15.7 years) and 13 healthy males (ages 39.6+/-15.5 years). Regions of interest included the dorsal raphe, anterior cingulate cortex, cingulate body, hippocampus, amygdala, medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), and orbital PFC. No significant correlation between age and BP was detected in any brain region. MANOVA of the first three principle components demonstrated a significantly higher BP in females compared with males (P=0.0127). Post-hoc tests confirmed sex differences (P&lt;0.05) in the following regions: dorsal raphe, amygdala, anterior cingulate, cingulate body, medial PFC, and orbital PFC. The cerebellar volume of distribution was also significantly higher in females. There is a significant negative correlation between binding in several regions and lifetime aggression. We have replicated our post-mortem finding of higher 5-HT(1A) binding in females compared to males. We did not detect an age dependent decrease in binding in males or females. Lower 5-HT(1A) binding in more aggressive individuals is consistent with pharmacological challenge studies. Future studies should determine whether the binding is a state or trait effect.
H2S is produced from cysteine by cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) in the brain and functions as a neuromodulator. Although the production of H2S is regulated by Ca2+ and calmodulin in response to neuronal excitation, little is known about the molecular mechanism for the regulation in CBS activity. Here we show that four cysteine residues of CBS are involved in the regulation of its activity in the presence of Ca2+ and calmodulin. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a modifying agent for cysteine residues, enhances CBS activity, whereas N-ethylmaleimide, an alkylating agent for cysteine residues, completely abolished the effect of SNP. Site-directed mutagenesis of the 13 cysteine residues of CBS identified four cysteine residues that are involved in the regulation of CBS activity by SNP, and two of the four residues are involved in the regulation of the basal CBS activity. The enhancement of CBS activity by SNP is independent of nitric oxide production. In the presence of Staphylococcus aureus alpha-hemolysin, which permeabilizes the cell membrane, exogenously applied SNP enhances the activity of CBS in intact cells. The present study demonstrates a novel mechanism for the regulation of CBS activity and provides a possible therapeutic application of SNP for the diseases in which CBS activity is deficient.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is widely distributed throughout the central nervous system (CNS) and is one of the most conserved peptides in evolution, suggesting an important role in the regulation of basic physiological functions. In addition, both pre-clinical and clinical evidence have suggested that NPY, together with its receptors, may have a direct implication in several psychiatric disorders, including depression and related illnesses. NPY-like immunoreactivity and NPY receptors are expressed throughout the brain, with varying concentrations being found throughout the limbic system. Such brain structures have been repeatedly implicated in the modulation of emotional processing, as well as in the pathogenesis of depressive disorders. This review will concentrate on the distribution of NPY, its receptors, and the putative role played by this peptide in depressive illness based on both pre-clinical and clinical evidence.
Saccadic eye movements can be adapted in a context-specific manner such that their gain can be made to depend on the state of a prevailing context cue. We asked whether context cues are more effective if their nature is primarily sensory, motor, or a combination of sensory and motor. Subjects underwent context-specific adaptation using one of three different context cues: a pure sensory context (head roll-tilt right or left); a pure motor context (changes in saccade direction); or a combined sensory-motor context (head roll-tilt and changes in saccade direction). We observed context-specific adaptation in each condition; the greatest degree of context-specificity occurred in paradigms that used the motor cue, alone or in conjunction with the sensory cue.
Emotion is central to the quality and range of everyday human experience. The neurobiological substrates of human emotion are now attracting increasing interest within the neurosciences motivated, to a considerable extent, by advances in functional neuroimaging techniques. An emerging theme is the question of how emotion interacts with and influences other domains of cognition, in particular attention, memory, and reasoning. The psychological consequences and mechanisms underlying the emotional modulation of cognition provide the focus of this article.

Tumor suppressor protein, p53, is an intracellular protein that is critical within the biochemical cascade that leads to cell death via apoptosis. Recent studies identified the tetrahydrobenzothiazole analogue, pifithrin-alpha (2), as a p53 inhibitor that was effective in protecting neuronal cells against a variety of lethal insults and reducing the side effects of anticancer drugs. As up-regulation of p53 has been described as a common feature of several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, 2 and novel analogues (3-16) were synthesized to (i) assess the value of tetrahydrobenzothiazole analogues as neuroprotective agents and (ii) define the structural requirements for p53 inactivation. Not only did 2 exhibit neuroprotective activity in both tissue culture and in vivo stroke models but also compounds 6, 7, 10, 13, 15, and 16 proved to be highly potent in protecting PC12 cells and compounds 3, 4, and 6 were highly potent in protecting primary hippocampal cells against death induced by the DNA-damaging agent, camptothecin.
In inhibiting neurite outgrowth, several myelin components, including the extracellular domain of Nogo-A (Nogo-66), oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), exert their effects through the same Nogo receptor (NgR). The glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored nature of NgR indicates the requirement for additional transmembrane protein(s) to transduce the inhibitory signals into the interior of responding neurons. Here, we demonstrate that p75, a transmembrane protein known to be a receptor for the neurotrophin family of growth factors, specifically interacts with NgR. p75 is required for NgR-mediated signalling, as neurons from p75 knockout mice are no longer responsive to myelin and to each of the known NgR ligands. Blocking the p75-NgR interaction also reduces the activities of these inhibitors. Moreover, a truncated p75 protein lacking the intracellular domain, when overexpressed in primary neurons, attenuates the same set of inhibitory activities, suggesting that p75 is a signal transducer of the NgR-p75 receptor complex. Thus, interfering with p75 and its downstream signalling pathways may allow lesioned axons to overcome most of the inhibitory activities associated with central nervous system myelin.
Adenosine and ATP modulate cellular and tissue functions via specific P1 and P2 receptors, respectively. Although, in general, adenosine inhibits excitability and ATP functions as an excitatory transmitter in the central nervous system, little is known about the direct interaction between P1 and P2 receptors. We recently demonstrated that the G(i/o)-coupled adenosine A1 receptor (A1R) and G(q/11)-coupled P2Y1 receptor (P2Y1R) form a heteromeric complex with a unique pharmacology in cotransfected HEK293T cells using the coimmunoprecipitation of differentially epitope-tagged forms of the receptor [Yoshioka et al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 7617-7622], although it remained to be determined whether this hetero-oligomerization occurs in vivo. In the present study, we first demonstrated a high degree of colocalization of A1R and P2Y1R by double immunofluorescence experiments with confocal laser microscopy in rat cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum in addition to primary cultures of cortical neurons. Then, a direct association of A1R with P2Y1R was shown in coimmunoprecipitation studies using membrane extracts from these regions of rat brain. Together, these results suggest the widespread colocalization of A1R and P2Y1R in rat brain, and both receptors can exist in the same neuron, and therefore associate as hetero-oligomeric complexes in the rat brain.

Identification of the genes that encode proteins that are important for proper function of specific inner ear cell types is central to our understanding of the molecular basis of hearing and balance. Whereas the combination of electrophysiology and biophysics has resulted in an exquisite understanding of inner ear function, little is known about the proteins that confer these properties at the cellular level. Furthermore, the genes that control inner ear development, susceptibility to wear and tear, regeneration from damage, and age-related degeneration, are largely unknown. This review discusses tools that have been developed during the past few years to address this imbalance between a thorough physiologic characterization of inner ear function and a detailed understanding at a molecular level of the proteins involved in these functions. Creation of inner ear cDNA libraries has laid the foundation for the discovery of genes that are specifically expressed by cell types of the inner ear and that encode proteins that are important for molecular processes in these cells. In conjunction with expressed sequence tag database analysis, cDNA subtraction, and DNA arrays, functionally important genes, whose specific expression patterns are usually verified by gene expression analysis, can be identified. Discussion of these techniques takes into account the specific characteristics of the inner ear in relation to its study using molecular biological approaches.
Neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP) has been linked to the inherited disease, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), which occurs in children with degeneration of the motorneurons. In the nervous system, NAIP is expressed by specific classes of neurons including spinal motorneurons. Recently, NAIP was shown to interact with hippocalcin, which belongs to the neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) protein family. Here we have studied this interaction in more detail, using deletions and a mutagenesis of the third baculovirus inhibitory repeat (BIR) motif in NAIP, and functional assays for neuronal death. The results showed that specific amino acids and the zinc finger domain in BIR3 are needed for efficient interaction of NAIP with hippocalcin. Cotransfections of NAIP-BIR3 and hippocalcin resulted in translocation and colocalisation of the two proteins in neuroblastoma cells. This was accompanied by an enhanced resistance towards cell death induced by high levels of calcium. In contrast, expression of NAIP-BIR3 and hippocalcin in sympathetic neurons did not protect against death induced by nerve growth factor (NGF) withdrawal. The results demonstrate a functional interaction of hippocalcin with NAIP-BIR3, which in neuroblastoma cells leads to rescue of cells after high intracellular calcium, but which in sympathetic neurons had no significant effect. The results indicate that NAIP in conjunction with hippocalcin can affect the survival of some, but not all neural cells, and this interaction may play a role in the neurodegenerative processes in SMA, and possible other human disorders.
Calmodulin (CaM), the principal mediator of the calcium signal, regulates numerous processes pertinent to neural function. Mammalian CaM is generated from three genes that give rise to five distinct transcripts. To determine the regulation of individual CaM transcripts in neurons, we assessed their abundance during differentiation of human IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells. Northern analysis revealed that the 4.1 kb CALM1 transcript was specifically upregulated about two-fold during differentiation, and that this increase correlated with neurite extension. By contrast, the CALM2 and CALM3 mRNAs as well as the 1.7 kb CALM1 transcript showed an initial increase but then returned to levels close to, or only slightly above, controls. The increase in the 4.1 kb transcript was largely due to its specific stabilization in differentiated cells. However, total cellular CaM levels did not change significantly throughout differentiation. To begin to address whether the 4.1 kb CALM1 transcript might play a unique role in providing local CaM pools, we determined its localization in differentiated IMR-32 cells using in situ hybridization. The 4.1 kb CALM1 transcript localized to the cell body, but was also present within extending neurites. This finding agrees with in vivo studies showing elevated levels of the 4.1 kb CALM1 transcript in adult rat central neurons and the presence of CALM1 transcripts in dendrites, and establishes a human in vitro model system to study individual CaM transcripts with respect to neuronal functions.
The synthesis and biological evaluation of novel antagonists of the rat H(3) receptor are described. These compounds differ from prototypical H(3) antagonists in that they do not contain an imidazole moiety, but rather a substituted aminopyrrolidine moiety. A systematic modification of the substituents on the aminopyrrolidine ring was performed using pre-formatted precursor sets, where applicable, to afford several compounds with high affinity and selectivity for the H(3) receptor.
A key issue in the development of the central nervous system (CNS) is understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating cell number. The present study examines the role of CD81 (previously known as TAPA, the target of the antiproliferative antibody) in the control of brain size and glial cell number. CD81 is a member of the tetraspanin family of proteins. This group of small membrane proteins is associated with the regulation of cell migration and mitotic activity. Glial cells express CD81, and antibodies directed against this protein suppress the mitotic activity of cultured cells. In this study, we examine the effects of the CD81 -/- mutation on the CNS of mature mice. These mice have extremely large brains, as much as 30% larger than the brains of wild-type (+/+) littermates. The increase in brain weight is accompanied by an increase in the number astrocytes and microglia, whereas the number of neurons and oligodendrocytes in the CD81 -/- animals appears to be normal. When the CD81 -/- mutation is placed on different genetic backgrounds, there is a remarkable range in the penetrance of the null allele phenotype, demonstrating that the mutation can be affected by modifier loci. This work provides support for the role of CD81 in the regulation of astrocyte and microglial number, perhaps by regulating cell proliferation by a contact inhibition-dependent mechanism.






The publication of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke trial of thrombolysis has not led to the widespread implementation of alteplase for acute ischaemic stroke in the United Kingdom. However, the Cochrane systematic review of thrombolysis for acute ischaemic stroke suggests that alteplase is the most promising treatment for acute ischaemic stroke. Successful implementation of thrombolysis in the United Kingdom will depend on continued investment in acute stroke services, attention to the known barriers to treatment, further data from randomized controlled trials and the licensing of alteplase for this indication.
Data from prior studies using serial imaging and post mortem data support the possibility that at least some cases of apparent primary intracerebral haemorrhage are due to early haemorrhagic transformation of infarct. If some primary intracerabral haemorrhage is actually early haemorrhagic transformation of infarct, then secondary stroke prevention for ischaemic stroke might be appropriate and so future studies should obtain data to determine the frequency of early major haemorrhagic transformation of infarct.
Results of investigations with animal models of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) seem to indicate that neuronal vulnerability to ethanol-induced cell death may be correlated with specific developmental events. In the present study, we sought to test this observation in a cell culture model of neuronal development in which morphogenesis as well as survival could be assessed. Using embryonic rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons in primary cultures, we compared the sensitivity of neurons to ethanol added, at 400 mg/dl, to the medium at different times relative to the development of axons and dendrites. Quantitative morphometric analysis was performed by using phase contrast at 12 h (0.5 day) and 24 h (1 day), or fluorescence microscopy after microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2) immunostaining at 6 and 14 days. Survival was assessed by counting the number of neurons per unit area of the substrate at 14 days. Addition of ethanol 1 day after plating, when most neurons had developed an axon, had no effect on survival up to 14 days in vitro, but resulted in significantly shorter, less branched dendrites than observed when ethanol was added 2 h after plating. Despite the shorter duration of ethanol exposure, the addition of ethanol on day 6, after rapid growth of dendrites and synapses had begun, resulted in loss of all but about one third of the neurons by 14 days. This supports the suggestion that increased neuronal vulnerability to the morphoregulatory effects of ethanol is correlated with the establishment of polarity, but that the sensitivity of neurons to the cytotoxic effects of ethanol occurs later, when dendrites and synapses are rapidly forming.
The possible relation between alpha-2-adrenoceptor function-as assessed by changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate, as well as level of sedation, after administration of clonidine (2.0 microg/kg, i.v.)-and length of time of alcohol dependence or duration of remission was investigated in 17 male subjects with alcohol dependence in full sustained remission. Six healthy males were used as control subjects. The clonidine-induced scores for level of sedation were found to correlate with duration of time in remission (r = 0.60; P &lt;.02). Median split of duration of remission revealed that subjects with short-term (2 +/- 1 years) duration of remission had significantly lower scores for clonidine-induced level of sedation than the scores for both subjects with long-term (12 +/- 5 years) duration of remission (P &lt;.004) and control subjects (P &lt;.02). There was also a significant correlation between duration of remission and values for clonidine-induced reduction of systolic blood pressure (r = 0.51; P &lt;.05). Results indicate an extremely long recovery period in some aspects of alpha-2-adrenoceptor function, especially for clonidine-induced increase in level of sedation, with a normalization time of 4 to 5 years.





Studies using diverse methods have documented frontostriatal and limbic dysfunction occurring in late-life depression. Although such impairments may result from aging-induced brain changes unrelated to depression, there are at least two reasons to suggest that they play a pathogenetic role in geriatric depression. First, frontostriatal dysfunction has been identified in at least some younger depressed subjects without known neurological abnormalities. Second, frontostriatal dysfunction may be associated with poor short- and long-term outcomes of late-life depression. Relating frontostriatal and limbic dysfunction to the course of late-life depression is an appropriate way for investigating its pathophysiological relevance, given that no biological test can be used as a validating criterion. However, this approach has experimental limitations. Studies of the course of late-life depression may be influenced by selective survival of depressed patients with favorable prognosis; factors peripherally related to the biology of depression, for example, physical handicaps; and clinical factors with unclear relationship to specific biological abnormalities, for example, personality disorders. Nonetheless, studies comparing depressed patients with control subjects complemented with studies of course of illness can bring to bear the rapidly evolving cognitive-neuroscience and brain-imaging techniques in an investigation of the networks responsible for predisposing, precipitating, and perpetuating late-life depression.
A central question in Alzheimer's disease concerns the mechanism by which beta-amyloid contributes to neuropathology, and in particular whether intracellular versus extracellular beta-amyloid plays a critical role. Alzheimer transgenic mouse studies demonstrate brain dysfunction, as beta-amyloid levels rise, months before the appearance of beta-amyloid plaques. We have now used immunoelectron microscopy to determine the subcellular site of neuronal beta-amyloid in normal and Alzheimer brains, and in brains from Alzheimer transgenic mice. We report that beta-amyloid 42 localized predominantly to multivesicular bodies of neurons in normal mouse, rat, and human brain. In transgenic mice and human Alzheimer brain, intraneuronal beta-amyloid 42 increased with aging and beta-amyloid 42 accumulated in multivesicular bodies within presynaptic and especially postsynaptic compartments. This accumulation was associated with abnormal synaptic morphology, before beta-amyloid plaque pathology, suggesting that intracellular accumulation of beta-amyloid plays a crucial role in Alzheimer's disease.
Conditional expression systems for 4-repeat wild-type (WT) tau or the corresponding mutants V337M and R406W were established in human neuroglioma H4 cells to study the effect of tau mutations on the physicochemical properties of tau, and to develop a cellular model for the formation of filamentous tau characteristic of frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) and Alzheimer's disease. Upon induction tau expression increased, reaching maximal levels at 5 to 7 days. WT tau was phosphorylated at amino acids T181, S202/T205, T231, and S396/S404. The R406W mutation decreased tau phosphorylation at each of these sites as did the V337M mutation except for S396/S404 sites that increased. Most tau in postnuclear cell lysates was recovered in the supernatant fraction after centrifugation at 200,000 x g. The amount of tau in the pellet fraction increased more in mutant transfectants compared to WT when the induction was extended beyond 5 days. This particulate tau could be partially extracted with salt, Triton X-100, or sarkosyl. Of the transfectants, R406W had the highest proportion of sarkosyl-insoluble tau by day 7. This insoluble fraction was thioflavin S-positive and contained 15- to 5-nm-wide filaments with tau immunoreactivities. The R406W filaments were more abundant than those detected in similar preparations from WT or V337M transfectants. At the light microscopy level, most tau was found with microtubules, or diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm, but none of this appeared thioflavin S-positive. The results suggest that conditional tau transfectants are in a pretangle stage making them an attractive model system for studying intracellular tangle accumulation and for testing potential therapeutic agents as inhibitors for tau aggregation.
We previously demonstrated that C75, a specific and potent inhibitor of fatty acid synthase (FAS), reduced food intake and decreased body weight in mice. In the present study, we determined that these effects were not due to conditioned taste aversion. To investigate the mechanism of C75 action, we examined FAS brain expression. FAS was expressed in a number of brain regions, including arcuate and paraventricular nuclei (PVN) within regions that comprise the arcuate-PVN pathway in mouse and human. Although C75 and fasting significantly downregulated liver FAS, FAS levels remained high in hypothalamus, indicating that FAS levels were regulated differently in brain from those in liver. Double fluorescence in situ for FAS and neuropeptide Y (NPY) showed that FAS co-localized with NPY in neurons in the arcuate nucleus. NPY immnuoreactivity after C75 treatment was decreased in axon terminals that innervate the PVN and lateral hypothalamus. Collectively, these results demonstrate that FAS is present and active in neurons and suggests that C75 may alter food intake via interactions within the arcuate-PVN pathway mediated by NPY.
Aging attenuates the increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and elicits hypotension during otolith organ engagement in humans. The purpose of the present study was to determine the neural and cardiovascular responses to otolithic engagement during orthostatic stress in older adults. We hypothesized that age-related impairments in the vestibulosympathetic reflex would persist during orthostatic challenge in older subjects and might compromise arterial blood pressure regulation. MSNA, arterial blood pressure, and heart rate responses to head-down rotation (HDR) performed with and without lower body negative pressure (LBNP) in prone subjects were measured. Ten young (27 +/- 1 yr) and 11 older subjects (64 +/- 1 yr) were studied prospectively. HDR performed alone elicited an attenuated increase in MSNA in older subjects (Delta106 +/- 28 vs. Delta20 +/- 7% for young and older subjects). HDR performed during simultaneous orthostatic stress increased total MSNA further in young (Delta53 +/- 15%; P &lt; 0.05) but not older subjects (Delta-5 +/- 4%). Older subjects demonstrated consistent significant hypotension during HDR performed both alone (Delta-6 +/- 2 mmHg) and during LBNP (Delta-7 +/- 2 mmHg). These data provide experimental support for the concept that age-related impairments in the vestibulosympathetic reflex persist during orthostatic challenge in older adults. Furthermore, these findings are consistent with the concept that age-related alterations in vestibular function might contribute to altered orthostatic blood pressure regulation with age in humans.
Food deprivation (FD) increases hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AGRP) mRNA levels and decreases proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA levels; refeeding restores these levels. We determined the time course of changes in hypothalamic NPY, AGRP, and POMC mRNA levels on refeeding after 24 h FD in C57BL mice by in situ hybridization. After 24 h deprivation, mice were refed with either chow or a palatable mash containing no calories or were injected with murine leptin (100 microg) without food. Mice were perfused 2 or 6 h after treatment. Food deprivation increased hypothalamic NPY mRNA (108 +/- 6%) and AGRP mRNA (78 +/- 7%) and decreased hypothalamic POMC mRNA (-15 +/- 1%). Refeeding for 6 h, but not 2 h, was sufficient to reduce (but not restore) NPY mRNA, did not affect AGRP mRNA, and restored POMC mRNA levels to ad libitum control levels. Intake of the noncaloric mash had no effect on mRNA levels, and leptin administration after deprivation (at a dose sufficient to reduce refeeding in FD mice) was not sufficient to affect mRNA levels. These results suggest that gradual postabsorptive events subsequent to refeeding are required for the restoration of peptide mRNA to baseline levels after food deprivation in mice.

Shamans' communities grant them privileged status to attend to those groups' psychological and spiritual needs. Shamans claim to modify their attentional states and engage in activities that enable them to access information not ordinarily attainable by members of the social group that has granted them shamanic status. Western perspectives on shamanism have changed and clashed over the centuries; this address presents points and counterpoints regarding what might be termed the demonic model, the charlatan model, the schizophrenia model, the soul flight model, the degenerative and crude technology model, and the deconstructionist model. Western interpretations of shamanism often reveal more about the observer than they do about the observed; in addressing this challenge, the study of shamanism could make contributions to cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, psychological therapy, and ecological psychology.

Social science and neuroscience perspectives represent two ends of a continuum of levels of organization studied in psychology. Human behavior as a whole unfolds at social levels of organization, whereas much of the research in psychology has focused on cognitive and biological pieces of this whole. Recent evidence underscores the complementary nature of social, cognitive, and biological levels of analysis and how research integrating these levels can foster more comprehensive theories of the mechanisms underlying complex behavior and the mind. This research underscores the unity of psychology and the importance of retaining multilevel integrative research that spans molar and molecular levels of analysis.
Ascorbic acid is an important cellular metabolite involved in many biochemical pathways. A method to quantitate ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid in individual neurons and neuronal tissues is described with detection limits of 320 pM (430 zmol). The method uses microvial sampling, derivatization with 4,5-dimethyl-1,2-phenylenediamine, capillary electrophoresis separation, and laser-induced fluorescence detection and quantifies the ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid levels with less than a 15-min total analysis time including sample preparation and derivatization. Ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid levels are measured using functionally characterized and identified neurons of Aplysia californica, Pleurobranchaea californica, and Lymnaea stagnalis -three well-recognized models in cellular and system neuroscience. Multiple assays of a particular identified neuron (e.g., metacerebral cells from Aplysia) show a high level of reproducibility, while endogenous intracellular concentrations of ascorbate are neuron-specific. Ascorbic acid concentrations in the neurons studied range from 0.19 to 6.2 mM for Aplysia and 0.12 to 0.22 mM for Lymnaea. In contrast, concentrations of ascorbic acid observed in heterogeneous tissues such as ganglia (with connective tissues, glia, blood vessels, neuropile, and areas with intercellular spaces), 4-190 microM, are significantly lower than the single-cell values.
Cells exercise size homeostasis, and the origins of their ability to do so is the topic of this essay. Before there were cells, there were protocells. The most basic questions about protocells as objects are: What were they made of, and how big were they? Asking how big they were implies that the answer to the first part includes a boundary. The best candidate for that boundary is a self-assembling lipid bilayer. Therefore, protocells are defined here as Darwinian liposomes-bilayer vesicles with mutable on-board replicases linked to phenotypes. Because liposomes undergo spontaneous fission and fusion, and are subject to osmotic forces, size regulation in the earliest protocells would essentially have been liposome physics. For successful protocells, averting osmotic lysis would have been the first order of business. However, from the outset size mattered too, because of sex and reproduction (i.e., genome mixing and genome copying in entities with phenotypes). Protocell fission and fusion would have blended seamlessly into protocell sex and reproduction, making any gene product that furnished control over protocell size changes doubly adaptive. A recurrent theme is the feedback role of bilayer tension in protocell size control. Ways in which primitive peptides and their aggregates (e.g., channels) might have allowed liposomes to gain improved volume and surface area homeostasis are suggested. Domain-swapped proteins that polymerize as filaments are discussed as the origin of cytoskeleton structures that diversify and stabilize liposome shapes and sizes. Throughout, attention is paid to the question of set points for cell size.
Recent advances have improved the outlook for patients with stroke, Singapore's fourth leading cause of death. Stroke unit care reduces death, dependency and institutionalisation, independent of age, gender and stroke severity. Neuroimaging is essential prior to initiation of specific therapies. While computed tomography (CT) Head remains the most widely used modality, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), particularly diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) has enhanced the positive diagnosis of ischaemic stroke. General medical measures include close monitoring, adequate oxygenation, avoidance of excessive blood pressure lowering, reduction of hyperthermia, control of hyperglycaemia, adequate nutrition, prevention of complications and early rehabilitation. Despite the risk of fatal intracranial haemorrhage, thrombolysis may improve outcomes in appropriately selected patients with ischaemic stroke. No safe and effective neuroprotectant has been found. While suboccipital craniectomy is established for large cerebellar infarcts and haemorrhage, surgical evacuation of supratentorial haemorrhage has not been shown to be beneficial. Hemicraniectomy reduces mortality after massive hemispheric ischemic stroke. Early and sustained antiplatelet use after atherothrombotic stroke reduces stroke recurrence. Stroke recurrence is also reduced by sustained warfarin use for cardioembolic stroke, carotid endarterectomy for severe symptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis, blood pressure lowering starting after the acute phase of stroke and lipid lowering. On-going clinical trails are likely to provide better treatments in the near future.

In the central nervous system, the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger plays a fundamental role in controlling changes in the intracellular concentrations of Na(+) and Ca(2+) ions that occur in physiologic conditions such as neurotransmitter release, cell migration and differentiation, gene expression, as well as neuro-degenerative processes. Three genes, NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3, encoding for Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger isoforms have been cloned. In this review, by using non-radioactive in situ hybridization and light immunohistochemistry with NCX isoform-specific riboprobes and antibodies, respectively, a systematic brain mapping for both transcripts and proteins encoded by all three NCX genes is described. Intense expression of NCX transcripts and proteins was detected in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, metathalamus, hypothalamus, brainstem, spinal cord, and cerebellum. In these areas, NCX transcripts and proteins were often found with an overlapping distribution pattern, although specific brain areas displaying a peculiar expression of each exchanger isoform were also found. Furthermore, immunoelectron and confocal microscopy revealed the expression of the NCX1 isoform of the exchanger at both pre- and postsynaptic sites as well as in association with membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum. Collectively, these data suggest that the different isoforms of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger appear to be selectively expressed in several CNS regions where they might underlie different functional roles.
Rats with experimental diabetes show changes in prenuclear signals that might impact on neuronal transcription factors; these in turn may be responsible for the phenotype switches characteristic of diabetic neuropathies. This study was designed to examine the effect of streptozotocin-diabetes of 12 weeks' duration on the activation of three transcription factors known to affect neuronal phenotype in dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Pooled L4 and L5 were subject to gel-shift analysis to measure binding to consensus oligonucleotides. This revealed significant reduction in activation of CREB and NFkappaB in DRG from diabetic rats, but no effect on AP-1. The CREB change may be secondary to target tissue NGF depletion, and the reduced NFkappaB indicates impaired capacity to withstand neurotrophic defects. Thus, these changes my underlie consequences of impaired neurotrophic regulation of phenotype reported in other studies in diabetic rats.
Many activities of neuronal cells, such as synaptic transmission, inflammation, neuroprotection, and neurotoxicity, are regulated by the activity of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). In resting cells, NF-kappaB activity is present both in the cytoplasm, as an inducible-inactive complex, and in the nucleus as a constitutive form. The activation of its inducible form is related to processing of IkappaB(s), which occurs through the proteasome. To understand whether NF-kappaB is involved in the survival of cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) maintained under conditions of mild depolarization (25 mM KCl), these cells were treated with different proteasome inhibitors. The results presented show that these pharmacological tools reduce CGC survival with changes in nuclear morphology and induction of apoptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrate that PSI-induced apoptosis is reverted by inhibitors of transcription and translation, as well as by specific caspase inhibitors. These issues are also associated with a redistribution of NF-kappaB, in that a reduced amount of nuclear NF-kappaB and an increased p65 cytoplasmic level have been observed. Finally, we propose that, at least in part, p65 metabolism could also be regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome complex. Altogether, the results presented define an important role for NF-kappaB in maintainig CGC survival.
Diabetes is known to activate MAP kinase p38 in sensory neurons in both rats and patients. In vitro, activation of p38 in sensory neurons by combined glucose and oxidant stress causes cell damage or death. Consequently we tested the hypothesis that inhibition of MAP kinase p38 might prevent neuronal dysfunction in rats with experimental diabetes, such as the classical defect of slowed nerve conduction. Thus, treatment of streptozotocin-diabetic rats with the p38 inhibitor SB239063 for the second half of a 12-week diabetes protocol selectively prevented the nerve conduction deficit in sensory neurons. This implicates activation of MAP kinase p38 as an early step in the signal pathway to dysfunction in experimental diabetic neuropathy.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an intracellular and intercellular mediator involved in the modulation of many physiologic and pathologic processes including the regulation of neoangiogenesis. We analyzed the effects of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) on NO production in CHO-K1 cells and the intracellular mechanisms involved. bFGF induces NO production through activation of the endothelial NO synthase (eNOS), causing a subsequent increase in cGMP levels. In most systems, eNOS activation is a Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent process. In CHO-K1 cells, NO production by bFGF is Ca(2+) and MAP kinase independent, because it was not reverted by pretreatment with intracellular Ca(2+) chelators or MEK inhibitors. Translocation of the eNOS from the plasma membrane, where it is bound to caveolin 1, to the cytosol is the crucial step in the synthesis of NO. We demonstrate that the cytosolic translocation of eNOS is caused by increased synthesis of ceramide dependent by the bFGF activation of sphingomyelinase. Indeed, in the presence of the sphingomyelinase inhibitors D609 or desipramine, bFGF-dependent NO production is abrogated. To support this evidence we evaluated ceramide concentration using HPLC-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry in controls and in bFGF-treated cells: after bFGF stimulation, a substantial increase in ceramide levels was observed. These data were further confirmed by the lack of NO production in response to fibroblast growth factor in fibroblasts derived from Niemann Pick patients who genetically lack the enzyme sphingomyelinase. In conclusion, ceramide in CHO-K1 cells is responsible for a novel Ca(2+)/calmodulin-independent mechanism for eNOS activation after fibroblast growth factor stimulation.
Chemokines are a family of proteins that chemoattract and activate cells by interacting with specific receptors on the surface of their targets. They are grouped into four classes based on the position of key cysteine residues: C, CC, CXC, and CX3C. Stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF1), the ligand of the CXCR4 receptor, is a CXC chemokine involved in chemotaxis and brain development that also acts as coreceptor for HIV-1 infection. It has been proposed that CXCR4 is overexpressed and required for proliferation in human brain tumor cells. We previously demonstrated that CXCR4 and SDF1 are expressed in culture of cortical type I rat astrocytes, cortical neurons, and cerebellar granule cells. In this study, we analyzed the expression of CXCR4 and SDF1 in four human brain tumor tissues, showing that CXCR4 is expressed in all tumors analyzed, whereas SDF1 is expressed only in two tumor tissues. We also investigated the possible functions of CXCR4 expressed in rat type I cortical astrocytes, demonstrating that SDF1alpha stimulates the proliferation of these cells in vitro. Moreover, we studied by western blot the intracellular pathway involved in cell proliferation, demonstrating that SDF1alpha induces the ERK1/2 phosphorylation that is reduced by the PD98059 compound, an MEK inhibitor.
To clarify the pathophysiological differences of the cerebrovascular reserve capacity in relation to cerebral cognitive impairments between vascular dementia (VaD) and persistent vegetative state (PVS), we evaluated acetazolamide (ACZ) vasoreactivity testing by transcranial harmonic perfusion imaging (HPI) and Doppler sonography (TCD). Sixteen patients (age: 29-85 years; mean: 62) were divided into three groups: 7 VaD, 4 PVS, and 5 nondementia patients. Mean velocity (Vm) in the middle and posterior cerebral artery (MCA, PCA) was measured, and time-intensity curves of the HPI were evaluated at three regions of interest-the bilateral temporal lobe (TL), basal ganglia (BG), and thalamus (Th). TCD and HPI were evaluated before (resting state) and after ACZ administration, and vasoreactivity was compared among the three groups in terms of resting values and relative changes (%Delta) of Vm, peak intensity (PI), area under curve (AUC), and mean transit time (MTT). Results of the resting state: Decreased Vm, PI, and AUC of the VaD and PVS groups were more obvious in the right side. Results of vasoreactivity: In the PVS group, %DeltaVm decreased in the left PCA and MCA; %DeltaPI and %DeltaAUC decreased in the left TL and bilateral BG. In the VaD group, %DeltaPI and %DeltaAUC decreased in the right TL; %DeltaMTT tended to increase in the left side. ACZ vasoreactivity tests by transcranial HPI and TCD allowed bedside, noninvasive quantitative evaluation of the pathophysiology of cognitive function impairment in relation to cerebrovascular reserve capacity in VaD and PVS.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the intracellular deposition of ubiquitinated tau and by the extracellular accumulation of soluble, insoluble, and fibrillary Abeta. Previous studies suggest that Abeta is normally eliminated from the brain along perivascular pathways that may become blocked in the aging brain, resulting in cerebral amyloid angiopathy. As age is a major risk factor for AD and for cerebrovascular disease (CVD), we test the hypothesis that CVD inhibits the elimination of Abeta from the aging human brain. Sections from 100 aged and AD brains were stained for Abeta by immunohistochemistry and by reticulin and Masson trichrome techniques. Early deposition of Abeta in brain parenchyma was related to individual arterial territories in the cortex. In areas of more extensive accumulation of Abeta, there was an inverse relationship between capillary amyloid angiopathy and plaques of Abeta. Thus, arterial territories with extensive capillary amyloid angiopathy were devoid of Abeta plaques, whereas in areas with abundant diffuse plaques there was no capillary amyloid angiopathy. Serial sections showed that cortical arteries feeding capillary beds with Abeta angiopathy were occluded by thrombus. We conclude that CVD inhibits the elimination of Abeta along capillary walls and changes the distribution of Abeta in the cerebral cortex. Loss of pulsations in thrombosed or arteriosclerotic arteries may thus abolish the motive force necessary for the drainage of Abeta and inhibit the elimination of Abeta. Therapies to increase elimination of Abeta in AD need to consider the effects of CVD on the elimination of Abeta from the aging human brain.
Cerebrovascular deposition of the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is a common pathologic event in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and certain related disorders. Such an Abeta vascular deposition occurs primarily in the medial layer of the cerebral vessel wall in an assembled fibrillar state. These deposits are associated with several pathological responses, including degeneration of the smooth muscle cells in the cerebral vessel wall. Severe cases of cerebrovascular Abeta deposition are also accompanied by loss of vessel wall integrity and hemorrhagic stroke. Although the reasons for this pathological consequence are unclear, altered proteolytic mechanisms within the cerebral vessel wall may be involved. We analyzed cerebral Abeta deposition in brains with AD and Dutch-type hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (HCHWA-D) on the basis of two amyloid species of Abeta(40) and Abeta(42/43) using specific monoclonal antibodies. Compared to Abeta deposition in senile plaques, the molecular composition of Abeta was distinguishable, indicating that the Abeta(40) species is the main component for vascular amyloid. Furthermore, we found Abeta(42/43) immunoreactivity was also much increased in amyloid angiopathy of all cases with HCHWA-D. Taken together, amyloid angiopathy in HCHWA-D may share an Abeta(42)-driven deposition mechanism with plaque amyloid, resulting in enhanced Abeta(40) deposition.
The prevalence of hypertension is estimated to approach 50% in individuals above age 70. The consequences of hypertension include cerebrovascular disease, coronary heart disease, and general atherosclerosis. Several recent studies suggest that there may be an association also between hypertension and Alzheimer's disease (AD). This review will examine the evidence for this association and possible pathways between hypertension, Alzheimer encephalopathy, and clinical dementia.
Persistent dyskinesias in the absence of or with only minimal amounts of dopaminergic medication have been reported after dopamine cell implantation for Parkinson's disease. In this study, we used [(18)F]fluorodopa (FDOPA) and positron emission tomography to determine whether this complication resulted from specific alterations in dopamine function after transplantation. Caudate and putamen FDOPA uptake values in these patients (DYS+, n = 5) were compared with those obtained in a cohort of age- and disease duration-matched transplant recipients who did not develop this complication (DYS-, n = 12). PET signal for both groups was compared at baseline and at 12 and 24 months after transplantation. We found that putamen FDOPA uptake was significantly increased (p &lt; 0.005) in DYS+ transplant recipients. These increases were predominantly localized to two zones within the left putamen. In addition to the posterodorsal zone in which a prominent reduction in FDOPA uptake was present at baseline, the DYS+ group also displayed a relative increase ventrally, in which preoperative dopaminergic input was relatively preserved. Postoperative FDOPA uptake did not reach supranormal values over the 24-month follow-up period. These findings suggest that unbalanced increases in dopaminergic function can complicate the outcome of neuronal transplantation for parkinsonism.
Drugs currently used for patients with Parkinson's disease provide temporary relief of symptoms but do not halt or slow the underlying neurodegenerative disease process. Increasing evidence suggests that neurons die in Parkinson's disease by a process called apoptosis, which may be triggered by mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress. We report that two novel synthetic inhibitors of the tumor suppressor protein p53, pifithrin-alpha (PFT-alpha) and Z-1-117, are highly effective in protecting midbrain dopaminergic neurons and improving behavioral outcome in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease. Mice given intraperitoneal injections of PFT-alpha or Z-1-117 exhibited improved motor function, reduced damage to nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and reduced depletion of dopamine and its metabolites after exposure to the toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP caused an increase in the level of the proapoptotic protein Bax, which was prevented by giving mice PFT-alpha and Z-1-117. PFT-alpha and Z-1-117 also suppressed Bax production and apoptosis in cultured dopaminergic cells exposed to MPP(+). Our findings demonstrate a pivotal role for p53 in experimental parkinsonism and identify a novel class of synthetic p53 inhibitors with clinical potential.


All drugs in psychiatry act by influences on neurotransmitter systems. Hence, an appreciation of neurotransmitter disposition helps clarify our understanding of therapeutic actions as well as adverse effects of psychotropic drugs. Moreover, understanding the nuances of neurotransmitters facilitates efforts to develop novel agents. Currently available psychoactive drugs exert their effects through 3 or 4 of the longest-known neurotransmitters. Over the past few decades, up to 100 novel neurotransmitter candidates have been identified, each of them as interesting as traditional biogenic amines. It is likely that totally new classes of therapeutic agents will emerge based on these transmitter molecules.
We have developed an assay system suitable for assessment of compound action on the Edg4 subtype of the widely expressed lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-responsive Edg receptor family. Edg4 was stably overexpressed in the rat hepatoma cell line Rh 7777, and a Ca(2+)-based FLIPR assay developed for measurement of functional responses. In order to investigate the mechanisms linking Edg4 activation to cytosolic Ca(2+) elevation, we have also studied LPA signalling in a human neuroblastoma cell line that endogenously expresses Edg4. LPA responses displayed similar kinetics and potency in the two cell lines. The Ca(2+) signal generated by activation of LPA-sensitive receptors in these cells is mediated primarily by endoplasmic reticulum. However, there is a substantial inhibition of the LPA response by FCCP, indicating that mitochondria also play a key role in the LPA response. Partial inhibition of the response by cyclosporin A could indicate an active Ca(2+) release role for mitochondria in the LPA response. The inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor antagonist 2-aminoethyl diphenyl borate markedly inhibits, but does not abolish, the Ca(2+) response to LPA, suggesting further complexity to the signalling pathways activated by Edg receptors. In comparing Edg signalling in recombinant and native cells, there is a striking overall similarity in receptor expression pattern, agonist potency, and the effect of modulators on the Ca(2+) response. This indicates that the Edg4-overexpressing Rh7777 cell line is a very useful model system for studying receptor pharmacology and signalling mechanisms, and for investigating the Edg4 receptor's downstream effects.
Growing evidence supports the concept that immune reactions occur in the cochlea, where they can function either in protection or as a source of inflammation. Since immunity is generally initiated by antigen presentation of foreign substances to T cells, antigen-presenting cells expressing major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules are required. Under resting conditions, cochlear cells usually express no MHC class II. However, we show that exposure to -interferon in vitro induces an increase in MHC class II expression in neonatal cochlear cells of mice. In addition, MHC class II immunoreactivity was observed in the inner ear of adult mice after induction of sterile labyrinthitis in vivo. It is concluded that the induction of MHC class II molecules by inflammation may render cochlear cells competent to initiate and participate in immune reactions and may therefore contribute to both immunoprotective and immunopathological responses of the inner ear.
In this study, an original psychometric procedure was used in order to characterize in more detail than in previous studies the different perceptual components of tinnitus, i.e. auditory sensations which are perceived in the absence of a corresponding external acoustic stimulus. Ten subjects with chronic tinnitus were asked to rate on a numeric scale the contribution of elementary pitch sensations evoked by isolated frequency components to their overall tinnitus sensation. The resulting 'internal tinnitus spectra', which represented the estimated perceptual contribution to the tinnitus sensation as a function of frequency over a large range of frequencies, were found to occupy a wide frequency range corresponding largely to that at which hearing thresholds were abnormally elevated. In most cases, they exhibited a broad peak falling within the hearing loss range. This pattern of result suggests that in subjects with high-frequency hearing loss, tinnitus sensations, when present, resemble those evoked by high-frequency noise bands with, in some cases, a superimposed tonal-like pitch. These results confirm and extend earlier results in the literature and agree with the patients' reports; their practical implications for the design of future studies on tinnitus and theoretical implications for the understanding of the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying tinnitus are discussed. The results of an additional experiment showed that the internal tinnitus spectrum could be altered by perceptual training in a fine frequency discrimination task with tones in the frequency range of the main peak of the tinnitus spectrum.

This article summarizes the potential role of evolved brain emotional systems in the mediation of music appreciation. A variety of examples of how music may promote behavioral change are summarized, including effects on memory, mood, brain activity as well as autonomic responses such as the experience of 'chills'. Studies on animals (e.g. young chicks) indicate that musical stimulation have measurable effects on their behaviors and brain chemistries, especially increased brain norepinephrine (NE) turnover. The evolutionary sources of musical sensitivity are discussed, as well as the potential medical-therapeutic implications of this knowledge.
This paper is aimed at exhibiting two striking features of the usual approach of emotional expression in science and philosophy, suggesting a different perspective. One is the generally shared belief that emotions are a state of utter disarray, which hampers objective knowledge; the other is the search for causal explanation, along a wide range of categorized approaches (psychology, neurosciences, developmental biology) each proposing its own theoretical framework. In both cases the result is to play down emotional expression. Alternatively, we propose to view emotions as something crucial in the choice of our conceptual tools, ideas and involvements, in the genesis of which various explanations interact in a complex stochastic way. Rather than being a harmful disruption of the mind calling for identification of a definite causality, emotional behaviour appears as a necessary process in cognition, which is irreducible to a unique origin.
I discuss the emergence of a science of emotion and argue that research in this domain requires an appreciation of the organization of emotional processes at different levels as postulated by social neuroscience. Emotions cannot be understood without relying on a program of multidisciplinary research. Local multidisciplinarity cannot be achieved without a programmatic framework that takes three issues into account (1) the relationship of multiple levels of emotions and connected processes, (2) the mutually informative study of humans, animals, and artificial systems, and (3) the dynamic nature of emotions in a dynamic systems approach. Illustrations for my arguments are provided relating to facial expressions of humans.
The Eyelink Toolbox software supports the measurement of eye movements. The toolbox provides an interface between a high-level interpreted language (MATLAB), a visual display programming toolbox (Psychophysics Toolbox), and a video-based eyetracker (Eyelink). The Eyelink Toolbox enables experimenters to measure eye movements while simultaneously executing the stimulus presentation routines provided by the Psychophysics Toolbox. Example programs are included with the toolbox distribution. Information on the Eyelink Toolbox can be found at http://psychtoolbox.org/.
Eye-tracking applications are surveyed in a breadth-first manner, reporting on work from the following domains: neuroscience, psychology, industrial engineering and human factors, marketing/advertising, and computer science. Following a review of traditionally diagnostic uses, emphasis is placed on interactive applications, differentiating between selective and gaze-contingent approaches.
Human Fe65L2 is a member of the Fe65 protein family, which interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP). Fe65L2 contains an N-terminal WW (Trp-Trp) domain followed by two phosphotyrosine-interaction domains, and consists of 486 amino acids. In the present study, we cloned and characterized two novel isoforms of Fe65L2, designated I-214 and I-245, which are produced by alternative splicing of the RNA. The splicing events disrupt the ability to bind with APP and low-density-lipoprotein-receptor-related protein. Fe65L2 was highly expressed in the brain, whereas I-214 and I-245 were expressed in various tissues. In HEK-293 cells, Fe65L2 was expressed in the nucleus and cytosol, whereas I-245 and I-214 were localized exclusively to the nucleus. The ratio of I-214 to Fe65L2 mRNA was increased by apoptotic stimuli. Although the overexpression of either Fe65L2 or I-214 did not significantly affect the half-life and maturation of APP, or the secretion of secreted APP, the secretion of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta)40 and Abeta42 was increased by overexpression of Fe65L2, but not by that of I-214. These results suggest that Fe65L2 affects Abeta production and a possible regulation of Fe65L2 function by alternative splicing.
The Saccharomyces OLE1 gene encodes the intrinsic membrane-bound Delta-9 fatty acid desaturase. OLE1 expression is regulated at the levels of transcription and mRNA stability by nutrient fatty acids and molecular oxygen. Its transcription is controlled through two distinct promoter elements, the fatty acid response element (FAR) region, and a downstream low-oxygen response element (LORE) that dramatically amplifies FAR-activated expression under hypoxic or cobalt-stimulated growth conditions. Transcription activation through both elements is repressed by unsaturated fatty acids. The half-life of the OLE1 mRNA is also dramatically reduced upon exposure to unsaturated fatty acids. OLE1 expression is governed by two homologous membrane-bound proteins, Spt23p and Mga2p, which activate OLE1 expression through N-terminal polypeptides that are released from the membrane through a ubiquitin-mediated mechanism that involves processing by the 23 S proteosome. Although proteolytic processing of Spt23p can be repressed by polyunsaturated fatty acids, Mga2p processing in normoxic cells appears to be regulated by a different mechanism. Mga2p is essential, however, for the induction of the high levels of expression that are triggered by hypoxia through the LORE promoter element. Surprisingly, Mga2p also plays a critical role in controlling OLE1 mRNA stability, suggesting that there may be a functional linkage between OLE1 transcription and the regulation of OLE1 mRNA stability.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurological disorder characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons. A pathological hallmark of both sporadic and familial ALS is the presence of abnormal accumulations of neurofilament and peripherin proteins in motor neurons. In the past decade, transgenic mouse approaches have been used to address the role of such cytoskeletal abnormalities in motor neuron disease and also to unravel the pathogenesis caused by mutations in the gene coding for superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) that account for ~20% of familial ALS cases. In mouse models, disparate effects could result from different types of intermediate filament (IF) aggregates. Perikaryal IF accumulations induced by the overexpression of any of the three wild-type neurofilament proteins were quite well tolerated by motor neurons. Indeed, perikaryal swellings provoked by NF-H overexpression can even confer protection against toxicity of mutant SOD1. Other types of IF aggregates seem neurotoxic, such as those found in transgenic mice overexpressing either peripherin or an assembly-disrupting NF-L mutant. Moreover, understanding the toxicity of SOD1 mutations has been surprisingly difficult. The analysis of transgenic mice expressing mutant SOD1 has yielded complex results, suggesting that multiple pathways may contribute to disease that include the involvement of non-neuronal cells.
During the evolution of aerobic life, antioxidant defence systems developed that either directly prevent oxidative modifications of the cellular constituents or remove the modified components. An example of the latter is the proteasome, which removes cytosolic oxidised proteins. Recently, a novel mechanism of activation of the nuclear 20S proteasome was discovered: automodified poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) activates the proteasome to facilitate selective degradation of oxidatively damaged histones. Since activation of the PARP-1 itself is induced by DNA damage and is supposed to play a role in DNA repair, these new results suggest a joint role of PARP-1 in the removal of oxidised nucleoproteins and in DNA repair. We hypothesise that PARP-1 could provide a co-ordinative link between two nuclear antioxidant defence systems, whose concerted activation would produce a fast and efficient restoration of the native chromatin structure following oxidative stress.
The 4-methyl analogue of the potent inhibitor of CNS L-glutamate neurotransmitter transporters, L-trans-2,4-PDC, was synthesized via a 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction sequence. The bioassays performed not only exhibit increased potency of the methylated derivative over L-trans-2,4-PDC, but also exhibit non-substrate properties at the rat forebrain synaptosomal glutamate transporter while the parent L-trans-2,4-PDC exhibits substrate properties. These results support two hypotheses developed for distinguishing the physiological properties of transport inhibitors based on molecular modeling studies, and are reported here.
Mechanosensitivity in voltage-gated calcium channels could be an asset to calcium signaling in healthy cells or a liability during trauma. Recombinant N-type channels expressed in HEK cells revealed a spectrum of mechano-responses. When hydrostatic pressure inflated cells under whole-cell clamp, capacitance was unchanged, but peak current reversibly increased ~1.5-fold, correlating with inflation, not applied pressure. Additionally, stretch transiently increased the open-state inactivation rate, irreversibly increased the closed-state inactivation rate, and left-shifted inactivation without affecting the activation curve or rate. Irreversible mechano-responses proved to be mechanically accelerated components of run-down; they were not evident in cell-attached recordings where, however, reversible stretch-induced increases in peak current persisted. T-type channels (alpha(1I) subunit only) were mechano-insensitive when expressed alone or when coexpressed with N-type channels (alpha(1B) and two auxiliary subunits) and costimulated with stretch that augmented N-type current. Along with the cell-attached results, this differential effect indicates that N-type mechanosensitivity did not depend on the recording situation. The insensitivity of T-type currents to stretch suggested that N-type mechano-responses might arise from primary/auxiliary subunit interactions. However, in single-channel recordings, N-type currents exhibited reversible stretch-induced increases in NP(o) whether the alpha(1B) subunit was expressed alone or with auxiliary subunits. These findings set the stage for the molecular dissection of calcium current mechanosensitivity.
Fibril formation of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is considered to be responsible for the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Abeta fibril is formed by a protein misfolding process in which intermolecular beta-sheet interactions become stabilized abnormally. Thus, to develop potential anti-AD drugs, we screened an in-house library to find compounds which have a profile as a beta-sheet breaker. We searched for a beta-sheet breaker profile in an in-house library of approximately 113,000 compounds. From among the screening hits, we focused on N,N'-bis(3-hydroxyphenyl)pyridazine-3,6-diamine (named RS-0406), which had been newly synthesized in our laboratory. This compound (10-100 microg ml(-1)) was found to be capable of significantly inhibiting 25 microM Abeta(1-42) fibrillogenesis and, furthermore, disassembling preformed Abeta(1-42) fibrils in vitro. 3 We then investigated the effect of RS-0406 on 111 nM Abeta(1-42)-induced cytotoxicity in primary hippocampal neurons, and found that 0.3-3 microg ml(-1) RS-0406 ameliorates the cytotoxicity. Moreover, 3 microg ml(-1) RS-0406 reversed 1 micro M Abeta(1-42)-induced impairment of long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices. 4 In this study, we have succeeded in identifying RS-0406 which has potential to inhibit Abeta(1-42) fibrillogenesis, and to protect neurons against Abeta(1-42)-induced biological toxicity in vitro. These results suggest that RS-0406 or one of the derivatives could become a therapeutic agent for AD patients.
The response to levodopa changes over time in Parkinson's disease, probably due to alterations in the dopaminergic system, progression of the disease and pulsatile oral intake of the drug. Bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) allows a large reduction or the complete cessation of levodopa intake in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We studied variation in the motor short-duration response (SDR) during a levodopa challenge in bilaterally STN-stimulated patients. Twenty-eight consecutive patients with a mean duration of Parkinson's disease of 16.6 +/- 6.0 years at the time of surgery were enrolled. Fourteen patients were evaluated both before STN stimulation and 3 months after surgery (group 1) whereas the other 14 patients were assessed before implantation and after a mean of 3 years of STN stimulation (group 2). After drug withdrawal for one night, the hand-tapping test (TT) was carried out every 15 min, together with evaluation of dyskinesias using a modified Goetz scale. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score was assessed every 30 min. In operated patients, STN stimulation was stopped 15 min before starting the clinical evaluations. A suprathreshold oral levodopa dose was given after one motor evaluation and two TTs. The clinical evaluation was carried out until the TT score returned to the baseline. In group 1, six patients continued without levodopa after surgery and the other eight received a daily mean dose of 337 mg; in group 2, seven patients continued without levodopa and the other seven received a daily mean dose of 386 mg. The main change in the levodopa SDR was a significant reduction in levodopa-induced dyskinesias in both groups. In those patients of group 1 who did not receive levodopa after surgery, the motor UPDRS magnitude decreased and the 'on' UPDRS motor score worsened. In group 2, the results were similar, but in the patients who continued to receive levodopa after surgery the TT magnitude increased. On the whole, chronic bilateral STN stimulation tended to decrease the magnitude of the levodopa SDR without changing the duration and latency of the response. These results suggest that continuous STN stimulation induces long-term plastic changes of the dopaminergic system, with slow and partial desensitization. In addition, the persistence of levodopa intake after surgery might hinder this beneficial process.
This study aimed to test the hypothesis that impairments of temporal duration processing after frontal lobe lesions reflect deficits in executive monitoring functions rather than a domain-specific deficit in the maintenance of duration information in working memory. Patients with frontodorsal lesions, clinical controls with post-central lesions, and healthy controls performed recognition and classification tasks, which should allow for testing maintenance and monitoring functions, respectively. Results showed mild non-selective impairments of the frontal patients on both temporal and spatial recognition tasks, but a marked selective degradation on temporal classification while performance on spatial classification was unimpaired. This suggests that maintenance of duration information in working memory after frontal lesions is basically preserved but that, depending on executive task characteristics, there is a specific deficit in the strategic organization of this type of information.
In the last decade the heme oxygenase (HO) system has been strongly highlighted for its potential significance in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Nevertheless the physiological relevance of the three isoforms cloned to date, HO-1, HO-2 and HO-3, and their reciprocal interrelation have been poorly understood. In the brain the HO system has been reported to be very active and its modulation seems to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. To discriminate the regional and cellular distribution of HO isoforms in the CNS, we have developed a real time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) protocol. With this highly sensitive methodology we have assessed for the first time the expression of all known HO isoform mRNAs in different rat brain areas. Although they presented a highly dissimilar range of expression, with HO-2&gt;HO-1&gt;HO-3, all three HO isoform transcripts demonstrated high level of expression in the cerebellum and the hippocampus, showing in a different scale, a strikingly parallel distribution gradient. We have also quantified the expression of HO mRNAs in primary culture of cortical neurons and type I astrocytes. While HO-1 and HO-2 were detected in both cellular types, HO-3 transcript was uniquely found in astrocytes. To further investigate the regional brain expression of this elusive and poorly studied isoform, we have performed in situ hybridization using an HO-3 specific riboprobe. HO-3 mRNA was expressed mainly in hippocampus, cerebellum and cortex. The initial elucidation of HO isoforms distribution should facilitate further research on their pathophysiological role in the nervous system.
The effects of neurotrophic factors on necrotic neuronal death are controversial. In this study we found that both neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) potentiated necrotic neuronal death caused by exposure to oxygen-glucose deprivation or iron-citrate (Fe) in cortical cultures. However, there were significant differences in the actions of the two neurotrophic factors. Neurotrophin-4 protected against apoptotic neuronal death, while bFGF had no effect on apoptotic death in these cultures. Furthermore, potentiation of oxygen-glucose deprivation induced necrotic death by NT-4 required pretreatment (24 h), while pretreatment with bFGF had no effect. However, acute treatment with bFGF during oxygen-glucose deprivation did potentiate neuronal death. Both neurotrophic factors potentiated free radical mediated necrotic neuronal death induced by exposure to Fe. However, the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomycin-D, blocked the injury potentiation by NT-4, but not that caused by bFGF. Also, NT-4, but not bFGF, potentiated Fe induced necrotic death in pure neuronal cultures. Expression of mRNA for FGF receptors FGFR1 and FGFR2 was observed at high levels in astrocytes. The results indicate that the injury enhancing effects of bFGF are acute, while those of NT-4 require prolonged exposure and new protein synthesis. Furthermore, the effects of bFGF appear to be mediated through actions on astrocytes, while NT-4 appears to act directly on neurons. The fact that neurotrophic factors from two distinct families can potentiate neuronal death by two different mechanisms suggests that such injury potentiation may be a common concern regarding the use of neurotrophic factors.
Human subjects cannot normally perform smooth eye movements in the absence of a target. However, the repeated presentation of identical, transient target motion stimuli, preceded by warning cues, leads to the build up of anticipatory smooth pursuit (ASP) eye movements several hundred milliseconds prior to stimulus onset. The present study sought to investigate whether subjects are able to volitionally scale ASP speed, as well as select pursuit direction, in advance of target motion stimuli of random direction (left vs. right) and speed (10, 20, 30 and 40 degrees /s), given stationary precues predictive of both these target parameters. The subjects' success at this task is discussed in terms of their ability to volitionally scale the internal store of target velocity information postulated to drive ASP.
Research in monkey and man indicates that the ventrolateral premotor cortex (PMv) underlies not only the preparation of manual movements, but also the perceptual representation of pragmatic object properties. However, visual stimuli without any pragmatic meaning were recently found to elicit selective PMv responses if they were subjected to a perceivable pattern of change. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate if perceptual representations in the PMv might apply not only to pragmatic, but also to dynamic stimulus properties. To this end, a sequential figure matching task that required the processing of dynamic features was contrasted with a non-figure control task (Experiment 1) and an individual figure matching task (Experiment 2). In order to control for potential influences of stimulus properties that might be associated with pragmatic attributes, different types of abstract visual stimuli were employed. The experiments yielded two major findings: if their dynamic properties are attended, then abstract 2D visual figures are sufficient to trigger activation within premotor areas involved in hand-object interaction. Moreover, these premotor activations are independent from stimulus properties that might relate to pragmatic features. The results imply that the PMv is engaged in the processing of stimuli that are usually or actually embedded within either a pragmatic or a dynamic context.






The family of ryanodine receptor (RyR) genes encodes three highly related Ca(2+)-release channels: RyR1, RyR2 and RyR3. RyRs are known as the Ca(2+)-release channels that participate to the mechanism of excitation-contraction coupling in striated muscles, but they are also expressed in many other cell types. Actually, in several cells two or three RyR isoforms can be co-expressed and interactive feedbacks among them may be important for generation of intracellular Ca(2+) signals and regulation of specific cellular functions. Important developments have been obtained in understanding the biochemical complexity underlying the process of Ca(2+) release through RyRs. The 3-D structure of these large molecules has been obtained and some regulatory regions have been mapped within these 3-D reconstructions. Recent studies have clarified the role of protein kinases and phosphatases that, by physically interacting with RyRs, appear to play a role in the regulation of these Ca(2+)-release channels. These and other recent advancements in understanding RyR biology will be the object of this review.
Activation of acid and neutral sphingomyelinases, and the ensuing generation of ceramide, contributes to the biological effects of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), one of which is apoptosis. While the mechanisms of activation of sphingomyelinases by the cytokine are being unravelled, less is known about regulation of their activity. Nitric oxide has previously been shown to exert a cyclic GMP-dependent inhibition of early apoptotic events triggered by TNF-alpha in the U937 monocytic cell line. We therefore investigated whether inhibition of sphingomyelinases by nitric oxide plays a role in regulating such early events. We found that activation of both acid and neutral sphingomyelinases, triggered in the first minutes after U937 cell stimulation with TNF-alpha, is regulated in an inhibitory fashion by nitric oxide, working through generation of cyclic GMP and activation of protein kinase G. Using a range of inhibitors selective for either sphingomyelinase we found that the acid sphingomyelinase contributes to activation of the initiator caspase-8 and early DNA fragmentation and that inhibition of the acid enzyme by nitric oxide accounts for cyclic GMP-dependent early protection from apoptosis. We also found that the protective effect by both cGMP and acid sphingomyelinase inhibitors progressively disappeared at later stages of the apoptotic process. Inhibition of sphingomyelinases represents a novel action of nitric oxide, which might be of physiological relevance in regulating initial phases of apoptosis as well as other biological actions of ceramide.
A progressive rise of oxidative stress due to the altered reduction-oxidation (redox) homeostasis appears to be one of the hallmarks of the processes that regulate gene transcription in physiology and pathophysiology. Reactive oxygen (ROS) and nitrogen (RNS) species serve as signaling messengers for the evolution and perpetuation of the inflammatory process that is often associated with the condition of oxidative stress, which involves genetic regulation. Changes in the pattern of gene expression through ROS/RNS-sensitive regulatory transcription factors are crucial components of the machinery that determines cellular responses to oxidative/redox conditions. Transcription factors that are directly influenced by reactive species and pro-inflammatory signals include nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha). Here, I describe the basic components of the intracellular oxidative/redox control machinery and its crucial regulation of oxygen- and redox-sensitive transcription factors such as NF-kappaB and HIF-1alpha.
Transgenic flies that can drive GAL4 expression under the control of the 7 kb 5'-region of the Drosophila Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (dCaMKII) gene (dCaMKII-GAL4) were established. Characteristic features of this dCaMKII-GAL4 driven reporter expression were compatible with the endogenous dCaMKII expression pattern: The dCaMKII-GAL4 driven reporter gene was expressed preferentially in the central nervous system of the embryo and larvae. Reporter expression was also observed in the brain, thoracic ganglion, and gut of the adult. The whole-brain distribution and projections of dCaMKII-GAL4-expressing cells in the adults were visualized three-dimensionally by using UAS-linked reporter genes. Prominent signals of nuclear-localized beta-Gal reporter gene expression were found in extensive brain regions, especially in the Kenyon cells of the mushroom body (MB), cells in the pars intercerebralis, and subesophageal ganglion (SOG). tau reporter gene expression highlighting neurite projections was detected in the MB lobes, median bundle, antennal lobe glomeruli, and fibers of clusters in the SOG, ventrolateral protocerebrum and superior lateral protocerebrum. These observations agree with those of a previous study mapping the dCaMKII-dependent memory circuits in courtship conditioning. Interestingly, green fluorescent protein reporter gene expression in adult MB lobes was predominantly observed in the alpha and beta lobes with a core-deficient pattern, but not in the alpha' and beta' lobes, similar to Fasciclin II immunoreactivity.
The immune response to Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease, is complex. We studied the immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG antibody response to N40Br, a sensu stricto strain, in the rhesus macaque(nonhuman primate [NHP]) model of infection to identify the spirochetal protein targets of specific antibody. Antigens used in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were whole-cell sonicates of the spirochete and recombinant proteins of B. burgdorferi. Immunoblotting with a commercially available strip and subsequent quantitative densitometry of the bands were also used. Sera from four different groups of NHPs were used: immunocompetent, transiently immunosuppressed, extended immunosuppressed, and uninfected. In immunocompetent and transiently immunosuppressed NHPs, there was a strong IgM and IgG response. Major proteins for the early IgM response were P39 and P41 and recombinant BmpA and OspC. Major proteins for the later IgG response were P39, P41, P18, P60, P66, and recombinant BmpA and DbpA. There was no significant response in the NHPs to recombinant OspA or to Arp, a 37-kDa protein that elicits an antibody response during infection in mice. Most antibody responses, except for that to DbpA, were markedly diminished by prolonged dexamethasone treatment. This study supports the hypothesis that recombinant proteins may provide a useful adjunct to current diagnostic testing for Lyme borreliosis.
Nutrient intakes are affected by two classes of factors, physiological and environmental. In the real world, environmental variables such as social factors, palatability, and the time of eating appear to have large influences on amounts ingested in the short-term. Physiological control mechanisms also operate to regulate intake, and they induce compensatory responses to deviations from the norm. These physiological influences only appear to have weak influences on short-term intake unless there are large deviations from the normal state, but over the long-term they act patiently and persistently to rectify the excesses produced by environmental fluctuations and thereby tend to maintain a relative balance between energy intake and expenditure. As individuals age there is a progressive decline in physiological function including the mechanisms that act to control intake in the young. This should not produce a problem in a healthy individual in a stable environment: however, if that situation should change due to illness or an environmental change such as the death of a spouse, which produces decline in intake, elderly individuals would not have the physiological mechanisms present to compensate. Thus, the deficit in energy intake would not be replaced, and the lower level of intake would be maintained as long as the new health condition or environment remains stable. Hence, the decline in the effectiveness of the physiological systems with age makes the elderly particularly vulnerable and unable to rebound from deficits. Although the elderly have difficulty compensating for deficits automatically by physiologically-induced adjustments, the studies of real world intake reviewed in this article suggest that compensation can be produced by adjustments to the environment. The elderly appear to be as responsive to environmental factors as younger individuals. In particular, they appear to increase intake in response to social facilitation, diurnal rhythms, the eating environment, and palatability to the same extent as their juniors. These data suggest that alterations in the social, temporal, environmental, or hedonic conditions of eating could induce desired alterations in the nutrient intakes of the elderly. The study of real world eating behavior has produced evidence that suggests that this strategy can work. It remains for future applied investigations to ascertain whether or not this strategy is effective in treating undernutrition in the elderly.
The therapeutic effects of botulinum toxin are principally, if not exclusively, derived from an alteration in the release of acetylcholine (ACh) at pre-synaptic neurons. The rationale for how these effects could be beneficial in conditions characterized by excessive muscle contraction is clear, but the hypotheses regarding botulinum toxin-induced effects on pain are highly speculative. We explore five possible mechanisms by which botulinum toxin could directly or indirectly alter pain, including: 1) changes in the sensitivity and response patterns of group III and IV muscle nociceptors, 2) diminished activity in the gamma-motor neurons and consequent changes in muscle spindle afferents, 3) alterations in cholinergic control of vascular and autonomic functions, including neurogenic inflammation, 4) induced neuroplastic changes in the processing of afferent somatosensory activity at multiple levels of the neuroaxis, and 5) direct non-cholinergic effects on pain afferents.
The safety and tolerability of quetiapine (up to 75 mg/day) as monotherapy on essential tremor were investigated in an open-label study in 10 patients. Five men and 5 women, with a mean age of 66.3 years, affected by essential tremor participated in the trial. They were treated with increasing doses of quetiapine to 75 mg/day over a 6-week period. Side effects included a paradoxical psychiatric reaction in one and anger in another, and in both cases quetiapine was discontinued. In two other patients, somnolence led to dose reduction. There were no pre- versus post-treatment differences, but 3 out of 10 patients benefited (improvement &gt;20%). Although the study was not powered to assess efficacy, quetiapine seems to be a safe drug for the treatment of essential tremor.


Female hormones are thought to be of importance in the aetiology of migraine, which is more common in women than in men. Little attention has been paid to androgens. This study investigates the associations between migraine and serum levels of androgens in postmenopausal women not taking oestrogens. A case-control study was carried out among women participating in a mammography screening program. A neurologist clinically assessed the participants. Headache criteria proposed by the International Headache Society were used. Each of the 15 women with migraine was matched to three controls by time since menopause and by body mass index. Serum levels of androstenedione and total testosterone were measured by radioimmunoassays. Free testosterone was calculated from total testosterone, immunoassayed sex hormone-binding globulin and albumin. The mean+/-S.D. serum level of androstenedione was 2.7+/-1.1 nmol/l and 3.4+/-1.9 nmol/l in cases and controls respectively. The mean serum level of testosterone was 0.8+/-0.4 nmol/l and 1.0+/-0.5 nmol/l in cases and controls respectively. The mean serum level of free testosterone was 12.5+/-8.5 pmol/l and 14.0+/-7.9 pmol/l in cases and controls respectively. Conditional logistic regression analysis was used to test for differences in serum levels of androstenedione, total testosterone and free testosterone between cases and controls. No statistically significant differences were found. To conclude, there was no evidence in this study that differences within normal levels of androgens play an important role in the aetiology of migraine in postmenopausal women not taking oestrogens.
Previous work suggests that human infants are capable of rapidly generalizing patterns that have been characterized as abstract algebraic rules (Science 283 (1999) 77), a process that may play a pivotal role in language acquisition. Here we explore whether this capacity is uniquely human and evolved specifically for the computational problems associated with language, or whether this mechanism is shared with other species, and therefore evolved for problems other than language. We used the same materials and methods that were originally employed in tests of human infants to assess whether cotton-top tamarin monkeys can extract abstract algebraic rules. Specifically, we habituated subjects to sequences of consonant-vowel syllables that followed one of two patterns, AAB (e.g. wi wi di) or ABB (le we we). Following habituation, we presented subjects with two novel test items, one with the same pattern as that presented during habituation and one with a different pattern. Like human infants, tamarins were more likely to dishabituate to the test item with a different pattern. We conclude that the capacity to generalize rule-like patterns, at least at the level demonstrated, did not evolve specifically for language acquisition, though it remains possible that infants might use such rules during language acquisition.
Obesity is a serious disorder and its treatment involves dietitians, psychologists, and psychiatrists, often with a poor outcome. The role of psychiatric issues in obesity is equivocal, and so is the fact whether emotional and behavioral disturbances are causes or consequences of an individual's overweight condition. We performed a study that included 120 obese women (59 with binge eating disorder [BED] and 61 with non-BED) according to specific selection criteria, and compared to 80 healthy controls. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated for all patients and they were assessed with the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). Despite the fact that obese patients with BED and without BED display a similar personality profile, those with BED show lower scores in Self-Directedness (SD). Both groups of obese patients differ from nonobese controls in Novelty Seeking (NS), Harm Avoidance (HA), Cooperativeness (C), and SD. SD seems to be the strongest predictor for the development of BED. The idea that two distinct groups of obese patients exist is supported. Moreover, as regards personality, a lower SD and a higher risk of Personality Disorders were found in obese BED patients. Different severities of overweight do not seem to relate to a specific personality susceptibility.
A great deal of research has been directed toward understanding the cellular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity and memory formation. To this point, most research has focused on the more &quot;active&quot; components of synaptic transmission: presynaptic transmitter release and postsynaptic transmitter receptors. Little work has been done characterizing the role neurotransmitter transporters might play during changes in synaptic efficacy. We review several new experiments that demonstrate glutamate transporters are regulated during changes in the efficacy of glutamatergic synapses. This regulation occurred during long-term facilitation of the sensorimotor synapse of Aplysia and long-term potentiation of the Schaffer-collateral synapse of the rat. We propose that glutamate transporters are &quot;co-regulated&quot; with other molecules/processes involved in synaptic plasticity, and that this process is phylogenetically conserved. These new findings indicate that glutamate transporters most likely play a more active role in neurotransmission than previously believed.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is the most common cause of acute paralysis, yet the pathogenesis has still not been fully elucidated and specific evidence-based consensus management guidelines have not been developed. This paper reviews the research of the past year dedicated to determining the pathogenesis of GBS, optimizing current management, and searching for more efficacious treatment alternatives. Several recent studies have investigated whether there are any particular factors that might predict the course of illness and, thereby, dictate the optimal treatment. Proposed evidence-based guidelines for elective intubation, admission to the intensive care unit, and overall management of GBS are summarized. Therapeutic plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin are both treatments that have been shown to have a beneficial effect on the course of GBS. Various modifications of plasmapheresis, as well as other alternative therapies, are currently being investigated.


The treatment of stroke does not end after a 3-hour time window. Several randomized, controlled studies of focused stroke rehabilitation units showed that these units reduce disability, with treatment effects persisting for years. Although the exact reasons for the superiority of these specialized units remain uncertain, presumably some portion is related to the quality and types of therapies provided to the patients. Advances in the understanding of the brain's ability to react to injury have led to the current testing of treatments based on the neuroscience of recovery rather than simply the clinician's guess about what effective treatments might be. This chapter will provide an overview of the treatments directed towards the restoration of motor function and towards ameliorating spasticity after stroke. The data supporting the use of emerging therapies of constraint induced movement treatment and robotic treatment will be discussed.
Growth factor suppression of apoptosis correlates with the phosphorylation and inactivation of multiple proapoptotic proteins, including the BCL-2 family member BAD. However, the physiological events required for growth factors to block cell death are not well characterized. To assess the contribution of BAD inactivation to cell survival, we generated mice with point mutations in the BAD gene that abolish BAD phosphorylation at specific sites. We show that BAD phosphorylation protects cells from the deleterious effects of apoptotic stimuli and attenuates death pathway signaling by raising the threshold at which mitochondria release cytochrome c to induce cell death. These findings establish a function for endogenous BAD phosphorylation, and elucidate a mechanism by which survival kinases block apoptosis in vivo.
We previously showed that recombinant limb buds with dissociated and reaggregated mesenchyme develop more than 30 digits in Xenopus laevis, which exhibits different capacities for limb regeneration at different developmental stages (Yokoyama et al. [1998] Dev Biol 196:1-10). Cell-cell contact among anterior- and posterior-derived mesenchymal cells is required for anteroposterior (AP) axis formation of recombinant limbs in an intercalary manner. However, whether one-way induction from posterior cells to anterior cells as proposed by the polarizing zone model or interactions between anterior and posterior cells evoke the AP axis formation in recombinant limbs remains unclear. In this study, we found, by a combination of X-ray irradiation and a recombinant limb technique, that not one-way induction but interactions between anterior and posterior cells accompanied by cell contribution are indispensable for AP axis formation in recombinant limbs. Shh was expressed in posterior-derived not anterior-derived cells. We propose that the recombinant limb is an excellent model for examining the axis formation mechanism in regenerating limbs because, as in recombinant limbs, cell-cell contact among cells derived from different positions of an amputation plane occurs in the blastema of regenerating limbs.

The median neuroblast lineage of grasshopper has provided a model for the development of differing neuronal types within the insect central nervous system. According to the prevailing model, neurons of different types are produced in sequence. Contrary to this, we show that each ganglion mother cell from the median neuroblast produces two neurons of asymmetric type: one is Engrailed positive (of interneuronal fate); and one is Engrailed negative (of efferent fate). The mature neuronal population, however, results from differential neuronal death. This yields many interneurons and relatively few efferent neurons. Also contrary to previous reports, we find no evidence for glial production by the median neuroblast. We discuss evidence that neuronal lineages typically produce asymmetric progeny, an outcome that has important developmental and evolutionary implications.
The molecular genetic mechanisms of cartilage construction are incompletely understood. Zebrafish embryos homozygous for jellyfish (jef) mutations show craniofacial defects and lack cartilage elements of the neurocranium, pharyngeal arches, and pectoral girdle similar to humans with campomelic dysplasia. We show that two alleles of jef contain mutations in sox9a, one of two zebrafish orthologs of the human transcription factor SOX9. A mutation induced by ethyl nitrosourea changed a conserved nucleotide at a splice junction and severely reduced splicing of sox9a transcript. A retrovirus insertion into sox9a disrupted its DNA-binding domain. Inhibiting splicing of the sox9a transcript in wild-type embryos with splice site-directed morpholino antisense oligonucleotides produced a phenotype like jef mutant larvae, and caused sox9a transcript to accumulate in the nucleus; this accumulation can serve as an assay for the efficacy of a morpholino independent of phenotype. RNase-protection assays showed that in morpholino-injected animals, the percent of splicing inhibition decreased from 80% at 28 hours post fertilization to 45% by 4 days. Homozygous mutant embryos had greatly reduced quantities of col2a1 message, the major collagen of cartilage. Analysis of dlx2 expression showed that neural crest specification and migration was normal in jef (sox9a) embryos. Confocal images of living embryos stained with BODIPY-ceramide revealed at single-cell resolution the formation of precartilage condensations in mutant embryos. Besides the lack of overt cartilage differentiation, pharyngeal arch condensations in jef (sox9a) mutants lacked three specific morphogenetic behaviors: the stacking of chondrocytes into orderly arrays, the individuation of pharyngeal cartilage organs and the proper shaping of individual cartilages. Despite the severe reduction of cartilages, analysis of titin expression showed normal muscle patterning in jef (sox9a) mutants. Likewise, calcein labeling revealed that early bone formation was largely unaffected in jef (sox9a) mutants. These studies show that jef (sox9a) is essential for both morphogenesis of condensations and overt cartilage differentiation.

The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) has recently been implicated in numerous intracellular signaling functions, as well as in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Studies have shown that the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) interacts with LRP and that this association may impact the production of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta). In this report, we provide evidence that LRP regulates trafficking of intracellular proteins independently of its lipoprotein receptor functions. We show that in the absence of LRP, Abeta production, APP secretion, APP internalization, turnover of full-length APP and stability of APP C-terminal fragments are affected. Importantly, these changes are not APP isoform dependent. Using deletion constructs, the critical region in LRP that modulates APP processing was mapped to a seven peptide domain around the second NPXY domain (residues 4504-4510). Therefore, we propose a model by which LRP functionally modulates APP processing, including those steps critical for Abeta production, through interactions of the cytosolic domains.
To identify the specific hypothalamic sites in which leptin acts to decrease energy intake and/or increase energy expenditure, recombinant adeno-associated virus vector-encoding leptin was microinjected bilaterally into one of four hypothalamic sites in female rats. Leptin transgene expression in the ventromedial nucleus and paraventricular nucleus induced comparable decreases in daily food intake (FI; 18-20%) and body weight (BW; 26-29%), accompanied by drastic reductions in serum leptin (81-97%), insulin (92-93%), free fatty acids (35-36%), and normoglycemia. Leptin transgene expression in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) decreased BW gain (21%) and FI (11%) to a lesser range, but the metabolic hormones were suppressed to the same extent. Leptin transgene expression in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) decreased BW and metabolic hormones without decreasing FI. Finally, leptin transgene expression in all four sites augmented serum ghrelin and thermogenic energy expenditure, as shown by uncoupling protein-1 mRNA expression in brown adipose tissue. Proopiomelanocortin gene expression in the ARC was up-regulated by leptin expression in all four sites, but neuropeptide Y gene expression in the ARC was suppressed by leptin transgene expression in the ARC but not in the MPOA. Thus, whereas leptin expression in the paraventricular nucleus, ventromedial nucleus, or ARC suppresses adiposity and insulin by decreasing energy intake and increasing energy expenditure, in the MPOA it suppresses these variables by increasing energy expenditure alone.




Depression in Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common complication, with a major impact on quality of life. Failure to recognize and treat depression can lead to premature and inappropriate discontinuation of antiparkinsonian therapies. Cited frequency for depression in PD varies between 2.7 and 70%. Methodological differences account for much of the disparity. The aetiology of depression in PD is complex, with 'tonic' (slowly changing and persistent) and 'phasic' (short-lived and fluctuating) components. Both depression and anxiety may predate the onset of the motor disorder by some years. Hedonistic homeostatic dysregulation is a cyclical mood disorder associated with excessive intake of dopaminergic therapies, inappropriate for the motor state. Negative affective symptoms occur on attempted reduction of medication, reinforcing the abnormal medication pattern. The Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression have good diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for assessing depression in PD. There is a dearth of sizeable, placebo-controlled studies for evaluating drug treatment of depression in PD. Dopaminergic drugs have variable antidepressant properties. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are currently the most commonly prescribed group of antidepressants in the depressed PD patient. Depression in the PD patient may be associated with a more rapid deterioration in cognitive and motor functions.
Dopamine agonists are effective in reversing the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). They have also shown that they can delay or prevent the onset of motor complications associated with levodopa use. Recent attention has focused on the possible role for dopamine agonists in neuroprotection. Numerous studies have demonstrated that a variety of dopamine agonists can protect dopaminergic neuronal function in several toxin model systems. Pramipexole in particular has shown efficacy in reducing toxicity to MPTP, MPP, rotenone and 6-hydroxydopamine. Recent studies in early PD using imaging parameters as a surrogate marker of dopaminergic neuronal integrity have shown that pramipexole and ropinirole can apparently retard the rate of cell loss. These observations are of considerable interest, but additional studies are required to confirm a neuroprotective function for these dopamine agonists.
Some patients with damage to the right parietal cortex show neglect for the left half of each of a series of objects shown in a horizontal row in the visual field. The neglect is thus not based on failure to see objects in any part of left visual space, but is object-based. We show that in a model of attention with separate V1, object (inferior temporal cortex, IT) and spatial (posterior parietal cortex, PP) modules the effect can arise after graded damage increasing towards the right of the PP module when the lateral inhibition between neurons in the PP and V1 modules is short-range. The local lateral inhibition produces high contrast effects at the edges of each object, and it is when this interacts with gradually increasing damage through the left visual field that the visibility of the left half of each object is especially impaired. This result was found in a formal model completely specified by mean field equations to quantify the dynamical interactions between the modules. This is the first quantitative account of object-based neglect found in humans with right parietal cortex damage, and provides evidence that the model of attention we describe can account for even detailed and extraordinary phenomena that can occur in visual perception.
The neuronal network responsible for paradoxical sleep (PS) onset and maintenance has not previously been identified in the rat, unlike the cat. To fill this gap, this study has developed a new technique involving the recording of sleep-wake states in unanaesthetized head-restrained rats whilst locally administering pharmacological agents by microiontophoresis from glass multibarrel micropipettes, into the dorsal pontine tegmentum and combining this with functional neuroanatomy. Pharmacological agents used for iontophoretic administration included carbachol, kainic acid, bicuculline and gabazine. The injection sites and their efferents were then identified by injections of anterograde (phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) or retrograde (cholera toxin B subunit) tracers through an adjacent barrel of the micropipette assembly and by C-Fos immunostaining. Bicuculline, gabazine and kainic acid ejections specifically into the pontine sublaterodorsal nucleus (SLD) induced within a few minutes a PS-like state characterized by a continuous muscle atonia, low voltage EEG and a lack of reaction to stimuli. In contrast, carbachol ejections into the SLD induced wakefulness. In PHA-L, glycine and C-Fos multiple double-labelling experiments, anterogradely labelled fibres originating from the SLD were seen apposed on glycine and C-Fos positive neurons (labelled after 90 min of pharmacologically induced PS-like state) from the ventral gigantocellular and parvicellular reticular nuclei. Altogether, these data indicate that the SLD nuclei contain a population of neurons playing a crucial role in PS onset and maintenance. Furthermore, they suggest that GABAergic disinhibition and glutamate excitation of these neurons might also play a crucial role in the onset of PS.
Whereas the role of dopaminergic tone in the cortico-striatal-thalamic system is well-established, the role of endogenous opioids in the function of this system is less understood. We show that Borna disease virus infection of adult rats results in an increase in preproenkephalin transcripts in the striatum of Borna-infected rats, a region important for forming coordinated sequential motor actions and in developing programmes of thought and motivation. Stereotypic behaviours and dyskinesias, the clinical hallmarks of infection in adult Lewis rats (BD rats), are accompanied by a disrupted pattern of immediate early gene c-fos activation in the motor thalamus, with significance for the breakdown in coordinated sequential motor actions. We also find increased preproenkephalin in infected cultured neuroblastoma and rat foetal glial cells. The expression pattern of enkephalin mRNA in vivo and in vitro suggest that increased enkephalin function is one of the neuropharmacological means by which Borna disease virus causes motor disease of animals and possibly cognitive and affective disease in man, and further suggest that enkephalins play a critical role in the maintenance of a balanced tone of activity in the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loops.
The medial supramammillary nucleus (mSUM) controls the frequency of hippocampal theta activity, completely in anaethsetized rats and partially in free-moving rats. mSUM could therefore influence hippocampal contributions to cognition and emotion. Using chemical lesions of mSUM in rats, we tested whether mSUM is involved in controlling several hippocampal-dependent functions: (i) defensive behaviour (open field, fear conditioning); (ii) behavioural inhibition (fixed interval schedule, differential reinforcement of low rates schedule); and (iii) spatial learning (water maze). Theta frequency was measured in all these tasks. mSUM lesions produced a pattern of changes in motivated/emotional behaviours (hyperactivity in defensive and operant tasks) similar to the pattern produced by hippocampal lesions, but had no significant effect on spatial learning. mSUM lesion decreased theta frequency modestly (by approximately 0.4 Hz) in behaving rats if the amount of movement was unchanged. There was not always a parallel between changes in theta frequency and behaviour; behaviours changed despite unchanged theta in defensive tasks and learning changed little despite a lower frequency of theta in the water maze task. This suggests that mSUM function impacts on emotional behaviour more than cognition, and can modulate theta and behaviour independently.
Extensive lesions of the occipital cortex comprising the developing occipital visual areas and beyond in young ferrets (postnatal day 5) are followed by massive, but incomplete, degeneration of the lateral geniculate (LGN) and lateralis posterior (LP) nuclei of the thalamus, and minor volumetric reduction of the superior colliculus. Retinal projections (revealed by intraocular tracer injections), while reduced, remain confined to their territories of normal termination, both in the adult and throughout development. Comparisons with other mammalian species point to several common features in the developmental plasticity of retinofugal pathway.
Although molecular biology studies indicate the presence of adenosine A(2A) receptors in the rat hippocampus, the pharmacological characterization of adenosine A(2A) receptor binding and of its putative facilitatory effects has revealed features essentially different from these found for adenosine A(2A) receptors in most preparations. We now confirmed that activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors with 2-[4-(2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680, 1-30 nM) or 2-hexynyl-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (HENECA, 3-100 nM) facilitated the veratridine-evoked [3H]acetylcholine release from hippocampal synaptosomes with a maximal effect of 14+/-2% and 16+/-2%, respectively. These effects were prevented by the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists, 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]-triazolo[2,3a][1,3,5]triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol (ZM 241385, 20 nM) and 5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (SCH 58261, 20 nM), but not by the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 20 nM). Adenosine A(2A) receptors may activate adenylate cyclase and protein kinase A since CGS 21680 (10 nM) facilitation of [3H]acetylcholine release was occluded by 8-bromo-cAMP (0.5 mM) and forskolin (10 microM) and prevented by H-89 (1 microM), but unaffected by phorbol-12,13-didecanoate (250 nM) or bisindolylmaleimide I (1 microM). The existence of adenosine A(2A) receptors in hippocampal nerve terminals was further confirmed by a Western blot immunoreactivity qualitatively identical to that found in the striatum. This constitutes the first pharmacological identification of canonical adenosine A(2A) receptors coupling to the expected cAMP/protein kinase A pathway in the hippocampus with the expected immunoreactivity.
The binding properties of BmK abT (a novel neurotoxic polypeptide abT from Chinese scorpion Buthus martensi Karsch), a unique neurotoxin from Chinese scorpion, on mammal brain and insect sodium channels were investigated using the BIAcore assay. Results showed that BmK abT could bind to rat brain synaptosomes with an association rate constant of about 2.49 x 10(6) M(-1) s(-1) and a dissociation rate constant of about 1.57 x 10(-4) s(-1), and to Heliothis nerve cord synaptosomes with an association rate constant of about 1.21 x 10(7) M(-1) s(-1) and a dissociation rate constant of about 0.99 x 10(-3) s(-1). The binding of BmK abT to rat brain synaptosomes could be partially inhibited by increasing the membrane potential, but not by BmK AS (a novel active polypeptide AS from B. martensi Karsch), BmK IT2 (a depressant insect-selective toxin IT2 from B. martensi Karsch), and BmK I (an alpha-like anti-mammal toxin I from B. martensi Karsch). Binding was not modulated by veratridine. In addition, the binding of BmK abT to Heliothis nerve cord synaptosomes was significantly enhanced by increasing the membrane potential and veratridine concentration and was inhibited by BmK IT2, but not by BmK AS or BmK I. The results suggest that BmK abT binds to a distinct receptor site on mammal brain Na(+) channels and associates with a related site for depressant insect-selective toxins on insect sodium channels.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether synchronized activity between the right and left primary sensorimotor cortices has a functional role in the organization of bimanual in-phase and anti-phase movement patterns, performed at different cycling frequencies. To this end we evaluated the cortical dynamics by means of task-related EEG. Both behavioral performance and coupling between the primary sensorimotor cortices in the beta frequency band were reduced with increasing movement speed, and this effect was far more powerful in the anti-phase than in-phase mode. Thus, a progressive degradation of interhemispheric connectivity with cycling rate was associated with a deteriorating behavioral output. Overall, these results support a significant role for interhemispheric synchronization in the control of bimanual movements.
Extracellular discharges were recorded from 205 neurons in the secondary somatosensory (SII) cortex of isoflurane-anesthetized cats. Cross-correlation analysis was used to characterize the temporal coordination of SII neurons recorded during cutaneous stimulation with a focal air jet that moved back-and-forth across the distal forelimb. Over two-thirds of the recorded neuron pairs ( n=357) displayed significant levels of synchronized activity during one or both directions of air-jet movement. The probability of detecting correlated activity varied according to the distance separating the neurons. Whereas synchronized responses were observed in 82.3% of the pairs in which the neurons were separated by 200-300 micro m, the incidence of synchronization declined to 52.3% for neurons that were separated by 600-800 micro m. The distance between neurons also had a significant effect on the temporal precision of correlated activity. For neurons that were separated by 200-300 micro m, synchronized responses in the cross-correlograms (CCGs) were characterized by narrow (0.5-1.0 ms) peaks at time zero. For SII neurons that were more widely separated, the peak half-widths were substantially broader and more likely to be displaced from time zero. Analysis of directional sensitivity indicated that only 14.2% of the correlated neurons displayed a directional preference for synchronized activity. By comparison, 63.4% of the neurons displayed a directional preference in their discharge rate. These results indicate that stimulus-induced synchronization is a prominent feature among local populations of SII neurons, but synchronization does not appear to play a critical role in coding the direction of stimulus movement. A comparison of these results with those obtained from similar experiments conducted in primary somatosensory (SI) cortex indicates that neuronal synchronization is more likely in SII cortex. This finding is discussed with respect to the known functional differences between the SI and SII cortical areas.
Prostanoid synthesis is regulated by the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase (COX) that is present in at least two isoforms: COX-1, the constitutive form, and COX-2, the inducible form. Expression of COX-2 has recently been shown to be an important determinant of the cytotoxicity connected with inflammation following ischemic injury to the brain. The present study examines the temporal and spatial profiles of COX-2 expression following diffuse traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats, and the effects of the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide on cognitive and motor outcomes. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were injured using the 2-meter impact acceleration model of diffuse TBI. At preselected time points after injury, animals were killed and the expression of COX-2 was measured in the hippocampus and parietal cortex by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting techniques. Effects of nimesulide (6 mg/kg daily over ten days) on cognitive and motor outcome was assessed in a separate group of animals using the Barnes circular maze and rotarod test, respectively. A highly significant up-regulation of COX-2 expression was found in the hippocampus as early as 3 h post-trauma and persisting for at least 12 days after TBI. In contrast, a slight but significant upregulation of COX-2 expression occurred in the cortex only at 3 days after trauma. Administration of the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide resulted in a significant and substantial improvement in cognitive function compared to vehicle-treated controls, while motor deficits after injury was only improved at 24 h after injury. We conclude that COX-2 is involved in the development of functional deficits following diffuse TBI, particularly cognitive deficits, and that these can be improved by administration of COX-2 inhibitors.
Recent investigations have demonstrated that afferent signals from hindlimb flexor muscles can strongly influence flexor burst activity during walking and during fictive locomotion in decerebrate cats. We have reported previously that modifying afferent feedback from the sartorius (Sart) muscles by assisting or resisting hip flexion has a marked effect on the magnitude and duration of activity in iliopsoas (IP) as well as the sartorius muscles. The objective of the present investigation was to identify the afferents responsible for these effects by examining, in walking decerebrate cats, the influence of electrically stimulating sartorius afferents on burst activity in the IP and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles. Stimulation of the sartorius nerve at group I strength resulted in an increase in the duration of IP and TA bursts and an increase in the magnitude of IP bursts. The effect on burst durations was only observed at stimulus strengths of 1.6 T and higher. At lower stimulus strengths, there was a strong excitatory effect on IP bursts but no effect on TA bursts. Stimulation of the sartorius nerve at group II strength yielded variable results. When group II stimulation was delivered repeatedly during a walking sequence, the initial response was usually a strong inhibition of burst activity in IP and TA followed by a progressive reduction in inhibition and the emergence in IP of an excitatory response. This observation, together with findings of previous studies, suggests the existence of parallel excitatory and inhibitory pathways from sartorius group II afferents to flexor motoneurons. Taken together, these results support an earlier speculation that feedback from large afferents from the sartorius muscles has a strong influence on the generation of flexor burst activity in walking cats.
Antisaccade performance was investigated in a sample of 2,006 young males as part of a large epidemiological study investigating psychosis proneness. This report summarizes the effects of task parameters on performance using a sample of 55,678 antisaccade trials collected from a subpopulation of 947 individuals. Neither the amplitude nor the latency of an error prosaccade in the antisaccade task was correlated with the latency of the ensuing corrective antisaccade that almost always followed an error. However, the latency of the corrective antisaccade decreased with increasing stimulus distance. Concerning the effects of specific task parameters, trials with stimuli closer to the central fixation point and trials preceded by shorter fixation intervals resulted in more errors and longer latencies for the antisaccades. Finally, there were learning and fatigue effects reflected mainly in the error rate, which was greater at the beginning and at the end of the 5-min task. We used a model to predict whether an error or a correct antisaccade would follow a particular trial. All task parameters were significant predictors of the trial outcome but their power was negligible. However, when modeled alone, response latency of the first movement predicted 40% of errors. In particular, the smaller this latency was, the higher the probability of an error. These findings are discussed in light of current hypotheses on antisaccade production mechanisms involving mainly the superior colliculus.
In a previous analysis of existing antiseizure compounds, we suggested that a common diphenylureido moiety was responsible for the activity-dependent, Na(+) channel blocking actions of these drugs (L. D. Snell et al., 2000, J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 292: 215-227). Thus the novel diphenylureido compound [N,N-(diphenyl)-4-ureido-5,7-dichloro-2-carboxyquinoline] DCUKA was developed to incorporate the diphenylureido pharmacophore into a structure that also acted as an NMDA receptor antagonist. DCUKA has previously been shown to have antiepileptic properties in animals, and in the present study the actions of DCUKA on Na(+) currents were characterized using transfected cells that stably expressed the rat brain Na(v)1.2 channel isoform. In whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings, DCUKA reduced Na(+) currents in a dose- and membrane potential-dependent fashion, with an apparent 1:1 stoichiometry of drug:channel interaction. Characterization of the effects of DCUKA on Na(+) channel function strongly suggested that DCUKA acts by enhancing Na(+) channel inactivation. Thus in the presence of DCUKA, Na(v)1.2 channels showed reduced availability in steady-state inactivation protocols, displayed use-dependent inhibition, and were slower to recover from inactivation than untreated channels, while DCUKA showed no significant interaction with the open state of the channel. As previously postulated for the anticonvulsants carbamazepine and phenytoin, these results could be well explained by a model in which the drug preferentially interacts with the fast inactivated state of the channel. Finally, DCUKA was generally more efficacious than carbamazepine in modifying sodium channel behavior. Thus the diphenylureido moiety identified by a structural analysis of classic anticonvulsants appears to be important to the inactivation-specific Na(+) channel inhibition by this class of antiseizure agents.
Nuclear aggregates (NAs) and neurodegeneration in brains from patients with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) are both triggered by pathological expansion of CAG/polyglutamine repeat in ataxin-3, but it remains to be clarified whether NA formation is associated with accelerated neurodegeneration. In an attempt to clarify a possible influence of NAs on neurons in human brains, we quantified the size and deformity of neuronal nuclei (those with or without NAs, separately) cross-sectioned on pontine preparations of autopsied brains from four patients with MJD and five controls. Nuclear shrinkage and deformity were more marked in MJD brains than in controls, and these changes were attenuated in neurons harboring NAs. NAs of MJD are presumably linked to a mechanism that attenuates rather than accelerates nuclear shrinkage and deformity. This finding leads us to consider that NAs are not necessarily toxic to neurons in diseased human brains.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) ameliorates deficits in models of cholinergic hypofunction. However, notable adverse effects of intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of NGF include weight loss, Schwann cell hyperplasia (SCH), and aberrant sensory and sympathetic sprouting. In order to maintain efficacy on the cholinergic basal forebrain (CBF) and minimize these detrimental effects, intraparenchymal NGF infusion was compared with ICV administration to assess morphological and functional measures. NGF was delivered intraparenchymally (Intra-NGF) or intracerebroventricularly (ICV-NGF) for 3 and 6 months. Hypertrophy of cholinergic nucleus basalis neurons at 3 and 6 months was not different between both routes of administration, indicating similar efficacy for the CBF. SCH surrounding the medulla was observed in both Intra- and ICV-NGF animals due to the widespread distribution of NGF from the infusion site. The thickness of SCH reached a plateau at 3 months in ICV-NGF animals, while further proliferation occurred in Intra-NGF animals. More importantly, ectopic Schwann cells and aberrant sensory and sympathetic sprouting within the medulla oblongata were found solely in ICV-NGF animals. Differential changes in sensory processing were evident by an exaggerated response to acoustic stimuli in Intra-NGF animals and a decrease in thermal pain threshold in ICV-NGF-treated animals. Intra-NGF treatment did not produce the reduction in body weight exhibited by ICV-NGF-treated rats. These results indicate that different routes of NGF administration are identically efficacious for CBF neurons, but differentially modulate behaviors and structures leading to distinct profiles of adverse effects. Thus, current trophic factor delivery methods require further refinement to abolish detrimental effects.
Overt behavioral symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) do not occur until over 80% of the striatal dopamine content has been lost. Diagnosis of the disorder relies on identifying clinical symptoms including akinesia, resting tremor, and rigidity. In retrospect, behavioral deficits are observed several years prior to diagnosis. Behavioral manifestations in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of PD, such as changes in general locomotor activity and rotorod performance, require large doses of MPTP and are often transient. We hypothesized that, as in PD, subtle behavioral changes also occur in the MPTP model. In this paper, we demonstrate that mice treated with moderate doses of the dopaminergic toxin MPTP display deficits in behavioral parameters that are significantly correlated with the loss of striatal dopamine. In addition, these behavioral measures are correlated to dopamine transporter, vesicular monoamine transporter, and tyrosine hydroxylase expression and are improved following L-DOPA administration. Detection of dopamine-modulated behavioral changes in moderately depleted MPTP mice will allow for more efficacious use of this model in PD research.
Kindling, a phenomenon in which repeated electrical stimulation of certain forebrain structures leads to an increase in the evoked epileptogenic response, is widely used to investigate the mechanisms of epilepsy. Kindling also results in sprouting of the dentate gyrus mossy fiber pathway and triggers astrocyte hypertrophy and increased volume of the hilus of the dentate gyrus. Our previous studies showed that infusion of the neurotrophin nerve growth factor accelerated the behavioral progression of amygdala kindling and affected kindling-induced structural changes in the brain, whereas intrahilar infusion of another neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, delayed amygdala kindling-induced seizure development and reduced the growth in afterdischarge duration, but had little effect on kindling-induced structural changes. In this paper, we report the effects of infusion of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, a neurotrophic factor of the TGF-beta superfamily having similar central nervous system neuronal targets as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. We show that continuous intraventricular infusion of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor inhibits the behavioral progression of perforant path kindling-induced seizures without affecting afterdischarge duration. In addition, we demonstrate that intraventricular administration of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor prevents kindling-induced increases in hilar area and blocks mossy fiber sprouting in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor did not have a statistically significant effect on the mossy fiber density in the inner molecular layer. Our results raise the possibility that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor plays a role in kindling and activation-induced neural growth via mechanisms distinct from those of the neurotrophins.
We investigated the levels and tissue localization of matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) in postmortem brain tissue from Parkinson's disease (PD) and age-matched control cases. Using zymography, we found reduced MMP-2 levels in PD cases in the substantia nigra as compared to controls; levels of MMP-2 were not significantly changed in the cortex and the hippocampus. MMP-9 levels were unchanged in the investigated brain regions. Immunohistochemically, MMP-2 was localized primarily in astrocytes and microglia cells, whereas MMP-9 was predominantly neuronal. Levels of TIMP-1, an endogenous tissue inhibitor of MMPs, were significantly elevated in the substantia nigra, but not in the cortex and hippocampus. TIMP-2 levels were unchanged in PD. To investigate whether increased TIMP-1 levels in the substantia nigra might be due to increased MMP-1 expression, we measured MMP-1 levels using Western blots. MMP-1 levels were unchanged in PD cases compared to controls. Together, these data show alterations of MMP-2 and TIMP-1 in the substantia nigra of PD, consistent with the possibility that alterations in MMPs/TIMPs may contribute to disease pathogenesis.
Three experiments were performed to see whether cardiac neurons contribute to the intrinsic control of heart rate in right atria of adult rats. The intrinsic heart rate response (IRR) was examined by raising right atrial pressure from 2 to 8 mmHg for 3 min. In isolated preparations of the right atrium, the IRR was not significantly altered by the addition of either 1 microM atropine (n =6; control +19+/- 3 min(-1) ; atropine+18+/-3 min(-1); (mean /+/-S.E.M.)) or 1 microM propranolol (n = 5; control +22+/- 4 min(-1); ; propranolol +21+/-3 min(-1); ). Tetrodotoxin (0.5 microm) had no effect on the IRR (n = 6; control +37+/-5 min(-1); tetrodotoxin 38+/-5 min(-1); ). In another experiment, 2-day-old rat pups were injected with capsaicin (50 mg kg(-1); treated) or with vehicle(control). There was no difference in the IRR of right atrial preparations taken from control and treated animals after they reached adulthood (control (n = 7) and treated (n = 8): +30+/- 4 and +32+/- 4 min(-1)). The influence of right atrial pressure on the efficacy of vagal stimulation was examined. The rate response to vagal stimulation was reduced similarly in control and treated preparations when pressure was elevated from 2 to 4 mmHg (control and treated: -34+/- 5% and -33+/- 3%). The effectiveness of the capsaicin treatment was confirmed by the depletion of substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres in cardiac tissues. Together, these results strongly suggest that cardiac neurons are not involved in intrinsic heart rate control.
Thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase, Activase trade mark, rtPA; Genentech Inc) has proven beneficial for acute stroke management, even though only 1 - 2% of stroke patients in the US are treated with the drug [1]. Part of the reason for the under utilisation of alteplase may be the narrow therapeutic window and frequent occurrence of serious side effects, such as increased haemorrhage incidence [2,3]. It is because of these shortcomings, that recent efforts have attempted to identify new thrombolytics that might improve the benefit/risk ratio in treating stroke. Second generation derivatives of alteplase have attempted to counteract the side effects of the drug by increasing fibrin specificity (tenecteplase, TNK-tPA; Genentech Inc) or half-life (lanoteplase, SUN-9216; Genetics Institute Inc.). New recombinant DNA methodology has led to the revival of plasmin or a truncated form of plasmin (microplasmin; ThromboGenics Ltd), a direct-acting thrombolytic with non-thrombolytic related neuroprotective activities, as a therapeutic. Other promising approaches for the treatment of stroke include the development of novel plasminogen activators, such as recombinant desmodus rotundus salivary plasminogen activator (rDSPA) alpha-1 (Schering/Teijin Pharmaceuticals) and a mutant fibrin-activated human plasminogen (BB10153; British Biotech Inc.). These important areas of drug discovery and development will be reviewed.
The symptoms of Parkinson's disease can become increasingly difficult to control as the disease advances, particularly with the development of motor complications, such as end-of-dose wearing-off and dyskinesias, following long-term therapy. At this stage, the patient is frequently referred to a Parkinson's disease specialist for advice on their disease management. In this review, we provide an overview of the Parkinson's disease specialist's strategies for coping with such problems. This includes establishing the optimum and most rational L-dopa treatment schedule, improving L-dopa absorption, use of catechol-O-methyl transferase inhibition, the addition of oral dopaminergic agonists and the use of subcutaneous injections or infusions of apomorphine or lisuride. The role of new surgical procedures to treat Parkinson's disease is also reviewed. Finally, we highlight the increasing importance of treatment strategies that stimulate dopamine receptors in a more continuous, less pulsatile manner as a way of reducing the risk of developing treatment-associated motor complications.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-SN) is a ubiquitous protein that is especially abundant in the brain and has been postulated to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurodegenerative disorders. However, little is known about the neuronal functions of alpha-SN and the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neuronal loss. Here, we show that alpha-SN plays dual roles of neuroprotection and neurotoxicity depending on its concentration or level of expression. At nanomolar concentrations, a-SN protected neurons against serum deprivation, oxidative stress, and excitotoxicity through the PI3/Akt signaling pathway, and its protective effect was increased by Bcl-2 overexpression. Conversely, at both low micromolar and overexpressed levels in the cell, alpha-SN resulted in cytotoxicity. This might be related to decreased Bcl-xL expression and increased bax expression, which is subsequently followed by cytochrome c release and caspase activation and also by microglia-mediated inflammatory responses via the NFkappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways.
This study examines the use of multiple cross mapping (MCM) to reduce the interval for an ethanol response QTL on mouse chromosome 1. The phenotype is the acute locomotor response to a 1.5-g/kg i.p. dose of ethanol. The MCM panel consisted of the six unique intercrosses that can be obtained from the C57BL/6J (B6), DBA/2J (D2), BALB/cJ (C) and LP/J (LP) inbred mouse strains (N &gt; or = 600/cross). Ethanol response QTL were detected only with the B6xD2 and B6xC intercrosses. For both crosses, the D2 and C alleles were dominant and decreased ethanol response. The QTL information was used to develop an algorithm for sorting and editing the chromosome 1 Mit microsatellite marker set (http://www.jax.org). This process yielded a cluster of markers between 82 and 85cM (MGI). Evidence that the QTL was localized in or near this interval was obtained by the analysis of a sample (n = 550) of advanced cross heterogenous stock animals. In addition, it was observed that one of the BXD recombinant inbred strains (BXD-32) had a recombination in the interval of interest which produced the expected change in behavior. Overall, the data obtained suggest that the information available within existing genetic maps coupled with MCM data can be used to reduce the QTL interval. In addition, the MCM data set can be used to interrogate gene expression data to estimate which polymorphisms within the interval of interest are relevant to the QTL.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and prion disease are characterized neuropathologically by extracellular deposits of Abeta and PrP amyloid fibrils, respectively. In both disorders, these cerebral amyloid deposits are co-localized with a broad variety of inflammation-related proteins (complement factors, acute-phase protein, pro-inflammatory cytokines) and clusters of activated microglia. The present data suggest that the cerebral Abeta and PrP deposits are closely associated with a locally induced, non-immune-mediated chronic inflammatory response. Epidemiological studies indicate that polymorphisms of certain cytokines and acute-phase proteins, which are associated with Abeta plaques, are genetic risk factors for AD. Transgenic mice studies have established the role of amyloid associated acute-phase proteins in Alzheimer amyloid formation. In contrast to AD, there is a lack of evidence that cytokines and acute-phase proteins can influence disease progression in prion disease. Clinicopathological and neuroradiological studies have shown that activation of microglia is a relatively early pathogenetic event that precedes the process of neuropil destruction in AD patients. It has also been found that the onset of microglial activation coincided in mouse models of prion disease with the earliest changes in neuronal morphology, many weeks before neuronal loss and subsequent clinical signs of disease. In the present work, we review the similarities and differences between the involvement of inflammatory mechanisms in AD and prion disease. We also discuss the concept that the demonstration of a chronic inflammatory-like process relatively early in the pathological cascade of both diseases suggests potential therapeutic strategies to prevent or to retard these chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
Microglia are reactively activated by various environmental stimulations caused by brain injury or disease. Activated microglia exhibit morphological transformation, proliferation, migration, phagocytosis, and the production of bioactive molecules. Various molecules are reported and suggested to activate microglia. Among them, macrophage-colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) is considered one of the most convincing candidates responsible for maintaining activation properties of microglia. Therefore, the focus of the present study is on intracellular molecular events that arise downstream of M-CSF stimulation. M-CSF activates its receptor, Fms tyrosine kinase, and Fms sequentially activates a number of signaling molecules, including PI3K or phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma). Stimulation of continuing signaling cascades results in the activation of a small GTPase, Rac, the key molecule in microglia activation. Rac is known to be activated downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases and to regulate reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, which profoundly underlies the above-mentioned properties of activated microglia. Iba1, a macrophage/microglia-specific calcium-binding protein, was identified by our group and was shown to be involved in the Rac signaling pathway. Further, we introduce a novel signaling pathway in which Rac is activated, dependent on PLCgamma and Iba1. However, to understand the molecular details of microglia activation, future work is required.
Cytokines constitute a significant portion of the immuno- and neuromodulatory messengers that can be released by activated microglia. By virtue of potent effects on resident and invading cells, microglial cyto- and chemokines regulate innate defense mechanisms, help the initiation and influence the type of immune responses, participate in the recruitment of leukocytes to the CNS, and support attempts of tissue repair and recovery. Microglia can also receive cyto- and chemokine signals as part of auto- and paracrine communications with astrocytes, neurons, the endothelium, and leukocyte infiltrates. Strong responses and modulatory influences can be demonstrated, adding to the emerging view that microglial behavior is highly dependent on the (cytokine) environment and that reactions to a challenge may vary with the stimulation context. In principle, microglial activation aims at CNS protection. However, failed microglial engagement due to excessive or sustained activation could significantly contribute to acute and chronic neuropathologies. Dysregulation of microglial cytokine production could thereby promote harmful actions of the defense mechanisms, result in direct neurotoxicity, as well as disturb neural cell functions as they are sensitive to cytokine signaling.
The role of glial cells is to support and sustain proper neuronal function and microglia are no exception to this. This viewpoint article emphasizes the fundamental interdependence of microglia and neurons and takes a look at the possibility of what could happen if microglial cells became dysfunctional as a result of aging, genetics, or epigenetics. Could microglial senescence be a factor in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases? The cautious answer to that question is 'yes'. Future studies along these lines may provide novel insights into microglial involvement in neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis.

Magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a new technique that can be used to visualize and measure the diffusion of water in brain tissue; it is particularly useful for evaluating white matter abnormalities. In this paper, we review research studies that have applied DTI for the purpose of understanding neuropsychiatric disorders. We begin with a discussion of the principles involved in DTI, followed by a historical overview of magnetic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging and DTI and a brief description of several different methods of image acquisition and quantitative analysis. We then review the application of this technique to clinical populations. We include all studies published in English from January 1996 through March 2002 on this topic, located by searching PubMed and Medline on the key words &quot;diffusion tensor imaging&quot; and &quot;MRI.&quot; Finally, we consider potential future uses of DTI, including fiber tracking and surgical planning and follow-up.

Recent physiological results from the auditory nerve suggest that specific response patterns for word-initial /d/ and /t/ are present across acoustic variations. In this study, single cell recordings from the auditory nerve of anesthetized chinchillas in response to the stop consonants /d/ and /t/ presented in a variety of acoustic contexts were analyzed. Consonants had variable word positions, vowel contexts, types of phonation, and speakers. The response patterns from individual auditory nerve fibers did not reliably differentiate the consonants /d/ and /t/. Global average peristimulus time histograms (GAPSTs) contained invariant patterns for all tokens of each word-final consonant, regardless of context. Ensemble responses to word-final consonants had similarities in their temporal patterns to those in GAPSTs for word-initial consonants. The similar representations in the ensemble auditory nerve response for consonants with different acoustic content suggest a possible substrate for perceptual normalization. Both invariant and variable elements of speech can be computed from the ensemble response of the auditory nerve.
Calmodulin is found in the mechanosensitive stereociliary bundle of hair cells where it plays a role in various calcium-sensitive events associated with mechanoelectrical transduction. In this study, we have investigated the ultrastructural distribution of calmodulin in the apex of guinea-pig cochlear hair cells, using post-embedding immunogold labelling, in order to determine in more detail where calmodulin-dependent processes may be occurring. Labelling was found in the cuticular plate as well as the hair bundle, the rootlets of the stereocilia being more densely labelled than the surrounding filamentous matrix. In the bundle, labelling was found almost exclusively at the periphery rather than over the centre of the actin core of the stereocilia, and was clearly associated with the attachments of the lateral links that connect them to their nearest neighbours. It was also found to be denser towards the tips of stereocilia compared to other stereociliary regions and occurred consistently at either end of the tip link that connects stereocilia of adjacent rows. The contact region between stereocilia that is found just below the tip link was also clearly labelled. These concentrations of labelling in the bundle are likely to indicate sites where calmodulin is associated with calcium/calmodulin-sensitive proteins such as the various myosin isoforms and the plasma membrane ATPase (PMCA2a) that are known to occur there, and possibly with the transduction channels themselves. At least one of the myosin isoforms, myosin 1c, is thought to be associated with slow adaptation, and PMCA2a with control of calcium levels in the bundle. The concentration of calmodulin in the contact region further supports the suggestion that this is a functionally distinct region rather than a simple geometrical association between adjacent stereocilia.
In male vertebrates the display of courtship behavior depends on the presence of testicular androgens. However, social experiences in adulthood can alter the hormonal dependence of courtship behavior in a variety of species, and we have previously proposed that these behavioral changes are linked to changes in neural metabolic capacity (cytochrome oxidase activity). Here we investigated the effects of prior social experience (housing with females vs housing in isolation) on the retention of courtship behavior following gonadectomy and on cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity in male little striped whiptail lizards, Cnemidophorus inornatus. In Experiment 1, we found that males that were previously housed with females (HWF males) continued to display courtship behavior longer after castration than males previously housed in isolation (ISOLATE males). This is similar to the behavioral plasticity found in rodents and cats. On the other hand, courtship behavior while gonadally intact was indistinguishable between HWF and ISOLATE males. Because all males were housed individually following castration, the difference is due to different social experiences prior to castration. In Experiment 2, we found that gonadally intact HWF males had significantly elevated CO activity in the preoptic area, amygdala, and anterior and ventromedial hypothalamic areas relative to intact ISOLATE males. No significant differences in metabolism were found in the lateral septum, lateral hypothalamus, and habenula or in hindlimb muscle, suggesting that the increase in metabolism is specific to brain nuclei involved in courtship behavior. Altogether, this demonstrates that elevations in metabolic capacity correlate with experience-dependent increases in robustness to castration.
It's a clinical line that usually takes a back seat to higher-profile services like cardiology, oncology and orthopedics. But hospitals are starting to pay more attention to neuroscience for a number of reasons, including its tertiary nature and the high volume of imaging studies involved. More importantly, it usually generates a profit.

Response selection, which involves choosing representations for appropriate motor behaviors given one's current situation, is a fundamental mental process central to a wide variety of human performance, yet the neural mechanisms underlying this mental process remain unclear. Research using nonhuman primates implicates ventral prefrontal and lateral premotor cortices in this process. In contrast, human neuroimaging research also highlights the role of dorsal prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and superior parietal cortices in response selection. This inconsistency may stem from the difficulty of isolating response selection within the constraints of cognitive subtraction methodology utilized in neuroimaging. We overcome this limitation by using an experimental procedure designed to selectively influence discrete mental processing stages and analyses that are less reliant on the assumptions of cognitive subtraction. We varied stimulus contrast to affect stimulus encoding and stimulus-response compatibility to affect response selection. Brain activation data suggest processing specific to response selection in superior parietal and dorsal prefrontal cortices, and not ventral prefrontal cortex. Anterior cingulate and lateral premotor cortices may also be involved in response selection, or these regions may mediate other response processes.
The ability to regulate gene expression constitutes a prerequisite for the development of gene therapy strategies aimed at the treatment of neurologic disorders. In the present work, we used tetracycline (Tet)-regulated lentiviral vectors to investigate the dose-dependent neuroprotective effect of human ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) in the quinolinic acid (QA) model of Huntington's disease (HD). The Tet system was split in two lentiviruses, the first one containing the CNTF or green fluorescent protein (GFP) cDNAs under the control of the Tet-response element (TRE) and a second vector encoding the transactivator (tTA). Preliminary coinfection study demonstrated that 63.8% +/- 2.0% of infected cells contain at least two viral copies. Adult rats were then injected with CNTF- and GFP-expressing viral vectors followed 3 weeks later by an intrastriatal administration of QA. A significant reduction of apomorphine-induced rotations was observed in the CNTF-on group. In contrast, GFP-treated animals or CNTF-off rats displayed an ipsilateral turning behavior in response to apomorphine. A selective sparing of DARPP-32-, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-, and NADPH-d-positive neurons was observed in the striatum of CNTF-on rats compared to GFP animals and CNTF-off group. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) performed on striatal samples of rats sacrificed at the same time point indicated that this neuroprotective effect was associated with the production of 15.5 +/- 4.7 ng CNTF per milligram of protein whereas the residual CNTF expression in the off state (0.54 +/- 0.02 ng/mg of protein) was not sufficient to protect against QA toxicity. These results establish the proof of principle of neurotrophic factor dosing for neurodegenerative diseases and demonstrate the feasibility of lentiviral-mediated tetracycline-regulated gene transfer in the brain.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is the most common inherited disorder of the peripheral nervous system, and mutations in neurofilaments have been linked to some forms of CMT. Neurofilaments are the major intermediate filaments of neurones, but the mechanisms by which the CMT mutations induce disease are not known. Here, we demonstrate that CMT mutant neurofilaments disrupt both neurofilament assembly and axonal transport of neurofilaments in cultured mammalian cells and neurones. We also show that CMT mutant neurofilaments perturb the localization of mitochondria in neurones. Accumulations of neurofilaments are a pathological feature of several neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and diabetic neuropathy. Our results demonstrate that aberrant neurofilament assembly and transport can induce neurological disease, and further implicate defective neurofilament metabolism in the pathogenesis of human neurodegenerative diseases.


Lipids of brain tissue and brain microvascular endothelial cells contain high proportions of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (long PUFAs). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the brain endothelial cells under the inductive influence of brain cells, especially perivascular glia, and coculture of endothelial cells and glial cells has been used to examine this induction. The objective of this study was to investigate whether C6 glioma cells are able to influence the lipid composition and shift the fatty acid (FA) patterns of the BBB model cell lines RBE4 and ECV304 toward the in vivo situation. Lipid classes of the three cell lines were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography and lipid FA patterns by high-performance liquid chromatography. Only ECV304 cells showed altered lipid composition in coculture with C6 cells. The fractions of triglycerides and cholesteryl esters (depending on the support filter) were about twice as high in coculture as when the cells were grown alone. Triglyceride fractions reached 13 to 15% of total lipids in coculture. The three cell lines showed an increase in the percentage of long PUFAs with respect to unsaturated FAs, mainly because of an increase in the percentages of arachidonic acid, all cis-7,10,13,16-docosatetraenoic acid, and all cis-7,10,13,16,19-docosapentaenoic acid. It is concluded that glioma C6 cells are able to induce a more in vivo-like FA pattern in BBB cell culture models. However, changes were not significant for the individual PUFAs, and their levels did not reach in vivo values.
The objectives of this study were to optimize a sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for fatty acid (FA) analysis for the quantification of polyunsaturated FAs (PUFAs) in cell lipid extracts and to analyze the lipid and FA patterns of three cell lines used in blood-brain barrier (BBB) models: RBE4, ECV304, and C6. Thin-layer chromatographic analysis revealed differences in the phosphatidylcholine-phosphatidylethanolamine (PC:PE) ratios and the triglyceride (TG) content. The PC:PE ratio was &lt;1 for RBE4 cells but &gt;1 for ECV304 and C6 cells. ECV304 cells displayed up to 9% TG depending on culture time, whereas the other cell lines contained about 1% TG. The percentages of docosahexaenoic acid were 9.4 +/- 1.7% of the unsaturated FAs in RBE4 cells (n = 5; 4 d in culture; 9.9% after 10 d), 8.1 +/- 2.0% in ECV304 cells (n = 11; 10 to 14 d), and 6.7 +/- 0.6% in C6 cells (n = 6; 10 to 14 d) and were close to the published values for rat brain microvascular endothelium. The percentage of arachidonic acid (C20:4) was about half that in vivo. ECV304 cells contained the highest fraction of C20:4, 17.8 +/- 2.2%; RBE4 cells contained 11.6 +/- 2.4%; and C6 cells 15.8 +/- 1.9%. It is concluded that a sensitive HPLC method for FAs is now optimized for the analysis of long-chain PUFAs. The results provide a useful framework for studies on the effects of lipid modulation and give reference information for the development of further BBB models.

Staphylococcus aureus is a common pathogen responsible for nosocomial and community infections. It readily colonizes indwelling catheters, forming microbiotic communities termed biofilms. S. aureus bacteria in biofilms are protected from killing by antibiotics and the body's immune system. For years, one mechanism behind biofilm resistance to attack from the immune system's sentinel leukocytes has been conceptualized as a deficiency in the ability of the leukocytes to penetrate the biofilm. We demonstrate here that under conditions mimicking physiological shear, leukocytes attach, penetrate, and produce cytokines in response to maturing and fully matured S. aureus biofilm.
Molecular misreading is an expression used to describe errors in RNA that lead to the translation of mutated proteins. We have shown that dinucleotide deletions (delta GA, delta GU) are introduced in simple sequence repeats (e.g. GAGAG) of mRNA. If the resulting mutant transcripts escape RNA quality control systems, they are translated into +1 proteins. If functional domains are located downstream of the frameshift site, the result will be a protein with either a partial or complete loss of function. A clear example is ubiquitin(+1) (UBB(+1)), which has lost its capacity to ubiquitinate, i.e. tagging proteins destined for proteasomal degradation. This is an important step in regulating the degradation of misfolded proteins and transcription factors. In fact, UBB(+1) seems to block the proteasome. UBB(+1) and other proteins accumulate in the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which suggests a causal relationship. We have hypothesized that quality control mechanisms for both transcripts and proteins work less efficiently during aging. In this manner +1 proteins may become manifest and contribute to age-related diseases.

A number of brain regions are associated with the subjective experience of pain. This study adds to our understanding of the neural mechanisms involved in pain by considering the relation between cortical oscillations in response to pain, with and without hypnosis and hypnotic analgesia, and the subjective experience of pain. Thirty-three subjects' neural responses (EEG) were measured during the 40-540 ms period following phasic electrical stimulations to the right hand, under control and hypnosis conditions. Resultant FFT amplitudes for frequencies ranging from 8 to 100 Hz were computed. These were grouped into 7 scalp topographies, and for each frequency, relations between these topographies and pain ratings, performance and stimulus intensity measures were assessed. Gamma activity (32-100 Hz) over prefrontal scalp sites predicted subject pain ratings in the control condition (r=0.50, P=0.004), and no other frequency/topography combination did. This relation was present in both high and low hypnotisable subjects and was independent of performance and stimulus intensity measures. This relation was unchanged by hypnosis in the low hypnotisable subjects but was not present in the highs during hypnosis, suggesting that hypnosis interferes with this pain/gamma relation. This study provides evidence for the role of gamma oscillations in the subjective experience of pain. Further, it is in keeping with the view that hypnosis involves the dissociation of prefrontal cortex from other neural functions.
We examined two subjectively distinct memory states that are elicited during recognition memory in humans and compared them in terms of the gamma oscillations (20-60 Hz) in the electroencepahalogram (EEG) that they induced. These subjective states, 'recollection' and 'familiarity' both entail correct recognition but one involves a clear and conscious recollection of the event including memory for contextual detail whilst the other involves a sense of familiarity without clear recollection. Here we show that during a verbal recognition memory test, the subjective experience of 'recollection' induced higher amplitude gamma oscillations than the subjective experience of 'familiarity' in the time period 300-500 ms after stimulus presentation. Recollection, but not familiarity, was also associated with greater functional connectivity in the gamma frequency range between frontal and parietal sites. Furthermore, the magnitude of the gamma functional connectivity varied over time and was modulated at 3 Hz. Previous studies in animals have shown local theta frequency modulation (3-7 Hz) of gamma-oscillations but this is the first time that a similar effect has been reported in the human EEG.

The processing of emotional expressions is fundamental for normal socialization and interaction. Reduced responsiveness to the expressions of sadness and fear has been implicated in the development of psychopathy (R. J. R. Blair, 1995). The current study investigates the ability of adult psychopathic individuals to process vocal affect. Psychopathic and nonpsychopathic adults, defined by the Hare Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R; R. D. Hare, 1991), were presented with neutral words spoken with intonations conveying happiness, disgust, anger, sadness, and fear and were asked to identify the emotion of the speaker on the basis of prosody. The results indicated that psychopathic inmates were particularly impaired in the recognition of fearful vocal affect. These results are interpreted with reference to the low-fear and violence inhibition mechanism models of psychopathy.

Two methods for treating tinnitus are compared. Tinnitus masking has been used for over 25 years, and although this method is used in clinics around the world, there are many misconceptions regarding the proper protocol for its clinical application. Tinnitus retraining therapy has been used clinically for over 12 years and has received considerable international attention. Although these methods are distinctive in their basic approach to tinnitus management, certain aspects of treatment appear similar. These aspects of treatment have created considerableconfusion and controversy, especially regarding the use of &quot;sound therapy&quot; as a basic component of treatment. It is the objective of this article to clarify the major differences that exist between these two forms of treatment.
Audiology clinics are increasingly being asked to provide tinnitus treatment services to patients who are severely distressed by tinnitus. It is unclear what levels of tinnitus care are available at different audiology clinics across the nation. Some clinics have staff who are experienced with the tinnitus masking technique or with tinnitus retraining therapy (TRT), whereas other clinics may limit their care to the provision of hearing aids. This article is an attempt to provide some basic information for those clinicians who would like to provide at least a minimum level of care for their tinnitus patients using the tinnitus masking approach. The most important requirement is a commitment by the clinician to assemble some basic resources and to structure the clinical schedule so that adequate time is available for historical review, evaluation, trial and selection of devices, and tinnitus counseling. A minimum set of measurements is recommended for inclusion in the tinnitus evaluation process. This informal review summarizes a variety of clinical observations culled from years of direct patient care experience. A tinnitus questionnaire is provided to help clinicians review potentially relevant issues.
Clinical management for patients complaining of severe tinnitus has improved dramatically in the last 25 years. During that period of time, various methods of treatment have been introduced and are being used with varying degrees of success. One method that has received considerable attention is tinnitus retraining therapy (TRT). This method is being practiced by hundreds of clinicians worldwide, and retrospective clinical data indicate that TRT has been effective for the majority of patients. This article provides a guide for clinicians to evaluate their patients for treatment with TRT. Included in this guide is the expanded version of the TRT initial interview and specific instructions for the clinician administering the interview.
There are conflicting reports for the role of endogenous opioids on sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to exercise in humans. A number of studies have utilized naloxone (an opioid-receptor antagonist) to investigate the effect of opioids during exercise. In the present study, we examined the effect of morphine (an opioid-receptor agonist) on sympathetic and cardiovascular responses at rest and during isometric handgrip (IHG). Eleven subjects performed 2 min of IHG (30% maximum) followed by 2 min of postexercise muscle ischemia (PEMI) before and after systemic infusion of morphine (0.075 mg/kg loading dose + 1 mg/h maintenance) or placebo (saline) in double-blinded experiments on separate days. Morphine increased resting muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; 17 +/- 2 to 22 +/- 2 bursts/min; P &lt; 0.01) and increased mean arterial pressure (MAP; 87 +/- 2 to 91 +/- 2 mmHg; P &lt; 0.02), but it decreased heart rate (HR; 61 +/- 4 to 59 +/- 3; P &lt; 0.01). However, IHG elicited similar increases for MSNA, MAP, and HR between the control and morphine trial (drug x exercise interaction = not significant). Moreover, responses to PEMI were not different. Placebo had no effect on resting, IHG, and PEMI responses. We conclude that morphine modulates cardiovascular and sympathetic responses at rest but not during isometric exercise.
Providing quality psychiatric emergency services is becoming more difficult as utilization rates soar, especially by individuals who are frequent visitors. To address this issue, a staff survey and analysis of admission patterns were conducted. Staff were more likely to believe that frequent visitors sought care because they had difficulty accessing alternative services, had basic needs unmet, were substance abusers, wanted inpatient admission, and were noncompliant with treatment plans. The 1999 temporal admission pattern documented that frequent visitors' admissions were higher during the first week of the month and inclement weather. Surprisingly, the infrequent visitors' admissions also were higher during the first week of the month. Together, these findings suggest that, in this urban location, frequent visitors are disadvantaged individuals lacking support and alternative treatment settings who use psychiatric emergency services to meet basic needs.
The calcium sensor protein visinin-like protein-1 (VILIP-1) was isolated from a brain cDNA yeast two-hybrid library using the large cytoplasmic domain of the alpha4 subunit as a bait. VILIP-1 is a myristoylated calcium sensor protein that contains three functional calcium binding EF-hand motifs. The alpha4 subunit residues 302-339 were found to be essential for the interaction with VILIP-1. VILIP-1 coimmunopurified with detergent-solubilized recombinant alpha4beta2 acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) expressed in tsA201 cells and with native alpha4 AChRs isolated from brain. Coexpression of VILIP-1 with recombinant alpha4beta2 AChRs up-regulated their surface expression levels approximately 2-fold and increased their agonist sensitivity to acetylcholine approximately 3-fold. The modulation of the recombinant alpha4beta2 AChRs by VILIP-1 was attenuated in VILIP-1 mutants that lacked the ability to be myristoylated or to bind calcium. Collectively, these results suggest that VILIP-1 represents a novel modulator of alpha4beta2 AChRs that increases their surface expression levels and agonist sensitivity in response to changes in the intracellular levels of calcium.
Recently, several articles have been published dealing with the anabolic effects on bone by statins. Mundy and associates discovered that several statins were able to activate the promotor of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 2. Additionally, oral simvastatin and lovastatin increased the cancellous bone volume in rats, presumably an effect of the increase of BMP-2. Other studies have followed, with conflicting results; some have found a positive bone metabolic effect of statins and others have not. Studies published so far have focused on osteoporosis. In this study, femur fractures were produced in 81 mature male BALB/c mice and stabilized with marrow-nailing. Forty-one mice were given a diet prepared with simvastatin, so that each mouse received an approximate dose of 120 mg/kg of body weight per day. The remaining mice received the same diet with the exception of the simvastatin. Bilateral femurs were harvested at 8, 14, and 21 days postoperatively (po), the marrow-nail was extracted, and diameters were measured. Biomechanical tests were performed on 42 mice, by way of three-point bending. Histological specimens were prepared using standard techniques. For statistical analysis, ANOVA with Scheffs post hoc test was used. At 8 days, the fracture callus was too soft for meaningful biomechanical testing. At 14 days, the callus of the simvastatin-treated mice had a 53% larger transverse area than controls (p = 0.001), the force required to break the bone was 63% greater (p = 0.001), and the energy uptake was increased by 150% (p = 0.0008). Stiffness and modulus of elasticity were not significantly affected. At 21 days, the fractures were histologically healed and the mechanical differences had disappeared. The contralateral unbroken bone showed a slight increase in transverse area because of the simvastatin treatment, but there was no significant effect on the force required to break the bone or on energy uptake. These results point to a new possibility in the treatment of fractures.

Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins are a family of transcription factors that play a crucial role in growth and differentiation in a variety of cell types. Among them, STAT1, which is expressed in the brain and directly activated by reactive oxygen species, participates in the regulation of cytokine-signaling and cellular responses, particularly to interferon-gamma. Very little, however, is known about the importance of STAT1 during brain injury. The authors found that STAT1 was phosphorylated at tyrosine and serine727 and translocated into neuronal nuclei within hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion. At later time points, STAT1 immunoreactivity colocalized with TUNEL-positive neurons, thereby suggesting a role in cell death. In mice genetically deficient in STAT1 expression, the volume of ischemic brain injury was reduced, neurologic deficits were less severe, and TUNEL-positive neurons were also less numerous compared with wild-type mice. STAT1-knockout mice showed increased phosphorylated Akt and decreased procaspase-3 cleavage. Major strain differences in phosphorylated STAT3 or cyclooxygenase-2 protein expression were not found after ischemia. These results indicate that STAT1 is activated and translocated within ischemic neurons and may contribute to brain injury by regulating transcription and phosphorylation of proteins related to apoptosis and cell death.
Programmed cell death occurs in ischemia when cell surface death receptors (DRs) are stimulated by death-inducing ligands (DILs). Matrix metalloproteinases are extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes involved in the shedding of DRs and DILs from the cell surface. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3), which is bound to the extracellular matrix, has been shown to promote apoptosis in cancer cell lines by inhibiting cell surface sheddases. Since apoptosis is an important mechanism of cell death in ischemia, the authors hypothesized that TIMP-3 would be expressed in ischemic neurons that are undergoing programmed cell death. Spontaneously hypertensive rats had a 90-minute middle cerebral artery occlusion with reperfusion. Transcription of TIMP-3 mRNA was measured by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction at 2, 6, 24 and 48 hours after reperfusion. Western blots were used to measure TIMP-3 protein expression. Spatial distribution and production of TIMP-3 was studied by immunohistochemistry at 3, 24, and 48 hours, 5 days, and 3 weeks. DNA fragmentation in cells dying by necrosis and apoptosis was identified with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL). After 2 hours of reperfusion, TIMP-3 mRNA increased significantly in both ischemic and nonischemic hemispheres. Western blot analysis confirmed the identity of the TIMP-3, which appeared to be increased on the ischemic side. After 3 hours of reperfusion, TIMP-3 immunostaining was increased in neurons on the ischemic side, and by 24 hours the majority of the ischemic neurons were TIMP-3-positive. Dual-fluorescence staining for TUNEL and TIMP-3 showed that they were coexpressed in many neurons. The results suggest that ischemic neurons express TIMP-3, which may be inhibiting sheddases. The authors propose that TIMP-3 facilitates cell death in ischemic neurons. Further studies are needed to identify the sheddases inhibited by the TIMP-3, and on the effect of inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases on cell death mechanisms.
NADPH diaphorase histochemical protocols were optimized for the histochemical labeling of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) in the nasal cavity and their axon terminals in glomeruli of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) in the Syrian hamster. This labeling was then used to map and quantify the spatial distribution of ORNs and their central projections. Diaphorase-positive ORNs were found to be rhinotopically restricted to dorsal-medially situated segments of sensory mucosa associated with central air channels in the nose, together constituting about 25% of the total receptor sheet. This topography closely resembles the zonal expression patterns of putative odorant receptor genes and cell surface glycoconjugates in the nose. Moreover, the projections of ORNs in the diaphorase-positive dorsal/central zone were found to expand onto the entire dorsal half of the MOB, consistent with spatial patterns discerned in retrograde tract-tracing studies. These boundaries indicate that dorsal/central zone ORNs project to a disproportionately larger region of the MOB than do those in the more ventral/peripheral zones. The demonstration of NADPH diaphorase activity in ORNs is inconsistent with the expression of the best-known NADPH-dependent enzymes, such as nitric oxide synthase (neuronal and endothelial isoforms) and NADPH cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase. Understanding the spatial patterning of histochemical labeling in ORNs should facilitate the biochemical identification of this diaphorase.

Patients in poor grade (WFNS IV and V) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) often have a bad outcome. To evaluate early GDC embolisation on such patients a prospective observational study, with comparison to a historical cohort was performed. From January 1996 to December 1998 113 patients were admitted to the Department of Clinical Neurosciences in poor grade after SAH (45 WFNS IV and 68 WFNS V). Eighty-one patients were managed actively with endovascular occlusion of the aneurysm (n = 42) where possible and delayed clipping (n = 16) where not. On an intention to treat basis, 46% had a favourable outcome (Glasgow Outcome Score IV or V) and 48% had died by 3 months. Compared to an historical cohort managed in the same unit between 1992 and 1995 (n = 62, 52% favourable outcome) these results suggest that early GDC aneurysmal occlusion has had a minimal impact on overall outcome.




Direction selectivity (DS) of simple cells in the primary visual cortex was recently suggested to arise from short-term synaptic depression in thalamocortical afferents (Chance F, Nelson S, Abbott L (1998), J. Neuroscience 18(12): 4785-4799). In the model, two groups of afferents with spatially displaced receptive fields project through either depressing and non-depressing synapses onto the V1 cell. The degree of synaptic depression determines the temporal phase advance of the response to drifting gratings. We show that the spatial displacement and the appropriate degree of synaptic depression required for DS can develop within an unbiased input scenario by means of temporally asymmetric spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) which modifies both the synaptic strength and the degree of synaptic depression. Moving stimuli of random velocities and directions break any initial receptive field symmetry and produce DS. Frequency tuning curves and subthreshold membrane potentials akin to those measured for non-directional simple cells are thereby changed into those measured for directional cells. If STDP is such that down-regulation dominates up-regulation the overall synaptic strength adapts in a self-organizing way such that eventually the postsynaptic response for the non-preferred direction becomes subthreshold. To prevent unlearning of the acquired DS by randomly changing stimulus directions an additional learning threshold is necessary. To further protect the development of the simple cell properties against noise in the stimulus, asynchronous and irregular synaptic inputs are required.
Mastication has been suggested to increase neuronal activities in various regions of the human brain. However, because of technical difficulties, the fine anatomical and physiological regions linked to mastication have not been fully elucidated. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging during cycles of rhythmic gum-chewing and no chewing, we therefore examined the interaction between chewing and brain regional activity in 17 subjects (aged 20-31 years). In all subjects, chewing resulted in a bilateral increase in blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals in the sensorimotor cortex, supplementary motor area, insula, thalamus, and cerebellum. In addition, in the first three regions, chewing of moderately hard gum produced stronger BOLD signals than the chewing of hard gum. However, the signal was higher in the cerebellum and not significant in the thalamus, respectively. These results suggest that chewing causes regional increases in brain neuronal activities which are related to biting force.

Partial cochlear obstruction is a relatively common finding in candidates for cochlear implants and frequently involves the inferior segment of the scala tympani in the basal turn of the cochlea. In such patients, the scala vestibuli is often patent and offers an alternative site for implantation. The current report describes two patients with such partial obstruction of the inferior segment of the basal cochlear turn, caused in one case by systemic vasculitis (Takayasu's disease) and in the other by obliterative otosclerosis. A scala vestibuli implantation allowed for complete insertion of the electrode array. No problems were encountered during the surgical procedures and the good post-operative hearing and communicative outcomes achieved were similar to those reported in patients without cochlear ossification. The importance of accurate pre-operative radiological study of the inner ear is underscored, to disclose the presence and define the features of the cochlear ossification and ultimately to properly plan the surgical approach.


In addition to well-known N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, recent studies suggest that non-NMDA type ionotropic glutamate receptors are also important mediators of excitotoxic neuronal death, and that their functional expression can be regulated by the cellular environment. In this study, we used cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) in culture to investigate kainate (KA)-induced excitotoxicity. Although previous reports indicated that KA induces apoptosis of CGCs in culture, no KA-induced excitotoxic cell death was observed in CGCs treated with KA when cells were maintained in high potassium media (24 mm K+). In contrast, when mature CGCs were shifted into low potassium media (3 mm K+), KA produced significant excitotoxicity. In electrophysiological studies, the KA-induced inward current density was significantly elevated in CGCs shifted into low K+ media compared with those maintained in high K+ media. Non-desensitizing aspects of KA currents observed in this study suggest that these responses were mediated by AMPA rather than KA receptors. In immunofluorescence studies, the surface expression of GluR1 subunits increased when mature CGCs were shifted into a low K+ environment. This study suggests that KA-induced excitotoxicity in mature CGCs is dependent upon the extracellular potassium concentration, which modulates functional expression and excitability of AMPA/KA receptors.
Stressful events are accompanied by modifications in dopaminergic transmission in distinct brain regions. As the activity of the neuronal dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) is considered to be a critical mechanism for determining the extent of DA receptor activation, we investigated whether a 3-week exposure to unavoidable stress, which produces a reduction in DA output in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), would affect DAT density and DA D1 receptor complex activity in the NAcS, mPFC and caudate-putamen (CPu). Rats exposed to unavoidable stress showed a decreased DA output in the NAcS accompanied by a decrease in the number of DAT binding sites, and an increase in the number of DA D1 binding sites and Vmax of SKF 38393-stimulated adenylyl cyclase. In the mPFC, stress exposure produced a decrease in DA output with no modification in DAT binding or in DA D1 receptor complex activity. Moreover, in the CPu stress exposure induced no changes in DA output or in the other neurochemical variables examined. This study shows that exposure to a chronic unavoidable stress that produces a decrease in DA output in frontomesolimbic areas induced several adaptive neurochemical modifications selectively in the nucleus accumbens.
A single point mutation in peripheral myelin protein 22 (pmp22) of the Trembler-J (TrJ) mouse models the human peripheral neuropathy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 A (CMT1A). An unexplored aspect of this disease is the gradual remodeling of the extracellular matrix in affected nerves. To elucidate the mechanism responsible for these changes, the levels of the extracellular matrix molecules laminin, collagen IV, and fibronectin were determined. In TrJ nerves, laminin is modestly increased while full-length forms of collagen IV and fibronectin are decreased. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are known to degrade multiple matrix molecules; therefore, nerves were assayed for MMP-2 and MMP-9 proteins. In neuropathy nerves, elevated levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were detected on western blots, and gelatin zymography confirmed the up-regulation of gelatinalytic activity in affected samples. Immunostaining studies revealed an increase in the numbers of MMP-2- and MMP-9-expressing cells in TrJ nerves. Cell type-specific immunolabeling showed that infiltrating macrophages are a significant source of both MMP-2 and MMP-9. Finally, the degradation of exogenous collagen IV by TrJ nerve lysates was prevented with a specific MMP inhibitor. Together these observations suggest that infiltration by MMP-expressing macrophages contributes to the remodeling of the TrJ nerve matrix.
The goal of this study was to understand how dopamine receptors, which are activated during psychostimulant administration, might influence glutamate-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity that are increasingly recognized as important to drug addiction. Regulation of the surface expression of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 plays a critical role in long-term potentiation, a well-characterized form of synaptic plasticity. Primary cultures of rat nucleus accumbens neurons were used to examine whether dopamine receptor stimulation influences cell surface expression of GluR1, detected using antibody to the extracellular portion of GluR1 and fluorescence microscopy. Surface GluR1 labeling on processes of medium spiny neurons and interneurons was increased by brief (5-15 min) incubation with a D1 agonist (1 microm SKF 81297). This effect was attenuated by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (10 microm) and reproduced by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin (10 microm). Labeling was decreased by glutamate (10-50 microm, 15 min). These results are the first to demonstrate modulation of AMPA receptor surface expression by a non-glutamatergic G protein-coupled receptor. Normally, this may enable ongoing regulation of AMPA receptor transmission in response to changes in the activity of dopamine projections to the nucleus accumbens. When dopamine receptors are over-stimulated during chronic drug administration, this regulation may be disrupted, leading to inappropriate plasticity in neuronal circuits governing motivation and reward.
Mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS1) gene cause early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) by a mechanism believed to involve perturbed endoplasmic reticulum (ER) function and altered proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein. We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying cell death and ER dysfunction in cultured cells and knock-in mice expressing FAD PS1 mutations. We report that PS1 mutations cause a marked increase in basal protein levels of the pro-apoptotic transcription factor Gadd153. PS1 mutations increase Gadd153 protein translation without affecting mRNA levels, while decreasing levels of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Moreover, an exaggerated Gadd153 response to stress induced by ER stress agents was observed in PS1 mutant cells. Cell death in response to ER stress is enhanced by PS1 mutations, and this endangering effect is attenuated by anti-sense-mediated suppression of Gadd153 production. An abnormality in the translational regulation of Gadd153 may sensitize cells to the detrimental effects of ER stress and contribute to the pathogenic actions of PS1 mutations in FAD.
The neuromodulator adenosine mediates dark-adaptive changes in retinal photoreceptors through A(2a) receptors. In cold-blooded vertebrates, opsin mRNA expression is lower at night than during the day. In the present study, we tested whether adenosine could inhibit opsin mRNA expression in cultured rod cells and if endogenous adenosine acts to suppress opsin mRNA in the intact retina at night. Semi-quantitative in situ hybridization showed that treatment with 100 nm of the A(2a)/A(2b) agonist N(6)-[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(2-methylphenyl)-ethyl]adenosine (DPMA) reduced opsin mRNA 41% in cultured rod cells. The effect of DPMA was blocked by 10 microm of the A(2a) antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) but not by 10 microm of the A(2b) antagonist alloxazine. One micromolar adenosine alone had no effect on opsin mRNA. However, in the presence of the adenosine deaminase inhibitor erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine hydrochloride (EHNA), 1 microm adenosine reduced opsin mRNA 61%. EHNA alone reduced opsin mRNA by 26%. Consistent with an A(2a) receptor mechanism, 100 nm forskolin (adenylate cyclase agonist) decreased opsin mRNA 34%. Finally, northern blots showed that intravitreal injection of 10 microm CSC at night increased opsin I mRNA 38%. Thus, endogenous adenosine suppresses rod opsin I mRNA expression at night; in vitro results indicate this reduction occurs through A(2a)-like receptor binding and stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity.
Human albumin therapy is highly neuroprotective in focal cerebral ischemia. Because albumin is the main carrier of free fatty acids (FFA) in plasma, we investigated the content and composition of plasma FFA in jugular vein (JV), femoral artery (FA) and femoral vein (FV) of rats given intravenous human albumin (1.25 g/kg) or saline vehicle (5 mL/kg) 1 h after a 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) or sham surgery. Arachidonic acid was the only FFA significantly increased by MCAo in all plasma samples prior to albumin administration, remaining at the same level regardless of subsequent treatments. Albumin treatment induced in both MCAo- and sham-groups a 1.7-fold increase in total plasma FFA (mainly 16:0, 18:1, 18:2n-6) during 90-min reperfusion. MCAo selectively stimulated the albumin-mediated mobilization of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), with an early increase in 22:5n-3 and 22:6n-3 in the FA prior to detectable changes in the JV. In the MCAo-albumin group, the lower level of FFA in JV as compared with FA and FV suggests an albumin-mediated systemic mobilization and supply of FFA to the brain, which may favor the replenishment of PUFA lost from cellular membranes during ischemia and/or to serve as an alternative source of energy, thus contributing to albumin neuroprotection.
The preoptic area is an important brain region controlling sex-typic behaviour and physiology, and astrocytes of this region are responsive to steroids perinatally. Utilizing glial fibrillary acidic protein immunocytochemistry, the morphology of astrocytes in the preoptic area of male and female rat pups was examined on the day of birth and on postnatal day 3. As early as the day of birth, astrocytes of the male preoptic area exhibit both significantly greater primary process length and number of primary processes, and these differences remain at postnatal day 3. Application of exogenous steroid to females suggested that gonadal steroids, in particular oestradiol, mediate the sex difference. Pups received 100 micro g of steroid on the day of birth and again on postnatal day 1, and astrocyte morphology was assessed on postnatal day 3. Both oestradiol and testosterone induced significant changes in process length and number compared to vehicle-treated controls. Astrocytes of oestradiol-treated females did not differ on PN3 from those of PN3-untreated males. Exposure to the nonaromatizable steroid, dihydrotestosterone, had no effect on any attribute of astrocyte morphology. This suggests the effects induced by testosterone are mediated by oestradiol following local aromatization of the steroid, and not through direct activation of the androgen receptor. Astrocytes are important in synapse formation and efficacy, and we hypothesize a role for astrocyte complexity and differentiation in the establishment of synaptic patterning.

A link between myelin basic protein (MBP) polymorphism and multiple sclerosis (MS) has been reported in some populations but not in others. We analysed two polymorphisms in the 5' flanking region of the MBP exon 1 gene in MS patients from the founder population of Sardinia. Using the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT), MBP polymorphisms were analysed in 363 singleton MS families. No distortion in transmission of the tetranucleotide repeat (ATGG)12 and of the 1116-1540 nt alleles was found. Moreover, we discovered no epistatic effect of the MBP gene on the HLA/MHC DRB1,DQB1, DPB1 loci or on alleles defined by D6S1683 marker found to be associated with MS in Sardinians. We concluded that the MBP gene does not play a role in MS susceptibility in Sardinians.
Causes of cognitive impairment after stroke are not yet clear because a large number of sociodemographic and clinical variables complicate the understanding of the phenomenon. We aim to evaluate sociodemographic and clinical predictors of cognitive level and depression in subjects with different lesion laterality. We assessed 153 right (n = 87) and left (n = 66) unilateral first-ever stroke patients within the first year of illness with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV-Patient Edition, the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale, the State Trait Anger Expression Inventory, the Barthel Index, and the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE). Sociodemographic variables were also measured. Sixty-two (41 %) patients suffered from Major Depression (MDD), and 26 (17 %) suffered from Minor Depression (MIND). An univariate analysis of variance showed that MMSE scores were different throughout the groups of left and right stroke patients with MDD, MIND and without depression. Left stroke patients with MDD were more cognitively impaired than all the other groups. This result was valid after controlling for the effect of lesion location on cognitive level difference between the groups. A series of stepwise multiple regression analyses indicated that depression severity was a predictor of cognitive level and vice-versa in left hemispheric stroke patients only. Moreover, educational level in right hemispheric stroke patients and state-anger and number of regions affected in left hemispheric stroke patients were other predictors of cognitive level. The study confirms the hypothesis that predictors of cognitive level and depression severity are different in subjects with different laterality of lesion and that MDD is associated with cognitive impairment in left stroke patients.
There have been significant developments in ultrasound technology in the last few years which have resulted in an increase in the clinical value of this technique. An illustrative case is presented of how ultrasound technology has been used in the intraoperative and postoperative period to evaluate graft patency and function in patients undergoing extracranial-intracranial bypass graft surgery.



In Singapore astrocytic tumours occur in only 25% of patients with primary brain tumours compared to 40-60% in other series. Glioblastoma multiforme arises either de novo as a primary glioblastomas associated with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and mdm2 over-expression or as a secondary glioblastomas, through malignant progression from low-grade astrocytomas, associated with p53 mutations and PDGFR-alpha over-expression. Using immunohistochemical methods and DNA sequencing, we studied our population of glioblastomas for overexpression of EGFR, mdm2, p53, and PDGFR-alpha as well directly for mutations of the p53 gene. While levels of over-expression of EGFR and mdm2 were consistent with levels expected for primary glioblastomas, levels of p53 and PDGFR-alpha were consistent with levels documented for secondary glioblastomas. Notably 96% of the samples over-expressed p53 as detected with monoclonal antibody pAb 240. Of the 39 samples available for DNA sequencing 18% (7/39) had p53 mutations, including three mutations previously undocumented in glioblastomas. These results provide strong evidence that glioblastomas in Asian patients do not conform to currently accepted models of glioblastoma development, and that clinically defined glioblastomas in these patients show genetic changes consistent with both 'primary' and 'secondary' glioblastomas.
Malignant gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors in humans. However, poor response to conventional therapeutic approaches, including chemotherapy, leads invariably to disease recurrence and progression. The organo-tin derivative triethyltin(IV)lupinylsulfide hydrochloride (IST-FS 29) was identified and developed as potential antiproliferative agent in human cancer cell lines. However, for its peculiar chemical structure and good lipophilicity, this compound also appeared an eligible candidate for the treatment of gliobastoma cells. The present experiments were designed to explore the in vitro effects of IST-FS 29 on four human glioblastoma cell lines: A-172, DBTRG.05MG, U-87MG and CAS-1. The average IC50 values were obtained by MTT assay and ranged between 3 and 10 microM. Time-course assays with cell recovery after drug withdrawal, demonstrated marked cytotoxicity following exposure to IST-FS 29 for 8, 24 and 72 h. Cultures treated for 8 h were able to partially re-grow by 144 h; on the contrary, longer times of exposure did not allow surviving cells to recover from the damage and actively proliferate. Cell morphology of cultures exposed to IST-FS 29 was assessed by inverted light microscopy after 24 and 72 h and was more consistent with cell death by necrosis which included cell size reduction, vacuolation of cytoplasm, round dying cells. The present results and our previous data, in vitro and in vivo, indicate the relevant cytotoxic activity of this organo-tin compound and suggest that IST-FS 29 might be a promising novel agent to be developed for the treatment of malignant brain neoplasms.
The geometry of gaze stabilization during head translation requires eye movements to scale proportionally to the inverse of target distance. Such a scaling has indeed been demonstrated to exist for the translational vestibuloocular reflex (TVOR), as well as optic flow-selective translational visuomotor reflexes (e.g., ocular following, OFR). The similarities in this scaling by a neural estimate of target distance for both the TVOR and the OFR have been interpreted to suggest that the two reflexes share common premotor processing. Because the neural substrates of OFR are partly shared by those for the generation of pursuit eye movements, we wanted to know if the site of gain modulation for TVOR and OFR is also part of a major pathway for pursuit. Thus, in the present studies, we investigated in rhesus monkeys whether initial eye velocity and acceleration during the open-loop portion of step ramp pursuit scales with target distance. Specifically, with visual motion identical on the retina during tracking at different distances (12, 24, and 60 cm), we compared the first 80 ms of horizontal pursuit. We report that initial eye velocity and acceleration exhibits either no or a very small dependence on vergence angle that is at least an order of magnitude less than the corresponding dependence of the TVOR and OFR. The results suggest that the neural substrates for motor scaling by target distance remain largely distinct from the main pathway for pursuit.
Primates can generate accurate, smooth eye-movement responses to moving target objects of arbitrary shape and size, even in the presence of complex backgrounds and/or the extraneous motion of non-target objects. Most previous studies of pursuit have simply used a spot moving over a featureless background as the target and have thus neglected critical issues associated with the general problem of recovering object motion. Visual psychophysicists and theoreticians have shown that, for arbitrary objects with multiple features at multiple orientations, object-motion estimation for perception is a complex, multi-staged, time-consuming process. To examine the temporal evolution of the motion signal driving pursuit, we recorded the tracking eye movements of human observers to moving line-figure diamonds. We found that pursuit is initially biased in the direction of the vector average of the motions of the diamond's line segments and gradually converges to the true object-motion direction with a time constant of approximately 90 ms. Furthermore, transient blanking of the target during steady-state pursuit induces a decrease in tracking speed, which, unlike pursuit initiation, is subsequently corrected without an initial direction bias. These results are inconsistent with current models in which pursuit is driven by retinal-slip error correction. They demonstrate that pursuit models must be revised to include a more complete visual afferent pathway, which computes, and to some extent latches on to, an accurate estimate of object direction over the first hundred milliseconds or so of motion.
Section of rat sciatic nerve (axotomy) increases the excitability of neurons in the L(4)-L(5) dorsal root ganglia (DRG). These changes are more pronounced in animals that exhibit a self-mutilatory behavior known as autotomy. We used whole cell recording to examine changes in the tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) and the tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) components of sodium channel currents (I(Na)) that may contribute to axotomy-induced increases in excitability. Cells were initially divided on the basis of size into &quot;large,&quot; &quot;medium,&quot; and &quot;small&quot; groups. TTX-S I(Na) predominated in &quot;large&quot; cells, whereas TTX-R I(Na) predominated in some, but not all &quot;small cells.&quot; &quot;Small&quot; cells were therefore subdivided into &quot;small-slow&quot; cells, which predominantly exhibited TTX-R I(Na) and &quot;small fast&quot; cells that exhibited more TTX-S I(Na). In contrast to results obtained in other laboratories, where slightly different experimental procedures were used, we found that axotomy increased TTX-R and/or TTX-S I(Na) and slowed inactivation. The effects were greatest in &quot;small-slow&quot; cells and least in &quot;large&quot; cells. The changes promoted by axotomy were expressed more clearly in animals that exhibited autotomy. Also, the presence of autotomy correlated with a shift in the properties of I(Na) in &quot;large&quot; rather than &quot;small-slow,&quot; putative nociceptive cells. These trends parallel previous observations on axotomy-induced increases in excitability, spike height, and spike width that are also greatest in &quot;small&quot; cells and least in &quot;large&quot; cells. In addition, the presence of autotomy correlates with an increase in excitability of &quot;large&quot; rather than &quot;small&quot; cells. Increases in TTX-R and TTX-S I(Na) thus coincide with axotomy-induced increases in excitability and alterations in spike shape across the whole population of sensory neurons. Injury-induced changes of this type are likely associated with the onset of chronic pain in humans.
Recurrent epileptiform activity occurs spontaneously in cultured CNS neurons and in brain slices in which GABA inhibition has been blocked. We demonstrate here that pharmacological treatments resulting in either the block of glutamine production by astrocytes or the inhibition of glutamine uptake by neurons suppress or markedly decrease the frequency of spontaneous epileptiform discharges both in primary hippocampal cultures and in disinhibited hippocampal slices. These data point to an important role for the neuron-astrocyte metabolic interaction in sustaining episodes of intense rhythmic activity in the CNS, and thereby reveal a new potential target for antiepileptic treatments.
Recent physiological studies show that neural responses correlated with the perception of brightness are found in cortical area V1 but not earlier in the visual pathway (Kayama et al., 1979; Reid and Shapley, 1989; Squatrito et al., 1990; Komatsu et al., 1996; Rossi et al., 1996; MacEvoy et al., 1998; Rossi and Paradiso, 1999; Hung et al., 2001; Kinoshita and Komatsu, 2001; MacEvoy and Paradiso, 2001). However, these studies are based on comparisons of neural responses in animals with brightness perception in humans. Very little is known about the perception of brightness in animals typically used in physiological experiments. In this study, we quantify brightness discrimination, brightness induction, and White's effect in macaque monkeys. The results show that, qualitatively and quantitatively, the perception of brightness in macaques and humans is quite similar. This similarity may be an indication of common underlying neural computations in the two species.
In adult male rats, spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) motoneurons shrink after castration and are restored in size after androgen treatment. Sixty-day-old Sprague Dawley males were castrated and implanted with SILASTIC capsules containing testosterone (T) or nothing, and osmotic minipumps continuously infusing MK-801, a noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, or saline. Twenty-five days later, bulbocavernosus muscles were injected with the retrograde tracer cholera toxin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate (CT-HRP) to label SNB cells. As seen previously, among saline-treated rats, SNB somata of T-treated castrates were significantly larger than those of castrates receiving blank capsules (p &lt; 0.0001). MK-801 treatment blocked this effect of T on the SNB. MK-801 had no effect on non-androgen-responsive spinal motoneurons in the neighboring retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN), nor did the drug affect SNB soma size in the absence of androgen treatment. Motoneuronal soma size in Nissl stain revealed the same pattern of results seen with CT-HRP fills. In situ hybridization indicated that SNB motoneurons express mRNA for the NMDA receptor subunits R1, R2a, and R2b. Castration reduced the expression of R1 mRNA in SNB motoneurons, an effect that was blocked by androgen replacement in castrates. R2A and R2B mRNA expression in SNB cells was not affected by androgen manipulations. Likewise, androgen manipulations had no effect on the expression of any NMDA receptor subtypes in RDLN motoneurons. These results suggest that androgen affects the size of SNB motoneurons by influencing their expression of the NMDA receptor, and therefore the response of the motoneurons to endogenous glutamate.
The olfactory system detects small differences in the composition of natural odorants, made up of hundreds of molecules. Odorous quality is hypothetically represented by a combinatorial code: activation of distinct but overlapping subsets of olfactory receptors resulting in activation of a distinct subset of glomeruli in the main olfactory bulb (MOB). Here we show that modification of a single gene (the K gene of the major histocompatibility locus), which results in a subtle change in the odiferous quality of urine, causes a small but significant change in the composition of urine volatiles and consequently the evoked glomerular activation pattern in the MOB. The magnitude of disparity between urine-evoked glomerular activation patterns is predictive of the extent of (1) the genetic difference among the urine donors, (2) the difference in the chemical composition of urine, and (3) the odor detector's ability to discriminate. These data on natural odors are consistent with the combinatorial code hypothesis and identify subsets of glomeruli that are apt to play a significant role in mediating individual recognition.
Various computational approaches have been applied to predict aspects of animal behavior from the recorded activity of populations of neurons. Here we invert this process to predict the requisite neuromuscular activity associated with specified motor behaviors. A probabilistic method based on Bayes' theorem was used to predict the patterns of muscular activity needed to produce various types of desired finger movements. The profiles of predicted activity were then used to drive frequency-modulated muscle stimulators to evoke multijoint finger movements. Comparison of movements generated by electrical stimulation with desired movements yielded root mean squared errors between approximately 18 and 26%. This reasonable correspondence between desired and evoked movements suggests that this approach might serve as a useful strategy to control neuroprosthetic systems that aim to restore movement to paralyzed individuals.
To determine whether there is a critical period for development of eye-specific layers in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), we prevented the normal segregation of retinogeniculate afferents and then allowed an extended period of time for recovery. After recovery, both anatomy and physiology revealed strictly nonoverlapping territories of input from the two eyes. However, the normal stereotyped pattern of eye-specific afferent and cellular layers never developed. Instead, the eye-specific territories of afferent input emerged as variable and disorganized patches with no corresponding interlaminar spaces in the LGN. These findings reveal a critical period for coordinating the development of three processes in the LGN: the segregation of afferents from the two eyes, the spatial organization of those afferents into layers, and the alignment of postsynaptic cytoarchitecture with the afferent inputs. We also assessed the physiological consequences of preventing normal lamination and found normal single-cell responses and topographic representation of visual space in the LGN. Clusters of ON-center and OFF-center LGN cells were segregated from one another as in normal animals. However, the organization of ON and OFF sublaminas in the treated animals was disrupted.
One of the most striking aspects of the cellular pattern within the sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea is the presence of two rows of pillar cells in the region between the single row of inner hair cells and the first row of outer hair cells. The factors that regulate pillar cell development have not been determined; however, previous results suggested a key role for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3). To examine the specific effects of FGFR3 on pillar cell development, we inhibited receptor activation in embryonic cochlear explant cultures. Results indicated that differentiation of pillar cells is dependent on continuous activation of FGFR3. Moreover, transient inhibition of FGFR3 did not inhibit the pillar cell fate permanently, because reactivation of FGFR3 resulted in the resumption of pillar cell differentiation. The effects of increased FGFR3 activation were determined by exposing cochlear explants to FGF2, a strong ligand for several FGF receptors. Treatment with FGF2 led to a significant increase in the number of pillar cells and to a small increase in the number of inner hair cells. These effects were not dependent on cellular proliferation, suggesting that additional pillar cells and inner hair cells were a result of increased recruitment into the prosensory domain. These results indicate that FGF signaling plays a critical role in the commitment and differentiation of pillar cells. Moreover, the position of the pillar cells appears to be determined by the activation of FGFR3 in a subset of the progenitor cells that initially express this receptor.
Pathfinding by nerve growth cones depends on attractive and repulsive turning in response to a variety of guidance cues. Here we present direct evidence to demonstrate an essential and instructive role for microtubules (MTs) in growth cone steering. First, both growth cone attraction and repulsion induced by diffusible cues in culture can be completely blocked by low concentrations of drugs that specifically inhibit dynamic microtubule ends in the growth cone. Second, direct focal photoactivated release of the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol on one side of the growth cone consistently induces attraction (turning toward the site of application). Using the focal pipette application method, we also show that local MT stabilization by taxol induces growth cone attraction, whereas local MT destabilization by the microtubule-disrupting drug nocodazole induces repulsion (turning away). Finally, the microtubule-initiated attractive turning requires the participation of the actin cytoskeleton: local microtubule stabilization induces preferential protrusion of lamellipodia before the attractive turning, and the attraction can be abolished by inhibition of either actin polymerization or the Rho family GTPases. Together, these results demonstrate a novel steering mechanism for growth cones in which local and selective modification of dynamic microtubules can initiate and instruct directional steering. With the subsequent concerted activity of the actin cytoskeleton, this microtubule-initiated mechanism provides the growth cone with the additional means to efficiently navigate through its environment.
The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) is an abundant neuronal cell surface receptor that regulates amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) trafficking into the cell. Specifically, LRP binds secreted Abeta complexes and mediates its degradation. Previously, we have shown in vitro that the uptake of Abeta mediated by LRP is protective and that blocking this receptor significantly enhances neurotoxicity. To further characterize the effects of LRP and other lipoprotein receptors on Abeta deposition, an in vivo model of decreased LRP expression, receptor-associated protein (RAP)-deficient (RAP-/-) mice was crossed with human amyloid protein precursor transgenic (hAPP tg) mice, and plaque formation and neurodegeneration were analyzed. We found that, although the age of onset for plaque formation was the same in hAPP tg and hAPP tg/RAP-/- mice, the amount of amyloid deposited doubled in the hAPP tg/RAP-/- background. Moreover, these mice displayed increased neuronal damage and astrogliosis. Together, these results further support the contention that LRP and other lipoprotein receptors might be neuroprotective against Abeta toxicity and that this receptor might play an integral role in Abeta clearance.
Although positive and negative signals control neurogenesis in the embryo, factors regulating postnatal proliferation are less well characterized. In the vertebrate cerebellum, Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) is an efficacious mitogen for cerebellar granule neuron precursors (GNPs), and mutations activating the Shh pathway are linked to medulloblastoma, a tumor derived from GNPs. Although the mitogenic effects of Shh can be blocked by increasing cAMP or protein kinase A activity, the physiological factors antagonizing this stimulation are undefined. In the embryo, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) receptor 1 (PAC1) signaling regulates neural precursor proliferation. We now show that in the developing cerebellum, PAC1 mRNA colocalizes with gene transcripts for Shh receptor Patched 1 and target gene Gli1 in the external germinal layer. We consequently investigated the interactions of PACAP and Shh in proliferation of purified GNPs in culture. Shh exhibited mitogenic activity in both rat and mouse cultures, stimulating DNA synthesis approximately 10-fold after 48 hr of exposure. PACAP markedly inhibited Shh-induced thymidine incorporation by 50 and 85% in rat and mouse GNPs, respectively, but did not significantly affect the stimulation induced by other mitogens. This selective effect was reproduced by the specific PAC1 agonist maxadilan, as well as by the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin, suggesting that PAC1 provides a potent inhibitory signal for Shh-induced proliferation in developing cerebellum. In contrast, in the absence of Shh, PACAP and maxadilan modestly stimulated DNA synthesis, an effect reproduced by activating protein kinase C. These observations suggest that G-protein-coupled receptors, such as PAC1, serve as sensors of environmental cues, coordinating diverse neurogenetic signals.
Transmitter release at the hippocampal mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 synapse exhibits robust use-dependent short-term plasticity with an extremely wide dynamic range. Recent studies revealed that presynaptic kainate receptors (KARs), which specifically localized on the MF axons, mediate unusually large facilitation at this particular synapse in concert with the action of residual Ca2+. However, it is currently unclear how activation of kainate autoreceptors enhances transmitter release in an activity-dependent manner. Using fluorescence recordings of presynaptic Ca2+ and voltage in hippocampal slices, here we demonstrate that paired-pulse stimulation (with 20-200 msec intervals) resulted in facilitation of Ca2+ influx into the MF terminals, as opposed to other synapses, such as the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse. These observations deviate from typical residual Ca2+ hypothesis of facilitation, assuming an equal amount of Ca2+ influx per action potential. Pharmacological experiments reveal that the facilitation of presynaptic Ca2+ influx is mediated by activation of KARs. We also found that action potentials of MF axons are followed by prominent afterdepolarization, which is partly mediated by activation of KARs. Notably, the time course of the afterdepolarization approximates to that of the paired-pulse facilitation of Ca2+ influx, suggesting that these two processes are closely related to each other. These results suggest that the novel mechanism amplifying presynaptic Ca2+ influx may underlie the robust short-term synaptic plasticity at the MF-CA3 synapse in the hippocampus, and this process is mediated by KARs whose activation evokes prominent afterdepolarization of MF axons and thereby enhances action potential-driven Ca2+ influx into the presynaptic terminals.
Activation of microglia commonly occurs in response to a wide variety of pathological stimuli including trauma, axotomy, ischemia, and degeneration in the CNS. In the retina, prolonged or high-intensity exposure to visible light leads to photoreceptor cell apoptosis. In such a light-reared retina, we found that activated microglia invade the degenerating photoreceptor layer and alter expression of neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth factor (NGF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Because these neurotrophic factors modulate secondary trophic factor expression in Mller glial cells, microglia-Mller glia cell interaction may contribute to protection of photoreceptors or increase photoreceptor apoptosis. In the present study, we demonstrate the possibility that such functional glia-glia interactions constitute the key mechanism by which microglia-derived NGF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and CNTF indirectly influence photoreceptor survival, although the receptors for these neurotrophic factors are absent from photoreceptors, by modulating basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and GDNF production and release from Mller glia. These observations suggest that microglia regulate the microglia-Mller glia-photoreceptor network that serves as a trophic factor-controlling system during retinal degeneration.
Mutations in the neurofibromatosis type 1 gene predispose patients to develop benign peripheral nerve tumors (neurofibromas) containing Schwann cells (SCs). SCs from neurofibromatosis type-1 gene (Nf1) null mutant mice showed increased levels of Ras-GTP and cAMP. The proliferation and differentiation of SCs are regulated by Ras-GTP and cAMP-mediated signaling, which have been linked to expression of K+ channels. We investigated the differential expression of K+ currents in Nf1 null mutant SCs (Nf1-/-) and their wild-type (Nf1+/+) counterparts and determined the mechanisms underlying the differences. The current densities of the sustained component of K+ currents were similar in the two genotypes. However, Nf1-/- SCs showed a significant increase (approximately 1.5-fold) in a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive transient outward K+ current (I(A)). Nonstationary fluctuation analysis revealed a significant increase in the number of functional channels in the null mutant cells. When the involvement of the Ras pathway in the modulation of the K+ current was examined using adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of a dominant-negative H-Ras N17 or the known H-Ras inhibitor (L-739,749), an additional increase in I(A) was observed. In contrast, protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors, H89 and [PKI(2-22)amide] attenuated the enhancement of the current in the Nf1-/- cells, suggesting that the increase in I(A) was mediated via activation of protein kinase A. The unitary conductance of the channel underlying I(A) was unaltered by inhibitors of PKA. Activation of I(A) is thus negatively regulated by Ras-GTP and positively regulated by PKA.
The effect of GABA on membrane potential and ionic currents of X-organ neurons isolated from the crayfish eyestalk was investigated. Under voltage-clamp conditions, GABA elicited an inward Na+ current followed by a sustained outward chloride current. Sodium current was partially blocked in a dose-dependent manner by antagonists of GABA plasma membrane transporters such as beta-alanine, nipecotic acid, 1-[2([(diphenylmethylene)imino]oxy)ethyl]-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride (NO 711), and SKF89976-A at concentrations between 1 and 100 microm. This current was totally blocked by the combined application of NO 711 (5 microm) and beta-alanine (50 microm). We obtained an EC(50) of 5 microm and a Hill coefficient of 0.97 for the GABA transport mediated response. These results together with studies of immunolocalization using antibodies against neuronal vertebrate GABA transporters (GATs) indicate the presence of GAT-1- and GAT-3-like proteins in X-organ neurons. To isolate the sustained outward Cl- current, extracellular free sodium solution was used to minimize the contribution of GAT activity. We concluded that this current was caused by the activation of GABA(A)-like receptors with an EC50 of 10 microm and a Hill number of 1.7. To assign a functional role to the GATs in the X-organ sinus gland system, we determine the GABA concentration (0.46-0.15 microm) in hemolymph samples using HPLC. In summary, our results suggest that a sodium-dependent electrogenic GABA uptake mechanism has a direct influence on the excitability of the X-organ neurons, maintaining an excitatory tone that is dependent on the circulating GABA level.
Neural activity plays an important role in refinement and plasticity of synaptic connections in developing vertebrate sensory systems. The rodent whisker-barrel pathway is an excellent model system to investigate the role of activity in formation of patterned neural connections and their plasticity. When whiskers on the snout or the sensory nerves innervating them are damaged during a critical period in development, whisker-specific patterns are altered along the trigeminal pathway, including the primary somatosensory (S1) cortex. In this context, NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated activity has been implicated in patterning and plasticity of somatosensory maps. Using CxNR1KO mice, in which NMDAR1 (NR1), the essential NMDAR subunit gene, is disrupted only in excitatory cortical neurons, we showed that NMDAR-mediated activity is essential for whisker-specific patterning of barrel cells in layer IV of the S1 cortex. In CxNR1KO mice, thalamocortical axons (TCAs) representing the large whiskers segregate into rudimentary patches, but barrels as cellular modules do not develop. In this study, we examined lesion-induced TCA plasticity in CxNR1KO mice. TCA patterns underwent normal structural plasticity when their peripheral inputs were altered after whisker lesions during the critical period. The extent of the lesion-induced morphological plasticity and the duration of the critical period were quantitatively indistinguishable between CxNR1KO and control mice. We conclude that TCA plasticity in the neocortex is independent of postsynaptic NMDAR activity in excitatory cortical neurons, and that non-NMDAR-mediated cortical activity and/or subcortical mechanisms must be operational in this process.
Motoneurons are an essential component of all metazoan nervous systems, but it is unknown whether there is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for generating motoneurons during neurogenesis. In the vertebrate CNS, HB9/MNR2 transcription factors are specifically expressed in all somatic motoneurons and are necessary to distinguish motoneurons from interneurons, in part by repressing interneuron-specific gene expression. Here, we identify and characterize the single Drosophila ortholog of the HB9/MNR2 gene family. Drosophila HB9 is detected in a subset of motoneurons with ventral muscle targets and in a small group of interneurons, including the well characterized serotonergic interneurons. RNA interference knockdown of HB9 levels leads to defects in motoneuron ventral muscle target recognition, ectopic expression of a marker for dorsally projecting motoneurons (Even-skipped), and defects in serotonergic interneuronal projections. Conversely, ectopic HB9 expression causes an expansion of ventral motoneuron projections and repression of Even-skipped. Thus, Drosophila HB9 is required in a subset of motoneurons and interneurons for establishing proper axon projections but does not have a general role in distinguishing motoneuron and interneuron cell types.
Metabolism of amyloid-beta peptide (A beta) is closely associated with the pathology and etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neprilysin is the only rate-limiting catabolic peptidase proven by means of reverse genetics to participate in A beta metabolism in vivo. The aim of the present study is to assess whether possible spatial changes in neprilysin level in the brain with aging correlate to AD-vulnerable regions. When neprilysin levels in various brain regions of 10-, 80- and 132-week-old mice were evaluated by neprilysin-dependent endopeptidase activity assay and Western blot-based quantitative analysis, a clear change in neprilysin level with aging was observed in the hippocampal formation, in which the level was reduced by 20% at 132 weeks, compared to the 10-week group. Quantitative immunohistochemical analysis confirmed a marked local reduction of neprilysin levels with aging at the outer molecular layer and polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus, and the stratum lucidum of the hippocampus, where the densities were reduced by 56%, 82% and 83%, respectively, at 132 weeks compared to the 10-week group. Thus, neprilysin was decreased selectively at the terminal zones and on axons of the lateral perforant path and the mossy fibers. These are the sites that show A beta pathology in mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice, and that show synaptic loss in AD. The immunoreactivities to synaptic vesicle protein-2 and synaptophysin in the stratum lucidum and the dentate gyrus were unchanged, suggesting that a loss or decrease of synapses was not responsible for the decrease in the neprilysin levels. These observations suggest that downregulation of neprilysin is likely to be related to AD pathology and to the A beta deposition associated with normal aging in humans.
We carried out this study to search a new active constituent that had cognitive enhancing activity and low side effects from natural source. We found that the extract of dried root of Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow (BT-11, 10 mg/kg, i.p.) could significantly reverse scopolamine-induced cognitive impairments in rat, using a passive avoidance and a water maze test. We also investigated the effects of BT-11 on neurotoxicity induced by glutamate (Glu) and toxic metabolites of amyloid precursor protein (APP) such as amyloid beta protein (A beta) and C-terminal fragment of APP (CT) in primary cultured neurons of rat. The pretreatment of BT-11 (0.5, 3, and 5 micro g/ml) significantly reduced cell death induced by Glu (1 mM), A beta (10 micro M) and CT105 (10 micro M) in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, BT-11 inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in a dose-dependent and non-competitive manner (IC(50) value; 263.7 micro g/ml). Our novel findings suggest the possibility that this extract may have some protective effects against neuronal death and cognitive impairments in Alzheimer's disease (AD), or other neurodegenerative diseases related to excitotoxicity and central cholinergic dysfunction.
Alterations in transcription, RNA editing, translation, protein processing, and clearance are a consistent feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. To extend our initial study (Alzheimer Reports [2000] 3:161-167), RNA samples isolated from control and AD hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) were analyzed for 12633 gene and expressed sequence tag (EST) expression levels using DNA microarrays (HG-U95Av2 Genechips; Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). Hippocampal CA1 tissues were carefully selected from several hundred potential specimens obtained from domestic and international brain banks. To minimize the effects of individual differences in gene expression, RNA of high spectral quality (A(260/280) &gt; or= 1.9) was pooled from CA1 of six control or six AD subjects. Results were compared as a group; individual gene expression patterns for the most-changed RNA message levels were also profiled. There were no significant differences in age, postmortem interval (mean &lt; or = 2.1 hr) nor tissue pH (range 6.6-6.9) between the two brain groups. AD tissues were derived from subjects clinically classified as CDR 2-3 (CERAD/NIA). Expression data were analyzed using GeneSpring (Silicon Genetics, Redwood City, CA) and Microarray Data Mining Tool (Affymetrix) software. Compared to controls and 354 background/alignment markers, AD brain showed a generalized depression in brain gene transcription, including decreases in RNA encoding transcription factors (TFs), neurotrophic factors, signaling elements involved in synaptic plasticity such as synaptophysin, metallothionein III, and metal regulatory factor-1. Three- or morefold increases in RNAs encoding DAXX, cPLA(2), CDP5, NF-kappaBp52/p100, FAS, betaAPP, DPP1, NFIL6, IL precursor, B94, HB15, COX-2, and CEX-1 signals were strikingly apparent. These data support the hypothesis of widespread transcriptional alterations, misregulation of RNAs involved in metal ion homeostasis, TF signaling deficits, decreases in neurotrophic support and activated apoptotic and neuroinflammatory signaling in moderately affected AD hippocampal CA1.
Neuronal cell death is the central abnormality occurring in brains suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The notion that AD is a disease caused by loss of neurons points toward suppression of neuronal death as the most important therapeutic target. Nevertheless, the mechanisms for neuronal death in AD are still relatively unclear. Three known mutant genes cause familial AD (FAD): amyloid precursor protein, presenilin 1, and presenilin 2. Detailed analysis of cytotoxic mechanisms of the FAD-linked mutant genes reveals that they cause neuronal cell death at physiologically low expression levels. Unexpectedly, cytotoxic mechanisms vary depending on the type of mutations and genes, suggesting that various mechanisms for neuronal cell death are involved in AD patients. In support of this, activity-dependent neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and insulin-like growth factor-I can completely protect neurons from beta-amyloid (A beta) cytotoxicity but exhibit incomplete or little effect on cytotoxicity by FAD mutant genes. By contrast, Humanin, a newly identified 24-residue peptide, suppresses neuronal cell death by various FAD mutants and A beta, whereas this factor has no effect on cytotoxicity from AD-irrelevant insults. Studies investigating death and survival of neuronal cells exposed to AD insults will open a new horizon in developing therapy aimed at neuroprotection.
Finding inhibitors of the first step of the amyloid cascade, A beta (42) generation, is a major goal of Alzheimer's disease drug development. Two target protease activities, beta-and gamma-secretase, were detected more than 10 years ago but progress in this area has been slow because the enzymes were not identified. Using an expression cloning strategy we have identified a novel membrane bound aspartic protease, BACE1, as beta-secretase. The enzyme has been characterized in detail. The X-ray crystal structure, which is critical for rational inhibitor design, has been solved and shown to be similar to that of other pepsin family members. Our recent knockout studies show that BACE1 is critical for A beta generation, but the knockout mice show an otherwise normal phenotype, raising the possibility that therapeutic BACE1 inhibition could be accomplished without major mechanism based toxicity. Target-mediated toxicity of beta-secretase inhibition cannot be ruled out, however, as long as the major substrates of this enzyme are unknown. Although various peptidic beta-secretase inhibitors have been published, the key challenge now is the generation of more drug-like compounds that could be developed for therapeutic purposes. The focus of this review is progress in the beta-secretase field from the identification of the enzyme in 1999 to the most recent publications.
Cognitive function as measured by the Hebb-Williams maze task was examined in Fischer 344 male rats that had been exposed to an enriched environment for periods of variable duration and at different starting ages. In one experiment, rats were exposed to environmental enrichment from weaning until the age of 2.5, 15, or 25 months. The results of 12 problems of the Hebb-Williams maze task showed that the enriched rearing condition improved the learning ability in all the age groups; however, factor analysis and ANOVA demonstrated that four of the 12 maze problems were not suitable for detecting the effect of age under different environmental conditions. Reanalysis of the results obtained with the other eight maze problems more clearly revealed both the effects of rearing condition and aging. The latter analysis demonstrated that the learning rate of rats reared under enriched conditions was faster than that of rats reared under standard social conditions. Short-term (3-month) exposure also had positive effects on cognitive function in both adult (11-month-old) and aged (22-month-old) animals. The effect of long-term exposure to an enriched environment starting at weaning was much greater than that of short-term exposure in aged rats, whereas the effects of both long-term and short-term exposure were almost the same in adult rats. These results show that aged animals still have appreciable plasticity in cognitive function, and suggest that environmental stimulation could benefit aging humans as well.
We examined age-related changes in the turnover rates of synaptic membrane components that might underlie the decrease in synaptic functions in senescence. Synaptic membrane constituents were labeled in vivo with deuterium and the disappearance of the deuterated molecules from synaptic membranes was measured by mass spectrometry. The turnover rates of phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, cholesterol, and synaptophysin were all shown to slow down with aging. Dietary restriction, which is known to retard various aging processes, was found to decrease the turnover rates of membrane lipid species. Consequently, the fatty acid composition in phospholipids remained unchanged in the synaptic plasma membranes of food restricted mice. In contrast, the turnover rate of synaptophysin was accelerated under dietary restriction. This may mean that increased turnover enhances the removal of damaged proteins from membranes.
A fundamental mechanism that is believed to contribute to neuronal injury and death following traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a disruption in cellular calcium homeostasis. Of primary importance to these homeostatic mechanisms are intracellular calcium stores located on the endoplasmic reticulum. These intracellular stores play an important role in maintaining normal levels of calcium and calcium-mediated signaling through these stores is critical to several physiological processes in neurons. Using an in vitro model of stretch-induced traumatic injury and fura-2 digital calcium imaging, we investigated alterations in calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) and inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate (IP(3))-linked signaling through intracellular calcium stores in populations of cultured rat cortical neurons. Caffeine, which stimulates CICR, produced a rapid elevation of intracellular free calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in 70% of uninjured neurons. Fifteen min after injury the population of caffeine-responsive neurons was reduced to 30%. The IP(3)-linked muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonists, CDD-0097 HCl and McN-A-343, produced elevations in [Ca(2+)](i) in 91% and 70% of uninjured neurons, respectively. Following injury the population of responders was reduced to 19% and 26%, respectively. Differential responses to agonists were also noted after injury, in which the majority of neurons within a given culture well were unresponsive to agonists while others elicited a normal elevation of calcium. These results suggest disruptions in intracellular calcium store-mediated signaling and altered calcium signaling population dynamics following injury. These alterations could affect normal neurotransmission in the brain and may contribute to some of the pathology of TBI.
Activation of the gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)-ergic system might protect against the damage that occurs after cerebral ischaemia. We examined this hypothesis by administering diazepam to rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) using the intraluminal thread method. Diffusion MRI (DWI) and perfusion imaging (PI) were acquired during MCAO to assess brain tissue status and haemodynamics, respectively. Rats were intraperitoneally injected with either 10 mg kg(-1) diazepam (n = 5) or vehicle (n = 5) both 30 min and 90 min after the onset of MCAO. To exclude the possibility that neuroprotection was due to the hypothermic action of the drug, body temperature was maintained at 37-38 degrees C for up to 7 h postischaemia with a feed-back controlled thermoregulatory unit. Infarct volumes quantified 2 days after MCAO from T(2)-weighted images were similar in ischaemic control rats and in ischaemic rats treated with diazepam. We conclude that diazepam-induced enhancement of GABA(A) activity does not effectively protect against neuronal damage that occurs after transient MCAO in normothermic rats.
To characterize the effects of morphine on serotonin (5-HT) in the central nervous system, we used microdialysis in freely behaving rats. Subcutaneous injection of morphine sulfate produced a dose-dependent increase in extracellular 5-HT in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and a forebrain site, the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). To determine the site of action for this effect, the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone was infused into either the DRN or NAcc. Naltrexone infusion (300 microM) into the DRN but not the NAcc attenuated the increase in 5-HT elicited by systemic morphine (20 mg/kg). This suggests that morphine acts in the DRN to alter the activity of 5-HT neurons that project to NAcc. Consistent with this conclusion, infusion of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (100 microM) into the DRN but not the NAcc also blocked the effect of systemic morphine. Similarly, the effect of systemic morphine was blocked by infusion into the DRN of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (30 microM) and attenuated by the GABA(B) receptor agonist (+/-)-baclofen (100 microM). This provides evidence that morphine indirectly influences 5-HT release via opioid receptors on GABAergic neurons in the DRN. A new finding is that ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists [kynurenate or a mixture of (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione] infused in the DRN also attenuated the effect of systemic morphine. These results suggest that morphine acts on GABAergic and glutamatergic afferents to indirectly influence the activity of 5-HT neurons in the DRN. Understanding the details of this neural circuitry may provide new leads for treatment of opiate addiction.
Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) is an 18-kDa high-affinity cholesterol and drug ligand-binding protein involved in various cell functions, including cholesterol transport and steroid biosynthesis. To aid our investigation of the biological function of PBR, we have set out to identify functional antagonists. By screening phage display libraries, we have identified peptides that displace the high-affinity PBR benzodiazepine drug ligand, Ro5-4864 (4'-chlorodiazepam). Among these peptides, STPHSTP was the most potent (IC(50) = 10 microM). All of the isolated peptides showed a conserved motif STXXXXP. The role of these peptides in Leydig cell steroidogenesis was examined using a transducible peptide composed of the TAT domain of human immunodeficiency virus and the peptides under investigation. Synthesized peptides efficiently transduced into MA-10 Leydig cells, and the peptide TAT-STPHSTP inhibited Ro5-4864- and human chorionic gonadotropin-stimulated steroid production in a dose-dependent manner (ED(50) = 5 microM). TAT-STPHSTP behaved as a competitive PBR antagonist, which did not affect 22R-hydroxycholesterol-supported steroidogenesis. These results yield leads for the development of potent PBR antagonists and indicate that endogenous PBR agonist-receptor interaction is critical for hormone-induced steroidogenesis.
Repeated cocaine produces enduring neuroadaptations in glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens that are thought to contribute to addiction. Group II metabotropic glutamate autoreceptors (mGluR2/3) regulate glutamate release, and this study investigates whether repeated cocaine injection produces long-lasting alterations in mGluR2/3 content, phosphorylation, and physiology. Rats were administered cocaine daily for 1 week, and 3 weeks after the last injection, mGluR2/3 protein levels were altered in the accumbens and prefrontal cortex (PFC) but not in the dorsal striatum or ventral tegmental area. The level of mGluR2/3 dimer was elevated in the accumbens and PFC and the monomer was reduced in the PFC only. Furthermore, the relative Ser phosphorylation state of the monomer was elevated in both the accumbens and PFC of cocaine-pretreated subjects, whereas the dimer demonstrated negligible phosphorylation in either treatment group. These changes in mGluR2/3 level and phosphorylation state were associated with reduced mGluR2/3 agonist-induced guanosine 5'-3-O -(thio)triphosphate binding in the accumbens and PFC, but not in the dorsal striatum. Stimulation of mGluR2/3 reduces extracellular glutamate by inhibiting Ca(2+)-dependent and cystine/glutamate antiporter-mediated glutamate release. The capacity of the mGluR2/3 agonist 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC) to inhibit [(35)S]cystine uptake via cystine/glutamate antiporter in accumbens tissue slices was reduced by repeated cocaine. Also, the capacity of APDC to reduce the basal and potassium-stimulated extrasynaptic glutamate was significantly blunted in the accumbens of cocaine-pretreated subjects. Together, these data demonstrate that repeated cocaine produces an enduring reduction in mGluR2/3 function in the nucleus accumbens.
Opioid receptor subtypes may have site-specific effects and play different roles in modulating serotonergic neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system. To test this hypothesis, we used in vivo microdialysis to measure changes in extracellular serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) in response to local infusion of mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid receptor ligands into the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), median raphe nucleus (MRN), and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) of freely behaving rats. The mu-opioids [D-Ala(2)-N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO), endomorphin-1, and endomorphin-2 were administered by reverse dialysis infusion into the DRN. In response, extracellular 5-HT was increased in the DRN, an effect that was blocked by the selective mu-receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine, but not by the delta-receptor antagonist N,N-diallyl-Tyr-Aib-Aib-Phe-Leu-OH (ICI-174,864). Infusion of delta-receptor agonists, [D-Ala(2),D-Len(5)]enkephalin (DADLE), [D-Pen(2,5)]enkephalin (DPDPE), and deltophin-II into the DRN also increased extracellular 5-HT, an effect that was blocked by selective delta-receptor antagonists. In contrast to the DRN, local infusion of mu- and delta-opioids had no effect on 5-HT in the MRN or NAcc. These data indicate that mu- and delta-opioid ligands have a selective influence on serotonergic neurons in the DRN. Finally, the kappa-receptor agonist U-50,488 [trans-(+/-)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]benzeneacetamide] produced similar decreases in 5-HT during local infusion into the DRN, MRN, and NAcc. These results provide evidence of differential regulation of 5-HT release by opioid receptor subtypes in the midbrain raphe and forebrain.
Neonatal rat motoneurones are electrically coupled via gap junctions and the incidence of this coupling declines during postnatal development. The mechanisms involved in this developmental regulation of gap junctional communication are largely unknown. Here we have studied the role of NMDA receptor-mediated glutamatergic synaptic activity in the regulation of motoneurone coupling. Gap junctional coupling was demonstrated by the presence of graded, short latency depolarising potentials following ventral root stimulation, and by the transfer of the low molecular weight tracer Neurobiotin to neighbouring motoneurones. Sites of close apposition between the somata and/or dendrites of the dye-coupled motoneurones were identified as potential sites of gap junctional coupling. Early postnatal blockade of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors using the non-competitive antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK801) arrested the developmental decrease in electrotonic and dye coupling during the first postnatal week. These results suggest that the postnatal increase in glutamatergic synaptic activity associated with the onset of locomotion promote the loss of gap junctional connections between developing motoneurones.

Null genotype of glutathione S-transferase class me (GSTM1(-)) and the plasma level of malondialdehyde (MDA) were determined in normal subjects, epileptics with good seizure control and epileptics with intractable seizure. The frequency of GSTM1(-) of the epileptics with intractable seizure was significantly higher than that of the group with good seizure control and that of the normal subjects. The average plasma level of MDA of the patients with GSTM1(-) genotype was higher than that of the subjects with GSTM1(+) in either the normal or epileptic group. Thus, the GSTM1(-) genotype may be one of the genetic factors involved in the response to anticonvulsant therapy.
Advances in neurology are now possible thanks to the endeavours of a few scientists who in the past laid firm foundations for the study of the nervous system. Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934) was one such pioneer of brain exploration and is acknowledged as the founder of modern neuroscience. He described the structure and organisation of virtually all parts of the nervous system and developed theories, including the neuron doctrine and the law of functional polarisation, that are the cornerstones of neuroscience. In addition to devoting his life to research, Ramn y Cajal was a dedicated teacher and mentor and created a school that greatly contributed to the flourishing of neurology.
Advances in neuroimaging have been central to the expansion of knowledge in the neurosciences over the past 20 years. One of the most important roles of brain imaging is in the selection of patients for acute stroke therapy. Currently, computed tomography (CT) is commonly used to select patients who have had strokes for thrombolytic therapy on the basis of the absence of haemorrhage and, more controversially, the presence of early CT changes of ischaemia. Since patients with ischaemic penumbra are more likely than those without to respond to therapy, identification of patients with this feature will become increasingly important. Although several imaging modalities can identify the penumbra, the most practical is magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showing perfusion-weighted and diffusion-weighted imaging mismatch. Although uncertainties in image interpretation remain, surrogate MRI outcome measures are becoming an important component of translational research. Future developments in imaging technologies may provide other opportunities for surrogate outcome studies.
Probabilistic category learning is often assumed to be an incrementally learned cognitive skill, dependent on nondeclarative memory systems. One paradigm in particular, the weather prediction task, has been used in over half a dozen neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies to date. Because of the growing interest in using this task and others like it as behavioral tools for studying the cognitive neuroscience of cognitive skill learning, it becomes especially important to understand how subjects solve this kind of task and whether all subjects learn it in the same way. We present here new experimental and theoretical analyses of the weather prediction task that indicate that there are at least three different strategies that describe how subjects learn this task. (1) An optimal multi-cue strategy, in which they respond to each pattern on the basis of associations of all four cues with each outcome; (2) a one-cue strategy, in which they respond on the basis of presence or absence of a single cue, disregarding all other cues; or (3) a singleton strategy, in which they learn only about the four patterns that have only one cue present and all others absent. This variability in how subjects approach this task may have important implications for interpreting how different brain regions are involved in probabilistic category learning.
Exploration is the primary way in which rodents gather information about their spatial surroundings. Thus, spatial theories propose that damage to the hippocampus, a structure thought to play a fundamental role in spatial behavior, should disrupt exploration. Exploration in rats is organized. The animals create home bases that are central to exploratory excursions and returns, and hippocampal formation damage alters the organization of exploration by disrupting returns. Mice do not appear to readily establish home bases in novel environments, thus, for this species, it is more difficult to establish the contribution of the hippocampus to exploration. The purpose of the present study was threefold: develop a task in which mice center their exploration from a home base, determine whether the exploratory behavior is organized, and evaluate the role of fimbria-fornix lesions on exploration. Mice were given a novel exploratory task in which their nesting material was placed on a large circular table. Video records of control and fimbria-fornix mice were made in both light and dark (infrared light) conditions. Exploration patterns (outward trips, stops, and homeward trips) were reconstructed from the video records. Control mice centered their activity on their bedding, from which they made circuitous outward trips marked by many stops, and periodic direct returns. The bedding-centered behavior and outward trips of the fimbria-fornix mice were similar to those of the control mice, but significantly fewer direct return trips occurred. The direct homeward trips observed under light and dark conditions were consistent with a dead-reckoning strategy, in which an animal computes its present position and homeward trajectory from self-movement cues generated on the outward trip. Because the fimbria-fornix lesions disrupted the homeward component of exploratory trips, we conclude that the fimbria-fornix may contribute to dead reckoning in mice. The results also show that the home-bedding methodology facilitates the establishment of a home base by mice, thus providing a useful methodology for studies with mice.

Estrogen has profound effects on function and plasticity of the nervous system. Receptors for estrogen (ERs) are expressed by neurons in several areas of the brain. Here we demonstrate that embryonic and adult rat neural stem cells (NSC) express ERalpha and ERbeta, 17beta-Estradiol treatment decreased the proliferation of NSC stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF), which was due to the upregulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor, p21(Cip1). The modulatory effect of 17beta-estradiol on EGF was more pronounced in adult NSC. However, 17beta-estradiol alone increased the proliferation of embryonic, but not adult, NSC. The effect of 17beta-estradiol was inhibited by the ER antagonist, ICI-182780, showing an involvement of ERs. 17beta-Estradiol also increased the ratio of neurons to glia cells in embryonic NSC, but not in adult NSC, suggesting an influence on neurogenesis during embryonic development. The data show that estrogen, via ER, affects the proliferation and differentiation of NSC cells, probably acting in conjunction with other factors governing NSC development.
In the central nervous system, acquisition of regional specification is an important developmental process. The regional specification is reflected by restricted and overlapping expression of homeobox genes, which are regulators of this event. Here, we detail the expression pattern of Lmx1b during late embryonic brain development and show that this gene is expressed in multiple regions and diverse sets of neurons. Noteworthy, the Lmx1b expression domain is shared by Ptx2 in posterior hypothalamic regions and by Ptx3 in the dopaminergic neurons of the ventral midbrain. In addition, the mutual cofactor Ldb1 is expressed in these regions. The expression of these gene sets is maintained in the adult brain. The subthalamic nucleus, where Lmx1b is coexpressed with Ptx2, and the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, where Lmx1b is coexpressed with Ptx3, are both ancillary nuclei of the motor control circuitry, but use different neurotransmitters. These data point to a combinatorial gene network that allows Lmx1b to diversify its regulatory actions by cooperation with specific Ptx genes.
Thyroid hormone (TH) influences multiple aspects of neural development, presumably by controlling the transcriptional activity of TH receptors to modulate gene expression. The mammalian hairless (hr) gene is likely an important component of TH action as 1) hr expression is directly regulated by TH in brain, and 2) the protein encoded by hr (Hr) acts as a corepressor, facilitating transcriptional repression by unliganded TH receptors. Here we examine the properties of endogenous Hr in developing rat brain. Using coimmunoprecipitation, we show that Hr interacts with TH receptor and histone deacetylases (HDACs) in brain extracts. We find that inhibition of HDAC activity impairs Hr-mediated transcriptional repression, indicating that Hr-HDAC interaction is functionally significant. To identify potential sites of Hr action in developing brain, we assessed hr transcript and protein expression. We show that hr is broadly expressed in brain and overlaps with the expression of multiple HDACs in multiple regions including cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. Additionally, Hr expression is TH sensitive and developmentally regulated. The striking correlation of Hr expression with brain regions, cell types, and developmental stages influenced by TH, together with its function as a corepressor, suggests Hr is a key mediator of TH action in developing brain.
Rapid eye movement behavior disorder (RBD) is a recently recognized sleep disorder in which patients are occasionally not paralyzed during the dream portions of sleep. When not idiopathic, this state has been associated primarily with parkinsonian conditions but also with a small number of medications and other neurodegenerative disorders. Dopamine deficiency may play a role in some patients. This report describes the occurrence of a syndrome that appears to be RBD in 6 of 7 patients followed with Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (Machado-Joseph disease). Polysomnography was normal in 1 patient. Two of these patients had had single photon emission computed tomographic imaging of the dopamine transporter 1 year previously.
The basal ganglia, especially the globi pallidi (GP), are highly vulnerable to generalized cerebral anoxia/hypoxia. We report on 2 new cases with delayed-onset generalized dystonia due to cerebral anoxia. The onset of dystonia in both of our patients was delayed by about 2 months. In both cases, the unusual feature was the progressive worsening and the spread of dystonia over many years after delayed onset. Dystonia progressed for 16 years in Case 1 and for 4 years in Case 2. Furthermore, initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of Case 1 showed mild changes of the internal capsule sparing the basal ganglia. Years later, in line with clinical progression, the follow-up MRI scan showed isolated bilateral lesions involving the entire GP. MRI scans in Case 2 showed bilateral lesions of caudate and lentiform nuclei. There may be several mechanisms underlying delayed and progressive symptoms after time-limited brain anoxia. We hypothesize that anoxia-induced excitotoxicity resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent apoptosis may explain, at least partly, the delayed-onset and progressive extrapyramidal syndromes seen in these patients.
Although botulinum toxin A (BTX) has been licensed in Canada for treatment of various movement disorders since 1990, few clinical studies regarding its long-term efficacy and side effects have been reported. We conducted a retrospective analysis of 235 patients who received BTX from our movement disorders clinic over a 10-year period (January 1990 to December 1999). A total of 2,616 treatment cycles (multiple injections) were administered to 235 patients with cervical dystonia (CD), hemifacial spasm (HS), blepharospasm (BP), and other movement disorders. Substantial benefit at 5 years was seen in most patients (90% in BP, 88% in HS, 63% in CD, 100% in jaw closing and lower limb dystonia, and 56% in writer's cramp). Benefit was maintained for up to 10 years in CD, HS, and BP data, with a 75.8% benefit reported. Twenty-eight percent of patients discontinued treatment during the follow-up period due to a variety of reasons. Of these, 9.1% of patients developed primary resistance, and 7.5% of patients secondary resistance. Adverse effects, mostly minor, developed in 27% of patients at any one time, occurring over 4.5% of treatment cycles. These were most frequently reported in blepharospasm (22 of 36 patients in 40 cycles), followed by hemifacial spasm (21 of 70 patients in 46 cycles), and cervical dystonia (17 of 106 in 28 cycles). Only 1.3% of patients discontinued therapy due intolerable adverse effects. The results show that BTX is a safe and effective treatment of various types of movement disorders, and most side effects are well tolerated. Discontinuation for any reason was also low after 5 years. Efficacy was maintained after long periods of treatment with high degree of patient satisfaction.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and network analysis have been used to identify a reproducible pattern of regional metabolic covariation that is associated with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). The activity of this PD-related pattern can be quantified in individual subjects and used to discriminate PD patients from atypical parkinsonians. Because PET is not commonly available, we sought to determine whether similar discrimination could be achieved using more routine single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) perfusion methods. Twenty-three subjects with PD (age, 63 +/- 9 years), 22 subjects with multiple system atrophy (MSA; age, 64 +/- 7 years), and 20 age-matched healthy controls (age, 62 +/- 13 years) underwent SPECT imaging of regional cerebral perfusion with Tc-99m ethylene cysteinate dimer (ECD). Using network analysis, we determined whether a PD-related pattern existed in the SPECT data, and whether its expression discriminated PD from MSA patients. Additionally, we compared the accuracy of group discrimination achieved by this pattern with that of the PET-derived PD-related pattern applied to the SPECT data. Network analysis of the SPECT data identified a significant pattern characterized by relative increases in cerebellar, lentiform, and thalamic perfusion covarying with decrements in the frontal operculum and in the medial temporal cortex. Subject scores for this pattern discriminated PD patients from controls (P &lt; 0.01) and from MSA patients (P &lt; 0.03). Subject scores for the PET-derived PD-related pattern computed in the individual SPECT scans more accurately distinguished PD patients from controls (P &lt; 0.005) and from MSA patients (P = 0.0002). A significant PD-related covariance pattern can be identified in SPECT perfusion data. Moreover, the disease related pattern identified previously with PET can be applied to individual SPECT perfusion scans to provide group discrimination between PD patients, healthy controls, and individuals with MSA. Because of significant individual subject overlap between groups, however, the clinical utility of this method in the differential diagnosis of Parkinsonism remains uncertain.
Thirty-four patients with Parkinson's disease were followed for a mean period of 8 years from the time of initiation of levodopa medication. Levodopa response was charted from the starting point of pharmacological treatment to give a longitudinal point of view of the changes that evolve as the disease progresses. Objective measurements of the motor response to levodopa test-doses were made at approximately three yearly intervals. Motor fluctuations developed in 58% of the patient group after a mean treatment period of 35 months. Dyskinesia developed in parallel with fluctuations but appeared on average 7 months before symptomatic wearing-off effects of levodopa doses. The patients with motor fluctuations had significantly better responses to levodopa. By contrast, nonfluctuators were more prone to develop increasing midline motor disability affecting speech, gait and balance. Comparison of test-dose and pretreatment scores suggested that a substantial long-duration response to levodopa remains after many years of treatment, and that lateralized motor deficits show a stronger long duration response than midline ones. Motor fluctuations are a consequence of disease progression but their early development is, on balance, associated with better long-term functional ability because these patients have the greater capacity to respond to pharmacological treatment.
We estimated resource use and costs in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), thereby providing baseline data for future economic evaluations of therapeutic interventions. Data were collected from medical records of a South Swedish cohort of 127 PD patients during 1 year (1996) and a mailed questionnaire inquiring about cost-related consequences and resource use in 1996 and in 2000. Annual costs were calculated based on prevalence and expressed in SEK (monetary value of the year 2000). Direct health care costs averaged approximately SEK 29,000 ( approximately USD 2,900; EUR 3,200) per patient per year, of which drugs were the most costly component. Nonmedical direct costs were higher than direct health care costs, averaging approximately SEK 43,000 ( approximately USD 4,300; EUR 4,800) per patient per year, and costs due to lost production were approximately SEK 52,000 ( approximately USD 5,200; EUR 5,800) per patient per year. The mean total annual cost for PD in our sample approximated SEK 124,000 ( approximately USD 12,400; EUR 13,800) per patient. These findings are roughly within the same range as estimates from other countries and show that PD causes a considerable societal burden. In addition to other outcomes, evaluations of the economic implications of new therapeutic interventions are highly warranted. In this perspective, the present study provides valuable baseline data.
Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03, and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg) with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22; range, 14-23; P &lt; 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period (0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03 mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%. Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor complications in Parkinson's disease.
Peripheral neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACCPN) is a severe sensorimotor neuropathy associated with mental retardation, dysmorphic features and complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum. ACCPN is transmitted in an autosomal recessive fashion and is found at a high frequency in the province of Quebec, Canada. ACCPN has been previously mapped to chromosome 15q. The gene SLC12A6 (solute carrier family 12, member 6), which encodes the K+-Cl- transporter KCC3 and maps within the ACCPN candidate region, was screened for mutations in individuals with ACCPN. Four distinct protein-truncating mutations were found: two in the French Canadian population and two in non-French Canadian families. The functional consequence of the predominant French Canadian mutation (2436delG, Thr813fsX813) was examined by heterologous expression of wildtype and mutant KCC3 in Xenopus laevis oocytes; the truncated mutant is appropriately glycosylated and expressed at the cellular membrane, where it is non-functional. Mice generated with a targeted deletion of Slc12a6 have a locomotor deficit, peripheral neuropathy and a sensorimotor gating deficit, similar to the human disease. Our findings identify mutations in SLC12A6 as the genetic lesion underlying ACCPN and suggest a critical role for SLC12A6 in the development and maintenance of the nervous system.



How the brain recognizes complex patterns in the environment is a central, but little understood question in neuroscience. The problem is of great significance for a host of applications such as biometric-based access control, autonomous robots and content-based information management. Although some headway in these directions has been made, the current artificial systems do not match the robustness and versatility of their biological counterparts. Here I examine recognition tasks drawn from two different sensory modalities--face recognition and speaker/speech recognition. The goal is to characterize the present state of artificial recognition technologies for these tasks, the influence of neuroscience on the design of these systems and the key challenges they face.
Virtual reality (VR) has finally come of age for serious applications in the behavioral neurosciences. After capturing the public imagination a decade ago, enthusiasm for VR flagged due to hardware limitations, an absent commercial market and manufacturers who dropped the mass-market products that normally drive technological development. Recently, however, improvements in computer speed, quality of head-mounted displays and wide-area tracking systems have made VR attractive for both research and real-world applications in neuroscience, cognitive science and psychology. New and exciting applications for VR have emerged in research, training, rehabilitation, teleoperation, virtual archeology and tele-immersion.
Recent technological and scientific advances have generated wide interest in the possibility of creating a brain-machine interface (BMI), particularly as a means to aid paralyzed humans in communication. Advances have been made in detecting neural signals and translating them into command signals that can control devices. We now have systems that use externally derived neural signals as a command source, and faster and potentially more flexible systems that directly use intracortical recording are being tested. Studies in behaving monkeys show that neural output from the motor cortex can be used to control computer cursors almost as effectively as a natural hand would carry out the task. Additional research findings explore the possibility of using computers to return behaviorally useful feedback information to the cortex. Although significant scientific and technological challenges remain, progress in creating useful human BMIs is accelerating.
Dyslexia is a specific learning disability that is neurobiological in origin. It is characterized by difficulties with accurate and/or fluent word recognition, spelling and decoding abilities. Research findings agree that these and other observed behavioral manifestations largely result from a deficit in the phonological component of language. However, conflicting theories on the exact nature of the phonological deficit have given rise to divergent treatment approaches. Recent advances in functional brain imaging and genetics have allowed these theories to be examined more closely. If implemented appropriately, commercial programs can be effective in identifying dyslexia. Treatment of dyslexia has been advanced through neuroscience, yet further study is needed to provide rigorous, reproducible findings that will sustain commercial approaches.
Most advances in addiction treatment to date have addressed the physical dependence and withdrawal that accompany addiction to some drugs of abuse. In contrast, it has proven more difficult to develop medications that effectively treat drug craving and relapse, the core features of addictive disorders. Current efforts focus on developing medications that prevent a drug from getting to its protein target, that mimic drug action and thereby partially alleviate drug craving, or that affect the addiction process per se. The latter approach is the most speculative, but also the most promising in terms of translating basic knowledge of addiction into clinical progress.
Alzheimer's disease is the single biggest unmet medical need in neurology. Current drugs are safe, but of limited benefit to most patients. This review discusses the scientific basis and current status of promising disease-modifying therapies in the discovery and development stages. I describe the major targets of anti-amyloid therapy and the main focus of disease modification approaches. In addition, two new potential treatment approaches supported by retrospective epidemiology are outlined.
Severe spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to devastating loss of neurological function below the level of injury and adversely affects multiple body systems. Most basic research on SCI is designed to find ways to improve the unsatisfactory cellular and molecular responses of spinal cord to injury, which include an array of early processes of autodestruction and a subsequent lack of functional tissue repair. This research has brought us to the threshold of practical application along three lines of approach, derived from animal model studies: acute neuroprotection, enhanced axonal regeneration or plasticity, and treatment of demyelination. There is a growing commercial interest in this previously neglected therapeutic area.
Research successes over the past decade have provided a broad outline of the neuroscience of olfaction and taste. Our understanding of these systems now spans the molecular to the psychological. It will soon reach critical mass and begin to generate a variety of practical applications with commercial potential. Given the ubiquity of smell and taste and their importance to health, nutrition and quality of life, these applications could have a major impact on consumer product markets and create entirely new ones. Sensory biotechnology could be the first post-genomic application to break through to the consumer market. We describe odor modulation technologies with implications for food intake, health care and other arenas. Our deeper understanding of olfaction and taste in animal behavior and reproduction provides opportunities in pest control and animal husbandry, where environmentally neutral interventions are much in demand.
Since the mid 1980s, there has been a great deal of enthusiasm within both academia and industry about the therapeutic potential of drugs targeting the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors. That early promise is just beginning to translate into approvable drugs. Here we review the reasons for this slow progress and critically assess the future prospects for drugs that act on NMDA receptor pathways, including potential treatments for some major disorders such as stroke and Alzheimer's disease, for which effective therapies are still lacking.
Rapid progress has been made in understanding the synaptic changes required for memory encoding. Several companies are now attempting to use information about the induction and consolidation phases of this process to build memory-enhancing drugs. These efforts have produced novel compounds that improve retention scores across a broad range of tests and species. Initial clinical results are encouraging. Issues now arise about appropriate applications of candidate drugs and optimal cellular targets for future development.





The C. elegans SAX-3/Robo receptor acts in anterior-posterior, dorsal-ventral and midline guidance decisions. Here we show that SAX-3 signaling involves the C. elegans Enabled protein UNC-34 and an unexpected Netrin-independent function of the Netrin receptor UNC-40/DCC. Genetic interactions with gain- and loss-of-function mutations suggest that unc-34 and unc-40 act together with sax-3 in several guidance decisions, but the C. elegans Netrin gene unc-6 does not act in the same genetic pathways. Within the migrating axon, sax-3, unc-34 and unc-40 all act cell-autonomously. Our results support a role for UNC-34/Enabled proteins in SAX-3-mediated repulsion, and show that UNC-40/DCC can potentiate SAX-3/Robo signaling via a mechanism that may involve direct binding of the two guidance receptors. A combinatorial logic dictates alternative functions for UNC-40/DCC, which can act in attraction to UNC-6/Netrin, repulsion from Netrin (with UNC-5), or repulsion from Slit (with SAX-3).

Spontaneous schwannomas were detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a transgenic murine model of neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) expressing a dominant mutant form of merlin under the Schwann cell-specific P0 promoter. Approximately 85% of the investigated mice showed putative tumors by 24 months of age. Specifically, 21% of the mice showed tumors in the intercostal muscles, 14% in the limb muscles, 7% in the spinal cord and spinal ganglia, 7% in the external ear, 14% in the muscle of the abdominal region, and 7% in the intestine; 66% of the female mice had uterine tumors. Multiple tumors were detected by MRI in 21% of mice. The tumors were isointense with muscle by T1-weighted MRI, showed strong enhancement following administration of gadolinium-DTPA, and were markedly hyperintense by T2-weighted MRI, all hallmarks of the clinical manifestation. Hematoxylin and eosin staining and immunohistochemistry indicated that the tumors consisted of schwannomas and Schwann cell hyperplasias. The lesions stained positively for S-100 protein and a marker antigen for the mutated transgenic NF2 protein, confirming that the imaged tumors and areas of hyperplasia were of Schwann cell origin and expressed the mutated NF2 protein. Tumors were highly infectable with a recombinant herpes simplex virus type 1 vector, hrR3, which contains the reporter gene, lacZ. The ability to develop schwannoma growth with a noninvasive imaging technique will allow assessment of therapeutic interventions.
In 1997 the Max Planck Society set up a presidential commission to do research on the historical development of its precursor organization, the Kaiser Wilhelm Society (KWG), during the Third Reich. This paper presents some of the important results given in the interim reports of this commission that are relevant to psychiatry. It focuses on brain research, anthropology, psychiatric genetics, and the role of the well-known biochemist Adolf Butenandt. In general, the interim reports reflect the numerous links between the biomedical research of the KWG and the institutions of the National Socialist (Nazi) state. However, they do not yet allow a final historical assessment as to the complex situation of this field of research during National Socialism.
This article explores dynamical properties of the olivo-cerebellar system that arise from the specific wiring of inferior olive (IO), cerebellar cortex, and deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). We show that the irregularity observed in the firing pattern of the IO neurons is not necessarily produced by noise but can instead be the result of a purely deterministic network effect. We propose that this effect can serve as a dynamical working memory or as a neuronal clock with a characteristic timescale of about 100 ms that is determined by the slow calcium dynamics of IO and DCN neurons. This concept provides a novel explanation of how the cerebellum can solve timing tasks on a timescale that is two orders of magnitude longer than the millisecond timescale usually attributed to neuronal dynamics. One of the key ingredients of our model is the observation that due to postinhibitory rebound, DCN neurons can be driven by GABAergic (&quot;inhibitory&quot;) input from cerebellar Purkinje cells. Topographic projections from the DCN to the IO form a closed reverberating loop with an overall synaptic transmission delay of about 100 ms that is in resonance with the intrinsic oscillatory properties of the inferior olive. We use a simple time-discrete model based on McCulloch-Pitts neurons in order to investigate in a first step some of the fundamental properties of a network with delayed reverberating projections. The macroscopic behavior is analyzed by means of a mean-field approximation. Numerical simulations, however, show that the microscopic dynamics has a surprisingly rich structure that does not show up in a mean-field description. We have thus performed extensive numerical experiments in order to quantify the ability of the network to serve as a dynamical working memory and its vulnerability by noise. In a second step, we develop a more realistic conductance-based network model of the inferior olive consisting of about 20 multicompartment neurons that are coupled by gap junctions and receive excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input via AMPA and GABAergic synapses. The simulations show that results for the time-discrete model hold true in a time-continuous description.
To form view-invariant representations of objects, neurons in the inferior temporal cortex may associate together different views of an object, which tend to occur close together in time under natural viewing conditions. This can be achieved in neuronal network models of this process by using an associative learning rule with a short-term temporal memory trace. It is postulated that within a view, neurons learn representations that enable them to generalize within variations of that view. When three-dimensional (3D) objects are rotated within small angles (up to, e.g., 30 degrees), their surface features undergo geometric distortion due to the change of perspective. In this article, we show how trace learning could solve the problem of in-depth rotation-invariant object recognition by developing representations of the transforms that features undergo when they are on the surfaces of 3D objects. Moreover, we show that having learned how features on 3D objects transform geometrically as the object is rotated in depth, the network can correctly recognize novel 3D variations within a generic view of an object composed of a new combination of previously learned features. These results are demonstrated in simulations of a hierarchical network model (VisNet) of the visual system that show that it can develop representations useful for the recognition of 3D objects by forming perspective-invariant representations to allow generalization within a generic view.

Among the approaches towards disease modifying treatment of Alzheimer's disease blocking the initial step of the amyloid cascade, Abeta42 generation, has received most attention. Abeta42 generation requires two proteases, beta- and gamma-secretase, and inhibition of these enzymes is a key focus of AD drug development. Progress in this area has been slow, because these enzymes were not identified. Using an expression cloning strategy we have identified a novel membrane bound aspartic protease, BACE1, as beta-secretase. The enzyme has been characterized in detail. The x-ray crystal structure, which is critical for rational inhibitor design, has been solved and shown to be similar to that of other pepsin family members. Our recent knockout studies show that BACE1 is critical for Abeta generation, but the knockout mice show an otherwise normal phenotype, raising the possibility that therapeutic BACE1 inhibition could be accomplished without major mechanism based toxicity. However, target-mediated toxicity of beta-secretase inhibition cannot be ruled out, as long as the major substrates of this enzyme are unknown. While various peptidic beta-secretase inhibitors have been published, the key challenge now is the generation of more drug-like compounds that could be developed for therapeutic purposes.

Whether peripheral inflammatory molecules can be considered markers of dementia is still an open issue. We have investigated the presence of circulating cytokines and the ability of blood cells to release them in response to an inflammatory stimulus in patients with different types of dementia and in age-matched controls. A significant increase in circulating interleukin-1beta in moderate Alzheimer and in multiinfarct (145 and 224 times control concentration, respectively) dementia and in circulating tumor necrosis factor-alpha concentration in multiinfarct dementia patient group (156%) were found. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 released from blood cells after exposure to lipopolysaccharide were significantly reduced in moderate Alzheimer (60%, both cytokines) and multiinfarct patients (71 and 50%, respectively), while interleukin-10 was decreased only in multiinfarct patients (61%). The results show that patients with Alzheimer disease or multiinfarct dementia have an upregulation of circulating cytokines and a downregulation of cytokines released by blood cells.
Drugs of abuse cause long-lasting changes in the brain that underlie the behavioral abnormalities associated with drug addiction. Similarly, experience can induce memory formation by causing stable changes in the brain. Over the past decade, the molecular and cellular pathways of drug addiction, on the one hand, and of learning and memory, on the other, have converged. Learning and memory and drug addiction are modulated by the same neurotrophic factors, share certain intracellular signaling cascades, and depend on activation of the transcription factor CREB. They are associated with similar adaptations in neuronal morphology, and both are accompanied by alterations in synaptic plasticity (e.g., long-term potentiation, long-term depression) at particular glutamatergic synapses in the brain. There has also been recent convergence in the brain regions now considered important sites for molecular and cellular plasticity underlying addiction and memory. Complex circuits involving the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, ventral and dorsal striatum, and amygdala are implicated both in addiction and in learning and memory. The complexity of the plasticity that occurs in these circuits can be illustrated by CREB, which induces very different behavioral effects in these various brain regions. A better understanding of the molecular and cellular adaptations that occur in these neural circuits may lead to novel interventions to improve memory and combat addiction in humans.
A fundamental question in the neurobiology of cognition is how stress and glucocorticoids modify learning and memory processes. Why some individuals develop cognitive deficits after stress, while other individuals improve in cognitive performance under similar adverse conditions is still unresolved. To address these questions we focus on those issues. First, corticosterone, which appears to be the preferred glucocorticoid for the rodent and human brain, acts via brain mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR) on the expression of networks of corticosteroid-responsive genes. Different effects are achieved by MR and GR activation. Second, the experimental context that determines the timing and the consequences of corticosterone action during the various stages of information processing is reviewed. Third, the genetic context and the environmental context are investigated. Using apolipoprotein E knockout (apoE0/0) mice we show that apoE (apoE4 is a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease) is a candidate gene with an important function in shaping the cognitive outcome (genotype x environment interaction).
Over the past several years, experiments with synthetic amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) and animal models have strongly suggested that pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves soluble assemblies of Abeta peptides (Trends Neurosci. 24 (2001) 219). These soluble neurotoxins (known as ADDLs and protofibrils) seem likely to account for the imperfect correlation between insoluble fibrillar amyloid deposits and AD progression. Recent experiments have detected the presence of ADDLs in AD-afflicted brain tissue and in transgenic-mice models of AD. The presence of high affinity ADDL binding proteins in hippocampus and frontal cortex but not cerebellum parallels the regional specificity of AD pathology and suggests involvement of a toxin receptor-mediated mechanism. The properties of ADDLs and their presence in AD-afflicted brain are consistent with their putative role even in the earliest stages of AD, including forms of mild cognitive impairment.
The brain reward circuit consists of specialized cortical and subcortical structural components that code for various cognitive aspects of goal-directed behavior. These components include the prefrontal cortex (PFC), amygdala (AMY), nucleus accumbens (Nac), subiculum (SUB) of the hippocampal formation, and the dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Both serial and parallel processing in the different components of the circuit code the various aspects of reward-related behavior. Individual neurons within each component have developed specialized intrinsic membrane properties that have led them to be typically defined as either single spiking or high frequency burst-firing neurons. However, a strict definition based on the output mode may not be appropriate. Under the right conditions, neurons can switch between bursting and single-spiking modes, therefore providing a conditional output state. The preferred mode of each individual neuron depends on a combination of different plastic neuronal properties such as, dendritic architecture, neuromodulation, intracellular calcium (Ca(++)) buffering, excitatory and inhibitory synaptic strength, and the spatial distribution and density of voltage and ligand-gated channels. It is likely that, in vivo, most neurons in the circuit, despite variations in intrinsic membrane properties, are conditional output neurons equipped with the versatility of switching between output modes under appropriate conditions. Bursting mode may be used to boost the gain of neural signaling of important or novel events by enhancing transmitter release and enhancing dendritic depolarization, thereby increasing synaptic potentiation. Conversely, single spiking mode may be used to dampen neuronal signaling and may be associated with habituation to unimportant events. Mode switching may provide flexibility to the circuit allowing different sets of neurons to conditionally code for the various aspects of reward-related memory and behavior.
The vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) resides in synaptic vesicles of cholinergic nerve terminals. It carries out vesicular storage of ACh. The amount of ACh stored determines, along with other factors, the amount of ACh released. Knowledge of the structure-function relationship in VAChT might enable pharmacological regulation of ACh storage and release at the level of VAChT. To this end, a quantitative model for the individual steps in the overall transport cycle of VAChT has been developed. Because of the particular values of the microscopic rate constants in the model, structure-function analysis of VAChT can be misleading. Attempts to devise a pro-storage strategy to increase ACh release from cholinergic nerve terminals should take into account the microscopic kinetics of this transporter.
Pyruvate recycling was studied in primary cultures of mouse cerebrocortical astrocytes, GABAergic cerebrocortical interneurons, and co-cultures consisting of both cell types by measuring production of [4-(13)C]glutamate from [3-(13)C]glutamate by aid of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. This change in the position of the label can only occur by entry of [3-(13)C]glutamate into the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, conversion of labeled alpha-ketoglutarate to malate or oxaloacetate, malic enzyme-mediated decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate or phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase-mediated conversion of oxaloacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate and subsequent hydrolysis of the latter to pyruvate, and introduction of the labeled pyruvate into the TCA cycle, i.e., after exit of the carbon skeleton of pyruvate from the TCA cycle followed by re-entry of the same pyruvate molecules via acetyl CoA. In agreement with earlier observations, pyruvate recycling was demonstrated in astrocytes, indicating the ability of these cells to undertake complete oxidative degradation of glutamate. The recycled [4-(13)C]glutamate was not further converted to glutamine, showing compartmentation of astrocytic metabolism. Thus, absence of recycling into glutamine in the brain in vivo cannot be taken as indication that pyruvate recycling is absent in astrocytes. No recycling could be demonstrated in the cerebrocortical neurons. This is consistent with a previously demonstrated lack of incorporation of label from glutamate into lactate, and it also indicates that mitochondrial malic enzyme is not operational. Nor was there any indication of pyruvate recycling in the co-cultures. Although this may partly be due to more rapid depletion of glutamate in the co-cultures, this observation at the very least indicates that pyruvate recycling is not up-regulated in the neuronal-astrocytic co-cultures.
The current studies focus on what mechanisms regulate the concentration of PLP mRNA in cells. The PLP mRNA is very stable and these studies suggest that its stability is regulated by a trans-acting factor specific to oligodendrocytes. In order to test whether the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) of the PLP mRNA might regulate PLP RNA stability, C6 cells were transfected with cDNAs that expressed either luciferase or luciferase fused to the 3'UTR of PLP. Although transgene expression was low, in cells transfected with the PLP 3'UTR, there was a significant decrease in the endogenous PLP mRNA. These cells showed a distinct change in morphology and in adhesion properties. Thus, there may be a role for plp gene products in cell adhesion, which was downregulated in these cells, or an unknown function may be encoded by the PLP 3'UTR. Transgenic mice that overexpress enhanced green fluorescent protein fused to the PLP 3'UTR under control of PLP regulatory sequences were tested for the expression of the endogenous PLP mRNA. Three of four lines of transgenic mice had decreased endogenous PLP mRNA, relative to their non-transgenic littermates; the EGFP-PLP 3'UTR mouse line that expressed the highest level of transgene mRNA had a 54% reduction in PLP mRNA. We hypothesize that the PLP mRNA is regulated by elements in the 3'UTR and stabilizing proteins specific to oligodendrocytes, and that in cells that overexpress the PLP 3'UTR, these stabilizing proteins may be insufficient to maintain the normal level of the endogenous PLP mRNA.
Intracellular trafficking of membranes plays an essential role in the biogenesis and maintenance of myelin. The requisite proteins and lipids are transported from their sites of synthesis to myelin via vesicles. Vesicle transport is tightly coordinated with synthesis of lipids and proteins. To maintain the structural and functional organization of oligodendrocytes it is essential synchronize the various pathways of vesicle transport and to coordinate vesicle transport with reorganization of cytoskeleton. The systems that regulate the targeting of protein to myelin by vesicle transport are now being described. Here we review the current knowledge of these systems including those involved in (a) protein folding, (b) protein sorting and formation of carrier vesicles, (c) vesicle transport along elements of the cytoskeleton, and (d) vesicle targeting/fusion.
Women have made important scientific contributions to the field of neurochemistry, and they have also been leaders in neurochemical societies throughout the world. Here I discuss women's involvement and leadership in six neurochemistry societies: American Society for Neurochemistry, Argentine Society for Neurochemistry, International Society for Neurochemistry, European Society for Neurochemistry, Japanese Society for Neurochemistry, and Asian-Pacific Society for Neurochemistry. The number of women who have been active in these societies and the level of their activity vary considerably. Neurochemical societies in the Western hemisphere, i.e., the American and the Argentine Society for Neurochemistry, have much greater numbers of women who have held office, been on council, or engaged in other leadership activities than in the rest of the world. The limited participation of women in the Japanese Neurochemistry Society relates to Japanese cultural views and was not unexpected. However, the relatively few women leaders in the International Society for Neurochemistry was a surprise. The European Society had a somewhat better record of female participation than did the International Society. The reasons for these differences are partly cultural, but factors related to when each society was formed, how it is organized, and how elections are structured undoubtedly play a role. Further analysis of these observations would be of interest from a sociological and a women's studies point of view.

The frontomedian cortex (FMC) has been shown to be important for coherence processes in language comprehension, i.e., for establishing the pragmatic connection between successively presented sentences. The same brain region has a role during theory-of-mind processes, i.e., during the attribution of other people's actions to their motivations, beliefs, or emotions. In this study, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging at 3 T to disentangle the relative contributions of the FMC to theory-of-mind (ToM) and coherence processes, respectively. The BOLD response of nine participants was recorded while they listened to pragmatically coherent or unrelated sentence pairs. Using a logic instruction for inanimate sentence pairs, ToM processing was discouraged during the first part of the experiment. Using explicit ToM instructions for sentence pairs mentioning human protagonists, ToM processing was induced during the second part. In three of the resulting four conditions a significant increase in the BOLD response was observed in FMC: when ToM instructions were given, both coherent and incoherent trials elicited frontomedian activation, in replication of previous results showing involvement of the FMC during ToM tasks. When logic instructions were given, the coherent trials, but not the incoherent trials, activated the FMC. These results clearly show that the FMC plays a role in coherence processes even in the absence of concomitant ToM processes. The findings support the view of this cortex having a domain-independent functionality related to volitional aspects of the initiation and maintenance of nonautomatic cognitive processes.
To determine whether magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) demonstrates abnormalities in the brain structures of patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA), we examined 12 patients with clinically probable MSA and 11 control subjects. We calculated magnetization transfer ratios (MTRs) using region of interest analysis from MTI and assessed abnormal signal changes on T2-weighted images. MTRs of the base of the pons, middle cerebellar peduncle, putamen, and white matter of the precentral gyrus were significantly lower in the MSA patients than in the controls. Abnormal signal changes on T2-weighted images were observed in the base of the pons (n = 6), middle cerebellar peduncle (n = 7), and putamen (n = 7). MTRs of regions with abnormal signals were significantly lower than those of regions without abnormal signals and those in the controls. Even the MTRs of the regions without abnormal signals were lower than those in the controls. MTRs of the pyramidal tract, including white matter of the precentral gyrus, posterior limb of the internal capsule, cerebral peduncle, and base of the pons, were significantly lower in patients with pyramidal tract sign (n = 7) than in the controls. Patients with asymmetrical parkinsonism (n = 5) showed significantly lower MTRs in the putamen contralateral to the predominant side of parkinsonian symptoms than the ipsilateral side, although asymmetry of abnormal signal changes on T2-weighted images was not evident in more than half of those patients. This study showed that MTI demonstrates abnormalities in the brains of patients with MSA that seem to reflect underlying pathological changes and that the pathological changes detected by MTI seem to give rise to clinical symptoms. This study also showed that the abnormalities are detected more sensitively and over a larger area by MTI than by conventional magnetic resonance imaging.
The ability to select between possible responses to a given situation is central to human cognition. The goal of this study was to distinguish between brain areas representing candidate responses and areas selecting between competing response alternatives. Event-related fMRI data were acquired while 10 healthy adults performed a task used to examine response competition: the Eriksen flanker task. Left parietal cortex was activated by either of two manipulations that increased the need to maintain a representation of possible responses. In contrast, lateral prefrontal and rostral anterior cingulate cortices were specifically engaged by the need to select among competing response alternatives. These findings support the idea that parietal cortex is involved in activating possible responses on the basis of learned stimulus-response associations, and that prefrontal cortex is recruited when there is a need to select between competing responses.
Visuomotor rotation (VMR) is a variant of the classic mental rotation paradigm. Subjects perform a center-out arm reaching movement, with the instruction to point clockwise or anticlockwise away from the direction of a reaction signal by a prespecified amount. Like classic mental rotation (MR) tasks, there is a linear relationship between reaction time (RT) and required angle of rotation (angular disparity). Although functional imaging studies have consistently demonstrated parietal activations centered around the intraparietal sulcus during MR tasks, the involvement of parietal cortex in VMR has not been investigated. The aim of the present experiments was to test in human subjects whether VMR also involves activity in parietal areas. We used short trains of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to produce a temporary &quot;virtual lesion&quot; of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) around the intraparietal sulcus during the reaction period of a VMR task. Four pulses of 20-Hz rTMS were applied to the left PPC, right PPC, or vertex (control condition) 100 ms after the presentation of an instruction cue. Reaction times (RTs) were evenly prolonged by right or left parietal TMS compared with vertex stimulation, but only for large angles of rotation, and without affecting the spatial accuracy of the final response. A control experiment showed that parietal rTMS did not impair visual perception or the ability to judge the size of visual angles. The data thus provide evidence for bilateral involvement of the PPC in VMR that increases with processing demands.
The present study investigates the relationship of linguistic (phonetic) and extralinguistic (voice) information in preattentive auditory processing. We provide neurophysiological data, which show for the first time that both kinds of information are processed in parallel at an early preattentive stage. In order to establish the temporal and spatial organization of the underlying neuronal processes, we studied the conjunction of voice and word deviations in a mismatch negativity experiment, whereby the listener's brain responses were collected using magnetoencephalography. The stimuli consisted of single spoken words, whereby the deviants manifested a change of the word, of the voice, or both word and voice simultaneously (combined). First, we identified the N100m (overlain by mismatch field, MMF) and localized its generators, analyzing N100 m/MMF latency, dipole localization, and dipole strength. While the responses evoked by deviant stimuli were more anterior than the standard, localization differences between the deviants could not be shown. The dipole strength was larger for deviants than the standard stimulus, but again, no differences between the deviants could be established. There was no difference in the hemispheric lateralization of the responses. However, a difference between the deviants was observed in the latencies. The N100 m/MMF revealed a significantly shorter and less variant latency for the combined stimulus compared to all other experimental conditions. The data suggest an integral parallel processing model, which describes the early extraction of phonetic and voice information from the speech signal as parallel and contingent processes.
This article is about intersubject variability in the functional integration of activity in different brain regions. Previous studies of functional and effective connectivity have dealt with intersubject variability by analyzing data from different subjects separately or pretending the data came from the same subject. These approaches do not allow one to test for differences among subjects. The aim of this work was to illustrate how differences in connectivity among subjects can be addressed explicitly using structural equation modeling. This is enabled by constructing a multisubject network that comprises m regions of interest for each of the n subjects studied, resulting in a total of m x n nodes. Constructing a network of regions from different subjects may seem counterintuitive but embodies two key advantages. First, it allows one to test directly for differences among subjects by comparing models that do and do not allow a particular connectivity parameter to vary over subjects. Second, a multisubject network provides additional degrees of freedom to estimate the model's free parameters. Any neurobiological hypothesis normally addressed by single-subject or group analyses can still be tested, but with greater sensitivity. The common influence of experimental variables is modeled by connecting a virtual node, whose time course reflects stimulus onsets, to the sensory or &quot;input&quot; region in all subjects. Further experimental changes in task or cognitive set enter through modulation of the connections. This approach allows one to model both endogenous (or intrinsic) variance and exogenous effects induced by experimental design. We present a functional magnetic resonance imaging study that uses a multisubject network to investigate intersubject variability in functional integration in the context of single word and pseudoword reading. We tested whether the effect of word type on the reading-related coupling differed significantly among subjects. Our results showed that a number of forward and backward connections were stronger for reading pseudowords than words, and, in one case, connectivity showed significant intersubject variability. The discussion focuses on the implications of our findings and on further applications of the multisubject network analysis.
The standard method for analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data applies the general linear model to the time series of each voxel separately. Such a voxelwise approach, however, does not consider the spatial autocorrelation between neighboring voxels in its model formulation and parameter estimation. We propose a spatio-temporal regression analysis for detecting activation in fMRI data. Its main features are that (1) each voxel has a regression model that involves the time series of the neighboring voxels together with its own, (2) the regression coefficient assigned to the center voxel is estimated so that the time series of these multiple voxels will best fit the model, (3) a generalized least squares (GLS) method was employed instead of the ordinary least squares (OLS) to put intrinsic autocorrelation structures into the model, and (4) the underlying spatial and temporal correlation structures are modeled using a separable model which expresses the combined correlation structures as a product of the two. We evaluated the statistical power of our model in comparison with voxelwise OLS/GLS models and a multivoxel OLS model. Our model's power to detect clustered activation was higher than that of the two voxelwise models and comparable to that of the multivoxel OLS. We examined the usefulness and goodness of fit of our model using real experimental data. Our model successfully detected neural activity in expected brain regions and realized better fit than the other models. These results suggest that our spatio-temporal regression model can serve as a reliable analysis suited for the nature of fMRI data.
Whereas some older adults show significant cognitive deficits, others perform as well as young adults. We investigated the neural basis of these different aging patterns using positron emission tomography (PET). In PET and functional MRI (fMRI) studies, prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity tends to be less asymmetric in older than in younger adults (Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction in Old Adults or HAROLD). This change may help counteract age-related neurocognitive decline (compensation hypothesis) or it may reflect an age-related difficulty in recruiting specialized neural mechanisms (dedifferentiation hypothesis). To compare these two hypotheses, we measured PFC activity in younger adults, low-performing older adults, and high-performing older adults during recall and source memory of recently studied words. Compared to recall, source memory was associated with right PFC activations in younger adults. Low-performing older adults recruited similar right PFC regions as young adults, but high-performing older adults engaged PFC regions bilaterally. Thus, consistent with the compensation hypothesis and inconsistent with the dedifferentiation hypothesis, a hemispheric asymmetry reduction was found in high-performing but not in low-performing older adults. The results suggest that low-performing older adults recruited a similar network as young adults but used it inefficiently, whereas high-performing older adults counteracted age-related neural decline through a plastic reorganization of neurocognitive networks.
In this study we estimated the spatial extent of cortical areas of time-coherent activity using the inverse problem in magneto/electroencephalography (MEEG). The model discussed here uses classical regularization tools in order to force the inverse solution to be piecewise coherent. First, the cortex was seeded by focal dipolar sources. Then, a time-coherent expansion (TCE) onto the cortical surface was performed in order to obtain surface source models composed of patches with uniform current density. Patches represent extended cortical regions with one single time course per active area. Results obtained from synthetic data show that using the TCE method is relevant even with a low signal-to-noise ratio, although the final estimation is often slightly biased. We applied the TCE method to evoked magnetic fields obtained after electrical stimulation of fingers in order to estimate the somatotopic cortical maps of the primary somatosensory cortex.
Various models of selective attention propose that greater attention is allocated toward target stimuli when conflicting distracters make selection more difficult, but compelling evidence to support this view is scarce. In the present experiment, 15 participants performed a cued global/local selective attention task while brain activity was recorded with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. The presence of conflicting versus nonconflicting distracters during target processing activated regions of frontal, parietal, and visual cortices that were also activated when participants oriented attention in response to global- and local-task cues. These findings support models in which conflict between target and distracter stimuli is resolved by more selectively focusing attention upon target stimuli.
The progress made in the understanding of the genetics of human brain malformations has lead to insight into the formation of brain and into mechanisms of disease affecting brain. It bears upon neurologists and geneticists to recognize the patterns of diseases of brain formation, to properly diagnose such disorders, to assess the recurrence risk of these malformations, and to guide families with appropriate expectations for outcomes. This article may serve as a guide to neurologists in their approach to these disorders. Because this area is one of rapid progress, the clinician is advised to seek more current information that may be available through on-line databases and other sources.
5-HT(1A)-mediated autoinhibition of neurones in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is considered to be the principal inhibitory regulator of 5-HT neuronal activity. The activation of this receptor by endogenous 5-HT was investigated using electrophysiological recordings from the rat DRN in vitro. At a concentration which blocked the inhibitory effect of exogenous 5-HT, the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100635 did not alter basal firing rate or modulate the excitatory response to the alpha(1)-agonist phenylephrine. Blockade of 5-HT reuptake by a concentration of fluoxetine, which enhanced the inhibitory effect of exogenous 5-HT, lowered phenylephrine-induced basal firing presumably due to potentiation of the effect of endogenous 5-HT. However, this effect was not firing rate dependent and neither the proportional increase nor the time-course of the response to a higher concentration of phenylephrine were altered in the presence of fluoxetine. These data suggest that the inhibitory 5-HT(1A) receptor on raphe neurones is neither tonically activated nor plays any role in modulating the response to excitatory transmitters. Thus, at physiological firing rates this receptor does not appear to function as an autoreceptor of serotonergic neurones of the DRN.
Pleasantness and arousal have been identified as the main dimensions of affective responses to environment. Pleasantness is defined as the degree of favorable feelings a subject can experience under given circumstances. Arousal is defined as the degree of excitement (general activation) the subject feels under these circumstances. In visual and auditory modalities, many studies using measures such as facial electromyographic (EMG) activity and skin conductance (SC) have found those parameters to vary as a function of either pleasantness or arousal: for example, facial corrugator EMG activity covaries with the pleasantness dimension, while SC increases together with arousal. The first objective of this research is to study the possible covariation between peripheral measures and pleasantness/arousal in olfaction. We also examined the effect of odor intensity on facial and autonomic variations. The second objective was to investigate whether odors could evoke verbally specific emotions (e.g. joy, anger, fear, surprise, disgust or sadness) and also induce specific patterns of peripheral responses. Participants were exposed to 12 different odors while their facial and autonomic parameters were recorded, and estimated their intensity, pleasantness, and arousal capacity. Then, they chose between seven words for emotions (fear, anger, sadness, surprise, neutral, joy or disgust) to describe their reaction to the odor. As in vision, olfactory pleasantness covaries (negatively) with facial activity of the corrugator muscle, and arousal (positively) with skin conductance. No relationships were observed between physiological changes and variations in perceived intensity. Results also showed that emotions of &quot;disgust&quot; and &quot;joy&quot; were more frequently evoked verbally than any other emotions, and that only facial EMG activity distinguishes them (e.g. &quot;disgust&quot; vs. &quot;joy&quot; and &quot;neutral state&quot;). The results are discussed in terms of possible existence of two brain systems (defensive and appetitive), each of them being able to vary in metabolic arousal.
Studies in humans and rats indicate that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) receptors are involved in mammalian sleep expression. We investigated the contribution of the 5-HT2c receptor to sleep expression by examining sleep patterns in mice bearing a targeted null mutation of this receptor. 5-HT2c receptor knock-out mice had more wakefulness, several abnormalities in rapid eye movement sleep expression and an enhanced response to sleep deprivation compared with wild-type control mice. These findings suggest that 5HT2c receptors may mediate several effects on sleep that have been ascribed to serotonin.
The anterior cingulate cortex is a brain area of potential importance to our understanding of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Previous studies suggest abnormalities in the glutamatergic neurotransmission in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia patients. In the present study we used quantitative autoradiography to investigate the binding of [3H]MK801, [3H]L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA), and [3H]kainate, which respectively label the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), AMPA, and kainate receptors of the ionotropic glutamate receptor family, in the left anterior cingulate cortex of 10 schizophrenia patients and 10 controls, matched for age, gender, and postmortem interval.AMPA receptor densities were higher in cortical layer II, whereas NMDA receptor densities were higher in cortical layers II-III in the anterior cingulate cortex of both control and schizophrenia group. In contrast, kainate receptors displayed the highest density in cortical layer V. [3H]AMPA binding was significantly increased by 25% in layer II in the schizophrenia group as compared with the control group. Similarly, a significant 17% increase of [3H]MK801 binding was observed in layers II-III in the schizophrenia group. No statistically significant difference was observed for [3H] kainate binding between the schizophrenia and control groups. These results suggest that ionotropic glutamate receptors are differentially altered in the anterior cingulate region in schizophrenia. The increase in [3H]AMPA and [3H]MK801 binding in the superficial layers suggests a postsynaptic compensation for impaired glutamatergic neurotransmission in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. The findings add to a growing body of literature that supports a dysfunction of excitatory activity in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia.
Experiences of early life stress are more prevalent among depressed patients than healthy controls. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) was suggested to play a role in the pathophysiology of depression. Consequently, we investigated in adult rats the effects of maternal deprivation for 3 h/day during postnatal days (PND) 2-14 and of dietary lithium during PND 50-83 on brain levels of NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI). Brain levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and serum corticosterone were also measured. Maternal deprivation reduced NPY-LI levels in the hippocampus and the striatum but increased NPY-LI and CRH-LI levels in the hypothalamus. Lithium treatment counteracted the effect of maternal deprivation in the hippocampus and striatum by increasing NPY-LI levels. In the hypothalamus, lithium tended to decrease CRH-LI but further increased levels of NPY-LI; it also increased serum corticosterone levels. The results suggest that early life stress has long-term effects on brain NPY with implications for the development of depression/vulnerability to stress, and that one therapeutic mechanism of action of lithium is to increase brain NPY.
The present investigation assessed alterations in mesocorticolimbic cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA following novel predator and non-predator odor exposure and light-dark testing in CD-1 mice. In brief, acute exposure of CD-1 mice to the predator odor, 2,5-dihydro-2, 4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT; the major component of the anal gland secretions of the red fox), or the control odor, butyric acid (BA), suppressed rearing behavior during odor presentation, subsequently induced anxiety in the light dark test, and was associated with increased mesocorticolimbic CCK mRNA relative to saline treated mice. Only mice exposed to TMT displayed elevated freezing behaviors during odor treatment. In the light-dark test, mice exposed to either BA or TMT took longer to reenter the light section of the apparatus and spent less cumulative time in the light relative to mice exposed to saline. The decreased time spent in the light as well as light dark transitions were exaggerated among mice exposed to fox odor. Odor presentation was associated with increased CCK mRNA in mesocorticolimbic sites. Butyric acid was associated with enhanced CCK gene expression in the VTA, while both BA and TMT were associated with increased medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) CCK mRNA levels. Increased CCK mRNA within the VTA and mPFC was evident among mice despite testing in the light-dark box. In contrast, basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) CCK mRNA was enhanced following odor exposure among mice in the light dark test relative only to saline treated mice which demonstrated a natural decrease in BLA CCK mRNA following the light dark test. The differential pattern of CCK mRNA associated with discrete psychogenic stressor manipulations and the provocation of anxiety-like behavior associated with such experiences is discussed.
The selective norepinephrine (NE) transporter inhibitor atomoxetine (formerly called tomoxetine or LY139603) has been shown to alleviate symptoms in Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). We investigated the mechanism of action of atomoxetine in ADHD by evaluating the interaction of atomoxetine with monoamine transporters, the effects on extracellular levels of monoamines, and the expression of the neuronal activity marker Fos in brain regions. Atomoxetine inhibited binding of radioligands to clonal cell lines transfected with human NE, serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) transporters with dissociation constants (K(i)) values of 5, 77 and 1451 nM, respectively, demonstrating selectivity for NE transporters. In microdialysis studies, atomoxetine increased extracellular (EX) levels of NE in prefrontal cortex (PFC) 3-fold, but did not alter 5-HT(EX) levels. Atomoxetine also increased DA(EX) concentrations in PFC 3-fold, but did not alter DA(EX) in striatum or nucleus accumbens. In contrast, the psychostimulant methylphenidate, which is used in ADHD therapy, increased NE(EX) and DA(EX) equally in PFC, but also increased DA(EX) in the striatum and nucleus accumbens to the same level. The expression of the neuronal activity marker Fos was increased 3.7-fold in PFC by atomoxetine administration, but was not increased in the striatum or nucleus accumbens, consistent with the regional distribution of increased DA(EX). We hypothesize that the atomoxetine-induced increase of catecholamines in PFC, a region involved in attention and memory, mediates the therapeutic effects of atomoxetine in ADHD. In contrast to methylphenidate, atomoxetine did not increase DA in striatum or nucleus accumbens, suggesting it would not have motoric or drug abuse liabilities.
Behavioral studies have suggested some intriguing differences across cultures in cognitive processes such as attention to context, the use of categorization, stereotypes about aging, and metamemory judgments. Moreover, there is behavioral evidence to suggest that, with age, cultural differences in cognition become less pronounced, likely due to decreased cognitive resources that may result in more similarity across cultures in cognition. The study of the neuroscience of aging, culture and cognition, although in its infancy, potentially provides insight into the contributions of experience and neurobiology to cognitive function. We review initial findings of cross-cultural behavioral aging research in light of cognitive neuroscience of aging research and consider the methodological challenges and benefits of adding a cross-cultural dimension to the study of the cognitive neuroscience of aging.
We review evidence for two models of hemispheric asymmetry and aging: the right hemi-aging model, which proposes that the right hemisphere shows greater age-related decline than the left hemisphere, and the hemispheric asymmetry reduction in old adults (HAROLD) model, which proposes that frontal activity during cognitive performance tends to be less lateralized in older than in younger adults. The right hemi-aging model is supported by behavioral studies in the domains of cognitive, affective, and sensorimotor processing, but the evidence has been mixed. In contrast, available evidence is generally consistent with the HAROLD model, which is supported primarily by functional neuroimaging evidence in the domains of episodic memory encoding and retrieval, semantic memory retrieval, working memory, perception, and inhibitory control. Age-related asymmetry reductions may reflect functional compensation or dedifferentiation, and the evidence, although scarce, tends to support the compensation hypothesis. The right hemi-aging and the HAROLD models are not incompatible. For example, the latter may apply to prefrontal regions and the former to other brain regions.
Trimethyltin (TMT) is an organic metal known to induce neuronal degeneration in the hippocampus, and abnormal behavior characterized by seizures, increased aggression and memory deficits. We administered TMT to rats and studied the changes of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SOM) in the hippocampus. Phenobarbital (PB) was administered as an anticonvulsant to assess the effect of seizures on neuropeptide expressions in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Histochemically, NPY-immunoreactivity increased 4 days after TMT treatment in the hilus of the hippocampus, then progressively decreased and dropped to a level below control 16 days after TMT treatment. Detection of NPY mRNA by in situ hybridization preceded the detection of NPY by immunohistochemistry. NPY mRNA signals increased in the hilus 2 days after TMT treatment. SOM-immunoreactivity also increased in the hilus of the hippocampus 2 days after TMT treatment, then decreased rapidly to a normal level. Similar changes in SOM mRNA were demonstrated by in situ hybridization. PB treatment significantly inhibited changes of NPY in terms of both immunoreactivity and mRNA expression; however, the same treatment failed to affect changes in SOM expression. This suggests that NPY and SOM act by different mechanisms in TMT-induced neurodegeneration.
The exact pathogenesis of neuronal death following bleeding in brain parenchyma is still unknown. Hemoglobin (Hb) toxicity has been postulated to be one of the underlying mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to examine the possible contribution to neurotoxicity of each of the Hb compounds and to characterize the death pathway. Pheochromocytoma (PC12) and neuroblastoma (SH- SY5Y) cell lines were exposed to Hb, globin, hemin, protoporphyrin IX and iron for 1.5- 24 h. We found that Hb and hemin are highly toxic (LD(50) of 8 and 20 &amp;mgr; mol/l, respectively) as compared to globin that was not toxic. In addition, protoporphyrin IX and iron, compounds of hemin, were less toxic than hemin itself (LD(50) of 962 and 2070 &amp;mgr; mol/l respectively). We also demonstrated that non-specific protein digestion with proteinase-K, markedly increased Hb toxicity. Hemin-treated cells caused a typical apoptotic cell death pattern as indicated by DNA fragmentation, caspase activation and reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential. Treatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine or iron chelator, deferoxamine, diminished hemin-induced cell death, indicating a role of oxidative stress in this deleterious process. Thus, therapeutic strategies, based on antioxidant, iron chelator and anti-apoptotic agents may be effective in counteracting Hb neurotoxicity.
Deposition of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) as senile plaques or cerebrovascular amyloid characterizes the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A beta are composed of 40-42 amino acids that are proteolytically produced from its precursor beta APP. We have shown that the deposition of A beta ending at the 42nd residue (A beta 42) is one of the earliest pathological changes in AD brains. Genetic and cell biological evidence strongly suggest that mutations in beta APP or presenilin (PS) 1 and 2 genes cause AD through increase in production of A beta 42. Recently, PS1 and PS2 are shown to be the catalytic subunits of gamma-secretase that cleaves the intramembrane segments of beta APP and Notch. beta-amyloid hypothesis that emphasizes the primacy of A beta in the pathogenesis of AD is currently being verified by the new experimental therapeutic approaches, e.g., A beta vaccine therapy or administration of inhibitors of beta- or gamma-secretases. The mechanistic roles of newly identified co-factor proteins of PS (i.e., APH-1 and PEN-2) in gamma-secretase function, as well as recent advances in the development of gamma- or beta-secretase inhibitors will be discussed.
We present a description, biological results and a reliability analysis for the method of diffusion tensor tracking (DTT) of white matter fiber pathways. In DTT, diffusion-tensor MRI (DT-MRI) data are collected and processed to visualize the line trajectories of fiber bundles within white matter (WM) pathways of living humans. A detailed description of the data acquisition is given. Technical aspects and experimental results are illustrated for the geniculo-calcarine tract with broad projections to visual cortex, occipital and parietal U-fibers, and the temporo-calcarine ventral pathway. To better understand sources of error and to optimize the method, accuracy and precision were analyzed by computer simulations. In the simulations, noisy DT-MRI data were computed that would be obtained for a WM pathway having a helical trajectory passing through gray matter. The error vector between the real and ideal track was computed, and random errors accumulated with the square root of track length consistent with a random-walk process. Random error was most dependent on signal-to-noise ratio, followed by number of averages, pathway anisotropy and voxel size, in decreasing order. Systematic error only occurred for a few conditions, and was most dependent on the stepping algorithm, anisotropy of the surrounding tissue, and non-equal voxel dimensions. Both random and systematic errors were typically below the voxel dimension. Other effects such as track rebound and track recovery also depended on experimental conditions. The methods, biological results and error analysis herein may improve the understanding and optimization of DTT for use in various applications in neuroscience and medicine.

Clinical hyperacusis consists of a marked intolerance to ordinary environmental sounds, while hearing thresholds are quite often normal. Hyperacusis appears to be a subjective phenomenon, which is not easily defined or quantified by objective measurements. In order to create a tool suitable to quantify and evaluate various hyperacusis symptoms, a questionnaire screening several aspects of auditory symptomatology has been constructed. Two hundred and one subjects (who were either hyperacusic or not), randomly selected from the general population, were tested. A principal component analysis performed on the correlation matrix of the 14 items of the questionnaire isolated three dimensions: attentional, social, and emotional. The three dimensions had satisfactory internal consistency reliability. The mean +/- SD total score was 15 +/- 6.7 out of 42 (maximum of hyperacusis) and a score greater than 28 seems to represent a strong auditory hypersensitivity. This new psychometric tool should further be tested on hyperacusic patients to verify its relevance in pathology and define the involvement of the three dimensions statistically obtained on the hyperacusis symptomatology.

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) partially reduces primary hyperalgesia and is frequency dependent such that high frequency TENS produces approximately a 30% reduction in hyperalgesia whereas low frequency TENS has no effect. Both high and low frequency TENS completely reduce secondary hyperalgesia by activation of mu and delta- opioid receptors in the spinal cord and rostral-ventral medulla suggesting an opiate mediated analgesia. Clonidine in combination with opiates produces a synergistic interaction such that there is a potentiated reduction in hyperalgesia. Thus, we tested if combined application of clonidine with TENS would enhance the reduction in primary hyperalgesia. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were inflamed by subcutaneous injection of 3% carrageenan into one hindpaw. Withdrawal latency to radiant heat and withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli were assessed before and after inflammation and after administration of clonidine (0.002-2 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)) with either low (4 Hz) or high (100 Hz) frequency TENS. Clonidine alone reduced both heat and mechanical hyperalgesia with ED50s of 0.02 and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively. In combination with either low or high frequency TENS, the dose-response curve shifted to the left and was significantly different from clonidine alone. The ED50s for heat and mechanical hyperalgesia following low frequency TENS with clonidine were 0.002 and 0.2 mg/kg, respectively and those following high frequency TENS with clonidine were 0.005 and 0.15 mg/kg, respectively. Thus, combined use of clonidine and TENS enhances the reduction in analgesia produced by TENS and enhances the potency of clonidine. It would thus be expected that one would reduce the side effects of clonidine and enhance analgesic efficacy with combinations of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical treatments.

Potential deleterious behavioral effects of the anticholinergics biperiden and scopolamine were examined via the performance of rhesus monkeys on a serial-probe recognition (SPR) procedure. On each trial, six unique stimuli (list items) were presented sequentially followed by a choice phase. In the choice phase, two stimuli were presented, a standard or 'default' stimulus (a white rectangle) and a 'probe' stimulus that differed with each choice trial. Choosing the probe stimulus was considered correct if the probe matched one of the list items; otherwise, choosing the default stimulus was considered correct. Behavior was examined under a range of doses of biperiden (0.001-1.0 mg/kg) and scopolamine (0.0056-0.03 mg/kg). Scopolamine (0.01-0.03 mg/kg) and biperiden (0.3-1.0 mg/kg) reduced overall accuracy. At the highest dose, scopolamine, but not biperiden, reduced the number of trials completed per session. The results suggest that doses of scopolamine and biperiden necessary to prevent or eliminate organophosphate induced seizures may affect performance adversely. However, because the degree of impairment from biperiden was modest, further examination of this anticonvulsant may be warranted.
The present study assessed the analgesic potency of morphine in 11 inbred mouse strains before and after chronic morphine treatment. Using the 49 degrees C tail-withdrawal test, significant strain differences in morphine AD(50) estimates derived from cumulative dose-response curves were noted prior to tolerance induction on Day 1. AD(50) estimates were reassessed on Day 4, after three daily systemic morphine injections for 3 days using an escalating dose schedule (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg sc). In 9 of 11 strains, morphine potency was significantly reduced from 2-fold to as much as 11-fold. Two strains (129P3 and LP) displayed no evidence whatsoever of tolerance development. Neither initial baseline withdrawal latency nor morphine analgesic sensitivity was significantly correlated with tolerance magnitude. Also observed were strain-dependent alterations (mostly hyperalgesia) in baseline tail-withdrawal latencies as a result of chronic morphine treatment. The magnitude of hyperalgesia and analgesic tolerance was significantly correlated among strains, implicating common genetic substrates and supporting their proposed association. The present work demonstrates that the presence and magnitude of morphine analgesic tolerance is genotype-dependent and identifies strains with widely divergent liabilities that should facilitate identification of trait-relevant genes.
We present an approach to estimate information carried by experimentally observed neural spike trains elicited by known stimuli. This approach makes use of an embedding of the observed spike trains into a set of vector spaces, and entropy estimates based on the nearest-neighbor Euclidean distances within these vector spaces [L. F. Kozachenko and N. N. Leonenko, Probl. Peredachi Inf. 23, 9 (1987)]. Using numerical examples, we show that this approach can be dramatically more efficient than standard bin-based approaches such as the &quot;direct&quot; method [S. P. Strong, R. Koberle, R. R. de Ruyter van Steveninck, and W. Bialek, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 197 (1998)] for amounts of data typically available from laboratory experiments.
Estrogen maintains normal function of basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic neurons and estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) has therefore been proposed as a therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We provide evidence to support this hypothesis in an animal model of Down syndrome (DS), a chromosome 16 segmental trisomy (Ts65Dn) mouse. These mice develop cholinergic degeneration similar to young adults with DS and AD patients. ERT has not been tested in women with DS, even though they are more likely than normosomic women to develop early menopause and AD. Female Ts65Dn and normosomic mice (11-15 months) received a subcutaneous estrogen pellet or a sham operation. After 60 days, estrogen treatment improved learning of a T-maze task and normalized behavior in the Ts65Dn mice in reversal learning of the task, a measure of cognitive flexibility. Stereological evaluation of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunopositive BF neurons showed that estrogen increased cell size and total number of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum of Ts65Dn mice. In addition, estrogen increased NGF protein levels in the BF of trisomic mice. These findings support the emerging hypothesis that estrogen may play a protective role during neurodegeneration and cognitive decline, particularly in cholinergic BF neuronal systems underlying cognition. The findings also indicate that estrogen may act, at least partially, via endogenous growth factors. Collectively, the data suggest that ERT may be a viable therapeutic approach for women with DS coupled with dementia.
In order to test the hypothesis of a role of cochlear efferent activity in intensity perception in humans, loudness functions, loudness integration, and loudness summation were measured in the absence and in the presence of contralateral noise in normal-hearing subjects. Additionally, relationships with the effect of the noise on evoked otoacoustic emissions (EOAEs) were tested, and comparisons with vestibular neurotomy patients were performed. Overall, the results failed to demonstrate significant effects of contralateral noise stimulation on loudness functions and loudness integration. Furthermore, no significant differences were found in vestibular neurotomy patients. A significant effect of contralateral noise on loudness summation was noted, but was not related to the effect on otoacoustic emissions. The present results fail to support the notion that efferent influences onto the cochlear compression have a significant perceptual effect.
Olfactory cues play an integral role in the organization of events that mediate reproductive success. In a variety of species, priming pheromones, in particular, are important for ensuring reproductive fitness. To date, very little research has focused on how male-emitted priming pheromones, such as those that regulate the onset of puberty and estrus synchronization in females, affect the reproductive physiology of the female Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus sungorus). This lack of research may be due to the physiology of the Phodopus genus; vaginal cytology cannot be used as a reliable indicator of estrus or ovulation. Using a jugular cannulation technique to determine estrous stage by blood analysis of prolactin and luteinizing hormone, we sought to determine if male priming pheromones affect estrous cyclicity in the female Siberian hamster and, if so, whether the production of these priming pheromones is androgen dependent. Our results showed that females exposed to bedding from mature, intact males showed a significantly higher incidence of proestrus 3 days later than did females exposed to the bedding of mature, gonadectomized males. Therefore, we found that not only do male Siberian hamsters emit chemical signals that induce estrus synchronization, but also that this ability is likely to be androgen dependent.
The present study investigated sex differences and the effect of a high level of estradiol in the female meadow vole on performance in the forced swim test (FST) and the Morris water maze in meadow voles. Female meadow voles were ovariectomized (OVX) and administered either vehicle (sesame oil) or estradiol for 2 days prior to performing the FST. Four days following the FST, all animals were run in the Morris water maze. Results indicated that estradiol-injected female meadow voles showed more 'depressive-like' behaviors in the FST (greater time spent immobile and less time spent swimming) than vehicle-treated female or male meadow voles. In addition, estradiol-treated females had impaired performance (greater latencies and distance swam to reach the hidden platform) than both vehicle-treated female and male meadow voles, consistent with previous data. Despite the fact that estradiol administration increased 'depressive-like' behaviors in the FST and impaired performance in the Morris water maze, there was no correlation between the two behaviors indicating that 'depressive-like' behaviors did not account for the differences seen in spatial performance in the Morris water maze. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration in rodents indicating that estradiol-mediated changes in behavior in the FST is not indicative of subsequent performance in the Morris water maze.
This review covers recent developments in the cellular neurophysiology of retrograde signaling in the mammalian central nervous system. Normally at a chemical synapse a neurotransmitter is released from the presynaptic element and diffuses to the postsynaptic element, where it binds to and activates receptors. In retrograde signaling a diffusible messenger is liberated from the postsynaptic element, and travels &quot;backwards&quot; across the synaptic cleft, where it activates receptors on the presynaptic cell. Receptors for retrograde messengers are usually located on or near the presynaptic nerve terminals, and their activation causes an alteration in synaptic transmitter release. Although often considered in the context of long-term synaptic plasticity, retrograde messengers have numerous roles on the short-term regulation of synaptic transmission. The focus of this review will be on a group of molecules from different chemical classes that appear to act as retrograde messengers. The evidence supporting their candidacy as retrograde messengers is considered and evaluated. Endocannabinoids have recently emerged as one of the most thoroughly investigated, and widely accepted, classes of retrograde messenger in the brain. The study of the endocannabinoids can therefore serve as a model for the investigation of other putative messengers, and most attention is devoted to a discussion of systems that use these new messenger molecules.
When reflected from a surface, light can provide a representation of the spatial environment, whilst gross changes in environment light can signal the time of day. The differing sensory demands of using light to detect environmental space and time appear to have provided the selection pressures for the evolution of different photoreceptor systems in the vertebrates, and probably all animals. This point has been well recognised in the non-mammals, which possess multiple opsin/vitamin A-based photoreceptor populations in a variety of sites distributed both within and outside the CNS. By contrast, eye loss in mammals abolishes all responses to light, and as a result, all photoreception was attributed to the rods and cones of the retina. However, studies over the past decade have provided overwhelming evidence that the mammalian eye contains a novel photoreceptor system that does not depend upon the input from the rods and cones. Mice with eyes but lacking rod and cone photoreceptors can still detect light to regulate their circadian rhythms, suppress pineal melatonin, modify locomotor activity, and modulate pupil size. Furthermore, action spectra for some of these responses in rodents and humans have characterised at least one novel opsin/vitamin A-based photopigment, and molecular studies have identified a number of candidate genes for this photopigment. Parallel studies in fish showing that VA opsin photopigment is expressed within sub-sets of inner retina neurones, demonstrates that mammals are not alone in having inner retinal photoreceptors. It therefore seems likely that inner retinal photoreception will be a feature of all vertebrates. Current studies are directed towards an understanding of their mechanisms, determining the extent to which they contribute to physiology and behaviour in general, and establishing how they may interact with other photoreceptors, including the rods and cones. Progress on each of these topics is moving very rapidly. As a result, we hope this review will serve as an introduction to the cascade of papers that will emerge on these topics in the next few years. We also hope to convince the more casual reader that there is much more to vertebrate photoreceptors than the study of retinal rods and cones.
Highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs) are naturally occurring anti-tumour agents. HUFAs act as intracellular signalling molecules in cell proliferation and death. In human glioma, HUFAs may stimulate tumour regression and apoptosis. An implantation glioma model, using the C6 glioma cell line, was used to investigate the bioactivity of locally infused n-6 HUFA gamma linolenic acid (GLA). Rat brains (15 normal and 37 C6 tumour bearing) were infused with vehicle or GLA 200 microM-2 mM. The most active local concentration of GLA for anti-tumour activity was 2 mM, infused at 1 microl/h over 7 days. Tumour regression, increased apoptosis and decreased proliferation were observed in tumours of rats infused with this concentration of GLA. Little effect on normal neuronal tissue was detected. The intraparenchymal route was an effective method of GLA administration in the treatment of glioma. These studies provide further insights into the potential role of HUFAs as anti-glioma agents.
Representations of task context play a crucial role in shaping human behavior. While the nature of these representations remains poorly understood, existing theories share a number of basic assumptions. One of these is that task representations are discrete, independent, and non-overlapping. We present here an alternative view, according to which task representations are instead viewed as graded, distributed patterns occupying a shared, continuous representational space. In recent work, we have implemented this view in a computational model of routine sequential action. In the present article, we focus specifically on this model's implications for understanding task representation, considering the implications of the account for two influential concepts: (1) cognitive underspecification, the idea that task representations may be imprecise or vague, especially in contexts where errors occur, and (2) information-sharing, the idea that closely related operations rely on common sets of internal representations.
A dysfunctional relationship between parents and children can influence cognitive and emotional development and contribute to the development of psychiatric disorders, particularly panic disorder (PD). With the aim of exploring childhood experiences of parenting in PD patients, we compared subjectively perceived climate and objective recall by administering the Parental Bonding Instrument and 10 adjunctive items to 22 out-patients and 22 matched controls. Our analysis showed that DSM-III-R-diagnosed PD patients reported their parents to be significantly less caring than did the control group, while there was no significant difference in objective recall of parenting experiences.
The paper illustrates the present role of phenomenological psychopathology by outlining its methods and focusing on some of its major issues: embodiment or body scheme, intentionality, time consciousness and intersubjectivity. The application of these categories to the analysis of psychotic disorders is demonstrated. Special emphasis is given to the relationship between phenomenology and cognitive neuroscience, a relationship that has been variously viewed as 'mutual constraint' or as 'mutual enlightenment'. This is where a new cooperation linking phenomenology, psychopathology and cognitive science begins to emerge. Phenomenology offers a methodically developed theory of human subjectivity that is indispensable to any attempt to understand, explore and treat psychiatric disorders.




We conducted the survey of patients with CBD in 2001 for 29 neurological institutions in Japan which joined Research Group on Neurodenerative Diseases supported by Ministry of Health and Welfare. Provisional diagnostic criteria of CBD were as follows: &quot;probable CBD&quot; means a clinical category including (1) classical form, consisting of progressive limb-kinetic apraxia and akinetic rigidity, predominant on one side, associated with late dementia, (2) quasi-classical form, revealing other corticobasal signs, predominant on one side, associated with late dementia, and (3) non-classical from, showing early aphasia, dementia, behavior disorder, etc., followed by lateralized limb-kinetic apraxia and akinetic rigidity. &quot;Possible CBD&quot; was not made. &quot;Definite CBD&quot; is pathologically confirmed CBD. There were 151 patients with &quot;probable CBD&quot;, comprising 121 patients with classical form, 17 with quasi-classical form and 13 with non-classical from, while patients with &quot;definite CBD&quot; were 13. The number of patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) was also examined. The ratio of the number of patients CBD/PSP was 1/2.6 in clinical cases and 1/2.5 in autopsy cases. Nakashima et al. performed population survey of PSP patients in Yonago city in 1999, demonstrating prevalence of PSP 4.36/100,000. Considering this rate, the prevalence of CBD is assumed as 1.7 and the presumed number of PSP and CBD patients in 1999 in Japan could be 5,500 and 2,100, respectively.
Periodic limb movements during sleep (PLMS), frequently found in polysomnograms, are often accompanied by arousals. The relationship is not clear, however, because PLMS can occur before, after or simultaneous to the electromyographic (EMG) activation. We describe the case of a patient who presents PLMS during two of three consecutive recording nights, and periodic arousals without motor activation on the other night. We conclude that, at least in some patients with a periodic limb movement disorder, there exists an underlying arousal disorder that produces periodic activation and deactivation of the cerebral cortex.
Synthetic gene delivery vehicles are a highly promising approach to gene delivery; however, several problems must still be overcome before they can begin to enjoy dinical success. A number of these problems can be addressed by engineering and optimizing the properties of the vector surface, the component of the particle that interacts and &quot;communicates&quot; with tissues and cells during the delivery process. Surfaces must be engineered to satisfy two ostensibly conflicting constraints: the ability to interact specifically with a target cell while avoiding nonspecific protein interactions, particularly with components of the immune system. We summarize progress that has been made in both these areas and discuss several approaches where the intersection of biological and chemical solutions promises to significantly advance the engineering of synthetic vehicles.


Precise neuronal connectivity during development is subservient to all nervous system functions in adult animals. However, the cellular mechanisms that mastermind this neuronal connectivity remain largely unknown. This lack of fundamental knowledge regarding nervous system development is due in part to the immense complexity of mammalian brain, as cell-cell interactions between defined sets of pre- and postsynaptic partners are often difficult to investigate directly. In this study, we developed a novel model system which has allowed us to reconstruct synapses between identified motor neurons and their target heart muscle cell in a soma-muscle configuration. Utilizing this soma-myocardial cell synapse model, we demonstrate that synapses between somata and heart muscle cells can be reconstructed in cell culture. The soma-myocardial cell synapses required 12-24 h to develop and thus differed temporally from conventional neuromuscular synapses (seconds to a few minutes). We also demonstrate that the synapses are target cell-type-specific and are most likely independent of transmitter phenotypic characteristics of presynaptic neurons.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein has been the focus of much attention from the Alzheimer's disease community for the past decade and a half. The beta-amyloid precursor protein holds a pivotal position in Alzheimer's disease research because it is the precursor to the amyloid beta-protein which many believe plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. It was also the first gene in which mutations associated with inherited Alzheimer's disease were found. Although the molecular details of the generation of amyloid beta-protein from beta-amyloid precursor protein are being unraveled, the actual physiological functions of beta-amyloid precursor protein are far from clear. This situation is changing as accumulating new evidence suggests that the C-terminal cytosolic tail of beta-amyloid precursor protein may have multiple biological activities, ranging from axonal transport to nuclear signaling. This article reviews the current state of knowledge about the biological functions of beta-amyloid precursor protein.

A one-day symposium, The Musical Brain, was held at The Royal Institution, London, UK, on 12 July 2002.
Researchers seeking treatments for multiple sclerosis (MS) have long dreamed of using neurotrophic factors to enhance remyelination. Previous attempts to apply trophic support for oligodendrocytes in experimental demyelination uniformly produced complicated outcomes that reflected unexpected effects on immune or inflammatory responses and could be interpreted only with caution. Now, two recent publications have demonstrated convincingly that cytokines of the interleukin (IL)-6 superfamily can ameliorate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and promote oligodendrocyte survival, without demonstrable effect on inflammation or immune responses.
Neuroscientists across Europe have been busy finding or consolidating partnerships, and sharpening their e-pencils, as they prepare for the next tranche of research and technology development (RTD) funding to be coordinated by the European Union. Entitled the Sixth Framework Programme, this 16 billion Euro programme is the most ambitious that the European Commission has ever mounted. It covers a broad range of RTD activities, from the very small (nanotechnology and nanosciences) to the very grand (sustainable development, global change and ecosystems). Brain research finds its place at several points in the proposals of the Commission, notably under the heading of &quot;Life Sciences, Genomics and Biotechnology for Health&quot;. This includes sub-sections entitled &quot;Studying the brain and combating diseases of the nervous system&quot; and &quot;Studying development and ageing processes&quot;. The focus is likely to be on exploiting molecular genetics with respect to neuroscience. Our aim in this short article is to outline some of the novel features of this ambitious program and to touch on certain issues that have been raised about it.
Ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors mediate rapid synaptic transmission in the CNS and PNS. Owing to this central role in trans-synaptic signal transduction, modulation of these receptors could play a crucial role in the expression of synaptic plasticity in the brain. AMPA receptors mediate the majority of rapid excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. Recent studies have indicated that the activity and synaptic distribution of these receptors is dynamically regulated and could be crucial for the short- and long-term modification of synaptic efficacy. Here we review recent data on the molecular mechanisms that underlie the modulation of AMPA receptors and the role of AMPA-receptor regulation in mediating synaptic plasticity.
Dynamic regulation of synaptic efficacy is thought to play a crucial role in formation of neuronal connections and in experience-dependent modification of neural circuitry. The molecular and cellular mechanisms by which synaptic changes are triggered and expressed are the focus of intense interest. This articles reviews recent evidence that NMDA receptors undergo dynamically regulated targeting and trafficking, and that the physical transport of NMDA receptors in and out of the synaptic membrane contributes to several forms of long-lasting synaptic plasticity. The identification of targeting and internalization sequences in NMDA-receptor subunits has begun the unraveling of some mechanisms that underlie activity-dependent redistribution of NMDA receptors. Given that NMDA receptors are widely expressed throughout the CNS, regulation of NMDA-receptor trafficking provides a potentially important way to modulate efficacy of synaptic transmission.
Modern neuroscientists are accustomed to the detailed information on the structure and function of membrane ion channels that can be obtained by the combination of molecular biology, crystallography and patch-clamp recordings. It can be difficult for us to appreciate how hard it was for humankind to realize that physical events underlie nervous function and, moreover, to appreciate how long it took to devise a realistic model for the generation and propagation of the nerve impulse.
Psychophysical and physiological studies suggest that long-range horizontal connections in primary visual cortex participate in spatial integration and contour processing. Until recently, little attention has been paid to their intrinsic temporal properties. Recent physiological studies indicate, however, that the propagation of activity through long-range horizontal connections is slow, with time scales comparable to the perceptual scales involved in motion processing. Using a simple model of V1 connectivity, we explore some of the implications of this slow dynamics. The model predicts that V1 responses to a stimulus in the receptive field can be modulated by a previous stimulation, a few milliseconds to a few tens of milliseconds before, in the surround. We analyze this phenomenon and its possible consequences on speed perception, as a function of the spatio-temporal configuration of the visual inputs (relative orientation, spatial separation, temporal interval between the elements, sequence speed). We show that the dynamical interactions between feed-forward and horizontal signals in V1 can explain why the perceived speed of fast apparent motion sequences strongly depends on the orientation of their elements relative to the motion axis and can account for the range of speed for which this perceptual effect occurs (Georges, Seris, Frgnac and Lorenceau, this issue).
We report several experiments showing that a Gabor patch moving in apparent motion sequences appears much faster when its orientation is aligned with the motion path than when it is at an angle to it. This effect is very large and peaks at high speeds (64 degrees /s), decreases for higher and lower speeds and disappears at low speeds (4 degrees /s). This speed bias decreases as the angle between the motion axis and the orientation of the Gabor patch increases, but remains high for curvilinear paths, provided that element orientation is kept tangential to the motion trajectory. It is not accounted for by decision strategies relying on the overall length and duration of the motion sequence or the gap size (or spatial jump) between successive frames. We propose a simple explanation, thoroughly developed as a computational model in a companion paper (Seris, Georges, Lorenceau &amp; Frgnac: &quot;Orientation dependent modulation of apparent speed: a model based on the dynamics of feedforward and horizontal connectivity in V1 cortex&quot;, this issue), according to which long-range horizontal connections in V1 elicit differential latency modulations in response to apparent motion sequences, whose read-out at an MT stage results in a perceptual speed bias. The consequences of these findings are discussed.
Recent research has suggested that inhibition of return (IOR) develops more quickly when subjects must respond with an eye movement than when they make a manual response to the target (Perception and Psychophysics 62 (2000) 1512-1524). Four spatial cueing experiments were conducted where subjects had to indicate the location of visual targets. Within each of the oculomotor and manual modalities, responses could be either directed towards the target (saccade or pointing) or had a more complex stimulus-response (S-R) mapping. For both saccadic and manual responses, IOR onset was delayed as the required S-R mapping became more indirect. This finding further emphasizes the role of response-related processes in spatial attention. Possible explanations for this pattern of results are considered, including the notion that activity in prefrontal cortex, needed for execution of such abstract S-R mappings, may influence the time course of reflexive spatial cueing effects.


A standardized experimental model of intracerebral hemorrhagic stroke in small laboratory animals is developed and advanced for chronic neurobiological studies of normal and pathological higher nervous activity as well as disorders developed after acute hemorrhages. A device is advanced which allows a researcher to destroy appropriate brain structures (tissues and local blood vessels) with necessary precision by four-six rotations of curved stereotaxically inserted mandrel-wire knife and, subsequently, to inject autoblood into the area of the lesion. The advanced model is convenient for the reproduction of lesions in different brain regions (for the purpose of experimental knockouts) in neurophysiological, neuropharmacological, and clinical investigations.



To date, there is little information regarding the regional division (dorsal and ventral) of hippocampal mitotic activity at either baseline or following seizures. To determine the regional distribution of hippocampal mitotic activity, animals were given seizures followed by injections of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (label for mitotic cells). Our results indicate that the baseline and seizure-induced levels of mitotic activity (neurogenesis) are greater in the dorsal hippocampus as compared to the ventral hippocampus. Moreover, seizures were able to significantly increase mitotic activity in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus with a greater proportional increase from baseline in the ventral hippocampus as compared to the dorsal hippocampus. These results suggest that the amount of mitotic activity differs between the dorsal and ventral hippocampus and suggests that seizure activity is capable of differentially driving mitotic activity in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus.
To determine if calcium could release Cytochrome c (Cyt c) from brain mitochondria without activating the permeability transition (mPT), brain mitochondria were prepared in two different ways. Digitonin was used to lyse synaptosomes and release synaptosomal mitochondria or a Percoll gradient was used to separate non-synaptosomal mitochondria from the synaptosomes. In gradient-purified mitochondria, low levels of added digitonin produced swelling and Cyt c release. Digitonin augmented Ca(2+)-induced Cyt c release that was insensitive to the mPT inhibitors, cyclosporin A CsA and ADP. Similarly, in mitochondria prepared with digitonin, these inhibitors also failed to prevent Ca(2+)-induced Cyt c release. Thus the mPT-independent, Ca(2+)-induced Cyt c release pathway was attributable to alteration of the permeability properties of the outer mitochondrial membrane by digitonin.
Cytochrome oxidase is the mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the utilization of oxygen for the electron transport chain during cellular respiration. Chronic subcutaneous infusion of sodium azide, an inhibitor of cytochrome oxidase, produced a spatial memory retention deficit in rats in a holeboard maze. Methylene blue, which has been shown to increase oxygen consumption in vitro, was used to restore mitochondrial electron transport in order to facilitate memory consolidation. Administration of 1 mg/kg methylene blue after training, during the memory consolidation period, completely restored the memory retention impaired by the inhibitor of cytochrome oxidase. This suggests that methylene blue may compensate for impaired mitochondrial respiration and improve spatial memory retention. Memory retention deficits found in some neurodegenerative diseases may be improved by drugs targeting impaired mitochondrial respiration.
Previous pharmacological and physiological data on GABA and glycine receptor-dependent components of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents show that the electrophysiological characteristics of synaptic transmission from inhibitory synapses on spinal motoneurons are highly variable. Although post-synaptic factors are thought to be the major underlying cause of this variability, quantitative immunohistochemical data suggest that the transmitter content of afferents also vary from terminal to terminal. To examine whether ratios of amino acid staining densities vary similar to those of components of post-synaptic currents mediated by the corresponding receptors, we quantified immunogold labeling for GABA, glycine and the major excitatory transmitter, glutamate, in nerve terminals contacting the dendrites of motoneurons retrogradely labeled from the rat hindlimb muscle, biceps femoris. Nearly all terminals (94%) were immunoreactive for at least one amino acid and 64% of these contained two or three amino acids. All possible combinations of GABA, glycine and glutamate labeling were found. Over 70% of the terminals contained glycine, of which 60% also labeled for GABA. Of these GABA/glycine boutons, 40% also had glutamate. Half of all terminals contained GABA, but terminals immunoreactive for GABA alone were extremely rare. Immunoreactivity for glutamate occurred in 48% of all terminals and nearly 60% of these also contained glycine. Labeling densities for GABA, glycine and glutamate varied over a wide range from terminal to terminal. We hypothesize that this diversity in amino acid content may be a major underlying cause of variability in GABA- and glycine receptor-mediated components of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents in motoneurons.
In a comparison of embryonic brain expression patterns of lysophosphatidic acid and sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor genes (lpa(1-3) and s1p(1-5), respectively), transcripts detected by Northern blot were subsequently localized using in situ hybridization. We found striking s1p(1) expression adjacent to several ventricles. Near the lateral ventricle, s1p(1) expression was temporally and spatially coincident with neurogenesis and overlapped with lpa(1) in the neocortical area. We also observed a widespread diffuse pattern for lpa(2-3) and a scattered punctate pattern for s1p(1-3). The punctate pattern colocalized with vascular endothelial markers. Together, these results suggest that s1p(1) influences neurogenesis and s1p(1-3) influence angiogenesis in the developing brain.
A spectrophotometric method based on dinitrophenol (DNP) derivatization of proteolytic products was developed for monitoring the increase in NH(2)-groups as a function of protease activity. DNP derivatization of amino acids and proteolytic products was carried out at an alkaline pH of 8.8, in presence of 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB), followed by the stabilization of products by adjusting the pH to approximately 2.5. Using casein as substrate, under the defined assay conditions for proteases, trichloroacetic acid soluble proteolytic products were derivatized with DNFB reagent. Though alkaline pH favored the DNP derivatization of primary amino compounds, the products formed were found to be unstable. However, upon adjusting the pH to 2.5+/-0.1, DNP derivatives of amino acids and proteolytic products were found to be stable with identical lambda(max) of 395 nm. The utility of the method was evaluated by assaying the proteolytic activities of trypsin and calcium activated neutral protease (CANP). Proteolytic activity was quantified by employing the molar extinction coefficient of DNP derivatives of an equimolar concentration of glutamate and glycine. By employing this method, CANP activity in different regions of rat brain was determined. The proposed method to monitor the increase in NH(2)-end groups as a function of proteolytic activity could be employed to assay the activity of proteases.
The high energy potential and rapid turnover of the recently discovered inositol pyrophosphates, such as diphosphoinositol-pentakisphosphate and bis-diphosphoinositol-tetrakisphosphate, suggest a dynamic cellular role, but no specific functions have yet been established. Using several yeast mutants with defects in inositol phosphate metabolism, we identify dramatic membrane defects selectively associated with deficient formation of inositol pyrophosphates. We show that this phenotype reflects specific abnormalities in endocytic pathways and not other components of membrane trafficking. Thus, inositol pyrophosphates are major regulators of endocytosis.
RIMs are presynaptic active zone proteins that regulate neurotransmitter release. We describe two related genes that encode proteins with identical C-terminal sequences that bind to the conserved PDZ domain of RIMs via an unusual PDZ-binding motif. These proteins were previously reported separately as ELKS, Rab6-interacting protein 2, and CAST, leading us to refer to them by the acronym ERC. Alternative splicing of the C terminus of ERC1 generates a longer ERC1a variant that does not bind to RIMs and a shorter ERC1b variant that binds to RIMs, whereas the C terminus of ERC2 is synthesized only in a single RIM-binding variant. ERC1a is expressed ubiquitously as a cytosolic protein outside of brain; ERC1b is detectable only in brain, where it is both a cytosolic protein and an insoluble active zone component; and ERC2 is brain-specific but exclusively localized to active zones. Only brain-specific ERCs bind to RIMs, but both ubiquitous and brain-specific ERCs bind to Rab6, a GTP-binding protein involved in membrane traffic at the Golgi complex. ERC1a and ERC1b/2 likely perform similar functions at distinct localizations, indicating unexpected connections between nonneuronal membrane traffic at the Golgi complex executed via Rab6 and neuronal membrane traffic at the active zone executed via RIMs.
Actin is an abundant component of nerve terminals that has been implicated at multiple steps of the synaptic vesicle cycle, including reversible anchoring, exocytosis, and recycling of synaptic vesicles. In the present study we used the lamprey reticulospinal synapse to examine the role of actin at the site of synaptic vesicle recycling, the endocytic zone. Compounds interfering with actin function, including phalloidin, the catalytic subunit of Clostridium botulinum C2 toxin, and N-ethylmaleimide-treated myosin S1 fragments were microinjected into the axon. In unstimulated, phalloidin-injected axons actin filaments formed a thin cytomatrix adjacent to the plasma membrane around the synaptic vesicle cluster. The filaments proliferated after stimulation and extended toward the vesicle cluster. Synaptic vesicles were tethered along the filaments. Injection of N-ethylmaleimide-treated myosin S1 fragments caused accumulation of aggregates of synaptic vesicles between the endocytic zone and the vesicle cluster, suggesting that vesicle transport was inhibited. Phalloidin, as well as C2 toxin, also caused changes in the structure of clathrin-coated pits in stimulated synapses. Our data provide evidence for a critical role of actin in recycling of synaptic vesicles, which seems to involve functions both in endocytosis and in the transport of recycled vesicles to the synaptic vesicle cluster.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) in vitro are able to generate clonal structures, &quot;neurospheres,&quot; that exhibit intra-clonal neural cell-lineage diversity; i.e., they contain, in addition to NSCs, neuronal and glial progenitors in different states of differentiation. The present study focuses on a subset of neurospheres derived from fresh clinical specimens of human brain by using an in vitro system that relies on particular growth factors, serum, and anchorage withdrawal. Thirty individual and exemplary cDNA libraries from these neurosphere clones were clustered and rearranged within a panel after characterization of differentially expressed transcripts. The molecular phenotypes that were obtained indicate that clonogenic NSCs in our in vitro system are heterogeneous, with subsets reflecting distinct neural developmental commitments. This approach is useful for the sorting and expansion of NSCs and facilitates the discovery of genes involved in cell proliferation, communication, fate control, and differentiation.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is a neurotoxic metabolic product of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Abeta is strongly implicated in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can be formed intracellularly. In this study, we show that the addition of Abeta to isolated mouse brain mitochondria can directly induce cytochrome c (Cyt c) release and mitochondrial swelling, which were partially inhibited by cyclosporin A (CsA). These results suggest that the Abetaaccumulated intracellularly by APP processing might exert neurotoxicity by interacting with mitochondria and inducing mitochondrial swelling and release of Cyt c, which activates caspase-3 and finally can lead to apoptosis in neuronal cells and to neurodegeneration in AD.
The NMDA receptor and the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, are involved in central sensitisation and synaptic plasticity in the spinal cord. Recent evidence suggests that BDNF modulates NMDA responses, by a yet unknown mechanism. The phosphorylation of the NMDA subunit 1 following BDNF exposure has been investigated in the neonatal rat spinal cord. Western blotting revealed that BDNF administered to isolated cords for 20 minutes significantly elevated phospho-NR1 levels. Immunohistochemical analysis localised this increase to functionally appropriate regions of the dorsal horn. Pre-incubation with trkB-IgG (BDNF sequestering molecule) abolished this NR1 phosphorylation. We suggest that BDNF modulates synaptic activity within the spinal cord via NR1 phosphorylation.
To define the significance of glutamate ionotropic receptors in sPLA -mediated neuronal cell death we used the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and the AMPA receptor antagonist PNQX. In primary neuronal cell cultures both MK-801 and PNQX inhibited sPLA - and glutamate-induced neuronal death. [ H]Arachidonic acid release induced by both sPLA and glutamate was partially blocked by MK-801, indicating that the glutamate-NMDA-cPLA pathway contributes to sPLA -induced arachidonic acid release. Systemic administration of MK-801 to rats that had sPLA injected into the right striatum significantly decreased neuronal cell death. We conclude that glutamatergic synaptic activity modulates sPLA -induced neuronal cell death.
We examined the potential neurotoxicity of caffeine and. Intraperitoneal administration of caffeine (50 mg/kg, 3 times a day) produced neuronal death in various brain areas of neonatal rats 24 h later. Caffeine at doses &gt; 300 microM was also neurotoxic in murine cortical cell cultures. Caffeine-induced neuronal death was accompanied by cell body shrinkage and attenuated by anti-apoptotic drugs including cycloheximide, high potassium, and growth factors. Two necrotic pathways, excitotoxicity and oxidative stress, did not mediate caffeine neurotoxicity. The pro-apoptotic protease caspase-3 was activated to mediate neuronal death following exposure to caffeine. The present findings suggest that caffeine may cause caspase-3-dependent neuronal cell apoptosis in neonatal rat as well as.
We have examined the levels of constitutively active NF-kappaB subunits p65, p50 and p52 in the hippocampus of aged (24 months) young (3 months) F344 rats. Although we found no significant age-dependent difference in baseline nuclear levels of any subunit, we did note a differential response to treatment with the antioxidant PBN. While PBN significantly reduced nuclear levels of all three subunits in aged rats, only p50 was significantly reduced in the nuclei of young animals. This shows that the impetus for constitutive NF-kappaB activity is different in young and aged animals and may reflect a state of chronic oxidative stress in the latter. In addition this suggests a dysregulation of NF-kappaB and may contribute to the inability of the aged CNS to cope with insults such as trauma and ischemia/reperfusion.
Using cDNA array, we observed the expression of eight members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family, FGF 2, 5, 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14, in rat lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Over a period of 28 days after sciatic nerve transection, the array signals for FGF 2 and 7 were significantly increased in the DRGs, while FGF 13 decreased. Using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we confirmed the axotomy-induced changes in the expression of FGF 7 and 13. hybridization showed that FGF 13 was expressed in 60% of DRG neurons under normal circumstance. Seven days after axotomy the number of FGF 13-positive neurons was decreased to 18%, but partially recovered to 40% after 28 days. FGF 13 immunoreactivity was also decreased. These data indicate that FGFs are important for DRG neurons under normal circumstance and after nerve injury.
Somatosensory evoked fields were recorded to determine the effects of movement and attention on high-frequency oscillations during active finger movements of the ipsilateral and contralateral sides in response to electrical stimulation of the median nerve. A whole-scalp neuromagnetometer was used to record somatosensory evoked fields from eight subjects following electric median nerve stimulation at the wrist. The following three sessions were performed: (1). rest, (2). movement of fingers on the ipsilateral in response to stimulation and (3). movement of fingers on the contralateral in response to stimulation. The somatosensory evoked fields with a wide-bandpass (0.1-1000 Hz) were recorded. High-frequency oscillations and N20m were separated by subsequent high-pass (&gt; 300 Hz) and low-pass (&lt; 300 Hz) filtering. The maximum amplitude of high-frequency oscillations decreased during finger movements accompanying a decrease in somatosensory N20m dipole strength. Activation of the motor cortex appeared to suppress both the amplitude of high-frequency oscillations and the N20m dipole strength.

The present experiments determined whether temporary inactivation or blockade of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the dorsomedial striatum affects acquisition or reversal learning of a response discrimination. Testing occurred in a modified cross-maze across two consecutive sessions. In the acquisition phase, a rat learned to make a turn to the left or to the right for 10 consecutive correct choices. In the reversal learning phase, a rat learned to turn in the opposite direction as required during acquisition for 10 consecutive correct choices. Experiment 1 investigated the effects of the local anesthetic, 2% bupivacaine, infused into the dorsomedial striatum on acquisition and reversal learning. Experiment 2 examined the effects of the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine injected into the dorsomedial striatum on acquisition and reversal learning. Bupivacaine infusions did not impair acquisition, but did impair reversal learning of the response discrimination. Analysis of the errors indicated that the deficit was not due to perseveration of the previously learned strategy, but to an inability to learn the new strategy. Bilateral injections of scopolamine, 1 or 8 microg/side, did not affect acquisition. Infusions of scopolamine at 8 microg, but not 1 microg, produced a reversal learning deficit. The scopolamine-induced deficit resulted from an inability to learn the new strategy. The results suggest that the dorsomedial striatum is important for behavioral flexibility and that activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in this region may facilitate the learning of situationally adaptive response patterns.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) was modelled in this study using ECV304 cells in co-culture with rat C6 glioma cells, which resulted in elevated transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER). The inflammatory mediator bradykinin (1 microM) was studied and found to induce a fall in TEER; the link between this change and intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) was then examined. 1 microM bradykinin produced a peak-plateau increase in [Ca(2+)](i). The peak showed desensitization and was dose dependent (over 0.1 nM to 1 microM). The [Ca(2+)](i) increase was blocked by the B(2) antagonist HOE 140 (1 microM) without effect from a B(1) agonist and antagonist. The plateau response was abolished in Ca(2+)-free solution containing 2 mM EDTA, and also by the Ca(2+) channel blockers lanthanum, La(3+) (10 microM), and SKF 96365 (100 microM). The store Ca(2+)ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin (1 microM) abolished the peak response. The putative phospholipase C inhibitors, U73122 (20 microM) and ETH-18-OCH(3) (100 microM), unexpectedly increased [Ca(2+)](i); after their application, bradykinin was ineffective. Agents without effect on Ca(2+) responses to bradykinin included the phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) inhibitor aristolochic acid (0.5 mM), cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (100 microM), 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid, NDGA (100 microM), calphostin C (0.5 microM), L-NAME (1 mM) and nifedipine (10 microM). The fall in TEER from bradykinin was blocked by HOE 140, U73122 and thapsigargin combined with La(3+), and also by aristolochic acid and NDGA, but not indomethacin, calphostin C or L-NAME. U73122 increased TEER while ETH-18-OCH(3) reduced it. Thus bradykinin reduced TEER through B(2) receptor-linked release of Ca(2+) from thapsigargin-sensitive stores, leading to activation of PLA(2) and metabolism of arachidonic acid by 5-lipoxygenase.
Although stressors induce a series of adaptive neurochemical changes, sustained physiological activation associated with protracted stressor exposure may engender adverse effects (allostatic load). In the present investigation CD-1 mice exposed to a series of different stressors, twice a day over 54 days, exhibited increased signs of depression and anxiety, including increased passivity in a forced swim test, reduced aggression in a social interaction test, and delayed approach to food in a novel environment. Consistent with the view that a chronic stressor regimen affects immune-related processes, sickness behavior elicited by the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta, was augmented in response to a chronic but not an acute stressor. Relative to nonstressed mice, median eminence serotonin was augmented by the cytokine treatment administered 24 h after chronic stressor exposure. Treatment with IL-1beta diminished plasma growth hormone levels and increased circulating corticosterone levels irrespective of the animals stressor history. It is suggested that chronic stressor exposure may instigate relatively protracted neurochemical effects, thereby influencing the behavioral responses to later psychological and systemic challenges.
The effect of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists at the spinal level has not been well studied in neuropathic states. In the present report, we demonstrate the efficacy of intrathecal nicotinic agonists in partial sciatic nerve injury-induced neuropathy model mice. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of (-)nicotine and (+)epibatidine, at doses without undesirable effects, had no antinociceptive action in sham-operated mice. However, they completely reversed the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia in partial sciatic nerve-injured mice. This neuropathy-specific analgesic action of i.t. (-)nicotine and (+)epibatidine is attributed to different subtypes of nAChRs at the spinal level. After antagonism experiments with mecamylamine, dihydro-beta-erythroidine and methyllycaconitine, it was observed that (-)nicotine-induced analgesia was mediated through the alpha4beta2 subtype of nAChR while the (+)epibatidine-induced one was mediated through non-alpha4beta2 subtype of nAChR. Moreover, i.t. pretreatment with NMDA receptor antagonist did not block nicotinic analgesia. Similar to nicotinic agonists, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABA(A)) agonist muscimol (i.t.) produced neuropathy-specific analgesic action giving analgesia only in nerve-injured mice. The GABA(A) antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin significantly blocked the analgesic effects of muscimol as well as that of (-)nicotine and (+)epibatidine. On the other hand, i.t. injection of nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine and GABA(A) antagonist picrotoxin in sham-operated mice induced a thermal hyperalgesia without any effects in nerve-injured animals suggesting the presence of a tonic inhibitory tone on nociceptive transmission through the spinal cholinergic-GABAergic system. These results also suggest that the neuropathy-specific analgesic action of intrathecal nicotinic agonists was due to stimulation of this cholinergic-GABAergic system whose inhibitory tone had been reduced due to injury.
Local injection of mu-opioid receptor specific neurotoxin, dermorphin-saporin, into the striatum resulted in selective degeneration of striatal neurons in the patch compartment. We analyzed subsequent anterograde degeneration of axons and terminals at light and electron microscopic level. Light microscopic examination after silver impregnation method revealed that degenerating axons and terminals arising from the striatal patch compartment were distributed in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra. They were found in both pars reticulata and compacta of the substantia nigra. Electron microscopic examination revealed that the degenerating axon terminals contained large pleomorphic vesicles and formed symmetric synapses on dendrites. The present results suggest that patch neurons expressing mu-opioid receptor send projection fibers to multiple nuclei of the basal ganglia.
In excitatory synapses of the brain, specific receptors in the postsynaptic membrane lie ready to respond to the release of the neurotransmitter glutamate from the presynaptic terminal. Upon stimulation, these glutamate receptors activate multiple biochemical pathways that transduce signals into the postsynaptic neuron. Different kinds of synaptic activity elicit different patterns of postsynaptic signals that lead to short- or long-lasting strengthening or weakening of synaptic transmission. The complex molecular mechanisms that underlie postsynaptic signaling and plasticity are beginning to emerge.

Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated (HCN) ion channels are found in rhythmically firing cells in the brain and in the heart, where the cation current through HCN channels (called I(h) or I(f)) causes these cells to fire repeatedly. These channels are also found in non-pacing cells, where they control resting membrane properties, modulate synaptic transmission, mediate long-term potentiation, and limit extreme hyperpolarizations. HCN channels share sequence motifs with depolarization-activated potassium (Kv) channels, such as the fourth transmembrane segment S4. S4 is the main voltage sensor of Kv channels, in which transmembrane movement of S4 charges triggers the opening of the activation gate. Here, using cysteine accessibility methods, we investigate whether S4 moves in an HCN channel. We show that S4 movement is conserved between Kv and HCN channels, which indicates that S4 is also the voltage sensor in HCN channels. Our results suggest that a conserved voltage-sensing mechanism operates in the oppositely voltage-gated Kv and HCN channels, but that there are different coupling mechanisms between the voltage sensor and activation gate in the two different channels.

Experience is a powerful sculptor of developing neural connections. In the primary visual cortex (V1), cortical connections are particularly susceptible to the effects of sensory manipulation during a postnatal critical period. At the molecular level, this activity-dependent plasticity requires the transformation of synaptic depolarization into changes in synaptic weight. The molecule alpha calcium-calmodulin kinase type II (alphaCaMKII) is known to play a central role in this transformation. Importantly, alphaCaMKII function is modulated by autophosphorylation, which promotes Ca(2+)-independent kinase activity. Here we show that mice possessing a mutant form of alphaCaMKII that is unable to autophosphorylate show impairments in ocular dominance plasticity. These results confirm the importance of alphaCaMKII in visual cortical plasticity and suggest that synaptic changes induced by monocular deprivation are stored specifically in glutamatergic synapses made onto excitatory neurons.
Immobilized and diffusible molecular cues regulate axon guidance during development. GFRalpha1, a GPI-anchored receptor for GDNF, is expressed as both membrane bound and secreted forms by accessory nerve cells and peripheral targets of developing sensory and sympathetic neurons during the period of target innervation. A relative deficit of GFRalpha1 in developing axons allows exogenous GFRalpha1 to capture GDNF and present it for recognition by axonal c-Ret receptors. Exogenous GFRalpha1 potentiates neurite outgrowth and acts as a long-range directional cue by creating positional information for c-Ret-expressing axons in the presence of a uniform concentration of GDNF. Soluble GFRalpha1 prolongs GDNF-mediated activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), an event required for GFRalpha1-induced neurite outgrowth and axon guidance. Together with GDNF, target-derived GFRalpha1 can function in a non-cell-autonomous fashion as a chemoattractant cue with outgrowth promoting activity for peripheral neurons.
The neurotrophin receptor p75 is induced by various injuries to the nervous system, but its role after injury has remained unclear. Here, we report that p75 is required for the death of oligodendrocytes following spinal cord injury, and its action is mediated mainly by proNGF. Oligodendrocytes undergoing apoptosis expressed p75, and the absence of p75 resulted in a decrease in the number of apoptotic oligodendrocytes and increased survival of oligodendrocytes. ProNGF is likely responsible for activating p75 in vivo, since the proNGF from the injured spinal cord induced apoptosis among p75(+/+), but not among p75(-/-), oligodendrocytes in culture, and its action was blocked by proNGF-specific antibody. Together, these data suggest that the role of proNGF is to eliminate damaged cells by activating the apoptotic machinery of p75 after injury.
We studied in the rat projections of vasopressin-containing neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) to phrenic nuclei and to the pre-Botzinger complex (pre-BotC). In addition, we determined vasopressin receptor expression within the pre-BotC and the physiological effects of vasopressin on respiratory drive and arterial blood pressure when injected into the pre-BotC. Retrograde tracing with cholera toxin B subunit (CT-b) showed that a subpopulation of vasopressin-containing PVN neurons project to phrenic nuclei and the pre-BotC. The latter region, identified by expression of neurokinin-1 receptors, contained a subpopulation of neurons that were immunoreactive for the vasopressin type 1 receptor (V(1)R). Microinjection of vasopressin in the pre-BotC (0.2 nmol/200 nl) significantly increased diaphragm electromyographic activity and frequency discharge (P&lt;0.05). In addition, vasopressin increased blood pressure and heart rate (P&lt;0.05). These data indicate that PVN vasopressin-containing neurons innervate respiratory-related regions of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord and when vasopressin is released at these sites, it may increase respiratory drive via activation of the distinct V(1)R.

With the objective of characterizing the underlying conditions in younger patients with cognitive symptoms, 314 consecutive patients were studied, aged &lt;60 years, referred to a multidisciplinary memory clinic over a period of 54 months. Fifteen percent of the patients fulfilled Diagnostic and Statistical Manual IV criteria for dementia, 17% had selective cognitive deficits, and 55% had no cognitive deficits. Cognitive symptoms in younger patients rarely reflect dementia but more often other medical and psychiatric conditions.

The hippocampal formation (HF) of mammals and birds is crucial for spatial learning and memory. However, although the underlying synaptic organization and connectivity of the mammalian HF are well characterized, comparatively little is known about the avian HF. Localized regions of the homing pigeon HF were stimulated at 400-600 microA while evoked field potentials (EFPs) were recorded from adjacent and more distant HF areas relative to the stimulation site. The shortest discernible EFP latency was 12.2 msec. The emerging connectivity profile (using the location of peak EFP amplitude after stimulation and making no determination of the number of intervening synapses) was characterized by projections from the dorsolateral (DL) HF to the dorsomedial (DM) HF (15-msec latency) at the same anterior/posterior (A/P) level, DM to ventrolateral (VL) and ventromedial (VM; 15 msec) HF across A/P levels, VM to VL (12 msec) and contralateral VM (15 msec) at the same A/P level, and VL to ventral DL (DLv; 15 msec) across A/P levels posterior to the stimulation site. Using these data as a first approximation, connectivity through the avian HF appears to be characterized by a discernible feed-forward network starting with a projection from DL to DM, DM to VL, VM, and contralateral VM, VM to VL, and VL to posterior ventral DLv. Although still speculative, the results suggest that the internal connectivity of the avian HF is similar to that of the mammalian HF, despite the large evolutionary divergence between the two taxa.
Estrogen has been reported to regulate the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons within the hippocampus, basal forebrain, and hypothalamus of adult rodents. Although estrogen receptor-alpha bearing GABAergic interneurons have been identified previously, the neurotransmitter phenotype of cells that express the more recently characterized estrogen receptor-beta (ER-beta) has not been examined in vivo. We, therefore, have used fluorescent immunohistochemistry to further characterize the phenotype of ER-beta-bearing cells by double labeling for the GABAergic-associated calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin (PV). We find that a large proportion of ER-beta-immunoreactive cells within the cortex, amygdala, basal forebrain, and hippocampal formation of intact and ovariectomized (ovx) adult rats are PV-immunoreactive. Within the infralimbic, agranular insular, primary motor, parietal association, perirhinal, and lateral entorhinal cortices, an average of 95.6% +/- 0.8% (intact) and 94.5% +/- 1.4% (ovx) of all ER-beta-immunoreactive cells coexpress parvalbumin, and this proportion is strikingly similar across these diverse cortical regions. ER-beta/PV double-labeled cells represent 23.3% +/- 1.6% (intact) and 25.8% +/- 2.0% (ovx) of all PV-labeled cells within these regions. ER-beta/PV double-labeled cells are also observed within the lateral, accessory basal, and posterior cortical nuclei of the amygdala, and periamygdaloid cortex. Within the basal forebrain, 31.0% +/- 3.1% (intact) and 26.0% +/- 5.2 % (ovx) of ER-beta-immunoreactive cells coexpress PV. Almost all ER-beta-immunoreactive cells within the subiculum, a major output region of the hippocampal formation, double label for PV (intact = 97.2% +/- 2.8%; ovx = 100% +/- 0.0%). Thus, ER-beta exhibits extensive colocalization with a subclass of inhibitory neurons, suggesting a potential mechanism whereby estrogen can regulate neuronal excitability in diverse and broad brain regions by modulating inhibitory tone.
We used transgenic reporter mice to determine whether brain regions that respond to retinoic acid (RA) during development do so in maturity. We focused on two prominent sites of embryonic RA signaling: the dorsal spinal cord and the olfactory bulb. In the mature dorsal spinal cord, expression of a direct repeat 5 RA response element (DR5-RARE) transgene is seen in interneurons in laminae I and II, as well as in ependymal cells around the central canal. In the olfactory bulb, DR5-RARE transgene-expressing neurons are seen in the mature granule cell and periglomerular layers, as well as in cells in the subventricular zone of the forebrain-the established source for newly generated granule and periglomerular neurons. In addition, there are transgene-labeled neurons in a small number of other brain regions. These include the spinal trigeminal nucleus, area postrema, habenula, amygdala, and the cerebral cortex. Thus, a distinct type of RA-mediated gene expression, detected with the DR5-RARE reporter transgene, defines neurons, subependymal, or ependymal cells in discrete locations throughout the neuraxis. Some of these cells--particularly those in the spinal cord and olfactory bulb--are found in central nervous system regions that receive local RA signals early in development, and retain a significant amount of functional or structural plasticity in the adult.
In this work, the differential expression of a chemical marker, the alpha-isoform of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM-Kinase II alpha) and the development of the spinal cord projection were used to determine in vivo the embryonic stages at which different aspects of the phenotype of neocortical cells are specified. We first performed a quantitative, immunocytochemical study on the levels of CaM-Kinase II alpha expression in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortical areas of control adult rats. We found that the levels of expression of CaM-Kinase II alpha were larger in the frontal and parietal areas than in the occipital areas. In addition, all layer V neurons identified as projecting to the spinal cord were CaM-Kinase II alpha immunopositive. We then grafted embryonic day (E) 12 or 14 cells from the presumptive frontal or occipital cortex of donor fetuses into the frontal or occipital cortex of newborn hosts. Cortical cells grafted at E12 differentiate neurons with molecular (CaM-Kinase II alpha) and connectivity (spinal cord projection) phenotypes appropriate to the cortical area where they complete their development whereas cells taken at E14 differentiate neurons with molecular and connectivity phenotypes appropriate to their cortical locus of origin. These findings suggest that E12 progenitors destined to generate layer V neurons are multipotent. The final phenotype of their progeny depends on regionalizing signals expressed in the environment. Later in corticogenesis, committed progenitors become unable to respond to regionalizing signals and generate neurons whose phenotype is appropriate to the initial cortical position of the precursor.

The effect of soleus activation on the soleus H-reflex was investigated during controlled lengthening and shortening of the plantar flexor muscles. Maximal H-reflexes and M-waves were evoked at the same muscle length (ankle angle 90 degrees ) during lengthening and shortening (ankle angular velocity 5 degrees s(-1)) with soleus either passive or with its electromyographic activity at 10, 20 and 30% of that during a maximal voluntary isometric plantar flexion. In passive trials, the H(MAX):M(MAX) ratio during lengthening was lower than during shortening. In active trials at 10 and 20%, the H(MAX):M(MAX) ratio tended to be lower during lengthening than shortening. Within the active trials, H(MAX):M(MAX) ratios were not different between the three levels of soleus activation, neither for lengthening nor shortening actions. When all active trials were pooled, the lengthening H(MAX):M(MAX) ratio was significantly lower than the shortening one. In lengthening, the H(MAX):M(MAX) ratio increased in the active with respect to the passive condition, whereas no change occurred in active with respect to the passive shortening. These results indicate action type specificity in the way the Ia-excitatory effect is modulated as the soleus muscle is voluntarily activated.
Spreading depression (SD) and ischemia are different pathophysiological events but have similar characteristics. This study investigated whether similarity exists in the light scattering (LS) properties during SD and ischemia in rat neocortical slices. SD was induced by injection of K(+) while ischemia was simulated by removing oxygen and glucose. LS was simultaneously recorded with changes in extracellular direct current (DC) potential and extracellular space (ECS) volume. LS was measured using a photon counting fiber optic system and the ECS volume change was determined by measuring the ECS concentration of tetramethylammonium (TMA(+)). Slices maintained in normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) showed a consistent LS increase during SD, but exhibited two different LS behaviors during 6 min of ischemia. In eight slices, LS decreased and remained so until the end of the ischemic challenge. In another 10 slices, LS diminished initially but, after 2 min, suddenly reversed sign, accompanied by a rapid negative shift in extracellular DC potential. When 50 or 91% of Cl(-) in the ACSF was replaced by membrane-permeable propionate, LS retained its increase during SD, but always showed the sudden LS reversal during ischemia. In contrast, when Cl(-) was substituted with membrane-impermeant methylsulfate, the SD-induced LS increase was replaced by an LS decrease, and the sudden LS reversal during ischemia was absent. While the LS signal showed different characteristics during SD and ischemia, the DC potential always presented negative shifts and the ECS volume always exhibited similar decreases. These results suggest that the polarity of the LS signal is determined by the competition of at least two factors: cell swelling and anion influx.
Dopamine D1-like receptors, composed of D1 and D5 receptors, have been documented to modulate glutamate-mediated fast excitatory synaptic neurotransmission. Here, we report that dopamine D1 receptors modulate NMDA glutamate receptor-mediated functions through direct protein-protein interactions. Two regions in the D1 receptor carboxyl tail can directly and selectively couple to NMDA glutamate receptor subunits NR1-1a and NR2A. While one interaction is involved in the inhibition of NMDA receptor-gated currents, the other is implicated in the attenuation of NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity through a PI-3 kinase-dependent pathway.
Apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) was originally discovered as a mitochondrial protein that, like cytochrome c, is released into the cytoplasm during cell death. New evidence suggests, however, that a redox-active enzymatic region of AIF may be antiapoptotic while a DNA binding region is proapoptotic.
A 40-kDa catecholamine-regulated protein (CRP40) has been demonstrated to be expressed in the central nervous system, and is known to bind to dopamine and related catecholamines. Recently, it has been shown that dopamine D1 receptor antagonist and dopamine D2 receptor antagonist differentially modulated the CRP40 protein in the striatum. In the present study, we examined the effects of the indirect psychostimulant, D-amphetamine, on (CRP40) expression in discrete brain regions. The technique of Western immunoblotting was utilized for quantitation of CRP40 in different experimental paradigms following D-amphetamine treatment. Acute treatment with D-amphetamine (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) caused no significant change in CRP40 levels in either of the two brain regions studied: striatum and nucleus accumbens. Chronic D-amphetamine administration (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased CRP40 levels in striatum and nucleus accumbens (37.64 +/- 14.57% and 27.86 +/- 8.40%, respectively, P &lt; or = 0.05). Chronic and possibly sensitized D-amphetamine challenged rats (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) showed a significant increase in CRP40 levels in the nucleus accumbens only (40.49 +/- 15.91%, P &lt; or = 0.05). Although CRP40 has a consensus motif with the 70-kDa heat shock protein (HSP70), levels of HSP70 remained unchanged under identical experimental conditions. The results of this study demonstrate selective modulation of CRP40 by D-amphetamine treatment, without affecting the 70-kDa heat shock protein.
Two apolipoprotein E (apoE) receptors, the very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) receptor and apoE receptor 2 (apoER2), are also receptors for Reelin, a signaling protein that regulates neuronal migration during brain development. In the adult brain, Reelin is expressed by GABA-ergic interneurons, suggesting a potential function as a modulator of neurotransmission. ApoE receptors have been indirectly implicated in memory and neurodegenerative disorders because their ligand, apoE, is genetically associated with Alzheimer disease. We have used knockout mice to investigate the role of Reelin and its receptors in cognition and synaptic plasticity. Mice lacking either the VLDL receptor or the apoER2 show contextual fear conditioning deficits. VLDL receptor-deficient mice also have a moderate defect in long term potentiation (LTP), and apoER2 knockouts have a pronounced one. The perfusion of mouse hippocampal slices with Reelin has no effect on baseline synaptic transmission but significantly enhances LTP in area CA1. This Reelin-dependent augmentation of LTP is abolished in VLDL receptor and apoER2 knockout mice. Our results reveal a role for Reelin in controlling synaptic plasticity in the adult brain and suggest that both of its receptors are necessary for Reelin-dependent enhancement of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Thus, the impairment of apoE receptor-dependent neuromodulation may contribute to cognitive impairment and synaptic loss in Alzheimer disease.
Hypoxic preconditioning (8% O2, 3 h) produces tolerance 24 h after hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in neonatal rats. To better understand the ischemic tolerance mechanisms induced by hypoxia, we used oligonucleotide microarrays to examine genomic responses in neonatal rat brain following 3 h of hypoxia (8% O2) and either 0, 6, 18, or 24 h of re-oxygenation. The results showed that hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1- but not HIF-2-mediated gene expression may be involved in brain hypoxia-induced tolerance. Among the genes regulated by hypoxia, 12 genes were confirmed by real time reverse transcriptase-PCR as follows: VEGF, EPO, GLUT-1, adrenomedullin, propyl 4-hydroxylase alpha, MT-1, MKP-1, CELF, 12-lipoxygenase, t-PA, CAR-1, and an expressed sequence tag. Some genes, for example GLUT-1, MT-1, CELF, MKP-1, and t-PA did not show any hypoxic regulation in either astrocytes or neurons, suggesting that other cells are responsible for the up-regulation of these genes in the hypoxic brain. These genes were expressed in normal and hypoxic brain, heart, kidney, liver, and lung, with adrenomedullin, MT-1, and VEGF being prominently induced in brain by hypoxia. These results suggest that a number of endogenous molecular mechanisms may explain how hypoxic preconditioning protects against subsequent ischemia, and may provide novel therapeutic targets for treatment of cerebral ischemia.
Male Long-Evans rats were trained to discriminate mCPP (1.4 mg/kg, i.p.) from saline, using a two-lever, food-reinforced operant task. The GABA(A) antagonist, bicuculline (0.16-0.64 mg/kg), partially substituted for mCPP, whereas the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil (1-10 mg/kg), and the benzodiazepine inverse agonist, Ro 15-4513 (0.25-2.5 mg/kg), failed to substitute for mCPP. Bicuculline produced no change in response rate, whereas Ro 15-4513 dose-dependently decreased responding. Flumazenil produced a small increase in response rates. Flumazenil (10 mg/kg), Ro 15-4513 (1.25 mg/kg), and the benzodiazepine agonists alprazolam (0.64 mg/kg) and diazepam (5 mg/kg) full agonist all failed to block the mCPP discriminative stimulus. When given in combination with mCPP, Ro15-4513 and alprazolam both produced lower response rates than did mCPP alone, whereas flumazenil and diazepam did not significantly alter response rates. These findings provide evidence that GABA(A) antagonists modulate the discriminative stimulus effects of mCPP, but that these effects are not mediated by activity at the benzodiazepine site.
A role for nerve growth factor (NGF) in the remodeling of sensory neurons in the trigeminal ganglion was examined. Intracerebroventricular NGF infusion and/or bilateral removal of the sympathetic superior cervical ganglia, both of which are believed to increase the availability of NGF to primary sensory neurons, resulted in a significant increase in the frequency of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive pericellular baskets. The results of this study suggest that increased NGF is sufficient to enhance the formation of sensory baskets in this ganglion, and provide evidence that NGF may mediate the formation of sensory baskets in the sensory ganglia following injury.
The extent of microglial cell activation (microglial cell load) was estimated by image analysis of ferritin-immunostained sections of frontal cortex from 72 patients with pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD), and correlated with the amount of pathological tau and amyloid beta protein (Abeta), as both Abeta(40) and Abeta(42) load, in adjacent sections of the same cases. Microglial cell load did not correlate with either Abeta(40) or Abeta(42) load but was significantly correlated with pathological tau load. Microglial cell load was unrelated to age at onset of disease or duration of illness. It is possible that because the presence of microglial cells predates that of pathological tau proteins within the cerebral cortex in AD, neurofibrillary damage to nerve cells may stem from the release of proinflammatory and other potentially neurotoxic molecules from microglial cells.

Tasks using appetitive reinforcers show that following disorientation rats use the shape of an arena to reorient, and cannot distinguish two geometrically similar corners to obtain a reward, despite the presence of a prominent visual cue that provides information to differentiate the two corners. Other studies show that disorientation impairs performance on certain appetitive, but not aversive, tasks. This study evaluated whether rats would make similar geometric errors in a working memory task that used aversive reinforcement. We hypothesized that in a task that used aversive reinforcement rats that were initially disoriented would not reorient by arena shape and thus make similar geometric errors. Tests were performed in a rectangular arena having one polarizing cue. In the appetitive condition water consumption was the reward. The aversive condition was a water maze task with reinforcement provided by escape to a hidden platform. In the aversive condition rats returned to the reinforced corner significantly more often than in the dry condition, and did not favor the diagonally opposite corner. Results show that rats can use cues besides arena shape to reorient in an aversive reinforcement condition. These findings may also reflect different strategies, with an escape/homing strategy in the wet condition and a foraging strategy in the dry condition.
Many studies have used repeated testing at different ages to study the age-related decline in learning and memory in animals. Generally, it has been assumed that performance is relatively independent of prior exposure(s). The present study tested the hypothesis that rats retain a significant memory of some aspects of spatial tasks for many months. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained in a repeated acquisition water maze task at 12 months of age, and retested in the same task at 24 months of age. Compared to 24-month-old naive rats, the pretrained rats initially performed significantly better on their first days of retesting at 24 months of age. In a second experiment, animals were trained for 2 weeks at 12 months of age and tested/retested for 2 weeks at the age of 24 months. Whereas the performance of the 24-month-old naive group improved over the 2 weeks of testing, the latencies of the pretrained animals were consistently shorter both initially, and throughout the testing. The performance of the pretrained rats in the second week of testing was similar to young rats. Together these data indicate that 24-month-old rats can learn spatial tasks well and that the performance of old rats in spatial tasks can be significantly influenced by prior exposure to that task, even 12 months earlier.
The reliability of behavioural data constitutes a major concern in the neuroscience field. Indeed, discrepancies in the behavioural patterns of mice or rats in the same anxiety tests performed in different laboratories have been reported recently. The question raised by such data addressed, in particular, the selection and breeding of two lines of rats on the basis of their high (HAB) and low (LAB) anxiety-related behaviour in the elevated plus-maze test at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich (Germany). As the majority of the behavioural data in these animals has been derived from research carried out in this institute, the aims of the present study were: (1) to test the reliability of the differences in anxiety-related behaviour of these rats in two other laboratories (Villeneuve d'Ascq, France and Innsbruck, Austria); and (2) to determine how the different behavioural traits were associated in both HAB and LAB rats by a principal component analysis. Results were in agreement with the studies performed in Munich, as the divergence in anxiety-related behaviour of the two lines was highly consistent in all tests performed in Villeneuve d'Ascq and Innsbruck. Moreover, the most important parameters to discriminate the two lines were similar to those found in a previous study. Finally, the principal component analysis again confirmed that the selection of HAB and LAB rats is based on anxiety-related behaviour rather than locomotor activity.
Relapse to drug use following prolonged periods of abstinence results, in part, from the ability of contextual cues paired previously with self-administered drug to elicit drug craving and -seeking behavior. Given the popularity of the mouse for the genetic analysis of drug-induced behaviors, a place conditioning model of drug-seeking behavior was used to examine the ability of cocaine (COC) to reinstate extinguished conditioned reward in mice. In a series of experiments, COC place conditioning was produced in male C57BL/6 (B6) mice by four pairings of COC (15 or 25 mg/kg, IP) with the non-preferred compartment of a two-compartment place conditioning apparatus. Following a post-conditioning test (Post-Test), place conditioning was extinguished by repeated testing. The mice were then challenged with one of five COC doses (0, 5, 10, 15 or 25 mg/kg, IP) and allowed free access to both environments. Following extinction, COC injections reinstated place conditioning to 100% or greater, relative to the Post-Test. In a control experiment, mice received either COC or SAL paired with non-preferred compartment and were then challenged with either COC (15 mg/kg, IP) or SAL on the Post-Test. COC-conditioned, but not SAL-conditioned, mice exhibited place conditioning when tested in a COC-free state. Interestingly, COC injection on the Post-Test elicited an increase in approach behavior in both SAL- and COC-conditioned mice and this increase was equivalent to that produced by COC conditioning alone. No direct relationships were observed between the magnitude of place conditioning and either COC-induced or -conditioned locomotor hyperactivity in the non-preferred compartment. Thus, at least two independent processes appear to underlie the ability of a COC injection to elicit approach behavior towards the non-preferred compartment of a biased place conditioning apparatus in mice-reactivation of the conditioned incentive motivational properties of COC-paired cues and elicitation of unconditioned behavioral disinhibition. One or both of these processes sensitizes with the passage of time, increasing the propensity of B6 mice to approach non-preferred environments upon COC re-administration.
Acute administration of corticosterone (Cort) has been shown to potentiate a variety of learning processes. Here, the effects of Cort on rapid gustatory conditioning were examined using a lick monitoring system. Over a 3-day period, animals were given intraperitoneal (ip) injections of either a low dose of lithium chloride (LiCl; 0.75 mEq, ip) toxin or saline control (NaCl; 0.9%, ip) and then received an injection of Cort (5 mg/kg, ip) or cyclodextrin vehicle. In order to investigate the effect of acute increases in systemic Cort on gustatory conditioning, patterns of licking behavior were recorded while animals were exposed to a novel sucrose (0.3 M) tastant. Increased post-injection serum Cort levels were verified by radioimmunoassay analysis of trunk blood samples. Analysis of the licking patterns revealed evidence of rapid gustatory conditioning. Significantly reduced sucrose intake volumes and fewer total licks during the test sessions on Conditioning days were found in all groups that had received LiCl injections. Evidence of a Cort-potentiated conditioning effect was also found. Animals that had received Cort in addition to LiCl exhibited significantly shorter meal durations than did animals that had been administered LiCl alone and Cort significantly influenced the effects of LiCl on cluster number. These findings indicate that Cort facilitates conditioning, possibly by modulation of LiCl-induced visceral afferent and/or central feedback mechanisms.
The present study investigated the role of delta-opioid receptors (ORs) in estrogen facilitation of female rat reproductive behavior (lordosis). Infusion of 2 microg of the selective delta-OR agonist [D-Pen(2),D-Pen(5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE), into the third ventricle facilitated lordosis behavior in ovariectomized (OVX) rats injected with estrogen (E) 48 and 24 h before behavioral testing. Pretreatment with the selective delta-OR antagonist naltrindole (NTDL) blocked DPDPE effects on lordosis behavior. Ventricular infusion of NTDL (40 microg) also suppressed lordosis behavior in fully receptive OVX rats primed with both E and progesterone (P). In addition, NTDL blocked lordosis behavior when infused into the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) but not into the medial preoptic area (mPOA). Site-specific infusion of DPDPE into the VMH had dose-dependent, dual effects on lordosis behavior. While a very low dose of DPDPE (0.01 microg) facilitated lordosis behavior, a higher dose (1.0 microg) inhibited receptivity in OVX rats primed with E and a low dose (50 microg) of P. We used 3H-DPDPE to measure the density of delta-ORs in OVX rats treated with vehicle or with E by receptor autoradiography. E treatment did not have any effect on the density of DPDPE binding sites in the VMH, mPOA, medial amygdala, or caudate putamen. The behavioral effects of the ligands used in this study suggest that activation of delta-OR in the VMH by endogenous opioids facilitates estrogen-dependent lordosis behavior.
Theories of human development suggest that experiences embedded in social relationships alter prefrontal brain systems that mediate emotional self-regulation. This study tests for experience-dependent effects on prefrontal gray and white matter volumes determined in 39 young adult monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) 4 years after conditions that modified early maternal availability. These conditions were previously shown to alter subsequent measures of emotional behavior, social propensities, and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis stress physiology. Here we identify significant differences in right but not left adult prefrontal volumes, with experience-dependent asymmetric variation most clearly expressed in ventral medial cortex measured in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Follow-up studies now need to determine whether maternal availability directly affects or interacts with subsequent experiences to alter prefrontal substrates of emotional processing and sensitivity to stress.
The etiology and mechanisms of specific language impairment (SLI) in children are unknown. Differences in basic auditory processing abilities have been suggested to underlie their language deficits. Studies suggest that the neuropathology, such as atypical patterns of cerebral lateralization and cortical cellular anomalies, implicated in such impairments likely occur early in life. Such anomalies may play a part in the rapid processing deficits seen in this disorder. However, prospective, longitudinal studies in infant populations that are critical to examining these hypotheses have not been done. In the study described, performance on brief, rapidly-presented, successive auditory processing and perceptual-cognitive tasks were assessed in two groups of infants: normal control infants with no family history of language disorders and infants from families with a positive family history for language impairment. Initial assessments were obtained when infants were 6-9 months of age (M=7.5 months) and the sample was then followed through age 36 months. At the first visit, infants' processing of rapid auditory cues as well as global processing speed and memory were assessed. Significant differences in mean thresholds were seen in infants born into families with a history of SLI as compared with controls. Examination of relations between infant processing abilities and emerging language through 24 months-of-age revealed that threshold for rapid auditory processing at 7.5 months was the single best predictor of language outcome. At age 3, rapid auditory processing threshold and being male, together predicted 39-41% of the variance in language outcome. Thus, early deficits in rapid auditory processing abilities both precede and predict subsequent language delays. These findings support an essential role for basic nonlinguistic, central auditory processes, particularly rapid spectrotemporal processing, in early language development. Further, these findings provide a temporal diagnostic window during which future language impairments may be addressed.
Bioactive peptides frequently terminate with an essential alpha-amide that is generated from a COOH-terminal Gly in a two-step enzymatic process occurring within the lumen of the secretory pathway. The first enzyme, peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase, is a member of the copper- and ascorbate-dependent monooxygenase family. The second enzyme, peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL, EC 4.3.2.5), has no known homologues. Examination of the catalytic core of PAL (PALcc) using trypsin, BNPS skatole, and COOH-terminally truncated proteins failed to identify stable subdomains. Treatment of PALcc with divalent metal ion chelators inactivated the enzyme and increased its protease and thermal sensitivity, suggesting a structural role for bound metal. Purified PALcc contained 0.7 +/- 0.4 mol of zinc/mol of enzyme. Since the four Cys residues in PALcc form two disulfide bonds, potential Zn ligands include conserved Asp, Glu, and His residues. The secretion and activity of PALcc bearing mutations in each conserved Asp, Glu, and His residue were evaluated. Mutation of three conserved Asp residues and two conserved His residues yielded a protein that could not be secreted, suggesting that these residues play a structural role. Analysis of mutants that were efficiently secreted identified three His residues along with single Asp residue that may play a role in catalysis. These essential residues occur in a pattern unique to PAL.

Vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs), elicited by acoustic stimulation, have been proposed in the assessment of the vestibulo-cervical reflex pathways. The procedure has been previously validated in several otovestibular disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate patients affected by multiple sclerosis (MS) in the attempt to clarify the underlying physiopathogenetic mechanisms and the clinical utility of VEMPs in detecting vestibulospinal involvement in this disease. VEMPs were obtained according to the technique described by Colebatch and Halmagyi [Neurology 42 (1992) 1635]. We averaged the surface tonic electromyogram from right and left sternocleidomastoid muscle, after bilateral click stimulation (click duration 0.1 ms, repetition rate 3 Hz, intensity 140 dBSPL, 256 stimuli, repeated at least twice). In all cases, we obtained the biphasic, initially positive, p13-n23 wave pattern. P13 peak latency was bilaterally or unilaterally delayed in 8 out of 15 patients (mean delay: 2.2 ms; p &lt; 0.01 on right and &lt;0.05 on left side) and peak-to-peak amplitude significantly reduced (mean amplitude loss: 130 microV; p &lt; 0.01 on right and &lt;0.05 on left side). Their overall diagnostic yield resulted in 60%. In conclusion, the present findings prove that VEMPs are delayed in p13 component and altered in amplitude in MS patients. We hypothesise that these changes might be the result of a conduction impairment in vestibulo-spinal fibres, producing a morphologic alteration of the myogenic responses.
