


The concept of anxiety as a distinct comorbid disorder in schizophrenia has recently been rediscovered after having been neglected for a long period of time due to both theoretical and clinical approaches adopted from the appearance of the first edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in 1950. This rediscovery was accentuated by the fact that the concept of comorbidity in various psychiatric disorders has recently won widespread favor within the scientific community, and that the use of atypical neuroleptic medication to treat patients with schizophrenia has been reported to lead to the emergence of anxiety symptoms. Of the atypical neuroleptic medications used to treat schizophrenia, clozapine has most frequently been reported to induce anxiety symptoms. In this paper, 12 cases of patients with paranoid schizophrenia who developed social phobia during clozapine treatment are reported, and their response to fluoxetine augmentation is assessed. Premorbid personality disorders were also investigated; patients were assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R-Patient Version and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Personality Disorders (DSM-III-R=Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition Revised; DSM-IV=Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition). In addition, the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, the Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms, the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS), the Frankfurt Beschwerde Fragebogen (Frankfurt Questionnaire of Complaints), and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale were used to rate clinical symptomatology. All patients were reevaluated after 12 weeks of cotreatment with clozapine and fluoxetine. In 8 (66.6%) of the 12 cases, symptoms responded (&gt;/=35% LSAS score reduction) to an adjunctive regimen of fluoxetine. Furthermore, in 7 (58.3%) of the 12 cases, an anxious personality disorder (avoidant=33.3%; dependent=25%) was identified, but no significant differences in the prevalence of comorbid personality disorders emerged in comparison with a group of 16 patients with paranoid schizophrenia treated with clozapine who did not show symptoms of social phobia. The clinical relevance of the assessment and treatment of anxiety disorders is discussed in light of a clinical therapeutic approach that overcomes the implicit hierarchy of classification. Considering that the onset of anxiety-spectrum disorders (such as social phobia) can occur during the remission of psychotic symptoms in clozapine-treated patients with schizophrenia, a comprehensive approach to pharmacological therapy for patients with schizophrenia (or, at least for those treated with clozapine) should be adopted.

Dermatoglyphic ridge counts (1) reflect ontogenic processes during the second trimester of pregnancy and (2) can be influenced by some of the factors that also affect cerebral development. Therefore, the demonstration of an association between dermatoglyphic and cerebral structural measures in patients with schizophrenia would give credence to the view that the structural brain abnormalities associated with this disorder have their origin early in development. Twenty-eight male subjects with schizophrenia and 19 male controls underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and dermatoglyphic analysis. The pattern of association between the ab-ridge count and nine MRI features was dissimilar in cases and controls for two measures. Associations between dermatoglyphic features, on the one hand, and the frontal CSF (r = .54, P = .004) and fourth ventricular volume (r = .38, P = .05), on the other, were larger in the cases versus the controls (test for interaction, P = .08 and P = .06, respectively). These findings, while in need of replication, support the view that the cerebral structural abnormalities found in patients with schizophrenia are the result of an early pathologic process affecting the development of fetal ectodermal structures.
The human self model suggests that the construct of self involves functions such as agency, body-centered spatial perspectivity, and long-term unity. Vogeley, Kurthen, Falkai, and Maieret (1999) suggest that agency is subserved by the prefrontal cortex and other association areas of the cortex, spatial perspectivity by the prefrontal cortex and the parietal lobes, and long-term unity by the prefrontal cortex and the temporal lobes and that all of these functions are impaired in schizophrenia. Exploring the connections between the prefrontal cortex and the construct of self, the present article extends the application of the self model to autism. It suggests that in contrast to schizophrenia, agency and spatial perspectivity are probably preserved in autism, but that, similarly to schizophrenia, long-term unity is probably impaired. This hypothesis is compatible with a model of neuropsychological dysfunction in autism in a neural network including parts of the prefrontal cortex, the temporal lobes, and the cerebellum.
This study investigated attention to a spatial location using a new spatial preparation task. Participants responded to a target dot presented in the center of a display and ignored a distractor dot presented to the right or left of the center. In an attempt to vary the level of preparatory attention directed to the target, the distractor dot was presented prior to the onset time of the target and the relative frequency of distractor dots to target dots within a block of trials was varied. The results from the first three experiments showed that when instructions induce weak preparatory attention to the target location, response times to a target on target-only trials increase substantially as the percentage of trials containing a distractor increases from 0 to 75%. In Experiments 2 and 3, instructions and display saliency were used to induce strong preparatory attention to the target location, resulting in almost constant response times across distractor percentages. Experiment 4 varied percentage of target trials in the absence of distractors, with the result that response times decreased as target trial percentage increased. Accounts of these data by early &quot;activity-based&quot; and late &quot;criterion-based&quot; attention theories are compared, and the early theory is given a more detailed description within the context of a cognitive neuroscience theory of attention.
As the interest in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its treatment has grown, so has the sophistication of clinical trials of potential drug therapies. In particular, interest has focused on outcomes used to assess the severity of the illness and the effectiveness of treatment. This paper reviews the assessments that are used frequently in trials of AD therapy and describes further measures that may be of value in determining effective treatments for the disease. The review concludes that it is important that evaluation of drug effects on AD is not confined solely to the assessment of cognitive function. To gain a true overview of the impact of AD on patients, carers and society, areas such as activities of daily living, caregiver burden, quality of life, behavioural symptoms and resource utilization need to be comprehensively determined.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is often misdiagnosed as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesized that the first symptoms associated with FTD would be different from those seen in AD and that the first symptoms in FTD would reflect loss of function in the frontal region with the greatest degree of degeneration. The objective of the study was to compare the earliest symptoms in patients with FTD and AD, and to delineate the symptoms that were associated with right, left or bilateral frontotemporal degeneration in FTD. The first symptoms in 52 FTD and 101 AD patients were determined in retrospect. Based on functional imaging studies, the FTD patients were divided into those with predominantly bilateral (n = 15), left-sided (n = 19) and right-sided (n = 18) patterns of atrophy. The results showed that disinhibition, social awkwardness, passivity and loss of executive function were more common in FTD, while memory loss was more common in AD. Disinhibition was greatest in the asymmetric right-sided group, language dysfunction was commonest in the asymmetric left-sided group and loss of executive function was most frequent in the bilateral group. In summary, different first symptoms appeared in FTD and AD, which may help distinguish between the diseases. The anatomic site for FTD largely determined the kind of first symptoms.
Sixteen patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 27 with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 25 with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, 19 with subcortical white matter dementia (SWD) and 28 normal controls underwent semiquantitative regional cerebral blood flow measurement (rCBF) using single-photon emission tomography (SPET; (99m)Tc-HMPAO) and either computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. An anterior-to-posterior rCBF-SPET ratio (mesial superior frontal gyrus/medial temporal lobes) was calculated, which significantly separated the FTD group from the other dementia groups and controls with a sensitivity of 87.5% and a specificity of at least 78.6%. CT/MRI was found to be helpful in the differential diagnosis between FTD and SWD. In FTD patients, the mesial superior frontal gyrus, near the polus frontalis, was found to be the region with the most reduced rCBF values.
engrailed-related genes have been isolated in numerous taxa. Within the insects, some species have a single engrailed-related gene whilst others have two copies, raising the question of when and how often gene duplications have occurred. Here we report the cloning, in the cockroach Periplaneta americana, of two engrailed-related genes Pa-en1 and Pa-en2. By comparing conserved domains and by carrying out a phylogenetic analysis, we conclude that these two genes are likely to be the product of a recent duplication in the cockroach lineage. Pa-en1 and Pa-en2 are co-expressed during early embryogenesis and their segmental pattern of expression appears in an anterior-posterior progression. We have also isolated potential splice variants of Pa-en2 which lack some regulatory domains. The roles these splice variants may play in regulating developmental processes are discussed.
To document the characteristics of early posttraumatic seizures (EPTS) in non-accidental head injury (NAHI), and examine their relation with outcome, a retrospective study was carried out. All children with NAHI admitted to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, since 1981 were identified. The characteristics of EPTS, EEG, and outcome were noted. Forty-four cases were identified. The average age of children at presentation was 5.9 months. Thirty-two of these children had EPTS. The median length of follow-up was 3 years. The mortality rate was six in 44 (14%). The neurodevelopmental outcome correlated significantly with the presence and severity of EPTS (Tau=0.317,p=0.017). Of survivors, 22% developed late posttraumatic epilepsy; the outcome in those with epilepsy was significantly worse than those without (p&lt;0.0001). It was concluded that the severity of the primary brain injury dictates the severity of the EPTS and neurodevelopmental status at follow-up.

Mutation of sucker (suc) disrupts development of the lower jaw and other ventral cartilages in pharyngeal segments of the zebrafish head. Our sequencing, cosegregation and rescue results indicate that suc encodes an Endothelin-1 (Et-1). Like mouse and chick Et-1, suc/et-1 is expressed in a central core of arch paraxial mesoderm and in arch epithelia, both surface ectoderm and pharyngeal endoderm, but not in skeletogenic neural crest. Long before chondrogenesis, suc/et-1 mutant embryos have severe defects in ventral arch neural crest expression of dHAND, dlx2, msxE, gsc, dlx3 and EphA3 in the anterior arches. Dorsal expression patterns are unaffected. Later in development, suc/et-1 mutant embryos display defects in mesodermal and endodermal tissues of the pharynx. Ventral premyogenic condensations fail to express myoD, which correlates with a ventral muscle defect. Further, expression of shh in endoderm of the first pharyngeal pouch fails to extend as far laterally as in wild types. We use mosaic analyses to show that suc/et-1 functions nonautonomously in neural crest cells, and is thus required in the environment of postmigratory neural crest cells to specify ventral arch fates. Our mosaic analyses further show that suc/et-1 nonautonomously functions in mesendoderm for ventral arch muscle formation. Collectively our results support a model for dorsoventral patterning of the gnathostome pharyngeal arches in which Et-1 in the environment of the postmigratory cranial neural crest specifies the lower jaw and other ventral arch fates.
There is increasing evidence that a chronic inflammatory response in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD) ultimately leads to neuronal injury and cognitive decline. Microglia, the primary immune effector cells of the brain, are thought to be key to this process. This paper discusses the evidence for inflammation in AD, and describes the mechanism whereby microglia generate neurotoxic cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and nitric oxide. Evidence that the cytokine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) is an important cofactor in microglial activation in AD is presented. Ongoing work using organotypic hippocampal expiant cultures to model the inflammatory process in the AD brain is also discussed. Potential avenues for therapeutic intervention are outlined.
Conventional psychiatric diagnosis is founded on symptom description; this then governs the choice of psychotropic medication. This purely descriptive approach resembles a description of diphtheria from the premicrobiology era. Based on current advances in basic and clinical neuroscience, we propose inserting an intermediate level of analysis between psychiatric symptoms and pharmacologic modes of action. Paradigm 1 is to analyze psychiatric symptoms in terms of which higher brain function(s) is (are) abnormal, ie, symptoms should be analyzed as higher brain dysfunction: a case study in obsessive-compulsive disorder reveals pointers in four common symptoms to the higher functions of working memory, emotional overlay, absence of voluntary control, and the ability to evaluate personal mental phenomena. Paradigm 2 is to view psychotropic drugs as modifying normal higher brain functions, rather than merely treating symptoms, which they do only secondarily: thus depression may respond to agents that act on related aspects of mental life derived from higher brain functions, eg, the ability to enhance bonding. We advocate a strategy in which psychiatric illness is progressively reclassified through knowledge in clinical neuroscience and treatment targets are revised accordingly.
Wider use of pharmacological models would facilitate the development of new drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD), The two main models currently used are based on the cholinergic and glutamatergic hypotheses of AD, Although they lead to some of the attention and memory impairment observed in AD, they do not fully reproduce the AD pattern. The few studies that used a combination modeling approach, ie, the simultaneous administration of several drugs with the aim of impairing several neurotransmitters or different aspects of a single system, have reported no or marginal cumulative effect. On the basis of current understanding of glutamate and acetylcholine involvement in AD pathophysiology, we suggest that models using selective muscarinic-1 (M(1)) receptor blockers would better mimic the status of the cholinergic system in AD, This kind of model might be suitable for the assessment of drugs that do not act directly on the cholinergic system.
The present study was conducted in order to investigate the relationships between central noradrenergic (NA) and serotonergic (5-HT) function and clinical characteristics of a major depressive episode according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition. We measured growth hormone response (GH) to clonidine (CLO) (an 2 NA agonist), as an index of central NA function, and prolactin response (APRL) to d-fenfluramine (d-FEN) (a specific 5-HT releaser/uptake inhibitor), as an index of central 5-HT function, in 53 medication-free depressed inpatients. On the basis of their CLO and d-FEN test responses, patients were classified into 4 groups. Group 1 (blunted PRL(d-FEN) alone [11 %]) was characterized by a recent violent suicide attempt, a high degree of medical damage, and mild anxiety. Group 2 (blunted GH(CLO) alone [32%]) was characterized by an absence of a history of suicide attempt and by severe anxiety. Group 3 (combination of blunted GH(CLO) and APRL(d-FEN) [18%]) was characterized by a history of suicide attempts, total duration of the illness of over W years, age over 40 years, and more than 3 previous hospitalizations. Group 4 (no abnormality [39%]) had no specific clinical profile. These results suggest that, in depression, specific psychopathological features may be linked to 5-HT and/or NA dysfunction. However, our results also suggest that NA and/or 5-HT dysfunction are less likely to be the primary cause of mood disorders but are more indicative of failure of compensatory mechanisms involved in affective homeostatic processes.
Circadian fluctuations of normal and abnormal behavioural processes have been classically reported from statistically validated chronograms (averaged displays of data as a function of time). Going more deeply into the research with rhythmometric investigations reveals that the temporal organization of psychophysiological functions involving several oscillatory systems may compose possible circadian paradigms of brain integration and pathological chronorisk for clinical neuroscience (seizure susceptibility for epilepsy and related states, brain circulatory disturbances, stress-related events, emotional or affective manifestations, and psychosomatic disorders). Rhythmometrically analyzed, the temporal fluctuations of behavioural events tend to indicate that cerebral integrations are circadian, circaseptidian or infradian stage-dependent processes whose chronobiologic characteristics are possibly predictable on the basis of mathematical models. More generally, the present study reveals that: 1) several neurological or psychiatric disorders are directly or indirectly concerned with chronobiologic processes, and that 2) cerebral and behavioural time variations can be detected and described in neurology and psychiatry as algorithmically-formulatable recurring psychophysiological changes with a waveform validated by inferential statistical computer methods. Such rhythmometric procedures applied to neurological or psychiatric events suggest also the development of new epistemological concepts in the fields of comparative psychophysiology and theoretical neuroscience.

The purpose of this study was to examine the cerebral control of simultaneous movements of the upper and lower limbs. We examined two hypotheses on how the brain coordinates movement: (i) by the involvement of motor representations shared by both limbs; or (ii) by the engagement of specific neural populations. We used positron emission tomography to measure the relative cerebral blood flow in healthy subjects performing isolated cyclic flexion-extension movements of the wrist and ankle (i.e. movements of wrist or ankle alone), and simultaneous movements of the wrist and ankle (a rest condition was also included). The simultaneous movements were performed in the same directions (iso-directional) and in opposite directions (antidirectional). There was no difference in the brain activity between these two patterns of coordination. In several motor-related areas (e.g. the contralateral ventral premotor area, the dorsal premotor area, the supplementary motor area, the parietal operculum and the posterior parietal cortex), the representation of the isolated wrist movement overlapped with the representation of the isolated ankle movement. Importantly, the simultaneous movements activated the same set of motor-related regions that were active during the isolated movements. In the contralateral ventral premotor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex and parietal operculum, there was less activity during the simultaneous movements than for the sum of the activity for the two isolated movements (interaction analysis). Indeed, in the ventral premotor cortex and parietal operculum, the activity was practically identical regardless whether only the wrist, only the ankle, or both the wrist and the ankle were moved. Taken together, these findings suggest that interlimb coordination is mediated by motor representations shared by both limbs, rather than being mediated by specific additional neural populations.
A number of putative neurotransmitter substances have been found in vertebrate taste buds. Amongst these glutamate has been localized in fibres innervating the buds and uptake of glutamate has been shown to occur into receptor cells. It is therefore possible that, in common with other sensory systems, glutamate is a neurotransmitter in taste buds. In the inner ear and retina of mammals, the membranes of supporting cells have been shown to contain the glial glutamate transporter GLAST. In the brain, this protein is involved in glutamate re-uptake into glial cells where the glutamate is converted into glutamine for recycling into glutamatergic terminals. In this study, the presence of GLAST has been investigated in taste buds in the rat vallate papilla and its distribution compared with that of glutamine to determine whether there are cells in this system that play a glia-like role in glutamate handling. Immunofluorescent labelling showed that a subset of cells in the taste bud contains GLAST. Immunogold labelling indicated that it occurs in the plasma membranes of supporting cells, especially on the fine cytoplasmic processes of dark cells towards the basal region of the bud. A protein of molecular mass similar to that of cerebellar GLAST was detected in immunoblots of excised papillae. Double labelling and semiquantitative analysis of glutamine and GLAST immunoreactivity showed that the GLAST-positive cells have a higher level of cytoplasmic glutamine than the adjacent cells. It is proposed that these GLAST-positive cells play a glia-like role in the uptake of glutamate following its release at synapses within the taste bud although the precise location of the latter remains uncertain. The GLAST-positive cells may also be involved in its subsequent conversion to glutamine in a glutamate/glutamine cycle similar to that described in the brain.
Functional coassembly of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)C rho1 subunits with GABAA (alpha1, beta2, and gamma2S) or glycine (alpha1, alpha2, and beta) subunits was examined using two-electrode voltage-clamp recordings in the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system. To facilitate this study, we took advantage of the unique gating and pharmacological properties of two mutant rho1 subunits, rho1(T314A) and rho1(T314A/L317A). When the rho1(T314A) subunit was coexpressed with GABA gamma2S, glycine alpha1 or glycine alpha2 subunits, GABA response properties were different from those of homomeric rho1(T314A) receptors. Additionally, the sensitivity of heteromeric rho1(T314A) and gamma2S receptors to picrotoxinin (PTX) blockade of GABA-evoked responses was altered compared to that of homomeric rho1(T314A) receptors. Changes in GABA response properties and picrotoxinin sensitivity were also observed when rho1(T314A) subunits were coexpressed with wild-type rho1 subunits. When rho1(T314A/L317A) subunits were coexpressed with GABA gamma2S, glycine alpha1 or glycine alpha2 subunits, suppression by GABA of spontaneously active current was reduced compared to that of homomeric rho1(T314A/L317A) receptors. Recovery of the spontaneous current from inhibition by GABA for GABA rho1(T314A/L317A)/gamma2S heteromeric receptors displayed an additional component. Coinjection of wild-type rho1 with gamma2S cRNAs at a ratio of 1 : 1 resulted in a &gt; 10-fold reduction in GABA-evoked current. Furthermore, coexpression of wild-type rho1 and gamma2S subunits was found to shift the GABA dose-response curve. Our results provide functional evidence that the GABAC rho1 subunit can coassemble with the GABAA gamma2S subunit, and, at least in its mutated form, rho1 can also form heteromeric receptors with glycine alpha1 or alpha2 subunits in vitro.
During axonal regeneration synthesis of different growth-associated proteins is increased. As yet there is no clear picture of the specific contribution made by the transcriptional and post-transcriptional machinery that provides the gene products necessary for process outgrowth. Here we focus our study on the transcriptional processes in neurons by using intron-directed in situ hybridization to the primary transcript of a brain growth protein GAP-43. In most brain regions, levels of primary transcript expression of GAP-43 were highly correlated with levels of its mRNA. However, there were notable dissociations: in hippocampal granule cells, high levels of primary transcript were evident yet no GAP-43 mRNA was detected. In locus coeruleus the reverse was true; there were high levels of GAP-43 mRNA but no detectable primary transcript. A primary transcript antitermination mechanism is proposed to explain the first dissociation, and a post-transcriptional mRNA stabilization mechanism to explain the second. Transcriptional activation during nerve regeneration was monitored by assessing primary transcript induction of GAP-43 in mouse facial motor neurons. This induction, as well as its mRNA, was restricted to the side of the facial nerve crush. Increases were first observed at 24 h with a rapid increase in both measures up to 3 days. To our knowledge, this is the first in vivo evidence demonstrating transcriptional activation of a brain growth protein in regenerating neurons. The present study points to the GAP-43 transcriptional mechanism as a key determinant of GAP-43 synthesis. Along with the recruitment of post-transcriptional mechanisms, such synthesis occurs in response to both intrinsic developmental programs and extrinsic environmental signals.
The fast Fourier transform (FFT), which is employed by all commercially available ultrasonic systems, provides a time-frequency representation of Doppler ultrasonic signals obtained from blood flow. The FFT assumes that the signal is stationary within the analysis window. However, the presence of short duration embolic signals invalidates this assumption. For optimal detection of embolic signals if FFT is used for signal processing, it is important that the FFT parameters such as window size, window type, and required overlap ratio should be optimized. The effect of varying window type, window size and window overlap ratio were investigated for both simulated embolic signals, and recorded from patients with carotid artery stenosis. An optimal compromise is the use of a Hamming or Hanning window with a FFT size of 64 (8.9 ms) or 128 (17.9 ms). A high overlap ratio should also be employed in order not to miss embolic events occurring at the edges of analysis windows. The degree of overlap required will depend on the FFT size. The minimum overlap should be 65% for a 64-point window and 80% for a 128-point window.

To assess the involvement of substance P (SP) and cholecystokinin (CCK) in the effects of antipsychotic drugs, preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) and CCK mRNA expression was studied in the hippocampal formation using in situ hybridisation following 21 daily i.p. injections with the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol (1 mg/kg) and the atypical drug clozapine (15 mg/kg). PPT-A mRNA levels were increased in the hippocampal CA3 subregion and in the entorhinal cortex after haloperidol, whereas a decrease was observed in the CA1 after clozapine. CCK mRNA levels increased in the CA1, the entorhinal cortex and in hilus, following both haloperidol and clozapine. It is suggested that earlier findings of increased SP levels in the hippocampal formation of schizophrenics may be a consequence of haloperidol treatment and that reduced hippocampal CCK and CCK mRNA levels found earlier in schizophrenics do not result from antipsychotic drug treatment. These results are consonant to the hypothesis that increased cortical CCK transmission may be beneficial in the treatment of psychosis.
This study describes the changes in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolites during antidepressant treatment for more than 6 months. Eight patients, who received antidepressant treatment after attempted suicide and then underwent lumbar punctures every 3 or 4 months, were included. Plasma drug concentrations and the clinical outcome were also measured. Consistent with previous reports about antidepressant treatment for between 3 and 6 weeks, both 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (MHPG) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were significantly decreased after treatment for a mean of 15 weeks compared to pretreatment. However, after continued treatment for a mean of 30 weeks the MHPG concentration remained significantly lower than at pretreatment while 5-HIAA had returned to the pretreatment level. The clinical outcome was significantly correlated to the pretreatment 5-HIAA/MHPG ratio. These results suggest that the frequently reported reduction in CSF 5-HIAA after antidepressant treatment does not remain during long-term treatment.
The relative content of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (pBR) mRNA was examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in lymphocytes of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients, according to their clinical course of illness. pBR mRNA significantly decreased only in chronic OCD patients (n=8) as compared to controls (n=10), whereas no significant changes were observed in episodic OCD patients (n=7). We suggest that modulation of pBR gene expression might delineate a clinical heterogeneity in OCD.
Activation of a motoneuron pool is often accompanied by inhibition of the antagonistic pool through a system of reciprocal inhibition between the two parts of the neuronal network controlling the antagonistic pools. In the present study, we describe the activity of such a system in the isolated spinal cord of the lamprey, when a tonic motor output is evoked by extracellular stimulation (0.5-1 s train of pulses, 20 Hz) of either end of the spinal cord. With two electrodes symmetrically positioned in relation to the midline, stimulation with either of them separately elicited prolonged (1-5 s) ipsilateral ventral root activity. Activity could be abolished by stronger, simultaneously applied, stimulation of the contralateral side of the cord, suggesting that reciprocal inhibition between hemisegments operates when a tonic motor output is generated. Simultaneous stimulation of both sides of the spinal cord with a single electrode with a large tip (300-400 microm in diameter), positioned over the anatomical midline, elicited inconsistent right-side, leftside, or bilateral ventral root responses. A minor displacement (10-20 microm) to the left or right from the midline resulted in activation of ipsilateral motoneurons, whereas the contralateral motoneurons were silent. These findings indicate that a small asymmetry in the excitatory drive to the left and right spinal hemisegments can be further amplified by reciprocal inhibition between the hemisegments. Longitudinal splitting of the spinal cord along the midline resulted in reduced reciprocal inhibition between the hemisegments separated by the lesion. The reduction was proportional to the extent of the split. The inhibition was abolished when the split reached nine segments in length. From these experiments, the longitudinal distribution of the commissural axons responsible for inhibition of contralateral motor output could be estimated.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the regional blood flow in the myopic chick eye during and after short-term monocular form deprivation. Chicks were monocularly form-deprived by covering one eye with a translucent occluder for 7-10 days. The anterior chamber-lens distance, the vitreous chamber length and the axial length of the eye were measured by ultrasonography, the equatorial diameter was measured with calipers and the size of the eye was estimated by weighing. The regional blood flow in the eye was determined with radioactively-labelled microspheres in three groups of animals: a group of chicks wearing an occluder (n = 10), a group of chicks in which the occluder was removed 7 or 24 hr prior to the blood flow determination (n = 9), and a group of age-matched control chicks without occluder (n = 9). Monocular form deprivation increased the axial length 0.64 +/- 0.06 and 0.56 +/- 0.09 mm compared to the contralateral control eye in the two groups of chicks wearing an occluder (P &lt; 0.001). Both the equatorial diameter and the weight of the eye increased significantly (P &lt; 0.001). Removal of the occluder tended to reduce the difference in the vitreous chamber length during the first 24 hr. There was no statistically significant difference in the blood flow of the anterior uvea, choroid, pecten or the sclera between the form-deprived and contralateral control eyes (P &gt; 0.05, n = 10), but when comparing to the control group, the blood flow was significantly (P &lt; 0.05) reduced in the choroid of the occluded eye. A similar tendency was found in the anterior uvea. When the blood flow was measured 7-24 hr after the removal of the occluder, a marked increase was found in the blood flow of the choroid of both eyes compared to the situation during occlusion (P &lt; 0.001), and to the control group (P &lt; 0.05). In the pecten a significant (P &lt; 0.05) increase of the blood flow in comparison to the situation during occlusion and the control group was detected after removal of the occluder, and a similar change was found in the contralateral control eye, but it did not reach statistical significance. In the anterior uvea and sclera the blood flow was also significantly (P &lt; 0.05) or almost significantly increased after removal of the occluder in both eyes. The arterial blood pressure was 79 +/- 2, 88 +/- 2 and 99 +/- 5 mmHg in the control group, the group with monocular occlusion, and the group in which the occluder was removed, respectively.Thus, monocular form deprivation in the chick reduced the choroidal blood flow, and a similar tendency was found in the anterior uvea. However, there was no statistically significant difference in blood flow between the form-deprived and contralateral control eyes. Removal of the occluder increased the blood flow in all tissues, notably the choroid and pecten. Generally the changes in blood flow seemed to be bilateral, despite monocular occlusion.
In transgenic mice that overexpress mutant Amyloid Precursor Protein [V717I], or APP/London (APP/Lo) (1999a. Early phenotypic changes in transgenic mice that overexpress different mutants of Amyloid Precursor Protein in brain. J. Biol. Chem. 274, 6483-6492; 1999b. Premature death in transgenic mice that overexpress mutant Amyloid precursor protein is preceded by severe neurodegeneration and apoptosis. Neuroscience 91, 819-830) the AD related phenotype of plaque and vascular amyloid pathology is late (12-15 months). This typical and diagnostic pathology is thereby dissociated in time from early symptoms (3-9 months) that include disturbed behavior, neophobia, aggression, glutamate excitotoxicity, defective cognition and decreased LTP. The APP/Lo transgenic mice are therefore a very interesting model to study early as well as late pathology, including the effect of age. In ageing APP*Lo mice, brain soluble and especially &quot;insoluble&quot; amyloid peptides dramatically increased, while normalized levels of secreted APPsalpha and APPsbeta, as well as cell-bound beta-C-stubs, remained remarkably constant, indicating normal alpha- and beta-secretase processing of APP. In double transgenic mice, i.e. APP/LoxPS1, clinical mutant PS1[A246E] but not wild-type human PS1 increased Abeta, and plaques and vascular amyloid developed at age 6-9 months. The PS1 mutant caused increasing Abeta42 production, while ageing did not. Amyloid deposits are thus formed, not by overproduction of Abeta, but by lack of clearance and/or degradation in the brain of ageing APP/Lo transgenic mice. The clearance pathways of the cerebral amyloid peptides are therefore valuable targets for fundamental research and for therapeutic potential. Although hyper-phosphorylated protein tau was evident in swollen neurites around the amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary pathology is not observed and the &quot;tangle&quot; aspect of AD pathology is therefore still missing from all current transgenic &quot;amyloid&quot; models. Also the &quot;ApoE4&quot; risk for late onset AD remains a problem for modeling in transgenic mice. We have generated transgenic mice that overexpress human ApoE4 (2000. Expression of Human Apolipoprotein E4 in neurons causes hyperphosphorylation of Protein tau in the brains of transgenic mice. Am. J. Pathol. 156 (3) 951-964) or human protein tau (1999. Prominent axonopathy in the brain and spinal cord of transgenic mice overexpressing four-repeat human tau protein. Am. J. Pathol. 155, 2153-2165) in their neurons. Both develop a similar although not identical axonopathy, with progressive degeneration of nerves and with muscle wasting resulting in motoric problems. Remarkably, ApoE4 transgenic mice are, like the tau transgenic mice, characterized by progressive hyper-phosphorylation of protein tau also in motor neurons which explains the motoric defects. Further crossing with the APP/Lo transgenic mice is ongoing to yield &quot;multiple&quot; transgenic mouse strains to study new aspects of amyloid and tau pathology.
Dopamine-replacement strategies form the basis of most symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease. However, since long-term dopamine-replacement therapies are characterized by many side effects, most notably dyskinesia, the concept of a nondopaminergic therapy for Parkinson's disease has attracted great interest. To date, it has proved difficult to devise a nondopaminergic therapy with efficacy comparable to that of dopamine replacement. In animal models of Parkinson's disease, loss of striatal dopamine leads to enhanced excitation of striatal NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. This is responsible, in part at least, for generating parkinsonian symptoms. Here we demonstrate that, in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset, monotherapy with the NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist, ifenprodil, administered de novo, has antiparkinsonian effects equivalent to those of l-DOPA (administered as its methyl ester form). In MPTP-lesioned marmosets, median mobility scores, following vehicle-treatment were 12.5/h (range 6-21), compared to 61/h (range 26-121) in normal, non-MPTP-lesioned animals. Following ifenprodil (10 mg/kg) treatment in MPTP-lesioned marmosets, the median mobility score was 66/h (range 34-93), and following l-DOPA (10 mg/kg i.p.) treatment 89/h (range 82-92). The data support the proposal that NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonists have potential as a nondopaminergic monotherapy for the treatment of parkinsonian symptoms when given de novo.
Basic fibroblast growth factor-responsive neural stem cells (NSCs) derived from adult rat hippocampus were earlier demonstrated to generate neurons and glia. These stem-cell-derived neurons express GABA, acetylcholinesterase, tyrosine hydroxylase, or calbindin. It has not been clear, however, whether or not these stem-cell-derived neurons are able to form functional synapses. In the present study, we investigated the development of synapse formation by adult hippocampus-derived neural stem cells. NSCs from adult rat hippocampi and primary embryonic rat hippocampal neurons were cocultured on a glial feeder layer. Immunofluorescence studies revealed that some of the NSCs became immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein 2ab, neurofilament 200, synaptobrevin, or synaptophysin. These cells possessed properties of functional neurons such as action potentials and miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs). The elicited mPSCs with rapid kinetics were blocked by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), but not by bicuculline (excitatory mPSCs). The remaining mPSCs had slower kinetics and were blocked by bicuculline, but not by DNQX (inhibitory mPSCs). We considered that the neurons derived from the adult NSCs expressed both non-NMDA glutamate receptors and the GABA(A) receptors and formed functional synapses. Our results demonstrate that adult NSCs can differentiate into neurons with functional glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in vitro and support the concept that such neurons could integrate into the neuronal circuitry.
The immunocytochemical distribution of the neuronal form of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) was compared with neuropathological changes and with cell death related DNA damage (as revealed by in situ end labeling, ISEL) in the hippocampal formation and entorhinal cortex of 12 age-matched control subjects and 12 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Unlike controls, numerous nNOS-positive reactive astrocytes were found in AD patients around beta-amyloid plaques in CA1 and subiculum and at the places of clear and overt neuron loss, particularly in the entorhinal cortex layer II and CA4. This is the first evidence of nNOS-like immunoreactivity in reactive astrocytes in AD. In contrast to controls, in all but one AD subject, large numbers of ISEL-positive neuronal nuclei and microglial cells were found in the CA1 and CA4 regions and subiculum. Semiquantitative analysis showed that neuronal DNA fragmentation in AD match with the distribution of nNOS-expressing reactive astroglial cells in CA1 (r = 0.74, P &lt; 0.01) and CA4 (r = 0.58, P &lt; 0.05). A portion of the nNOS-positive CA2/CA3 pyramidal neurons was found to be spared even in the most affected hippocampi. A significant inverse correlation between nNOS expression and immunoreactivity to abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins (as revealed by AT8 monoclonal antibody) in perikarya of these CA2/3 neurons (r = -0.85, P &lt; 0.01) suggests that nNOS expression may provide selective resistance to neuronal degeneration in AD. In conclusion, our results imply that an upregulated production of NO by reactive astrocytes may play a key role in the pathogenesis of AD.
Clustering of apoptotic cells is a characteristic of many developing or renewing systems, suggesting that apoptotic cells kill bystanders. Bystander killing can be triggered experimentally by inducing apoptosis in single cells and may be based on the exchange of as yet unidentified chemical cell death signals between nearby cells without the need for cell-to-cell communication via gap junctions. Here we demonstrate that apoptotic cell clusters occurred spontaneously, after serum deprivation or p53 transfection in cell monolayers in vitro. Clustering was apparently induced through bystander killing by primary apoptotic cells. Catalase, a peroxide scavenger, suppressed bystander killing, suggesting that hydrogen peroxide generated by apoptotic cells is the death signal. Although p53 expression increased the number of apoptoses, clustering was found to be similar around apoptotic cells whether or not p53 was expressed, indicating that there is no specific p53 contribution to bystander killing. Bystander killing through peroxides emitted by apoptotic cells may propagate tissue injury in different pathological situations and be relevant in chemo-, gamma-ray, and gene therapy of cancer.
The autooxidation of L-Dopa, a catecholamine used in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease, generally yields reactive oxygen species and neurotoxic quinones. NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO) is a flavoenzyme that is implicated in the detoxication of quinones, including those formed during L-Dopa autooxidation. Through the action of this enzyme, deleterious redox-labile quinones are turned into less toxic and more stable hydroquinones that are amenable to further detoxication and/or cellular excretion. In the present study, using primary rat astrocytes and C6 astroglioma as a model to evaluate the neuroprotective response of astroglial cells upon exposure to L-Dopa, we demonstrate that this compound, or more correctly its quinone (auto)oxidation products, up-regulates astroglial NQO in a time- and concentration-dependent way as assessed at the level of mRNA expression, protein level, and enzymatic activity. Moreover, under similar conditions cellular glutathione content was enhanced. It is concluded that, similar to glutathione, the oxidative stress limiting NQO is likely to contribute to the capacity of astroglial cells to protect dopaminergic neurons against L-Dopa, and, hence, may be considered as a potential target for the development of neuroprotective strategies for Parkinson's disease.
The electron donors glutathione and thioredoxin play many vital roles in the mechanisms of cells to cope with oxidative stress. Critical to such antioxidant functions are the ability to synthesize glutathione and keep it reduced via glutathione reductase and the ability to reduce oxidized-thioredoxin via thioredoxin reductase. The rate-limiting enzyme for glutathione synthesis, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthase, is regulated by the antioxidant response element, whereas little is known about the regulation of expression of the selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase. There were several objectives in this study. One was to determine whether the phase II enzyme inducer t-butylhydroquinone would increase thioredoxin reductase in neural cells; we found that both cytosolic and mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase activity and protein content is increased in cortical astrocytes, but not in cortical neurons. A second objective was to determine whether there are differences in the ability of t-butylhydroquinone to increase glutathione content in astrocytes and neurons; we found that glutathione is increased in astrocytes but not neurons. Finally, t-butylhydroquinone addition did not affect glutathione reductase activity in neurons and caused only a modest increase in astrocytes. Our findings emphasize the central role that astrocytes play in the antioxidant activities of the CNS. Our findings also suggest that thioredoxin reductase and gamma-glutamylcysteine synthase belong to the same synexpression group.
The objective of this study was to determine whether a Hungarian language journal of clinical neuroscience, which is not indexed in MEDLINE, contains any reports of randomized or quasi-randomized clinical trials that are not also reported in MEDLINE-indexed publications. A cover-to-cover handsearch was performed of the journal Clinical Neuroscience/Ideggygyszati Szemle, the official journal of Hungarian societies of neurology, neurosurgery, psychiatry and related clinical neurosciences, from its first volume in 1950 to the end of 1998; and a search of MEDLINE for other reports of the trials identified. Clinical trials in which patients were allocated to interventions by randomized, quasi-randomized or possibly randomized means were identified. Controlled trials were tabulated and coded as randomized controlled trials or controlled clinical trials according to the definitions of the Handsearch Manual of the Cochrane Collaboration. We identified three randomized and eight quasi-randomized trials. Six of the 11 trials were not reported in MEDLINE indexed publications. In conclusion, to obtain a comprehensive controlled trials register, specialized healthcare journals printed in small numbers in the national languages of small countries should be searched.
The purpose of this study is to determine whether long-term potentiation (LTP) can be induced in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) by electrical stimulation of the lateral lemniscus. If LTP can be induced, is it mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and/or other receptors? Brain slices of the ICC were obtained from 14-35 day old Wistar rats. The field potentials were recorded from the ICC after GABAergic and glycinergic inhibition was suppressed. Following tetanic stimulation (50 Hz, 20 s), the amplitude of the response was increased to about 146% of control response for at least 30 min. LTP was observed in about 78% of the cases tested. Induction of LTP in the ICC required activation of both NMDA and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptors. GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) were blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, but not by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist. The IPSPs were decreased by the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. The intrinsic postsynaptic membrane properties were not affected by baclofen. These results suggest that GABAergic inhibition in the ICC is mediated only by GABA(A) receptors, but that it is modulated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. The GABA(B) receptors in the ICC may suppress GABAergic inhibition and promote induction of LTP.
Many nontropical rodent species display seasonal changes in both physiology and behavior that occur primarily in response to changes in photoperiod. Short-day reductions in reproduction are due, in part, to reductions in gonadal steroid hormones. In addition, gonadal steroids, primarily testosterone (T), have been implicated in aggression in many mammalian species. Some species, however, display increased aggression in short days despite basal circulating concentrations of T. The goal of the present studies was to test the effects of photoperiod on aggression in male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) and to determine the role of T in mediating photoperiodic changes in aggression. In Experiment 1, hamsters were housed in long and short days for either 10 or 20 weeks and aggression was determined using a resident-intruder model. Hamsters housed in short days for 10 weeks underwent gonadal regression and displayed increased aggression compared to long-day-housed animals. Prolonged maintenance in short days (i.e., 20 weeks), however, led to gonadal recrudescence and reduced aggression. In Experiment 2, hamsters were housed in long and short days for 10 weeks. Half of the short-day-housed animals were implanted with capsules containing T whereas the remaining animals received empty capsules. In addition, half of the long-day-housed animals were castrated whereas the remaining animals received sham surgeries. Short-day control hamsters displayed increased aggression compared to either castrated or intact long-day-housed animals. Short-day-housed T treated hamsters, however, did not differ in aggression from long-day-housed animals. Collectively, these results confirm previous findings of increased aggression in short-day-housed hamsters and suggest that short-day-induced increases in aggression are inversely related to gonadal steroid hormones.
This study sought to explore the expression of trkC in spared dorsal root ganglion(DRG) following unilateral dorsal root rhizotomy. 15 cats were divided into three groups: the intact group, the 3-day and 10-day groups after operation (unilaterral L1-L5 DRG and L7-S2 DRG were sectioned, but L6 DRG was spared). The animals were sacrificed on the 3rd day and 10th day after operation, respectively. The L6 DRG from the three groups were taken and cut into frozen sections (20 microns). The sections were stained using specific antiserum for trkC by the immunohistochemical ABC method. The numbers of large sized neurons (&gt; 57 microns) and small sized neurons (&lt; 42 microns) for trkC-IR were counted respectively. The results showed that the number of positive large sized neurons for trkC of the 10-day group after operation decreased significantly than that of the intact group and the 3-day group after operation, while the number of positive small sized neurons for trkC of the 10-day group increased apparently than that of the intact group and the 3-day group after operation (P &lt; 0.05). This experiment demonstrated that unilateral partial dorsal root rhizotomy could change the expression of trkC might in large neurons and small sized neurons, and the results suggested that trkC might involve in the spinal cord plasticity following partial dorsal root rhizotomy.
Measures of signal complexity can be used to distinguish neurophysiological activation from noise in those neuroimaging techniques where we record variations of brain activity with time, e.g., fMRI, EEG, ERP. In this paper we explore a recently developed approach to calculate a quantitative measure of deterministic signal complexity and information content: The Renyi number. The Renyi number is by definition an entropy, i.e., a classically used measure of disorder in physical systems, and is calculated in this paper over the basis of the time frequency representation (TFRs) of the measured signals. When calculated in this form, the Renyi entropy (RE) indirectly characterizes the complexity of a signal by providing an approximate counting of the number of separated elementary atoms that compose the time series in the time frequency plane. In this sense, this measure conforms closely to our visual notion of complexity since low complexity values are obtained for signals formed by a small number of &quot;components&quot;. The most remarkable properties of this measure are twofold: 1) It does not rely on assumptions about the time series such as stationarity or gaussianity and 2) No model of the neural process under study is required, e.g., no hemodynamic response model for fMRI. The method is illustrated in this paper using fMRI, intracranial ERPs and intracranial potentials estimated from scalp recorded ERPs through an inverse solution (ELECTRA). The main theoretical and practical drawbacks of this measure, especially its dependence of the selected TFR, are discussed. Also the capability of this approach to produce, with less restrictive hypothesis, results comparable to those obtained with more standard methods but is emphasized.
Previous electrophysiological studies had found an early anterior negativity often with a maximum over the left hemisphere to correlate with the early detection of an error in the syntactic structure of a sentence. In this paper, the cortical structures involved in such early syntactic parsing processes were localized using MEG. Subjects were presented with acoustic sentences and asked to judge their syntactic correctness. The subjects' brain responses to syntactic violations were recorded with a 148-channel whole-head magnetometer. Dipole source localization was performed using a realistically shaped standard volume conductor model with fMRI constraints. The results show that the early syntactic parsing processes are supported by temporal regions, possibly the planum polare, as well as by fronto-lateral regions. As indicated by the resultant dipole strengths, these regions are activated bilaterally with a dominance in the left hemisphere for four out of the five subjects. The contribution of the left temporal regions to the early syntactic processes seems to be larger than that of the left fronto-lateral regions.
To develop an appropriate model for representing spontaneous electroencephalography (EEG) is an important and necessary work in the field of neuroscience. The Markov process amplitude (MPA) EEG model has been proposed in our previous work for representing the features of the EEG in terms of a few parameters. However, being a linear model, the linear MPA EEG model cannot perfectly describe the spontaneous EEG that displays nonlinear phenomena. In this paper, the nonlinear Markov process amplitude (nonlinear MPA) EEG model that includes nonlinear components is introduced. The consistent consideration of the nonlinear features of the EEG investigated by N. Wiener and P. L. Nunez can be seen from the nonlinear MPA EEG model. The similarity in the time domain and the goodness of fitting in the frequency domain with respect to the ongoing EEG are shown. As a result, the EEG power spectrum can be decomposed into the spontaneous components and the nonlinearly coupled components by use of the nonlinear MPA EEG model, which is useful for a better understanding the mechanism of the EEG generation.
The original scope of this Transactions implicitly gave it wide latitude to include all aspects of biologically based Neural Engineering. The Transactions now has an additional explicit charter to target Neural Engineering and its links to rehabilitation, from the very basic science to the highly engineered design application. This Transactions will become a prime repository for the emerging field of Neural Engineering, without losing its rehabilitation roots.
Inadequate compliance of drug intake is an important cause of ineffective pharmacotherapy and has been associated with therapeutic failure. We hypothesized that sensation seeking personality traits would affect compliance with long-term antidepressant medication. Three hundred and eight depressed patients participating in a randomized double-blind study of sertraline and citalopram were included. Personality traits were assessed using the Karolinska Scales of Personality. Compliance to medication was determined in two ways, by means of tablet counting and by measurement concentration of drug in serum. Tablet non-compliance was defined as less than 80% or more than 100% intake of the prescribed drug during weeks 20-24. Serum drug non-compliance was defined as undetectable amounts of either drug and main metabolite in the serum samples at week 24. Two virtually not overlapping groups of non-compliant patients were identified, where those regarded as non-compliant due to the interpretation of the serum drug levels were in majority. The group of serum drug non-compliant patients were recognized by significantly higher scores on the Monotony Avoidance scale and the Impulsive Sensation Seeking Psychopathy factor. The need for better methods than tablet counting and patient questioning to ascertain compliance is emphasized.
In several retrospective post-mortem studies, patients meeting clinical criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) who gained the greatest cognitive benefit from treatment with an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor were found to have neocortical Lewy bodies accompanying classical AD neuropathology. This 'dementia with Lewy bodies' (DLB) subtype manifests both parkinsonian and psychopathologic features that set it apart from 'pure' AD (hereafter called AD). In the present preliminary study, 16 dementia patients were prospectively categorized as having DLB versus AD. Subjects were also categorized according to their profile on surface electromyographic (EMG) measures demonstrated in prior work to be analogues of clinically observed parkinsonian extrapyramidal signs (EPS). All patients were prescribed the AChE inhibitor donepezil (5 mg per day). At baseline and at 6 months, patients underwent cognitive testing with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) while caregivers assessed their psychopathologic status using the Behavioral Symptoms in Alzheimer's Disease (BEHAVE-AD) scale. The tester was blinded to the AD versus DLB classification of the patients. AD cases (N=12) had only a slight increase in cognitive scores, while DLB patients' (N=4) mean MMSE scores increased to a significantly greater degree. Furthermore, patients categorized by EMG as EPS positive (N=8) attained an increase in their mean MMSE score from baseline to 6 months that differed significantly from a decline in MMSE observed among their EPS negative (N=4) counterparts. For all subjects, an increase in MMSE scores across 6 months of treatment correlated with a decline in BEHAVE-AD scores.
We characterized anticancer effects of opioid analgesics that are clinically used for cancer patients for pain relief. Treatment with 100 microM buprenorphine, a representative analgesic, induced cell death of human carcinomas, such as A549 (squamous epithelial cell of lung cancer), MCF-7 (breast cancer) and N417 (small cell of lung cancer), but not in KATO III (gastric cancer) cells as evaluated by alamar blue assay. Among 18 clinically utilized and related analgesics, buprenorphine and loperamide showed potent inhibition of cell viability. However, these anti-cancer effects were not affected by opioid receptor antagonists nor by pertussis toxin. Buprenorphine-induced cell death occurred as early as 1 h after the addition, and its T1/2 of cell viability inhibition was 3 h. The cell death manifested the characteristics of apoptosis, such as DNA-laddering and nuclear fragmentation, which were sensitive to a caspase inhibitor, Z-Asp-CH2-DCB. The nuclear fragmentation was independent of cell cycle phase specificity. The activity of caspase-3-like protease which is known to be closely related to apoptotic DNA laddering was markedly enhanced by buprenorphine. However, the inhibition of cell viability by buprenorphine was not affected by the caspase inhibitor. These findings suggest that some opioid analgesics induce typical apoptotic features sensitive to the caspase inhibitor, while also inhibition of cell viability insensitive to the inhibitor.
Introduced 15 years ago, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive means of stimulating the cortex that has proved to be a unique tool for probing brain-behaviour relationships. While a therapeutic role for TMS in neuropsychiatry is uncertain, the utility of TMS in studying brain function has been demonstrated in diverse neuroscience applications. We review studies in animals on the mechanisms of action of TMS, and present a summary of the applications of TMS in basic neuroscience. TMS is still a relatively young technique, and unanswered questions remain regarding its acute and chronic impact on neural excitability and various aspects of brain function. Nonetheless, recent work with TMS has demonstrated its unique role in complementing other tools for studying brain function. As a brain intervention tool, TMS holds the promise of moving beyond correlative studies to help define the functional role of cortical regions in selected cognitive and affective processes.
The study of excitatory amino acids (EAA) [e.g. glutamate (Glu), aspartate] as neurotransmitters has resulted in many new and fundamental concepts in neuroscience. Much of this progress centres upon the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of Glu receptors in central nervous system synaptic transmission and plasticity. A leading hypothesis suggests that deficits in NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission may be central to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The conceptual foundation of this hypothesis derives from the clinical effects of NMDA receptor antagonists, such as phencyclidine (PCP) and ketamine and from post-mortem findings in brain samples of schizophrenia patients. Consequently, at present there is an intense search for pharmacological strategies capable of facilitating NMDA receptor function in this illness. During the last decade, a first generation of small clinical studies has focused on assessing the therapeutic potential of glycine-(Gly) site agonists of the NMDA receptor, such as Gly, D-serine and D-cycloserine. The results of these studies indicate that this type of compound may reduce negative symptoms and executive cognitive deficits in schizophrenia patients. Furthermore, preliminary findings suggest that patients having low serum Gly levels may represent the population of choice for treatment with Gly-site agonists. Additional potential schizophrenia treatments that may affect mainly NMDA receptor neurotransmission are : (i) other full and partial Gly-site agonists - in course of development for clinical use, and (ii) Gly transport antagonists that can inhibit Gly reuptake from neuronal synapses. Moreover, the antipsychotic action of some typical and atypical neuroleptics may be mediated by their agonistic activity at the strychnine-insensitive NMDA receptor-associated Gly site. After decades of relative neglect, the role of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the pathophysiology and therapeutics of schizophrenia is presently in process of conceptualization. In this context, it is likely that the development of NMDA receptor-based approaches for the treatment of this illness will continue. This trend is already supported by available clinical findings with Gly-site agonists and may herald an important, innovative development in the pharmacological treatment of neuropsychiatric syndromes.
We examined 510 subjects representing 83.2% of all citizens of a Finnish city aged 85 years or over. Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, diagnosis of dementia by DSM-III-R criteria, and Apo-E genotype were determined. The prevalence of dementia was 38.6%. The odds ratio (OR) of the Apo-E epsilon4 carriers (with the reference population of people with the genotype epsilon3/epsilon3) for dementia was 2.36 (95% CI 1.58 - 3.53). There was a significant sex difference: The OR in women was 3.23 (95% CI 2.02 - 5.17) whereas among men it was insignificant. The mean MMSE score (+/- SD) among the Apo-E epsilon4 carriers (15.0 +/- 10.0) and noncarriers (18.7 8.6) (p &lt; .001) differed among the whole population, but not within the demented or nondemented subjects analyzed separately. This study does not support the hypothesis that the Apo-E epsilon4 allele impairs cognitive functions of nondemented elderly, at least in those surviving to very old age.
The purpose of the study was to investigate the natural history of insomnia and its association with depression and mortality. In 1983, 1,870 randomly selected subjects aged 45-65 years answered a questionnaire on sleep and health. Of the 1,604 survivors in 1995, 1,244 (77.6%) answered a new questionnaire with almost identical questions. Mortality data were collected for the 266 subjects that had died during the follow-up period. Chronic insomnia was reported by 36.0% of women and 25.4% of men (chi2 = 9.7; p &lt; .01). About 75% of subjects with insomnia at baseline continued to have insomnia at follow-up. Insomnia in women predicted subsequent depression (odds ratio [OR] = 4.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.1-7.2) but was not related to mortality. In men, insomnia predicted mortality (OR = 1.7; 95% CI 1.2-2.3), but after adjustment for an array of possible risk factors, this association was no longer significant. Men with depression at baseline had an adjusted total death rate that was 1.9 times higher than in the nondepressed men (95% CI: 1.2-3.0).

An algorithm is described for objectively identifying and measuring spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs) using the spectrum that results from transformation of the acoustic waveform measured in the outer ear canal. Prior to spectral analysis, the rms level is calculated for successive short segments of the waveform and only the weakest 25% of the segments are retained for the spectral analysis [the quietest 150 when using 16k-point fast Fourier transforms (FFTs)]. The resulting initial spectrum is scanned for peaks (potential SOAEs) which are then deleted from the spectrum. New values are estimated for the deleted values using linear extrapolations from frequency ranges on either side of the deleted values. The end result is a smoothed spectrum devoid of all local peaks. The initial spectrum is then compared peak-by-peak with the smoothed spectrum, and those peaks having differences that exceed an objectively determined decision criterion are identified as likely SOAEs. The effects of varying some of the important parameter values of the algorithm are described, and the sensitivity of the procedure is evaluated by measuring the detection rate for a Lorentzian peak of known amplitude added to a spectrum otherwise devoid of SOAEs.

This paper provides a &quot;viewpoint discussion&quot; based on a presentation made to the 2000 Symposium of the American College of Medical Informatics. It discusses potential opportunities for researchers in health informatics to become involved in the rapidly growing field of bioinformatics, using the activities of the Yale Center for Medical Informatics as a case study. One set of opportunities occurs where bioinformatics research itself intersects with the clinical world. Examples include the correlations between individual genetic variation with clinical risk factors, disease presentation, and differential response to treatment; and the implications of including genetic test results in the patient record, which raises clinical decision support issues as well as legal and ethical issues. A second set of opportunities occurs where bioinformatics research can benefit from the technologic expertise and approaches that informaticians have used extensively in the clinical arena. Examples include database organization and knowledge representation, data mining, and modeling and simulation. Microarray technology is discussed as a specific potential area for collaboration. Related questions concern how best to establish collaborations with bioscientists so that the interests and needs of both sets of researchers can be met in a synergistic fashion, and the most appropriate home for bioinformatics in an academic medical center.
The human asparagine synthetase (AS) gene is transcriptionally regulated by amino acid deprivation (amino acid response, AAR) and the endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ERSR), also known as the unfolded protein response pathway. The results reported here document the novel observation that induction of the AS gene by the AAR and ERSR pathways occurs via the same set of genomic elements. Data supporting this conclusion include transient transfection of AS promoter/reporter gene constructs that illustrate that the transcriptional control elements used by both pathways are contained with nucleotides -111 to -34 of the AS promoter. In vivo footprinting analysis of this region identified six specific protein-binding sites. Within two of these sites, altered footprinting was observed following amino acid or glucose deprivation, but the patterns were identical for both the AAR and the ERSR pathway. Site-directed mutation of individual nucleotides within these two binding sites confirmed their importance for regulated transcription, and none of the mutations resulted in loss of response of only one pathway. Neither of these two sites corresponds to a recently identified ERSR cis-element, nor do they contain consensus sequences for known transcription factors. Collectively, the data document that there are at least two independent transcriptional mechanisms for gene activation by the ERSR pathway, one of which terminates at the same genomic elements used by the AAR pathway.

CLK1 was one of the first identified dual specificity kinases and is the founding member of the 'LAMMER' family of kinases. We have established the substrate site specificity of CLK1. We report here that truncation of the N terminus of CLK1 resulted in a dramatic increase in CLK1 enzymatic activity, indicating that the N terminus acts as a negative regulatory domain. The N-terminal truncation resulted in a 45-fold increase in V(max), suggesting that this domain does not contain a pseudo-substrate motif, but may act to conformationally constrain the catalytic activity of CLK1. Tyrosine phosphorylation has been proposed to be critical for CLK1 activity, however, CLK1 activity was unaffected by exposure to tyrosine phosphatases. Treatment of CLK1 with the serine/threonine specific phosphatase PP2A, resulted in a 2- to 6-fold increase in enzymatic activity. Incubation of CLK1 with tyrosine phosphatases in combination with PP2A abolished CLK1 activity. These data suggest that CLK1 is regulated by three distinct mechanisms that serve to both positively and negatively regulate CLK1 activity. CLK1 activity is positively regulated by phosphorylation on either tyrosine residues or serine/threonine residues, and is negatively regulated by steric constraints mediated by the N-terminal domain, as well as, by phosphorylation on a subset of serine/threonine residues within the catalytic domain. CLK1 mRNA is expressed at low levels in all tissues and cell lines examined. The full-length and truncated splice forms are expressed at roughly equivalent levels in most tissues. The ratio of the two splice variants of CLK1 can be altered by treatment with cycloheximide. CLK1 protein expression is limited to a small subset of highly localized neuronal populations in the rat brain. Contrary to previous studies using overexpression systems, we show that CLK1 protein is primarily found in the cytoplasm of these cells, with only a small fraction localized to the nucleus.
Ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1, Iba1, is an EF hand calcium binding protein whose expression is restricted to macrophages/microglia. In this study, Iba1 was shown to colocalize with F-actin in membrane ruffles induced by macrophage colony-stimulating factor and in phagocytic cups formed during zymosan phagocytosis. Expression of mutant Iba1 carrying either N- or C-terminal deletions or carrying a substitution in the calcium binding domain, suppressed the membrane ruffling and the phagocytosis. These results indicate that Iba1 is a key molecule in membrane ruffling and the phagocytosis of macrophages/microglia. Furthermore, Iba1 colocalized with a small GTPase Rac in the membrane ruffles and the phagocytic cups. The Iba1 mutants also suppressed membrane ruffling induced by dominant active Rac1V12, but do not affect microspikes by Cdc42V12 and stress fibers by RhoAV14. These observations suggest that Iba1 is involved in Rac and calcium signaling pathways.
An unexpected decrease of extracellular space (ECS) tortuosity was recently reported in thick (1,000 microm) ischemic slices using radiotracers. The current study shows that the tortuosity in thick slices from rat neocortex can increase or decrease depending on experimental conditions, whereas ECS volume fraction remains diminished to approximately 10%. Using diffusion of tetramethylammonium, it was found that tortuosity rose from a normoxic value of 1.66 to 1.99 in thick slices. However, tortuosity dropped to 1.54 when dextran (70,000 molecular weight) was added to the bathing medium. The current results show that dextran enhances diffusion in thick ischemic slices without increasing the size of the ECS.

We report on, 1 36-year-old man of Swedish descent who had teenage onset of a progressive disorder with features of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) and cerebellar ataxia. Cognition was normal. The polyneuropathy was of axonal type. Magnetic resonance imaging of his brain showed cerebellar atrophy. Cerebellar atrophy and CMT has been reported in one French-Canadian family and in several Japanese families, Mental impairment was a feature of the disorder in the Japanese families. A disorder with CMT and cerebellar atrophy is rare in the western world.
The early recognition of comatose patients with a hopeless prognosis-regardless of how aggressively they are managed-is of utmost importance. Median somatosensory evoked potentials supplement and enhance neurologic examination findings in anoxic-ischemic coma and severe brain trauma, and are useful as an early guide to outcome. The key finding is that bilateral absence of cortical evoked potentials, generated by thalamocortical tracts, reliably predicts unfavorable outcome in comatose patients after cardiac arrest, and correlates strongly with death or persistent vegetative state in severe brain trauma. The author studied 50 comatose patients with preserved brainstem function after cardiac arrest. All 23 patients with bilateral absence of cortical evoked potentials died without awakening. Neuropathologic study in seven patients disclosed widespread ischemic changes or frank cortical laminar necrosis. The remaining 27 patients with normal or delayed central conduction times had an uncertain prognosis because some died without awakening or entered a persistent vegetative state. The majority of patients with normal central conduction times had a good outcome, whereas a delay in central conduction times increased the likelihood of neurologic deficit or death. This report includes a systematic review of the literature concerning adults in anoxic-ischemic coma and severe brain trauma, in which somatosensory evoked potentials were used as an early guide to predict clinical outcome. Greater use of somatosensory evoked potentials in anoxic-ischemic coma and severe brain trauma would identify those patients unlikely to recover and would avoid costly medical care that is to no avail.
A brief taxonomy of neurologic disorders resulting in global impairments of consciousness is presented. Particular emphasis is placed on focal injuries of subcortical structures that may produce disorders that are otherwise associated to large bilateral cortical injuries. A distinction between subcortical arousal and &quot;gating&quot; systems is developed. Both clinical and experimental studies are reviewed in the context of these disorders and their possible underlying mechanisms.
A seven year old girl presented with recurrent headaches Computed tomography (CT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angiography showed a 2 cm aneurysm at the P2 segment of the right posterior cerebral artery. The aneurysm was trapped successfully by a petrosal approach. The patient made an excellent recovery except for a transient fourth nerve palsy.
A prospective study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) in the management of chronic pain syndrome. The study included all patients who underwent this procedure at the Royal Melbourne Hospital and the Melbourne Private Hospital over a period of two years. A total of 29 patients were managed by the end of June 1996. These patients were carefully screened by a neurosurgeon (JVR) and a psychiatrist. Of these, 26 patients had a follow up evaluation at the end of August 1996. From the group of 29 patients, four patients failed to obtain any relief during the trial phase of the procedure and thus did not have the stimulator implanted permanently. From the 25 patients who proceeded to have the stimulator implanted, 11 patients had a variable beneficial response, three patients found it to be of marginal benefit, six had no benefit, three patients initially had a good response but subsequently gained no benefit whilst two patients were uncertain of its benefit. It thus appears that SCS was of benefit in 50% of our carefully selected patients with chronic pain syndromes.
It is generally accepted that chronic adhesive lumbar arachnoiditis is a cause of symptoms, notably back pain and/or pain (of almost any type, not necessarily 'anatomical') in the lower limbs, although there is no clearly defined clinical pattern which is clearly associated with this syndrome. There is no doubt that arachnoiditis occurs as a pathological and radiological entity due to a number of causes. In the view of the present authors, the nexus between the pathology and radiology on the one hand, and the patients' symptoms on the other hand, has not been demonstrated with any degree of scientific rigor.

How nonhuman species perceive the world is a biological question of fundamental importance, and has major significance for establishing the validity and possible limitations of animal models of human sensory function and perception. Studies in comparative hearing have revealed that almost all animals, including monkeys, are worse than humans at discriminating tone frequencies. Less is known, however, about comparative differences in discriminating more spectrally complex sounds. We compared the capacity of macaques and humans to discriminate complex sound patterns by measuring spectral-contrast sensitivity using stimuli having sine-modulated power spectra, analogous to sine-wave gratings used in visual studies. We found that the auditory system of the macaque is far less sensitive than the human system over the sine-profile frequency range tested (0.5-2.0 cycles/octave). These results indicate that rhesus macaques hear at least some spectrally complex sounds with less fidelity than do humans, and demonstrate large differences in primate species' abilities to process low-resolution spectral patterns. These results cannot be accounted for by traditional, narrowband peripheral filter models of spectral analysis, but instead, imply the involvement of a central, frequency integration process that may differ significantly across species.
Six factorially designed studies evaluated the effects of different schedules of electroconvulsive shocks (ECSs) on alpha-2 adrenoceptor function in the rat brain. Attenuation of the hypomotility response to a clonidine challenge was taken to indicate alpha-2 adrenoceptor downregulation, a putative mediator of antidepressant action. Six daily and six alternate-day ECSs were shown separately to produce this receptor change. Three alternate-day ECSs produced comparable downregulation for a comparable period as six daily ECSs; this suggests that ECS produces time-dependent effects. No changes were elicited with a single ECS, which indicates that a single ECS may not influence alpha-2 receptor function. Three daily ECSs produced brief downregulation, which has implications for receptor dynamics as a function of the ECS schedule. Finally, maintenance ECSs sustained alpha-2 adrenoceptor downregulation over 6 weeks, which suggests a possible neurochemical basis for maintenance electroconvulsive therapy. The clinical relevance and scope for further research are discussed.
Cul-1 protein is part of the ubiquitin ligase complex that is conserved from yeast to humans. This complex specifically marks cell-cycle regulators for their subsequent destruction. Two null mutations of the cul-1 gene are known, in budding yeast and in nematodes. Although in both these organisms the cul-1 gene executes essentially the same function, the manifestation of its lack-of-function mutations differs considerably. In yeast the mutation causes arrest at the G(1)/S-phase transition, whereas in nematodes excessive cell divisions occur because mutant cells are unable to exit the mitotic cycle. We isolated cul-1 orthologues from two model organisms, Drosophila melanogaster and mouse. We show that the Drosophila full-length cul-1 gene restores the yeast mutant's inability to pass through the G(1)/S-phase transition. We also characterize expression of this gene at the transcript and protein levels during Drosophila development and show that cul-1 gene is maternally supplied as a protein, but not as an RNA transcript. Zygotic transcription of the gene, however, resumes at early stages of embryogenesis. We also found an increase in cul-1 transcription in cultured cells treated with a lethal dose of gamma-irradiation.
Selective permeability in voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels is dependent upon a quartet of pore-localized glutamate residues (EEEE locus). The EEEE locus is widely believed to comprise the sole high-affinity Ca(2+) binding site in the pore, which represents an overturning of earlier models that had postulated two high-affinity Ca(2+) binding sites. The current view is based on site-directed mutagenesis work in which Ca(2+) binding affinity was attenuated by single and double substitutions in the EEEE locus, and eliminated by quadruple alanine (AAAA), glutamine (QQQQ), or aspartate (DDDD) substitutions. However, interpretation of the mutagenesis work can be criticized on the grounds that EEEE locus mutations may have additionally disrupted the integrity of a second, non-EEEE locus high-affinity site, and that such a second site may have remained undetected because the mutated pore was probed only from the extracellular pore entrance. Here, we describe the results of experiments designed to test the strength of these criticisms of the single high-affinity locus model of selective permeability in Ca(2+) channels. First, substituted-cysteine accessibility experiments indicate that pore structure in the vicinity of the EEEE locus is not extensively disrupted as a consequence of the quadruple AAAA mutations, suggesting in turn that the quadruple mutations do not distort pore structure to such an extent that a second high affinity site would likely be destroyed. Second, the postulated second high-affinity site was not detected by probing from the intracellularly oriented pore entrance of AAAA and QQQQ mutants. Using inside-out patches, we found that, whereas micromolar Ca(2+) produced substantial block of outward Li(+) current in wild-type channels, internal Ca(2+) concentrations up to 1 mM did not produce detectable block of outward Li(+) current in the AAAA or QQQQ mutants. These results indicate that the EEEE locus is indeed the sole high-affinity Ca(2+) binding locus in the pore of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels.
Skeletal muscle dihydropyridine (DHP) receptors function both as voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels and as voltage sensors for coupling membrane depolarization to release of Ca(2+) from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. In skeletal muscle, the principal or alpha(1S) subunit occurs in full-length ( approximately 10% of total) and post-transcriptionally truncated ( approximately 90%) forms, which has raised the possibility that the two functional roles are subserved by DHP receptors comprised of different sized alpha(1S) subunits. We tested the functional properties of each form by injecting oocytes with cRNAs coding for full-length (alpha(1S)) or truncated (alpha(1SDeltaC)) alpha subunits. Both translation products were expressed in the membrane, as evidenced by increases in the gating charge (Q(max) 80-150 pC). Thus, oocytes provide a robust expression system for the study of gating charge movement in alpha(1S), unencumbered by contributions from other voltage-gated channels or the complexities of the transverse tubules. As in recordings from skeletal muscle, for heterologously expressed channels the peak inward Ba(2+) currents were small relative to Q(max). The truncated alpha(1SDeltaC) protein, however, supported much larger ionic currents than the full-length product. These data raise the possibility that DHP receptors containing the more abundant, truncated form of the alpha(1S) subunit conduct the majority of the L-type Ca(2+) current in skeletal muscle. Our data also suggest that the carboxyl terminus of the alpha(1S) subunit modulates the coupling between charge movement and channel opening.

The influence of cardiovascular signs (CVS) on cognitive performance was examined in 227 older adults not suffering from dementia between 75 and 96 years of age who were sampled from the community. Participants received a comprehensive physical examination that included specific evaluation of current CVS, including dyspnea, cardiac murmur, and edema in lower limbs. They were administered tests of digit span, episodic recall and recognition, verbal fluency, and visuospatial skill. CVS were found to predict performance on tests of episodic memory and visuospatial skill, after the effects of age, education, gender, relevant drug use, and mood symptoms were controlled for. Although CVS accounted for relatively little general performance variation, the findings are relevant to the understanding of normal variation in late-life cognitive performance. Finally, CVS increased with age and accounted for a sizable proportion of the age-related cognitive variation.
Emotional reactions are sometimes observed during the intracarotid sodium amobarbital test. For instance, euphoric/indifference reactions can be seen during right hemisphere inactivation and catastrophic reactions may accompany left hemisphere inactivation. Less dramatic changes can also be detected in affective self-report during left and right hemisphere amobarbital tests, with more negative affect reported during left hemisphere inactivation and either neutral or mildly positive affective states reported during right hemisphere inactivation. The current study not only replicated this effect, but in addition, found significant group differences. The first group (right way) showed a pattern of affective self-report during left and right amobarbital tests entirely consistent with prior findings, while a second group (wrong way) showed results that behaved in a diametrically opposite fashion. A third group (no change) showed little, if any, difference in affective self-report during left and right amobarbital tests. The major factor distinguishing the wrong way group from the other two appeared to be an asymmetrical distribution of left and right temporal lobe lesions in the former group. In contrast, the factor differentiating the right way group from the no change group appeared to be the relative degree of left hemisphere inactivation during the left hemisphere amobarbital test. The results are discussed not only in terms of their impact on theories of cerebral lateralization for emotion, but also in terms of methodological issues in this field.

We have previously shown that the RNA-binding protein HuD binds to a regulatory element in the growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 mRNA and that this interaction involves its first two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). In this study, we investigated the functional significance of this interaction by overexpression of human HuD protein (pcHuD) or its truncated form lacking the third RRM (pcHuD I+II) in PC12 cells. Morphological analysis revealed that pcHuD cells extended short neurites containing GAP-43-positive growth cones in the absence of nerve growth factor (NGF). These processes also contained tubulin and F-actin filaments but were not stained with antibodies against neurofilament M protein. In correlation with this phenotype, pcHuD cells contained higher levels of GAP-43 without changes in levels of other NGF-induced proteins, such as SNAP-25 and tau. In mRNA decay studies, HuD stabilized the GAP-43 mRNA, whereas HuD I+II did not have any effect either on GAP-43 mRNA stability or on the levels of GAP-43 protein. Likewise, pcHuD I+II cells showed no spontaneous neurite outgrowth and deficient outgrowth in response to NGF. Our results indicate that HuD is sufficient to increase GAP-43 gene expression and neurite outgrowth in the absence of NGF and that the third RRM in the protein is critical for this function.
Cyclopentenone prostaglandins (PGs) are known to arrest the cell cycle at the G(1) phase in vitro and to suppress tumor growth in vivo. However, their effects on neurons are unclear. Here, we report that some cyclopentenone PGs function as neurite outgrowth-promoting factors. They promoted neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells and from dorsal root ganglion explants but only in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF). We refer to these PGs as neurite outgrowth-promoting PGs (NEPPs). Through study of the structure-function relationship of NEPP1-10 and related compounds, we found that the cross-conjugated dienone moiety of NEPPs was essential for promoting neurite outgrowth, and NEPP10 was concluded to be the best candidate for drug development. We also investigated the intracellular mechanism of the promotion by NEPPs and obtained evidence that immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein/glucose-regulated protein 78 (BiP/GRP78) plays a role in the promotion, based on the following observations: Antisense nucleotides for BiP/GRP78 gene blocked the promotion of neurite outgrowth; BiP/GRP78 protein level increased in response to NEPPs; and overexpression of BiP/GRP78 protein by adenoviral gene transfer promoted the neurite outgrowth by NGF.
Microglia, the tissue macrophages of the brain, play a crucial role in recognition and phagocytic removal of apoptotic neurons. The microglial receptors for recognition of apoptotic neurons are not yet characterized. Here we established a co-culture model of primary microglia and cerebellar granule neurons to examine the receptor systems involved in recognition/uptake of apoptotic neurons. Treatment with 100 microM S-nitrosocysteine induced apoptosis of cerebellar neurons as indicated by nuclear condensation and phosphatidylserine exposure to the exoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane. Microglial cells were added to neurons 2 h after apoptosis induction and co-cultured for 6 h in the presence of ligands that inhibit recognition by binding to respective receptors. Binding/phagocytosis was determined after combined 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole/propidium iodide (for apoptotic/necrotic neurons) and lectin staining (for microglia). Uptake of apoptotic neurons was reduced by N-acetylglucosamine or galactose, suggesting that recognition involves asialoglycoprotein-like lectins. Furthermore, the inhibition of microglial binding/uptake of apoptotic neurons by RGDS peptide suggests a role of microglial vitronectin receptor. As microglia selectively bind lipid vesicles enriched in phosphatidylserine and O-phospho-L-serine interfered with the uptake of apoptotic neurons, an involvement of phosphatidylserine receptor is rather likely. Apoptotic neurons do not release soluble signals that serve to attract or activate microglia. Collectively, these results suggest that apoptotic neurons generate a complex surface signal recognized by different receptor systems on microglia.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) are related 36-amino acid peptides. NPY is widely distributed in the nervous system and has several physiological roles. PYY serves as an intestinal hormone as well as a neuropeptide. We report here cloning of the npy and pyy genes in zebrafish (Danio rerio). NPY differs at only one to four amino acid positions from NPY in other jawed vertebrates. Zebrafish PYY differs at three positions from PYY from other fishes and at 10 positions from mammals. In situ hybridization showed that neurons containing NPY mRNA have a widespread distribution in the brain, particularly in the telencephalon, optic tectum, and rhombencephalon. PYY mRNA was found mainly in brainstem neurons, as reported previously for vertebrates as divergent as the rat and the lamprey, suggesting an essential role for PYY in these neurons. PYY mRNA was observed also in the telencephalon. These results were confirmed by immunocytochemistry. As in the human, the npy gene is located adjacent to homeobox (hox) gene cluster A (copy a in zebrafish), whereas the pyy gene is located close to hoxBa. This suggests that npy and pyy arose from a common ancestral gene in a chromosomal duplication event that also involved the hox gene clusters. As zebrafish has seven hox clusters, it is possible that additional NPY family genes exist or have existed. Also, the NPY receptor system seems to be more complex in zebrafish than in mammals, with at least two receptor genes without known mammalian orthologues.
An in vitro mouse temporal bone preparation has been developed in order to allow the investigation of structures and functions in a living hearing organ. Fluorescent vital probes (a potentiometric styryl dye, RH 795, and a vital dye staining cellular cytoplasm, calcein) were perfused through the scala tympani to stain cellular components of the cochlea. Observations of the cochlear apical turn were performed using a confocal microscope. In spite of the anatomical constraints due to the small size of the mouse cochlea, detailed images were obtained. The sensory cells as well as their innervating nerve fibres were clearly seen. Nerve fibres crossing the tunnel of Corti and projecting to the outer hair cells could also be visualised.
Steroid hormones influence a variety of neuroendocrine events, including brain development, sexual differentiation and reproduction. Hormones elicit many of these effects by binding to neuronal steroid receptors, which are members of a nuclear receptor superfamily of transcriptional activators. However, the mechanisms by which activated steroid receptors regulate gene expression in brain are not well understood. Recently, a new class of proteins, known as nuclear receptor coactivators, have been found to dramatically enhance steroid receptor mediated transactivation of genes in vitro. Here, the proposed molecular mechanisms of how these coactivators enhance the transcriptional activity of steroid receptors are summarized. While much is known about the mechanisms of these coactivators in vitro, it is unclear how these cofactors function in hormone action in vivo or in the brain. This paper discusses some of the initial and enticing investigations into the role of these important coregulatory proteins in neuroendocrine events. Finally, some of the critical issues and future directions in nuclear receptor coactivator function in neuroendocrinology are highlighted.
Noradrenaline plays a key role in the initiation of ovulation in nonprimate species. A similar noradrenaline role in the primate has not been established experimentally. We utilized the ovariectomized-oestrogen-supplemented (OVX + E) rhesus macaque to examine the effects of intravenous (i.v.) infusion of oestradiol-17beta (E2) on the activity of the brain noradrenaline system. Experiment 1 established the induction of a preovulatory surge-like release of luteinizing hormone in OVX + E monkeys by i.v. infusion of E2 (OVX + E + E2). In experiment 2, a marked increase in hypothalamic microdialysate noradrenaline concentrations occurred after identical E2 infusion into the OVX + E monkeys that were used in experiment 1. In experiment 3, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression in the locus coeruleus of the brainstem increased at various times after E2 infusion as determined by semiquantitative in situ hybridization. The amount of TH mRNA in OVX + E + E2 animals was higher (P &lt; 0.05) than that in either the OVX + E or OVX monkeys; no difference was found in the latter two groups. Moreover, selected locus coeruleus sections from E2-infused monkeys were examined for the localization of oestrogen receptors (ER) by in situ hybridization. Both ER-alpha and ER-beta mRNAs were expressed in the locus coeruleus, although the expression was greater for ER-alpha than for ER-beta. We conclude that i.v. infusion of E2, which induces a preovulatory surge-like release of LH, stimulates brain noradrenaline activity; this enhanced activity likely involves an ER-mediated process and is reflected by hypothalamic noradrenaline release and locus coeruleus TH mRNA expression. The results support the concept that noradrenaline can influence the E2-stimulated ovulation in nonhuman primates and that the brainstem is one of the components in this neuroendocrine process.
Adrenal autotransplantation is a widely used approach to investigate the potential for neural modulation of adrenal cortical function. It is believed that regenerating adrenal transplants are not reinnervated, thereby providing a model to investigate adrenal function in the absence of neural modulation. However, the hypothesis that adrenal transplants become reinnervated has not been directly tested. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the time course, extent, and nature of the reinnervation of the regenerating adrenal transplant and to assess whether the recovery of steroidogenic function and enzyme expression correlates temporally with the presence of innervation. Using immunohistofluorescent detection of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), neuropeptide Y (NPY), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), the innervation of regenerating adrenals was assessed 14-30 days after transplantation of adrenal capsules beneath the kidney capsule in rats. Extensive reinnervation by TH-, NPY-, and VIP-positive fibres was present by 14 days after transplantation including regions of the adrenal capsule and cortex, with only minimal reinnervation by CGRP-positive fibres up to 30 days. TH- and NPY-positive chromaffin cells were also observed in the regenerating transplants. In addition, there was marked recovery of steroidogenic function and steroidogenic enzyme expression up to 30 days. The finding that nerve fibres are present in the transplants during the re-establishment of steroidogenic function and enzyme expression suggests that innervation may modulate the regeneration and functional recovery of adrenal transplants. In an attempt to prevent reinnervation of transplants, adrenal capsules were autotransplanted to denervated kidneys. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that, despite extensive denervation of the kidney tissue, the reinnervation and regeneration of the adrenal transplants still occurred. These data demonstrate the marked capacity of the regenerating adrenal to become reinnervated and reinforces the conclusion that adrenal transplants are an invalid model of denervated adrenal cortical tissue.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), a cytokine of the interleukin-6 superfamily, has been shown to induce hypophagia and weight loss. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and orexin are potent orexigenic signals in the hypothalamus. Anorexia, normally seen in response to infection, injury and inflammation, may result from diminished hypothalamic orexigenic signalling caused by persistently elevated cytokines, including CNTF. To test this hypothesis, we first examined the effects of chronic intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of CNTF for 6-7 days on food intake and body weight as well as hypothalamic NPY and orexin gene expression in male rats. Subsequently, the effectiveness of NPY replacement to counteract the effects of CNTF by coinfusion of NPY and CNTF was evaluated. Chronic i.c.v. infusion of CNTF (2.5 microg/day) reduced body weight (14.3% vs control) at the end of 7 days. Food intake remained suppressed for 5 days postinfusion and subsequently gradually returned to the control range by day 7. Serum leptin concentrations in these rats were in the same range seen in control rats. Chronic i.c.v. infusion of higher doses of CNTF (5.0 microg/day) produced sustained anorexia and body weight loss (29% vs controls) through the entire duration of the experiment. This severe anorexia was accompanied by markedly suppressed serum leptin concentrations. Furthermore, CNTF infusion alone significantly reduced hypothalamic NPY gene expression (P &lt; 0. 05) without affecting orexin gene expression. As expected, in fusion of NPY alone (18 microg/day) augmented food intake (191.6% over the initial control, P &lt; 0.05) and produced a 25.1% weight gain in conjunction with a 10-fold increase in serum leptin concentrations at the end of the 7-day period. Interestingly, coinfusion of this regimen of NPY with the highly effective anorectic and body reducing effects of CNTF (5.0 microg/day) not only prevented the CNTF-induced anorexia and weight loss, but also normalized serum leptin concentrations and hypothalamic NPY gene expression. These results demonstrate that chronic central infusion to produce a persistent elevation of the cytokine at pathophysiological levels (a situation that may normally manifest during infection, injury and inflammation) produced severe anorexia and weight loss in conjunction with reduction in both serum leptin concentrations and hypothalamic NPY gene expression. Reinstatement of hypothalamic NPY signalling by coinfusion of NPY counteracted these CNTF-induced responses.
An increased amount of the intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) 1 molecule has been found in the blood of actively relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, but is unclear whether this enhanced expression is partially causative of the MS process, or whether it is merely an epiphenomenon of the inflammatory-immunological reaction. Using the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT), we studied exon 4 and exon 6 polymorphism of the ICAM-1 gene from 157 families with both parents, one affected and one healthy sib coming from Sardinia, an Italian island having a high incidence and prevalence of MS. TDT did not show variation in the expected 50:50 frequency in transmission in either healthy or affected sibs, using phenotypic or genotypic analysis. Moreover, independence from the predisposing HLA-DRB1-DQA1-DQB1 haplotype was confirmed by TDT analysis performed on patients stratified according to the presence or absence of the HLA-DRB1, DQA1, DQB1 Sardinian predisposing haplotypes. Our data suggest that the increased expression of the ICAM-1 molecule observed in both blood and periplaque microvessels may be considered a consequence of the inflammatory process rather than the result of a genetic variation.
We present a systematic review of the literature on the prevalence, nature, severity, course, and causes of cognitive deficits in patients with occlusive disease of the carotid artery prior to surgery (if surgery was under discussion). Searches were carried out on Medline and Psychlit from 1980 to 1999 using neurovascular and psychological index terms, and papers and books were checked for further references. Studies describing neuropsychological assessment of groups of patients with carotid obstruction were included. Eighteen studies were found. We extracted from the papers data on study design, demographic characteristics of patients, clinical diagnosis, carotid obstruction, cerebral imaging, time interval between ischemic episode and neuropsychological assessment, neuropsychological assessment procedures, integration and interpretation of test performances, and conclusions of authors. Fourteen studies concluded that there are cognitive deficits both in patients with symptomatic and in those with asymptomatic carotid obstruction; four studies denied cognitive impairment. There were no differences in patient characteristics, study design, or neuropsychological assessment procedures between the 14 studies that found deficits and the 4 that did not. There are indications for a mild, diffuse detrimental effect of carotid occlusive disease on cognitive functioning. However, methodological problems prevent a definitive conclusion. Further research is needed to confirm these findings and to ascertain the neurovascular risk factors for and the natural course of cognitive impairment in patients with carotid occlusive disease.


Despite their potential use as cerebral vasodilatory agents there are few studies of the effect of nitric oxide (NO) donors on the cerebral circulation in non-anaesthetised man. We determined the effect of the NO donor glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) at clinically relevant doses on global and regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) in healthy non-anaesthetised volunteers, using H(2)(15)O PET, ultrasonic colour velocity flow imaging of carotid artery flow, and transcranial Doppler (TCD) of middle cerebral artery velocities (MCAv). Three rates of GTN infusion (0.1, 0.4, 1.0 microg/kg/min) were used. There was no significant change in common or internal carotid artery flow following GTN administration although a dose dependent fall in MCAv post GTN was observed. There was no significant change in either global or regional CBF following GTN. Thus intravenous GTN at therapeutic doses in awake humans does not alter global or regional CBF. However it does produce basal cerebral artery vasodilatation as evidenced by a fall in MCAv in the absence of a change in internal carotid artery flow.
Visuospatial function is a central neuropsychological domain which has been neglected in brain tumor studies. This study examined visuospatial function in 4 groups of brain tumor patients. The investigation involved 27 adult tumor subjects, 25 of whom had undergone resection and radiotherapy. Ten normal adults acted as controls. The 4 tumor groups were based on neuroanatomic locus - focal lesions were localized to clearly defined visuospatial areas in the left or right posterior parietal cortex or prefrontal cortex. Neuroanatomic and visuospatial assessment parameters were specified: only allocentric ('mental' or 'conceptual') operations were examined. A theoretical framework outlined the role of the posterior parietal and prefrontal cortices in allocentric spatial processing. Six visuospatial tests involving allocentric operations were applied to patients in whom tumors involved these cortical areas. In numerous analyses, the 4 tumor groups showed no significant differences with the control group on the allocentric tests. Between-group comparisons were also not significant. Analyses by gender revealed significant differences on shape rotation and line orientation tests, especially in the right hemisphere and parietal groups. Comparisons between focal radiation subgroups and 'nonradiation' subgroups produced unclear results. The main conclusions are that despite the presence of frontal or parietal tumors, (1) allocentric processing is hardly compromised, and (2) females show lower spatial performance than males due to tumor-related effects on a pre-existing pattern of cerebral lateralization. The study emphasizes the need to address visuospatial function in the neuropsychological study of brain tumor patients, particularly the role of intact spatial processing in this patient group.
Angiolipomas are neoplasms composed of mature adipocytes admixed with abnormal vascular elements. They are most commonly found in the subcutaneous tissue of the trunk and extremities, but other sites have been reported. The craniospinal axis is an uncommon but significant site. An extensive review of the literature is conducted. We summarize 94 cases of angiolipomas in the central nervous system (CNS) in 92 patients, including five in our own series, to highlight the most prominent features of these tumors. The increasing number of cases of CNS angiolipoma in the era of magnetic resonance imaging raises the question of the rarity of these lesions.
Each year brings new scientific knowledge that builds on itself in a geometric fashion. Ocular motility basic and clinical neurosciences continue to advance with this accelerating pace. The years 1997 and 1998 brought new knowledge to the motility world. This review focuses on the clinical advances within this realm. Part I of this review appeared in the June 2000 (20:2) issue.
The changes of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and expression in experimental diabetic neuropathy have not been examined. Increases in ganglia NOS might be similar to those that follow axotomy, whereas declines in endothelial NOS (eNOS) and immunological NOS (iNOS) might explain dysfunction of microvessels or macrophages. In this work, we studied NOS activity in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of rats with both short- and long-term experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetes and correlated it with expression of each of the 3 NOS isoforms. NOS enzymatic activity in DRG increased after 12 months of diabetes. This increase, however, was not accompanied by an increase in neuronal NOS immunohistochemistry or mRNA. Immunohistochemical and RT-PCR studies did not identify changes of eNOS expression in 12-month sciatic nerves or DRG from diabetics. Two-month diabetic DRG had increased eNOS mRNA and there was novel eNOS labeling of capsular DRG and perineurial cells. iNOS mRNA levels were lower in diabetics at both time points in peripheral nerves but were unchanged in DRG. Diabetic ganglia showed an increase in NOS activity not explained by novel NOS isoform synthesis. The increases may compensate for NO &quot;quenching&quot; by endproducts of glycosylation. Declines in iNOS may indicate impaired macrophage function.
Recent neurophysiological studies have started to shed some light on the cortical areas that contribute to eye-hand coordination. In the present study we investigated the role of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in this process in normal, healthy subjects. This was accomplished by delivering single pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the PPC to transiently disrupt the putative contribution of this area to the processing of information related to eye-hand coordination. Subjects made open-loop pointing movements accompanied by saccades of the same required amplitude or by saccades that were substantially larger. Without TMS the hand movement amplitude was influenced by the amplitude of the corresponding saccade; hand movements accompanied by larger saccades were larger than those accompanied by smaller saccades. When TMS was applied over the left PPC just prior to the onset of the saccade, a marked reduction in the saccadic influence on manual motor output was observed. TMS delivered at earlier or later periods during the response had no effect. Taken together, these data suggest that the PPC integrates signals related to saccade amplitude with limb movement information just prior to the onset of the saccade.
The marine mollusk Clione limacina, when swimming, normally stabilizes the vertical body orientation by means of the gravitational tail reflexes. Horizontal swimming or swimming along inclined ascending trajectories is observed rarely. Here we report that GABA injection into intact Clione resulted in a change of the stabilized orientation and swimming with a tilt of approximately 45 degrees to the left. The analysis of modifications in the postural network underlying this effect was done with in vitro experiments. The CNS was isolated together with the statocysts. Spike discharges in the axons of two groups of motoneurons responsible for the left and right tail flexion, as well as in the axons of CPB3 interneurons mediating signals from the statocyst receptors to the motoneurons, were recorded extracellularly when the preparation was rotated in space. Normally the tail motoneurons of the left and right groups were activated with the contralateral tilt of the preparation. Under the effect of GABA, the gravitational responses in the right group of motoneurons and in the corresponding interneurons were dramatically reduced while the responses in the left group remained unchanged. The most likely site of the inhibitory GABA action is the interneurons mediating signals from the statocysts to the right group of tail motoneurons. The GABA-induced asymmetry of the left and right gravitational tail reflexes, observed in the in vitro experiments, is consistent with a change of the stabilized orientation caused by GABA in the intact Clione.
The basal forebrain (BF) is a heterogeneous structure located in the ventral aspect of the cerebral hemispheres. It contains cholinergic as well as different types of noncholinergic corticopetal neurons and interneurons, including GABAergic and peptidergic cells. The BF constitutes an extrathalamic route to the cortex, and its activity is associated with an increase in cortical release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, concomitant with electroencephalographic (EEG) low-voltage fast activity (LVFA). However, the specific role of the different BF cell types has largely remained unknown due to the lack of chemical identification of the recorded neurons. Here we show that the firing rate of immunocytochemically identified cholinergic and parvalbumin-containing neurons increase during cortical LVFA. In contrast, increased neuropeptide Y neuron firing is accompanied by cortical slow waves. Our results, furthermore, indicate that BF neurons posses a distinct temporal relationship to different EEG patterns and suggest a more dynamic interplay within BF as well as between BF and cortical circuitries than previously proposed.
Postsynaptic differentiation during glutamatergic synapse formation is poorly understood. Using a novel biophysical approach, we have investigated the distribution and density of functional glutamate receptors and characterized their clustering during synaptogenesis in cultured hippocampal neurons. We found that functional alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolpropionate (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are evenly distributed in the dendritic membrane before synaptogenesis with an estimated density of 3 receptors/microm(2). Following synaptogenesis, functional AMPA and NMDA receptors are clustered at synapses with a density estimated to be on the order of 10(4) receptors/microm(2), which corresponds to approximately 400 receptors/synapse. Meanwhile there is no reduction in the extrasynaptic receptor density, which indicates that the aggregation of the existing pool of receptors is not the primary mechanism of glutamate receptor clustering. Furthermore our data suggest that the ratio of AMPA to NMDA receptor density may be regulated to be close to one in all dendritic locations. We also demonstrate that synaptic AMPA and NMDA receptor clusters form with a similar time course during synaptogenesis and that functional AMPA receptors cluster independently of activity and glutamate receptor activation, including following the deletion of the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit. Thus glutamate receptor activation is not necessary for the insertion, clustering, and activation of functional AMPA receptors during synapse formation, and this process is likely controlled by an activity-independent signal.
The zebrafish is a model organism for studies of vertebrate muscle differentiation and development. However, an understanding of fish muscle physiology during this period is limited. We examined the membrane, contractile, electrical coupling, and synaptic properties of embryonic red (ER) and white (EW) muscle fibers in developing zebrafish from 1 to 5 days postfertilization. Resting membrane potentials were -73 mV in 1 day ER and -78 mV in 1 day EW muscle and depolarized 17 and 7 mV, respectively, by 5 days. Neither fiber type exhibited action potentials. Current-voltage relationships were linear in EW fibers and day 1 ER fibers but were outwardly rectifying in some ER fibers at 3 to 5 days. Both ER and EW fibers were contractile at all ages examined (1 to 5 days) and could follow trains of electrical stimulation of up to 30 Hz without fatiguing for up to 5 min. Synaptic activity consisting of miniature endplate potentials (mEPPs) was observed at the earliest ages examined (1.2-1. 4 days) in both ER and EW fibers. Synaptic activity increased in frequency, and mEPP amplitudes were larger by 5 days. Miniature EPP rise times and half-widths decreased in ER fibers by 5 days, while EW fiber mEPPs showed fast kinetics as early as 1.2-1.4 days. ER and EW muscle fibers showed extensive dye coupling but not heterologous (red-white) coupling. Dye coupling decreased by 3 days yet remained at 5 days. Somites were electrically coupling, and this allowed filtered synaptic potentials to spread from myotome to myotome. It is concluded that at early developmental stages the physiological properties of ER and EW muscle are similar but not identical and are optimized to the patterns of swimming observed at these stages.
Backpropagating dendritic Na(+) spikes generate a depolarizing afterpotential (DAP) at the soma of pyramidal cells in the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of weakly electric fish. Repetitive spike discharge is associated with a progressive depolarizing shift in somatic spike afterpotentials that eventually triggers a high-frequency spike doublet and subsequent burst afterhyperpolarization (bAHP). The rhythmic generation of a spike doublet and bAHP groups spike discharge into an oscillatory burst pattern. This study examined the soma-dendritic mechanisms controlling the depolarizing shift in somatic spike afterpotentials, and the mechanism by which spike doublets terminate spike discharge. Intracellular recordings were obtained from ELL pyramidal somata and apical dendrites in an in vitro slice preparation. The pattern of spike discharge was equivalent in somatic and dendritic regions, reflecting the backpropagation of spikes from soma to dendrites. There was a clear frequency-dependent threshold in the transition from tonic to burst discharge, with bursts initiated when interspike intervals fell between approximately 3-7 ms. Removal of all backpropagating spikes by dendritic TTX ejection revealed that the isolated somatic AHPs were entirely stable at the interspike intervals that generated burst discharge. As such, the depolarizing membrane potential shift during repetitive discharge could be attributed to a potentiation of DAP amplitude. Potentiation of the DAP was due to a frequency-dependent broadening and temporal summation of backpropagating dendritic Na(+) spikes. Spike doublets were generated with an interspike interval close to, but not within, the somatic spike refractory period. In contrast, the interspike interval of spike doublets always fell within the longer dendritic refractory period, preventing backpropagation of the second spike of the doublet. The dendritic depolarization was thus abruptly removed from one spike to the next, allowing the burst to terminate when the bAHP hyperpolarized the membrane. The transition from tonic to burst discharge was dependent on the number and frequency of spikes invoking dendritic spike summation, indicating that burst threshold depends on the immediate history of cell discharge. Spike frequency thus represents an important condition that determines the success of dendritic spike invasion, establishing an intrinsic mechanism by which backpropagating spikes can be used to generate a rhythmic burst output.
Whisker deflection typically evokes a transient volley of action potentials in rat somatic sensory (SI) barrel cortex. Postexcitatory inhibition is thought to quickly terminate the cortical cell response to whisker deflection. Using dual electrode extracellular recording in awake rats, we describe an infrequent type of cell response in which stimulation of single hairs consistently blocks the ongoing discharge of neurons without prior excitation (I-only inhibition). Reconstruction of the recording sites indicates that I-only inhibition occurs most frequently when the recording site is clearly in the septum or at the barrel-septum junction. The same cells that respond with I-only inhibition to one whisker can show an excitatory discharge to other whiskers, usually followed by inhibition. Stimulation of either nose hairs or the large mystacial vibrissa can evoke I-only inhibition in SI cortex. I-only inhibition is most commonly observed at low stimulus frequencies ( approximately 1 Hz). At stimulus frequencies of &gt;6 Hz, I-only inhibition typically converts to excitation. We conclude that single whisker low-frequency stimulation can selectively block the spontaneous discharge of neurons in SI barrel field septa. The observation that this cell response is found most often in or at the edge of septa and at relatively long latencies supports the idea that I-only inhibition is mediated through cortical circuits. We propose that in these cells inhibition alone or a combination of inhibition and disfacilitation play a role in suppressing neuronal discharge occasioned by low frequency contact of the whiskers with the environment.
Whole-cell recordings were used to investigate long-term potentiation of inhibitory synaptic currents (IPSCs) in neurons of deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) in slices. IPSCs were evoked by electrical stimulation of the white matter surrounding the DCN in the presence of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM). High-frequency stimulation induced a long-term potentation (LTP) of the IPSC amplitude without changing its reversal potential, rise time, and decay-time constant. This LTP did not require the activation of postsynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A)) receptors but depended on the activation of NMDA receptors. LTP of IPSCs in DCN neurons could also be induced by voltage-depolarizing pulses in postsynaptic neurons and appeared to depend on an increase in intracellular calcium as the LTP was blocked when the cells were loaded with a calcium chelator, 1,2-bis-(2-amino-phenoxy)-N,N,N', N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA, 10 mM). LTP of IPSCs was accompanied by an increase in the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs and miniature IPSCs (recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin 1 microM), but there was no significant change in their amplitude. In addition, during the LTP, the amplitude of response to exogenously applied GABA(A) receptor agonist 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol hydrochloride was increased. Intracellular application of tetanus toxin, a powerful blocker of exocytosis, in DCN neuron prevented the induction of LTP of IPSCs. Our results suggest that the induction of LTP of IPSCs in the DCN neurons likely involves a postsynaptic locus. Plasticity of inhibitory synaptic transmission in DCN neurons may play a crucial role in cerebellar control of motor coordination and learning.
Olfactory receptor neurons of the nasal epithelium send their axons, via the olfactory nerve (ON), to the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb (OB), where the axon terminals form glutamatergic synapses with the apical dendrites of mitral and tufted cells, the output cells of the OB, and with juxtaglomerular (JG) interneurons. Many JG cells are GABAergic. Here we show that, despite the absence of conventional synapses, GABA released from JG cells activates GABA(B) receptors on ON terminals and inhibits glutamate release both tonically and in response to ON stimulation. Field potential recordings and current-source density analysis, as well as intracellular and whole cell recording techniques were used in rat OB slices. Baclofen (2-5 microM), a GABA(B) agonist, completely suppressed ON-evoked synaptic responses of both mitral/tufted cells and JG cells, with no evidence for postsynaptic effects. Baclofen (0.5-1 microM) also reversed paired-pulse depression (PPD) of mitral/tufted cell responses to paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), and reduced depression of JG cell excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) during repetitive ON stimulation. These results suggest that baclofen reduced the probability of glutamate release from ON terminals. The GABA(B) antagonists CGP35348 or CGP55845A increased mitral/tufted cell responses evoked by single-pulse ON stimulation, suggesting that glutamate release from ON terminals is tonically suppressed via GABA(B) receptors. The same antagonists reduced PPD of ON-evoked mitral/tufted cell responses at interstimulus intervals 50-400 ms. This finding suggests that a single ON impulse evokes sufficient GABA release, presumably from JG cells, to activate GABA(B) receptors on ON terminals. Thus GABA(B) heteroreceptors on ON terminals are activated by ambient levels of extrasynaptic GABA, and by ON input to the OB. The time course of ON-evoked, GABA(B) presynaptic inhibition suggests that neurotransmission to M/T cells and JG cells will be significantly suppressed when ON impulses arrive in glomeruli at 2.5-20 Hz. GABA(B) receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition of sensory input to the OB may play an important role in shaping the activation pattern of the OB glomeruli during olfactory coding.
Percutaneous upper cervical cordotomy continues to be performed on patients suffering from several types of severe chronic pain. It is believed that the operation is effective because it cuts the spinothalamic tract (STT), a primary pathway carrying nociceptive information from the spinal cord to the brain in humans. In recent years, there has been controversy regarding the location of STT axons within the spinal cord. The aim of this study was to determine the locations of STT axons within the spinal cord white matter of C2 segment in monkeys using methods of antidromic activation. Twenty lumbar STT cells were isolated. Eleven were classified as wide dynamic range neurons, six as high-threshold cells, and three as low-threshold cells. Eleven STT neurons were recorded in the deep dorsal horn and nine in superficial dorsal horn. The axons of the examined neurons were located at antidromic low-threshold points (&lt;30 microA) within the contralateral lateral funiculus of C2. All low-threshold points were located ventral to the denticulate ligament, within the lateral half of the ventral lateral funiculus (VLF). None were found in the dorsal half of the lateral funiculus. The present findings support our previous suggestion that STT axons migrate ventrally as they ascend the length of the spinal cord. Also, the present findings indicate that surgical cordotomies that interrupt the VLF in C2 likely disrupt the entire lumbar STT.
Subjects were asked to track, with their eyes or their hand, the movement of a target that maintained a constant speed and made a single, abrupt change in direction. The tracking speed and direction of motion after the step change in target direction were compared for the eyes and the hand. After removal of the saccades from the eye movement records, it was found that in both cases, there was a slow rotation from the initial direction to the new direction. For the eyes and the hand, it was found that this change in direction of movement occurred at a similar rate that was proportional to the magnitude of the abrupt change in target direction. This was further described by comparing the direction of pursuit tracking with the response of a second-order system to a step input. In addition, it was found that the speed of manual and pursuit tracking was modulated in a similar manner, with a reduction in tracking speed occurring before the change in tracking direction. This reduction in speed following the change in the direction of target motion was very similar for the hand and the eye, despite the large difference in the inertias of the two systems. Taken together, these data suggest that the neural mechanisms for smooth pursuit and manual tracking have common functional elements and that musculoskeletal dynamics do not appear to be a rate-limiting factor.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a crucial role as a regulator of basal ganglia outflow by providing excitatory glutamatergic input into the two output nuclei of the basal ganglia, substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr), and entopeduncular nucleus. This study examined the effects of suppressing activity in the STN of the awake, behaving rat. Specifically, we evaluated the effects of unilateral and bilateral focal inhibition of STN on posture, locomotion, and susceptibility to limbic motor seizures. Unilateral microinjection of a GABA(A) receptor agonist (muscimol, 200 pmol) into STN produced a site-dependent contralaterally directed postural asymmetry without locomotor activation. This effect differed from responses produced by the same dose of muscimol placed into SNpr, which included locomotor activation in addition to contralaterally directed postural asymmetry. Locomotor activation and postural asymmetry were obtained also after blockade of glutamate transmission in SNpr by the unilateral application of kynurenate (100 nmol). Our observation that STN inhibition did not induce the locomotor activation characteristic of SNpr inhibition suggests that there are glutamatergic inputs to SNpr, other than those from STN, that are responsible for controlling locomotion. Bilateral, but not unilateral, injection of muscimol (200 pmol) into STN protected against limbic motor seizures evoked either by intravenous bicuculline or by focal application of bicuculline into anterior piriform cortex (area tempestas). These results demonstrate that focal inhibition of STN reproduces the postural asymmetry and anticonvulsant actions that are obtained with the inhibition of SNpr. This provides behavioral support for the concept that STN contributes a crucial tonic excitatory (glutamatergic) drive to the rat SNpr.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons receive direct, monosynaptic input from a series of well defined nuclei in the brainstem and the hypothalamus. These premotor cell groups coordinate sympathetic control with ongoing endocrine and behavioral response. However, it is not known precisely which populations of sympathetic premotor neurons are activated during specific responses, such as fever after intravenous lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We used the activation of c-fos protein expression in spinally projecting neurons during intravenous LPS fever as a model for examining the functional organization of this system. Intravenous LPS (5 microg/kg) induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord as well as several sympathetic premotor nuclei, including the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, rostral and caudal levels of the ventrolateral medulla, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. After injecting Fluorogold into the intermediolateral column at the T1-L1 spinal levels, neurons that were both Fos immunoreactive and retrogradely labeled were found only in the dorsal parvicellular division of the paraventricular nucleus in the hypothalamus, the rostral ventrolateral medulla (C1 adrenergic cell group), and the A5 noradrenergic cell group in the brainstem. The same pattern of double-labeling was seen from injections at each spinal cord level. These findings suggest that only a limited pool of hypothalamo-sympathetic neurons contribute to the fever response and that they may do so by contacting specific populations of preganglionic neurons that are distributed across a wide range of spinal levels. The anatomical specificity of the paraventriculo-spinal projection is thus functional rather than topographic.
The role of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in the development and maturation of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) was explored by characterizing structurally and functionally NMJs from postnatal day 11 (P11) to P30 +/+, +/-, and -/- NCAM null mutant mice. Differences in NCAM levels resulted in alterations in the size and shape of NMJs, with -/- NMJs being smaller. Additionally both the withdrawal of polyneuronal innervation and the selective accumulation of synaptic vesicle protein in the presynaptic terminal were delayed. These observations suggest that the bidirectional signaling responsible for these events is impaired at -/- NMJs. Functionally, miniature end plate potential size, end plate potential size, and quantal content did not differ from that of wild type under either normal or low release conditions. However at normal release conditions, -/- NMJs, unlike +/+ NMJs, lacked paired-pulse facilitation. The most striking abnormality was the inability of NCAM null junctions to maintain transmitter output with repetitive stimuli. Combined electrophysiological and FM1-43-labeling studies suggest that NCAM null junctions are unable either to dock or to mobilize a sufficient number of vesicles at high but physiological rates of transmitter release. Taken together our observations show that many aspects of transmission are normal and, thus, that many presynaptic and postsynaptic molecules have assembled properly in the absence of NCAM. However, the fact that NCAM was required for specific aspects of transmission, including paired-pulse facilitation and reliable transmission with repetitive stimuli, suggests that NCAM either is directly involved in these processes or is required for the proper organization and/or function of other molecules underlying these processes.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) are present in high abundance in the nervous system (Decker et al., 1995). There are a large number of subunits expressed in the brain that combine to form multimeric functional receptors. We have generated an alpha(4) nAChR subunit knock-out line and focus on defining the behavioral role of this receptor subunit. Homozygous mutant mice (Mt) are normal in size, fertility, and home-cage behavior. Spontaneous unconditioned motor behavior revealed an ethogram characterized by significant increases in several topographies of exploratory behavior in Mt relative to wild-type mice (Wt) over the course of habituation to a novel environment. Furthermore, the behavior of Mt in the elevated plus-maze assay was consistent with increased basal levels of anxiety. In response to nicotine, Wt exhibited early reductions in a number of behavioral topographies, under both unhabituated and habituated conditions; conversely, heightened levels of behavioral topographies in Mt were reduced by nicotine in the late phase of the unhabituated condition. Ligand autoradiography confirmed the lack of high-affinity binding to radiolabeled nicotine, cytisine, and epibatidine in the thalamus, cortex, and caudate putamen, although binding to a number of discrete nuclei remained. The study confirms the pivotal role played by the alpha(4) nAChR subunit in the modulation of a number of constituents of the normal mouse ethogram and in anxiety as assessed using the plus-maze. Furthermore, the response of Mt to nicotine administration suggests that persistent nicotine binding sites in the habenulo-interpeduncular system are sufficient to modulate motor activity in actively exploring mice.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by multifocal loss of myelin, oligodendrocytes, and axons. Potential MS therapies include enhancement of remyelination by transplantation or manipulation of endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Characteristics of endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitors in normal human brain and in MS lesions have not been studied extensively. This report describes the distribution of cells in sections from normal adult human brain and MS lesions by using antibodies directed against NG2, an integral membrane chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan expressed by oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Stellate-shaped NG2-positive cells were detected in the white and gray matter of normal adult human brain and appeared as abundant as, but distinct from, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia. Stellate-shaped or elongated NG2-positive cells also were detected in chronic MS lesions. A subpopulation of the elongated NG2-positive cells expressed the putative apoptotic signaling molecule p75(NTR). TUNEL-positive cells in three active, nine chronic active, and four chronic inactive lesions, however, were p75(NTR)-negative. These studies identify cells with phenotypic markers of endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitors in the mature human CNS and suggest that functional subpopulations of NG2-positive cells exist in MS lesions. Endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitor cells may represent a viable target for future therapies intended to enhance remyelination in MS patients.
The CaMKIIalpha mRNA extends into distal hippocampal dendrites, and the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) is sufficient to mediate this localization. We labeled the 3'UTR of the CaMKIIalpha mRNA in hippocampal cultures by using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)/MS2 bacteriophage tagging system. The CaMKIIalpha 3'UTR formed discrete granules throughout the dendrites of transfected cells. The identity of the fluorescent granules was verified by in situ hybridization. Over 30 min time periods these granules redistributed without a net increase in granule number; with depolarization there is a tendency toward increased numbers of granules in the dendrites. These observations suggest that finer time resolution of granule motility might reveal changes in the motility characteristics of granules after depolarization. So that motile granules could be tracked, shorter periods of observation were required. The movements of motile granules can be categorized as oscillatory, unidirectional anterograde, or unidirectional retrograde. Colocalization of CaMKIIalpha 3'UTR granules and synapses suggested that oscillatory movements allowed the granules to sample several local synapses. Neuronal depolarization increased the number of granules in the anterograde motile pool. Based on the time frame over which the granule number increased, the translocation of granules may serve to prepare the dendrite for mounting an adequate local translation response to future stimuli. Although the resident pool of granules can respond to signals that induce local translation, the number of granules in a dendrite might reflect its activation history.
The mammalian epidermal growth factor (EGF) is expressed in the developing and adult CNS, and it has been implicated in the control of cell proliferation, differentiation, and neurotrophic events. Despite extensive evolutionary conservation of the EGF motif in a range of different types of proteins, secreted EGF homologs with neurotrophic actions have not been reported in invertebrates. In this study, we present a novel member of the family of EGF-like growth factors, an EGF homolog from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis (L-EGF), and we demonstrate that this protein has neurotrophic activity. Purified L-EGF is a 43-residue peptide and retains the typical structural characteristics of the EGF motif. The L-EGF cDNA reveals a unique precursor organization. In contrast to the multidomain mammalian EGFs, it consists of only two domains, a signal peptide and a single EGF motif. Conspicuously, the L-EGF precursor lacks a transmembrane domain, setting it apart from all other members of the EGF-family. L-EGF mRNA is expressed throughout embryonic development, in the juvenile CNS, but not in the normal adult CNS. However, expression in the adult CNS is upregulated after injury, suggesting a role of L-EGF in repair functions. This notion is supported by the observation that L-EGF evokes neurite outgrowth in specific adult Lymnaea neurons in vitro, which could be inhibited by an EGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In conclusion, our findings further substantiate the notion that the EGF family has an early phylogenetic origin, and our data support a neurotrophic role for L-EGF during development and injury repair.
Antibodies against the chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan, NG2, are increasingly being used to identify the widespread population of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells in the adult mammalian CNS. However, the specificity of this marker and the role of NG2-expressing cells in CNS function are still open to question. In this review we consider the evidence that NG2(+) cells in the CNS are part of the oligodendrocyte lineage and whether they can give rise to new oligodendrocytes following demyelination. In both the developing and mature rodent CNS, NG2(+) cells express the established oligodendrocyte lineage marker PDGF-alphaR and from P7, the late progenitor antigen O4, which persists in immature oligodendrocytes. They do not express markers of other CNS populations, such as OX42 or GFAP, at any developmental age. NG2(+) cells represent the major cycling cell population in the normal adult rat CNS, suggesting they have stem cell-like properties. NG2 immunoreactivity is upregulated as a result of physical, viral, excitotoxic and inflammatory insults to the CNS. Following demyelination NG2(+) cell number increases in the immediate vicinity of the lesion and rapid remyelination ensues. NG2 expression has also been investigated in human tissue. Multi-process bearing cells, which morphologically resemble those identified with antibodies against O4, persist in chronically demyelinated multiple sclerosis lesions.
The authors describe a rare case of a primary central nervous system lymphoma of the cerebellopontine angle, extending into the right cavernous sinus and orbit. The patient presented with multiple right sided cranial nerve palsies and rapidly progressive proptosis and ophthalmoplegia of the right eye. Imaging revealed a cerebellopontine angle mass extending into cavernous sinus. Surgical decompression of the tumor was undertaken through a right sided retromastoid craniectomy. Histopathology revealed Non Hodgkin's lymphoma of diffuse large cell type. There was no evidence of systemic lymphoma. Primary lymphoma of cerebellopontine angle with direct extension into cavernous sinus and orbit is rare and to our knowledge this is the only case reported.
Patients with breast cancer may develop cerebral metastasis. Radio- and chemotherapy are advocated as an alternative to surgery in such patients. A woman operated on for breast cancer 2 years earlier developed a cerebral lesion. A definite preoperative diagnosis of the lesion was not possible on the basis of CT and MRI findings. The lesion proved to be a supratentorial hemangioblastoma. Neurosurgical treatment is recommended for patients with breast cancer who present a cerebral lesion, since a correct diagnosis may only be possible in the operating theater.
Prosaposin exhibits neurotrophic factor properties that are localized to a 12-amino acid sequence located in the amino terminal portion of the saposin C domain. Prosaptides are peptides derived from the neurotrophic portion of prosaposin; these have been previously reported to be bioactive in neuroblastoma cell lines in vitro. We report that prosaptides were also bioactive in explants of adult primary sensory neurons by dose-dependently increasing both the number (3- to 4-fold) and elongation of these neurites by 50%. Local injection of prosaptides into the gluteus muscle of adult mice also induced sprouting at the motor endplate. Our results indicate that prosaptides are potent neuritogenic factors for both sensory and motor neurons of adult peripheral nerve.
SB-277011-A (trans-N-[4-[2-(6-cyano-1,2,3, 4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)ethyl]cyclohexyl]-4-quinolininecarboxamide), is a brain-penetrant, high-affinity, and selective dopamine D(3) receptor antagonist. Radioligand-binding experiments in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with human dopamine D(3) or D(2 long) (hD(3), hD(2)) receptors showed SB-277011-A to have high affinity for the hD(3) receptor (pK(i) = 7.95) with 100-fold selectivity over the hD(2) receptor and over 66 other receptors, enzymes, and ion channels. Similar radioligand-binding data for SB-277011-A were obtained from CHO cells transfected with rat dopamine D(3) or D(2). In the microphysiometer functional assay, SB-277011-A antagonized quinpirole-induced increases in acidification in CHO cells overexpressing the hD(3) receptor (pK(b) = 8.3) and was 80-fold selective over hD(2) receptors. Central nervous system penetration studies showed that SB-277011-A readily entered the brain. In in vivo microdialysis studies, SB-277011-A (2. 8 mg/kg p.o.) reversed the quinelorane-induced reduction of dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens but not striatum, a regional selectivity consistent with the distribution of the dopamine D(3) receptor in rat brain. SB-277011-A (2-42.3 mg/kg p.o.) did not affect spontaneous locomotion, or stimulant-induced hyperlocomotion. SB-277011-A (4.1-42.2 mg/kg p.o.) did not reverse prepulse inhibition deficits in apomorphine- or quinpirole-treated rats, but did significantly reverse the prepulse inhibition deficit in isolation-reared rats at a dose of 3 mg/kg p.o. SB-277011-A (2.5-78. 8 mg/kg p.o.) was noncataleptogenic and did not raise plasma prolactin levels. Thus, dopamine D(3) receptor blockade produces few of the behavioral effects characteristic of nonselective dopamine receptor antagonists. The effect of SB-277011-A on isolation-induced prepulse inhibition deficit suggests that blockade of dopamine D(3) receptors may benefit the treatment of schizophrenia.
Pharmacological responses to aryloxypropanolamines were examined in cells expressing rat or human beta(1)-adrenergic receptors (ARs) using adenylyl cyclase assays. The aryloxypropanolamines CGP 12177 and LY 362884, originally developed as beta(3)-AR agonists, were found to stimulate the beta(1)-AR. Interestingly, both CGP 12177 and LY 362884 exhibited an anomalous biphasic effect on beta(1)-AR. Low concentrations of either CGP 12177 or LY 362884 potently blocked isoproterenol-induced stimulation of beta(1)-AR, whereas higher concentrations of these compounds stimulated the beta(1)-AR. The unusual interaction of these aryloxypropanolamine ligands with the beta(1)-AR was further characterized using beta-AR antagonists. Activation of beta(1)-AR by CGP 12177 or LY 362884 was observed to be significantly more resistant to blockade by beta-AR antagonists compared with activation by catecholamines. These results suggest that catecholamines and aryloxypropanolamines interact with distinct active conformations of the beta(1)-AR: a state that is responsive to catecholamines and is blocked with high affinity by CGP 12177 and LY 362884, and a novel state that is activated by aryloxypropanolamines but is resistant to blockade by standard beta-AR antagonists. Moreover, dependence of antagonist affinity on agonist structure is unprecedented, and its implications on the use of beta-AR agonists such as CGP 12177 in receptor classification are discussed.

Neurones of the globus pallidus (GP) have been classified into three subgroups based on the visual inspection of current clamp electrophysiological properties and morphology of biocytin-filled neurones. Type A neurones (132/208; 63 %) were identified by the presence of the time- and voltage-dependent inward rectifier (Ih) and the low-threshold calcium current (It) giving rise to anodal break depolarisations. These cells were quiescent or fired regular spontaneous action potentials followed by biphasic AHPs. Current injection evoked regular activity up to maximum firing frequency of 350 Hz followed by moderate spike frequency adaptation. The somata of type A cells were variable in shape (20 x 12 micrometer) while their dendrites were highly varicose. Type B neurones (66/208; 32 %) exhibited neither Ih nor rebound depolarisations and only a fast monophasic AHP. These cells were spontaneously active while current injection induced irregular patterns of action potential firing up to a frequency of 440 Hz with weak spike frequency adaptation. Morphologically, these cells were the smallest encountered (15 x 10 micrometer), oval in shape with restricted varicose dendritic arborisations. Type C neurones were much rarer (10/208; 5 %). They were identified by the absence of Ih and rebound depolarisations, but did possess a prolonged biphasic AHP. They displayed large A-like potassium currents and ramp-like depolarisations in response to step current injections, which induced firing up to a maximum firing frequency of 310 Hz. These cells were the largest observed (27 x 15 micrometer) with extensive dendritic branching. These results confirm neuronal heterogeneity in the adult rodent GP. The driven activity and population percentage of the three subtypes correlates well with the in vivo studies (Kita &amp; Kitai, 1991). Type A cells appear to correspond to type II neurones of Nambu &amp; Llinas (1994, 1997) while the small diameter type B cells display morphological similarities with those described by Millhouse (1986). The rarely encountered type C cells may well be large cholinergic neurones. These findings provide a cellular basis for the study of intercellular communication and network interactions in the adult rat in vitro.
Using transient calcium phosphate transfection into the human embryonic kidney tsa-201 cell line and subsequent whole-cell patch-clamp protocols, we examined the tonic modulation of cloned N- and P/Q-type calcium channels by five different G protein beta subunits via strong depolarizing voltage prepulses. For N- and P/Q-type channels, the magnitude of inhibition was dependent on the Gbeta subtype co-expressed. Both the absolute and relative magnitudes of Gbeta subunit-induced inhibition of P/Q-type channels differed from those observed with the N-type channel. For each calcium channel subtype, kinetics of both the prepulse-mediated recovery from inhibition and the re-inhibition following the prepulse were examined for each of the Gbeta subunits by varying either the duration between the pre- and the test pulse or the length of the prepulse. For each channel subtype, we observed a differential Gbeta subunit rank order with regard to the rates of re-inhibition and recovery from inhibition. On average, P/Q-type channels exhibited more rapid rates of recovery from inhibition than those observed with N-type channels. Different Gbeta subtypes mediated different degrees of slowing of activation kinetics. The differential modulation of P/Q- and N-type channels by various Gbeta subtypes may provide a mechanism for fine tuning the amount of calcium entering the presynaptic nerve termini.
Movement preparation is considered to be based on central processes which are responsible for improving motor performance. For instance, it has been shown that motor cortical neurones change their activity selectively in relation to prior information about movement parameters. However, it is not clear how groups of neurones dynamically organize their activity to cope with computational demands. The aim of the study was to compare the firing rate of multiple simultaneously recorded neurones with the interaction between them by describing not only the frequency of occurrence of epochs of significant synchronization, but also its modulation in time and its changes in temporal precision during an instructed delay. Multiple single-neurone activity was thus recorded in monkey motor cortex during the performance of two different delayed multi-directional pointing tasks. In order to detect conspicuous spike coincidences in simultaneously recorded spike trains by tolerating temporal jitter ranging from 0 to 20 ms and to calculate their statistical significance, a modified method of the 'Unitary Events' analysis was used. Two main results were obtained. First, simultaneously recorded neurones synchronize their spiking activity in a highly dynamic way. Synchronization becomes significant only during short periods (about 100 to 200 ms). Several such periods occurred during a behavioural trial more or less regularly. Second, in many pairs of neurones, the temporal precision of synchronous activity was highest at the end of the preparatory period. As a matter of fact, at the beginning of this period, after the presentation of the preparatory signal, neurones significantly synchronize their spiking activity, but with low temporal precision. As time advances, significant synchronization becomes more precise. Data indicate that not only the discharge rate is involved in preparatory processes, but also temporal aspects of neuronal activity as expressed in the precise synchronization of individual action potentials.
Morphological studies have shown that excitatory synapses from the cortex constitute the major source of synapses in the thalamus. However, the effect of these corticothalamic synapses on the function of the thalamus is not well understood because thalamic neurones have complex intrinsic firing properties and interact through multiple types of synaptic receptors. Here we investigate these complex interactions using computational models. We show first, using models of reconstructed thalamic relay neurones, that the effect of corticothalamic synapses on relay cells can be similar to that of afferent synapses, in amplitude, kinetics and timing, although these synapses are located in different regions of the dendrites. This suggests that cortical EPSPs may complement (or predict) the afferent information. Second, using models of reconstructed thalamic reticular neurones, we show that high densities of the low-threshold Ca2+ current in dendrites can give these cells an exquisite sensitivity to cortical EPSPs, but only if their dendrites are hyperpolarized. This property has consequences at the level of thalamic circuits, where corticothalamic EPSPs evoke bursts in reticular neurones and recruit relay cells predominantly through feedforward inhibition. On the other hand, with depolarized dendrites, thalamic reticular neurones do not generate bursts and the cortical influence on relay cells is mostly excitatory. Models therefore suggest that the cortical influence can either promote or antagonize the relay of information, depending on the state of the dendrites of reticular neurones. The control of these dendrites may therefore be a determinant of attentional mechanisms. We also review the effect of corticothalamic feedback at the network level, and show how the cortical control over the thalamus is essential in co-ordinating widespread, coherent oscillations. We suggest mechanisms by which different modes of corticothalamic interaction would allow oscillations of very different spatiotemporal coherence to coexist in the thalamocortical system.
The cells of the inferior olivary nucleus, the sole source of the cerebellar climbing fibers, form a network of electrically coupled neurons. Experimental observations show that these neurons produce a large repertoire of electrical signals, among which sub-threshold oscillations of the membrane potential. Simultaneous recordings from pairs of neurons and optical imaging of voltage sensitive dyes show that sub-threshold activity occurs in synchrony throughout the network. The mechanism underlying the generation of the sub-threshold oscillations is not fully understood. Experimental observations suggest that the electrical coupling is essential but insufficient for their generation. Several theoretical mechanisms have been suggested to explain these observations. Up-to-date, the most realistic model is the heterogeneity model, that assumes a certain degree of heterogeneity among olivary neurons. The heterogeneity model proposes that sub-threshold oscillations are produced by electrical coupling of neurons with the same types of ionic conductances, but with different densities. The variability in channel densities yield neurons of different functional types. The main prediction of the model is that different functional types of neurons should be found in the inferior olive. Dynamic clamp experiments support this prediction.
The receptive field of a visual neurone is classically defined as the region of space (or retina) where a visual stimulus evokes a change in its firing activity. Intracellular recordings in cat area 17 show that the visually evoked synaptic integration field extends over a much larger area than that established on the basis of spike activity. Synaptic depolarizing (dominant excitation) responses decrease in strength for stimuli that are flashed at increasing distances away from the centre of the discharge field, while their onset latency increases. A detailed spatio-temporal analysis of these electrophysiological data shows that subthreshold synaptic responses observed in the 'silent' surround of cortical receptive fields result from the intracortical spread of activation waves carried by slowly conducting horizontal axons within primary visual cortex. They also predict that a perceptual facilitation may occur when feedforward activation produced by the motion signal in the retina travels in phase in the primary visual cortex with the visually induced spread of horizontal activation. A psychophysical correlate has been obtained in humans, showing that apparent motion produced by a sequence of co-linear Gabor patches, known to preferentially activate V1 orientation selective cells, are perceived by human observers as much faster than non co-linear sequences of the same physical speed.

Functional outcome after high tibial osteotomy (HTO) was evaluated with respect to both improvement and goal achievement. Fifty-seven subjects, 32 men and 25 women, with a mean age of 55 years were examined with the Functional Assessment System (FAS) 6 and 12 months after surgery. The FAS is an evaluation system, specifically designed to monitor lower extremity dysfunction. It shows a profile with preoperative status, individual goal, and postoperative status. Statistically significant improvement was seen in 6/20 variables after 6 months, and in 10/20 variables after 12 months. When goal achievement was examined, the results were not as impressive. The treatment goal was not reached on the group level for almost all variables. On the individual level, only 20\N40% of the patients achieved the goal as a result of surgery in most variables. Exceptions were pain and leisure time/hobbies, where there was a high degree of goal achievement. It is possible that postoperative training was inadequate. The authors recommend a new randomized study, where patients who receive specific individual training related to the individual goal and functional profile are compared with a control group.
Striatal output neurons (SONs) integrate glutamatergic synaptic inputs originating from the cerebral cortex. In vivo electrophysiological data have shown that a prior depolarization of SONs induced a short-term (&lt;/=1 sec) increase in their membrane excitability, which facilitated the ability of corticostriatal synaptic potentials to induce firing. Here we propose, using a computational model of SONs, that the use-dependent, short-term increase in the responsiveness of SONs mainly results from the slow kinetics of a voltage-dependent, slowly inactivating potassium A-current. This mechanism confers on SONs a form of intrinsic short-term memory that optimizes the synaptic input-output relationship as a function of their past activation.
Voltage-gated A-type potassium channels such as Kv4.2 regulate generation of action potentials and are localized abundantly in the hippocampus and striatum. Phosphorylation consensus sites for various kinases exist within the sequence of the potassium channel subunit Kv4.2, including consensus sites for extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK), protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), and kinase assays have shown that particular amino acids of the consensus sites are bonafide phosphorylation sites in vitro. We have developed antibodies recognizing Kv4.2 triply phosphorylated at the three ERK sites as well as two antibodies recognizing singly phosphorylated Kv4.2 channels at the PKA sites (one amino-terminal and one carboxy-terminal). In the present study, we report the development of reliable immunohistochemistry protocols to study the localization of these phosphorylated versions of Kv4.2, as well as total Kv4.2 in the mouse brain. A general description of the areas highlighted by these antibodies includes the hippocampus, amygdala, cortex, and cerebellum. Such areas display robust synaptic plasticity and have been implicated in spatial, associative, and motor learning. Interestingly, in the hippocampus, the antibodies to differentially phosphorylated Kv4.2 channels localize to specific afferent pathways, indicating that the Kv4.2 phosphorylation state may be input specific. For example, the stratum lacunosum moleculare, which receives inputs from the entorhinal cortex via the perforant pathway, displays relatively little ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 or PKA carboxy-terminal-phosphorylated Kv4.2. However, this same layer is highlighted by antibodies that recognize Kv4.2 that has been phosphorylated by PKA at the amino terminus. Similarly, of the three antibodies tested, the soma of CA3 neurons are primarily recognized by the ERK triply phosphorylated Kv4.2 antibody, and the mossy fiber inputs to CA3 are primarily recognized by the carboxy-terminal PKA-phosphorylated Kv4.2. This differential phosphorylation is particularly interesting in two contexts. First, phosphorylation may be serving as a mechanism for targeting. For example, the amino-terminal PKA phosphorylation may be acting as a tag for a discrete pool of Kv4.2 to enter stratum lacunosum moleculare. Second, as phosphorylation may regulate channel biophysical properties, differential phosphorylation of Kv4.2 in the dendrites of pyramidal neurons may confer unique biophysical properties upon particular dendritic input layers.
Intra-septal infusions of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist muscimol impair learning and memory in a variety of tasks. This experiment determined whether hippocampal or entorhinal infusions of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine would reverse such impairing effects on spontaneous alternation performance, a measure of spatial working memory. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given intra-septal infusions of vehicle or muscimol (1 nmole/0.5 microL) combined with unilateral intra-hippocampal or intra-entorhinal infusions of vehicle or physostigmine (10 microg/microL for the hippocampus; 7.5 microg/microL or 1.875 microg/0.25 microL for the entorhinal cortex). Fifteen minutes later, spontaneous alternation performance was assessed. The results indicated that intra-septal infusions of muscimol significantly decreased percentage-of-alternation scores, whereas intra-hippocampal or intra-entorhinal infusions of physostigmine had no effect. More importantly, intra-hippocampal or intra-entorhinal infusions of physostigmine, at doses that did not influence performance when administered alone, completely reversed the impairing effects of the muscimol infusions. These findings indicate that increasing cholinergic levels in the hippocampus or entorhinal cortex is sufficient to reverse the impairing effects of septal GABA receptor activation and support the hypothesis that the impairing effects of septal GABAergic activity involve cholinergic processes in the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the presence of neuronal inclusions in the midbrain known as Lewy bodies. These proteinaceous intracellular deposits may contribute to subsequent dopaminergic neurodegeneration in this brain region. While it is assumed by many investigators that immunopositive ubiquitin staining in Parkinson's-associated Lewy bodies represents the presence of elevated levels of intracellular ubiquitin-protein conjugates, this has yet to be definitively proven. Increases in oxidative stress along with decreased levels of the thiol regulatory molecule glutathione in the midbrain in PD may cause S-thiolation of important components of the ubiquitination system drastically reducing their activities and in fact impairing the cell's ability to ubiquitinate proteins at all. Here, we review evidence for free versus protein-bound ubiquitin in Parkinsonian-associated Lewy bodies and discuss future directions towards resolving this important question as well as its implication for future treatment therapies.
Human brain mapping aims at establishing correspondences between brain function and brain anatomy. One of the most intriguing problems in this field is the high interpersonal variability of human neuroanatomy which makes studies across many subjects very difficult. The cortical folds ('sulci') often serve as landmarks that help to establish correspondences between subjects. In this paper, we will present a method that automatically detects and attributes neuroanatomical names to the cortical folds using image analysis methods applied to magnetic resonance data of human brains. We claim that the cortical folds can be subdivided into a number of substructures which we call sulcal basins. The concept of sulcal basins allows us to establish a complete parcellation of the cortical surface into separate regions. These regions are neuroanatomically meaningful and can be identified from MR data sets across many subjects. Sulcal basins are segmented using a region growing approach. The automatic labelling is achieved by a model matching technique.
The question of whether the age-related decline in physical activity reported in humans has a biological basis is addressed by reviewing gerontological studies that have used nonhuman subjects. From at least three separate arguments, this review provides strong support for a biological basis of this phenomenon. First, age-related decline in activity measured in many different ways is observed across a wide range of nonhuman species. Second, the activity decline appears predictive of lifespan. Increased levels of activity predict longevity, and increasing activity through exercise increases median lifespan. Third, activity declines appear related to altered neurotransmission involving the central dopamine system. Reduced dopamine release or loss of dopamine receptors appears to underlie age-related activity decline, and interventions that enhance dopamine function can increase activity levels in aged animals.
Two major arginine-specific cysteine proteinases (gingipains R) from Porphyromonas gingivalis have been compared with regard to their potential participation in the pathology of periodontal disease. Both the high and low molecular mass forms, HRgpA and RgpB, cleaved oligopeptide fluorogenic substrates at the P1-arginine residue with essentially identical specificity but different efficiencies, with HRgpA being about 1.5 to seven-fold less potent than RgpB. In contrast HRgpA, which occurs as a non-covalent complex of catalytic and hemagglutinin/adhesion domains, was about two-fold more active than RgpB in degrading fibrinogen and fibrin, while both enzymes activated prekallikrein with similar efficiency. These data indicate the likelihood that both activities could be involved in both the bleeding tendency and production of gingival crevicular fluid, which occur at infected periodontitis sites. Significantly, however, is the fact that HRgpA, but not RgpB, was able to bind phospholipids in the presence of calcium ions, the effect dramatically enhancing the activation of clotting factors by this proteinase. This suggests that HRgpA may play a more important role in the virulence of Porphyromonas gingivalis, relative to RgpB, almost certainly because of the presence of the hemagglutinin/adhesion domain which can bind phospholipid and apparently modulate enzyme activity.

The RNA-binding protein HuD binds to a regulatory element in the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of the GAP-43 mRNA. To investigate the functional significance of this interaction, we generated PC12 cell lines in which HuD levels were controlled by transfection with either antisense (pDuH) or sense (pcHuD) constructs. pDuH-transfected cells contained reduced amounts of GAP-43 protein and mRNA, and these levels remained low even after nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation, a treatment that is normally associated with protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent stabilization of the GAP-43 mRNA and neuronal differentiation. Analysis of GAP-43 mRNA stability demonstrated that the mRNA had a shorter half-life in these cells. In agreement with their deficient GAP-43 expression, pDuH cells failed to grow neurites in the presence of NGF or phorbol esters. These cells, however, exhibited normal neurite outgrowth when exposed to dibutyryl-cAMP, an agent that induces outgrowth independently from GAP-43. We observed opposite effects in pcHuD-transfected cells. The GAP-43 mRNA was stabilized in these cells, leading to an increase in the levels of the GAP-43 mRNA and protein. pcHuD cells were also found to grow short spontaneous neurites, a process that required the presence of GAP-43. In conclusion, our results suggest that HuD plays a critical role in PKC-mediated neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells and that this protein does so primarily by promoting the stabilization of the GAP-43 mRNA.
The Caenorhabditis elegans sax-1 gene regulates several aspects of neuronal cell shape. sax-1 mutants have expanded cell bodies and ectopic neurites in many classes of neurons, suggesting that SAX-1 functions to restrict cell and neurite growth. The ectopic neurites in sensory neurons of sax-1 mutants resemble the defects caused by decreased sensory activity. However, the activity-dependent pathway, mediated in part by the UNC-43 calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II, functions in parallel with SAX-1 to suppress neurite initiation. sax-1 encodes a serine/threonine kinase in the Ndr family that is related to the Orb6 (Schizosaccharomyces pombe), Warts/Lats (Drosophila), and COT-1 (Neurospora) kinases that function in cell shape regulation. These kinases have similarity to Rho kinases but lack consensus Rho-binding domains. Dominant negative mutations in the C. elegans RhoA GTPase cause neuronal cell shape defects similar to those of sax-1 mutants, and genetic interactions between rhoA and sax-1 suggest shared functions. These results suggest that SAX-1/Ndr kinases are endogenous inhibitors of neurite initiation and cell spreading.
We previously identified a sequence-specific erythroid cell-enriched endoribonuclease (ErEN) activity involved in the turnover of the stable alpha-globin mRNA. We now demonstrate that ErEN activity is regulated by the poly(A) tail. The unadenylated alpha-globin 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) was an efficient substrate for ErEN cleavage, while the polyadenylated 3'UTR was inefficiently cleaved in an in vitro decay assay. The influence of the poly(A) tail was mediated through the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) bound to the poly(A) tail, which can inhibit ErEN activity. ErEN cleavage of an adenylated alpha-globin 3'UTR was accentuated upon depletion of PABP from the cytosolic extract, while addition of recombinant PABP reestablished the inhibition of endoribonuclease cleavage. PABP inhibited ErEN activity indirectly through an interaction with the alphaCP mRNA stability protein. Sequestration of alphaCP resulted in an increase of ErEN cleavage activity, regardless of the polyadenylation state of the RNA. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, PABP was shown to enhance the binding efficiency of alphaCP to the alpha-globin 3'UTR, which in turn protected the ErEN target sequence. Conversely, the binding of PABP to the poly(A) tail was also augmented by alphaCP, implying that a stable higher-order structural network is involved in stabilization of the alpha-globin mRNA. Upon deadenylation, the interaction of PABP with alphaCP would be disrupted, rendering the alpha-globin 3'UTR more susceptible to endoribonuclease cleavage. The data demonstrated a specific role for PABP in protecting the body of an mRNA in addition to demonstrating PABP's well-characterized effect of stabilizing the poly(A) tail.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP-2) is one member of the family of IGF binding proteins believed to have both endocrine functions elicited by modulating serum IGF half-life and transport as well as autocrine/paracrine functions that result from blocking or enhancing the availability of IGFs to bind cell surface receptors. To clarify the in vivo role of IGFBP-2, we have used gene targeting to introduce a null IGFBP-2 allele into the mouse genome. Animals homozygous for the altered allele are viable and fertile, contain no IGFBP-2 mRNA, and have no detectable IGFBP-2 in the adult circulation. Heterozygous and homozygous animals showed no significant differences in prenatal or postnatal body growth. Analyses of organ weights in adult males, however, revealed that spleen weight was reduced and liver weight was increased in the absence of IGFBP-2. In addition, ligand blot analyses of sera from adult IGFBP-2 null males showed that IGFBP-1, IGFBP-3, and IGFBP-4 levels were increased relative to wild-type mice. These results demonstrate that up-regulation of multiple IGFBPs accompanies the absence of IGFBP-2 and that IGFBP-2 has a critical role, either directly or indirectly, in modulating spleen and liver size.
A large body of evidence has recently defined a field theory known as 'evolutionary mismatch', which derives its attributes largely from the fact that current environmental conditions are completely different from those in which the human central nervous system evolved. Current views on the evolutionary mismatch theory lack, however, any attempts to define which brain areas or neuronal circuits should be mostly involved in coding such misevolved traits and to what extent our neurobiological knowledge can be applied to the topographical localization of a specific psychopathology. In this respect the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic circuits have long been misconceptualized as simple reward or reinforcement systems. Instead, they motivate and coordinate the functions of the higher brain areas that mediate planning and foresight and direct finalized movement in both animals and humans. These systems make animals intensely interested in exploring the world around them, but by the same means they also make them susceptible to the environmental stimuli that have been sought and consumed. It is has been speculated that the cortical dopamine targets that developed most recently in phylogeny are of particular functional value, and that the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system is involved in more complex integrative functions than previously assumed. In the present paper I will argue that some mental disorders may have their deep roots in the evolutionary mismatch between the normal physiology of the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system and the current environmental conditions in affluent societies.
Depression is a common finding in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Traditionally, depression has been treated with tricyclic antidepressants, which are often associated with undesirable side effects that may limit their use in PD. Few studies have been performed with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in these patients. We assessed the tolerability of the SSRI antidepressant paroxetine (10-20 mg once per day) in 65 outpatients with PD and depression for a period of at least 3 months. Treatment was continued for 125.3+/-89.6 days (mean +/- standard deviation) in 52 patients. In these subjects the Hamilton Disease Rating Scale improved from 21.7+/-6.4 to 13.8+/-5.8 (p &lt;0.001). Overall, 13 patients stopped paroxetine after 9.6+/-10.6 days because of adverse reactions. Two patients reported increased &quot;off&quot; time and tremor that reversed after treatment was stopped. No risk factors for intolerance were identified. Paroxetine is a safe and effective drug to treat depression in PD.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the influence of low-intensity exercise on levodopa absorption and levodopa motor effect. We studied the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of levodopa under resting conditions and under a workload of 50 watts for 2 hours on a cycle ergometer in 12 parkinsonian patients with predictable fluctuations of motor disability. The patients attended the hospital on both days in a provoked off state. After a baseline assessment of motor disability using the Columbia University rating scale (CURS scale) and a blood test for measurement of the baseline levodopa concentration in the plasma, 100 mg levodopa and 25 mg benserazide were administered as a single dose orally. Blood samples for measurement of the levodopa concentration in the plasma were taken, and motor assessments were conducted at 15-minute intervals for 240 minutes and at 30-minute intervals from 240 to 360 minutes. All patients were able to perform the exercise program. The baseline Columbia University rating scale score did not differ significantly between both days. The mean levodopa concentration in plasma at half-maximal motor effect tended to be higher during exercise and indicated that the patients needed a higher levodopa concentration in plasma to achieve the half-maximal motor effect. The maximal levodopa concentration in plasma tended to be higher with exercise. Both trends did not reach statistical significance. In summary, there was not a negative or a positive net effect of exercise on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of levodopa. However, there were two counteracting trends: a trend toward better levodopa absorption and a trend toward a deteriorated concentration-effect correlation.
Mutations in alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH; EC 1.1.1.1) genes may be of interest in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) because of the important role these enzymes play in retinoid and dopamine metabolism and/or aldehyde detoxification. The location of several alcohol dehydrogenase genes in a cluster on chromosome 4 lends further support to ADH genes being candidates for this disorder, because recently a form of autosomal-dominant parkinsonism has been mapped to this area. We sequenced the promoter and coding regions and part of the introns of the human class IV ADH gene in 10 patients with PD. Seven different polymorphisms were identified. These polymorphisms could be assigned to four alleles (A1-A4). We then determined the frequencies of those four alleles and the wild-type allele in 78 patients with PD and 130 control subjects and found a significant association of the A1 allele with PD (odds ratio = 2.87; 95% confidence interval = 1.35-6.08). In familial cases, the association was strongest (odds ratio = 4.86; 95% confidence interval = 1.89-12.75). Two patients were homozygous for A1 whereas none of the 130 control subjects was found to be homozygous. Our results show an association between a certain ADH4 (formerly known as ADH7 in humans) allele and PD. This suggests a role for genetic variations of ADH4 as risk factors for the development of PD. Our data also show that the observed polymorphisms alone are not sufficient to cause symptoms. Further genetic and/or environmental factors have to be involved.
Inclusions containing actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF) and cofilin, abundant proteins in adult human brain, are prominent in hippocampal and cortical neurites of the post-mortem brains of Alzheimer's patients, especially in neurites contacting amyloid deposits. The origin and role of these inclusions in neurodegeneration are, however, unknown. Here we show that mediators of neurodegeneration induce the rapid formation of transient or persistent rod-like inclusions containing ADF/cofilin and actin in axons and dendrites of cultured hippocampal neurons. Rods form spontaneously within neurons overexpressing active ADF/cofilin, suggesting that the activation (by dephosphorylation) of ADF/cofilin that occurs in response to neurodegenerative stimuli is sufficient to induce rod formation. Persistent rods that span the diameter of the neurite disrupt microtubules and cause degeneration of the distal neurite without killing the neuron. These findings suggest a common pathway that can lead to loss of synapses.
Membrane cholesterol-sphingolipid 'rafts', which are characterized by their insolubility in the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100 in the cold, have been implicated in the sorting of certain membrane proteins, such as placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), to the apical plasma membrane domain of epithelial cells. Here we show that prominin, an apically sorted pentaspan membrane protein, becomes associated in the trans-Golgi network with a lipid raft that is soluble in Triton X-100 but insoluble in another non-ionic detergent, Lubrol WX. At the cell surface, prominin remains insoluble in Lubrol WX and is selectively associated with microvilli, being largely segregated from the membrane subdomains containing PLAP. Cholesterol depletion results in the loss of prominin's microvillus-specific localization but does not lead to its complete intermixing with PLAP. We propose the coexistence within a membrane domain, such as the apical plasma membrane, of different cholesterol-based lipid rafts, which underlie the generation and maintenance of membrane subdomains.
The neocortex has at least two different networks of electrically coupled inhibitory interneurons: fast-spiking (FS) and low-threshold-spiking (LTS) cells. Agonists of metabotropic glutamate or acetylcholine receptors induced synchronized spiking and membrane fluctuations, with irregular or rhythmic patterns, in networks of LTS cells. LTS activity was closely correlated with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in neighboring FS interneurons and excitatory neurons. Synchronized LTS activity required electrical synapses, but not fast chemical synapses. Tetanic stimulation of local circuitry induced effects similar to those of metabotropic agonists. We conclude that an electrically coupled network of LTS interneurons can mediate synchronized inhibition when activated by modulatory neurotransmitters.
Most neurons receive thousands of synaptic inputs onto widely spread dendrites. Because of dendritic filtering, distant synapses should have less efficacy than proximal ones. To investigate this, we characterized the amplitude and kinetics of excitatory synaptic input across the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons using dual whole-cell recordings. We found that dendritic EPSP amplitude increases with distance from the soma, counterbalancing the filtering effects of the dendrites and reducing the location dependence of somatic EPSP amplitude. Dendritic current injections and a multi-compartmental computer model demonstrated that dendritic membrane properties have only a minor role in elevating the local EPSP. Instead a progressive increase in synaptic conductance seems to be primarily responsible for normalizing the amplitudes of individual inputs.
The author outlines the pros and cons of data sharing for neuroscientists and argues that continued progress in the field will depend on a cultural shift toward making primary data freely available. He argues in favor of distributed databases to maximize the efficient use of data.

The gradual recovery of activity of serotonergic neurons following an initial inhibition has been hypothesized to play an important role in the delayed onset of efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. This study explored the clinical relevance of this hypothesis by examining the effects of different doses and routes of administration of fluoxetine on the recovery of activity of serotonergic neurons over the course of a 21-day exposure. Single-unit, extracellular recordings of serotonergic neurons were made in the dorsal raphe nucleus of anesthetized male rats. Acute i.v., s.c. and i.p. administration of fluoxetine inhibited the activity of serotonergic neurons. With chronic administration of fluoxetine, at clinically relevant doses, the activity of serotonergic neurons gradually recovered to baseline levels over the course of 14-21 days. The dose of fluoxetine (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg per day) did not make a significant difference in the time course of the recovery of activity of serotonergic neurons. A significant, non-parallel shift in the dose-response curve of serotonergic neurons to the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT occurred over the 21 days of treatment with fluoxetine, indicating a desensitization of the 5-HT1A receptor during this period. The recovery of firing did not correlate with either plasma or cerebrospinal fluid levels of fluoxetine or norfluoxetine. These results indicate that, similar to the effects of dose on the speed of onset of the clinical effects of SSRIs, increasing the dose of fluoxetine does not hasten the recovery of firing of serotonergic neurons during chronic administration. These results support the hypothesis that desensitization of the 5-HT1A receptor and consequent recovery of firing of 5-HT cells in the dorsal raphe nucleus plays a role in the delayed therapeutic onset of fluoxetine.
This paper deals with ethical implications of neuroscientific research on patients as well as with the application of its results in diagnosis and treatment for brain diseases, in which a considerable demand for research exists due to their high frequency, long duration, disabling consequences, and unsatisfactory or nonexistent treatment possibilities. Such indispensable research on patients calls forth the basic ethical tension between respect of autonomy and dignity of the sick individual (as well as the avoidance of somatic and psychic risks and burdens) and the ethically justified demand for flawless research in recognizing, preventing, reducing, or eliminating disability and suffering caused by disease. The demand for research today also results from the increasing orientation of insurance companies towards scientifically proven evidence of the efficacy and safety of medical interventions: &quot;evidence-based medicine.&quot; This is illustrated by 3 examples: (1) use of fetal brain tissue/cells from planned abortions in patients in therapy-resistant final stages of Parkinson's disease and the effects of neurotransplantation on the recipients, (2) research with demented patients incompetent to give informed consent, and (3) predictive (presymptomatic, prenatal) testing in the genetic counseling of individuals from families with Huntington's chorea. We conclude that adherence to high ethical standards is of inestimable significance, not only for those participating in research but also for public acceptance of that research. This is particularly valid in Germany, where nonobservance and the undermining of ethical principles was grossly practiced in the first half of this century on the slippery descent into the abyss. Therefore, continued scrutiny with the increasing variety of ethical problems in medical research is demanded. However, this will be achieved not by taboos and prohibitive regulations but only through open discussion between scientists, particularly probands in research, patients' relatives, and the public. This leads to four demands: listening honestly and openly, both in single cases and in the public sector, training in recognition and consideration of ethical problems, and reducing unfavorable conditions such as complex bureaucratic regulations, negative public views, overzealous efficiency, and insufficient time. Sufficient numbers of qualified personnel are needed who are trained in listening and who will have the time to do so.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is cleaved to neurotoxic/proinflammatory amyloid beta protein (Abeta) or to the neuroprotective secreted alpha-APPs. A balance in APP metabolism may influence the outcome between toxicity and protection to central nervous system (CNS) neurons in Alzheimer's disease. Treatment of U-373 MG astrocytoma cells with aggregated Abeta (1-40) decreases APP secretion into the medium to 10-30% of control values. This decreased secretion appears to be specific for APP since Abeta treatment causes an approximately 2-fold increase in interleukin-8 (IL-8) secretion. Abeta treatment also causes a 4- to 9-fold increase in total cell-associated APP. This increase is due to cellular retention of alpha secretase-cleaved APP and a 2-fold increase in mature full-length APP. These data suggest that deposition of aggregated Abeta may contribute to Alzheimer's-associated neurotoxicity by altering the metabolism of the APP protein. Abeta may exert harmful effects by decreasing the secretion of neuroprotective or neurotrophic APP and, in addition, by increasing intracellular full-length APP; thereby providing increased substrate for generation of amyloidogenic peptide within astrocytes.
We investigated the usefulness of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) beta-amyloid42 (Abeta42), beta-amyloid40 (Abeta40) and tau analyses in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study included 41 definite AD cases, 80 patients with probable AD. 27 with other dementias and 39 neurological controls. Abeta42, Abeta340 and tau protein concentrations in CSF were measured of using ELISA assays. Abeta42 levels were decreased and tau increased in AD. Combination of Abeta42 and tau resulted a sensitivity of 50.4% for AD and specificities of 94.8% for controls and 85.2% for other dementias. Ninety-one percent of the patients with Abeta42 below the cutoff value (340 pg/ml) and tau above the cutoff value (380 pg/ml) had AD. AD patients carrying apoE epsilon4 allele had lower Abeta42 (P &lt; 0.005) and higher tau (P &lt; 0.05) levels than those without an E4 allele, and 18 (81.8%) of the 22 AD patients who had normal Abeta42 and tau levels were apoE e4 allele non-carriers. Low Abeta42 and high tau concentration in CSF strongly support the diagnosis of AD. Measurement of Abeta42 may help the early diagnosis of cases at risk for AD such as apoE E4 allele carriers.
It has been suggested that increased oxidative stress might be involved in the pathophysiology of diabetic complications. In this study, we investigated the effect of diabetes on the susceptibility of synaptosomes to oxidative stress (induced by the oxidizing pair ascorbate/Fe(2+)) and on the uptake of the amino acid neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate. We found a lower susceptibility of synaptosomes isolated from Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats, a model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, to lipid peroxidation as compared with synaptosomes isolated from Wistar control rats (6.40+/-1.05 and 12.14+/-1.46 nmol thiobarbituric acid reactive substance/mg protein, respectively). The lower susceptibility of GK rat synaptosomes to membrane lipid peroxidation correlates with an increase in synaptosomal vitamin E levels (835+/-58.04 and 624.26+/-50.26 pmol/mg protein in diabetic and normal rats, respectively). In the absence of ascorbate/Fe(2+), no significant differences were observed between the levels of lipid peroxidation of synaptosomes isolated from diabetic and normal rats. Studies of neurotransmitter uptake show that the [(3)H]glutamate uptake was decreased by about 30% in diabetic GK rats as compared with control Wistar rats, whereas the [(3)H]GABA uptake was not significantly different from controls. Under oxidizing conditions, the glutamate uptake in diabetic rats was unaffected, and a decreased GABA uptake (41.39+/-4.41 and 60.96+/-6.4% of control in GK and Wistar rats, respectively) was observed. We conclude that the increased resistance to oxidative stress in GK rat synaptosomes may be due to the increased vitamin E content and that diabetic state and oxidative stress conditions differentially affected the uptake of the neurotransmitters GABA and glutamate.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) given peripherally has been found effective in clinical trials to slow down neuronal degeneration in some nervous system diseases. This raises the question of whether and how IGF-1 crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In this report, we found that IGF-1 had a half-life of 4.5 min in blood, could remain intact for 20 min, and entered brain and spinal cord linearly. In the brain, IGF-1 had an influx rate of 0.4 microl/g x min after intravenous (iv) bolus injection as determined by multiple-time regression analysis. Intact radiolabeled IGF-1 was present in brain at 20 min after iv injection. Most of the injected IGF-1 entered the brain parenchyma instead of being entrapped in the cerebral vasculature. Addition of nonradiolabeled IGF-1 enhanced the influx of radiolabeled IGF-1 after iv injection, but inhibited the influx of radiolabeled IGF-1 by in-situ brain perfusion, suggesting that protein binding can explain the difference between the iv and perfusion experiments. In the spinal cord, the cervical region had the fastest uptake, followed by lumbar spinal cord. The thoracic spinal cord had the slowest uptake, comparable to that of brain. By contrast, des(1-3)IGF-1, an IGF-1 analogue with little protein binding but similar biological activity, had a shorter half-life in blood, slower influx rate into brain, and no alteration in pharmacokinetics after addition of nonradiolabeled peptide. We conclude that IGF-1 enters the CNS by a saturable transport system at the BBB, which functions in synchrony with IGF binding proteins in the periphery to regulate the availability of IGF-1 to the CNS.
Intersubject variability in the functional organization of the human brain has theoretical and practical importance for basic and clinical neuroscience. In the present study, positron emission tomography (PET) and anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used to study the functional anatomy of language processes. Intersubject variability in task-induced activations in six brain regions was assessed in 20 normal subjects (10 men and 10 women) for frequency of occurrence, location, intensity, and extent. A complex, but well-studied task (overt verb generation) was compared to a simple baseline (visual fixation) to induce activations in brain areas serving perceptual, motoric, and cognitive functions. The frequency of occurrence was high for all selected brain areas (80-95%). The variability in response location in Talairach space, expressed as the standard deviation along each axis (x, y, z), ranged from 5.2 to 9.9 mm. This variability appears to be uniformly distributed across the brain, uninfluenced by regional differences in the complexity of gyral anatomy or mediated behavior. The variability in response location, expressed as the average Euclidean distances (averaged across subjects) about mean locations of activations, varied from 9.40 to 13.36 mm and had no significant differences by region (P&gt;0.05, beta = 0.20). Intensity variability was also relatively small and homogenous across brain regions. In contrast, response extent was much more variable both across subjects and across brain regions (0.79 to 1.77, coefficient of variation). These findings are in good agreement with previous PET studies of intersubject variability and bode well for the possibility of using functional neuroimaging to study neural plasticity subsequent to congenital and acquired brain lesions.
We report a functional neuroimaging study with positron emission tomography (PET) in which six healthy adult volunteers were scanned while watching silent computer-presented animations. The characters in the animations were simple geometrical shapes whose movement patterns selectively evoked mental state attribution or simple action description. Results showed increased activation in association with mental state attribution in four main regions: medial prefrontal cortex, temporoparietal junction (superior temporal sulcus), basal temporal regions (fusiform gyrus and temporal poles adjacent to the amygdala), and extrastriate cortex (occipital gyrus). Previous imaging studies have implicated these regions in self-monitoring, in the perception of biological motion, and in the attribution of mental states using verbal stimuli or visual depictions of the human form. We suggest that these regions form a network for processing information about intentions, and speculate that the ability to make inferences about other people's mental states evolved from the ability to make inferences about other creatures' actions.
An in vitro preparation of the inner ear cochlea has been used to visualize the structural relationships of unfixed, living sensory cells and structural components within the intact hearing organ. By perfusing perilymphatic compartments of the cochlea with fluorochrome-conjugated dextran, the extracellular spaces were clearly outlined. The staining pattern illustrated the large fluid compartments formed by the tunnel of Corti, the space of Nuel, and the outer tunnel. The dextran solution also indicated the spaces between the outer hair cell rows, the inner hair cells, and the surrounding supporting cells. The staining pattern demonstrates that the organ of Corti has a loose structure, suggesting a weak mechanical coupling between the cells. Moreover, it is evident that substances applied to the perilymph (e.g., therapeutic drugs) will readily reach all the cells of the hearing organ. In addition to the intraorgan fluid compartments, the spiral limbus was shown to contain significant volumes of perilymph within the intercellular spaces forming the so-called teeth of Huschke between the interdental cells. An extensive system of bundles following the teeth of Huschke was shown to be completely immersed in perilymph. The bundles were stained by a potentiometric dye, which in the inner ear primarily stains nerve fibers and sensory cells, which may indicate a nervous control of cells in this region.
Cervical expansive laminoplasty has been advocated as an alternative procedure to laminectomy for the decompression of the cervical spine. It provides favourable cord decompression and stabilisation of the cervical spine and is a simpler and safer alternative to anterior fusion and laminectomy for myelopathy and myeloradiculopathy, due to multisegmental cervical spondylosis and ossified posterior longitudinal ligament. We report our experience in 24 patients with this procedure, 12 of whom had myelopathy and another 12 had myeloradiculopathy. The earliest symptom to improve was radicular pain or paraesthesia (75%). A reduction in spasticity was seen in 21 of the 24 patients (87.5%). Eleven patients had improvement in their motor power during a follow up period ranging from 1 month to 14 months. One patient deteriorated following the procedure and developed Brown Sequard features due to under riding of the lamina on the hinged side, another had severe post operative paraesthesias, while one patient had a CT scan evidence of 'closing of the door', without being symptomatic for it. The technique of the procedure is discussed and the pertinent literature reviewed.
Recognising the huge burden of neurological and psychiatric disorders and prompted by the potentials of new techniques of molecular biology, biotechnology, genetics and imaging to study these, the 1990s were declared the 'decade of the brain'. This stimulated global scientific efforts to understand the human brain in health and disease. This review summarises some of the major research achievements during the decade. While it is impossible to provide a comprehensive summary of the voluminous data that has been generated, it was decided to provide a bird's eye view of the recent advances in the fields of developmental neurobiology, neurogenetics, neurochemistry and imaging of the brain, which have direct relevance for the clinicians.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) shows potent and relatively specific protective effects on dopaminergic neurons. However, the size of the GDNF protein (MW 32-42 kDa) precludes the clinical use of GDNF via parenteral administration. It would thus be useful to have a cell line that stably secretes GDNF with full biological activities. The present study shows that NIH 3T3 cells express a considerable amount of GDNF. After co-culturing with primary E14-E16 midbrain neurons, such cells protected primary rat midbrain TH-immunopositive neurons from degeneration and MPP+ toxicity. In order to enhance endogenous GDNF expression, NIH 3T3 cells were stably transfected with GDNF cDNA with the Kozak sequence. The clones with the highest GDNF expression level were selected. The protective effects of engineered cells increased as the GDNF expression level increased. These cell lines may merit clinical investigation.
Voltage-gated ion channels undergo slow inactivation during prolonged depolarizations. We investigated the role of a conserved glutamate at the extracellular end of segment 5 (S5) in slow inactivation by mutating it to a cysteine (E418C in Shaker). We could lock the channel in two different conformations by disulfide-linking 418C to two different cysteines, introduced in the Pore-S6 (P-S6) loop. Our results suggest that E418 is normally stabilizing the open conformation of the slow inactivation gate by forming hydrogen bonds with the P-S6 loop. Breaking these bonds allows the P-S6 loop to rotate, which closes the slow inactivation gate. Our results also suggest a mechanism of how the movement of the voltage sensor can induce slow inactivation by destabilizing these bonds.
NGF is a target-derived growth factor for developing sympathetic neurons. Here, we show that application of NGF exclusively to distal axons of sympathetic neurons leads to an increase in PI3-K signaling in both distal axons and cell bodies. In addition, there is a more critical dependence on PI3-K for survival of neurons supported by NGF acting exclusively on distal axons as compared to neurons supported by NGF acting directly on cell bodies. Interestingly, PI3-K signaling within both cell bodies and distal axons contributes to survival of neurons. The requirement for PI3-K signaling in distal axons for survival may be explained by the finding that inhibition of PI3-K in the distal axons attenuates retrograde signaling. Therefore, a single TrkA effector, PI3-K, has multiple roles within spatially distinct cellular locales during retrograde NGF signaling.
Much clinical and biologic data have been processed in the search for useful objective parameters to predict brain tumor behavior. Seventy cases of astrocytic glioma collected by a single clinical team were studied using a full complement of clinical procedures: follow up (7 years), histologic analysis, DNA content estimation, and cell kinetics by flow cytometry. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was determined by immunocytochemical-coupling flow cytometry (PFC) and also by counting under light microscopy (PIHC). A statistical evaluation was carried out to establish the usefulness of several parameters for glioma prognosis. The cases were histologically classified as 14 low-grade astrocytomas, 20 anaplastic astrocytomas, and 36 glioblastomas multiforme. The survival curve showed significant differences between histologic groups. Diploid populations were more frequent in low-grade astrocytomas, and aneuploid tumors often had increased S-phase and proliferative fractions. The PCNA-labeled index (PCNA-LI) increased with malignancy and correlated with histologic grading (P = 0.01). The PCNA-LI and age segregated low- from high-grade astrocytomas (including anaplastic astrocytoma and glioblastoma multiforme), but none of the variables considered differentiated anaplastic astrocytoma from glioblastoma multiforme. The Cox regression test displayed significant values for age, histologic diagnosis, and PCNA determinations when considered in tandem. Discriminant analysis obtained a function integrating age and specifically PIHC-LI to help in the prognosis of doubtful cases. The results emphasize the importance of parameters integrating different variables in an attempt to provide an accurate prognosis, the most significant being age, histopathologic diagnosis, and the proliferative fraction determined by PCNA.

Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy is a disease based on multisystemic mitochondrial dysfunction. Pathologic, biochemical and molecular genetic approaches to the disease have revealed the complex features of the phenotype and its relationship to the genotype. Last decade's great success of the mtDNA study must move research of the disease into the next phase.
Neuropathological evidence suggests that the two fibril lesions of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and senile plaques are the major findings in brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and that their occurrence is strongly associated with the symptoms of dementia. Genetic findings have indicated that the pathological molecules from the lesions function as causal agents. There is little evidence, however, to directly indicate that fibril lesions themselves kill neuronal cells in vivo. In spite of such limitations it is important to consider the molecular events involved in AD etiology. In this review of the contribution of Japanese neuropathologists to studies of AD, I will introduce briefly their work and highlight some current topics for consideration on the etiology of AD, and the basis of cell death, and will offer my perspective on outstanding conflicting issues.
Muscular dystrophy is a group of genetically determined muscular disorders marked by progressive wasting and weakness of the skeletal muscle, but which often affect cardiac and smooth muscles or other tissues. The patterns of inheritance are either dominant or recessive although the gene may be defective because of a new mutation. Growing evidence revealed the marked heterogeneity of the muscle disorders, and considerable numbers of Japanese scientists and physicians have contributed to the research progress in muscular dystrophy. Among these the discovery of an increased serum creatine kinase activity in muscular dystrophy opened the way for the most reliable laboratory test for muscular dystrophy in 1959, and subsequently accelerated progress in a broad range of research areas in medicine. Progress in modern genetics and molecular pathology provided another breakthrough in muscular dystrophy research and, in 1987, dystrophin was identified, a deficiency of which causes DMD. The present review article highlights contributions of Japanese scientists to muscular dystrophy research.
SB-204269 (trans-(+)-6-acetyl-4S-(4-fluorobenzoylamino)-3, 4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-benzo[b]pyran-3R-ol) shows anticonvulsant activity in a range of animal seizure models, with a high therapeutic index and a lack of side-effects. We have previously reported the characterisation of a novel binding site for [(3)H]-SB-204269 in rat forebrain, which has a unique profile unrelated to other known anticonvulsant sites of action. We now describe the use of a [(125)I]-labelled form of SB-217644 (trans-6-acetyl-4S-(3-iodobenzoylamino)-3,4-dihydro-2, 2-dimethyl-2H-benzo[b]pyran-3R-ol), an analogue of SB-204269, for studies on this novel binding site. In rat forebrain membranes, [(125)I]-SB-217644 shows a similar binding profile to that of [(3)H]-SB-204269, with a maximum specific binding capacity (B(max)) of 286+/-12 fmol/mg protein, but has twenty-fold higher affinity (K(d) value 1.7+/-0.1 nM). The high affinity and high specific activity of [(125)I]-SB-217644 allowed it to be used for detection and characterisation of the detergent-solubilised form of the binding site. Specific [(125)I]-SB-217644 binding to cholate-solubilised rat cerebellum showed a K(d) value of 2.7+/-0.3 nM and a B(max) value of 55+/-11 fmol/mg protein, with a 7.3+/-0.3% yield of solubilised binding sites. [(125)I]-SB-217644 was also used in whole-cell binding assays for investigation of the properties of the novel binding site in a range of cell lines. Both rat brain neuronal and glial primary cultures and several CNS-related cell lines were found to have levels of specific [(125)I]-SB-217644 binding similar to those present in rat forebrain membranes. The solubilisation of this novel binding site, and the ability to quantify and characterise it in solubilised tissues and whole cells using [(125)I]-SB217644, will allow further studies towards the ultimate identification of the molecular target of SB-204269.
Absence seizures have a clearly defined thalamocortical origin. However, there is evidence from a genetic rat model of absence epilepsy, GAERS, that the underlying cellular and molecular abnormalities may also manifest themselves in other brain regions. As enhanced learning has previously been associated with this rat model, we have studied extracellular amino acid levels and EEG spectra in the hippocampus of these rats, this being a brain region associated with memory and learning. We report significantly higher levels of basal extracellular glutamate within the hippocampus of GAERS, together with transient increases in citrulline and glycine following aggravation of the absence seizures with the GABA(B) agonist, (-)baclofen. Furthermore, there is a reduction in the relative power of the EEG theta frequencies in GAERS, and a slowing of the EEG following administration of (-)baclofen which is not evident in control animals. Administration of a GABA(B) antagonist, CGP 56999, at a dose which blocks absence seizures in GAERS, caused a shift to faster frequencies of the EEG in both GAERS and control rats. It is speculated that the mechanisms underlying absence seizures in GAERS may manifest themselves in other functions modulated by thalamocortical oscillations such as cognitive processing.
Administration of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists phencyclidine (PCP) (0.6-5 mg/kg s.c.) and MK-801 (0.1-0.8 mg/kg s.c. ) dose-dependently increased locomotor activity in the rat. Pre-treatment of rats with SB 221284 (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) a 5-HT(2C/2B) receptor antagonist or SB 242084 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) a selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, doses shown to block mCPP induced hypolocomotion, significantly enhanced the hyperactivity induced by PCP or MK-801. Neither compound altered locomotor activity when administered alone. Furthermore, systemic administration of PCP (5 mg/kg s.c.) increased nucleus accumbens dopamine efflux in the rat to a maximum of approximately 220% of basal, 40-60 min after administration. Pre-treatment with the 5-HT(2C/2B) receptor antagonist SB 221284 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and the 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB 242084 (1 mg/kg i.p.) failed to affect nucleus accumbens dopamine efflux per se but significantly enhanced the magnitude and duration of the increase induced by PCP. However, the time course of the neurochemical and behavioural effects were qualitatively and quantitatively different, suggesting the potential involvement of other neurotransmitter pathways. Nevertheless, the present results provide behavioural and neurochemical evidence which demonstrate that, in the absence of effects per se, blockade of 5-HT(2C) receptors enhanced the activation of mesolimbic dopamine neuronal function by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists PCP and MK-801.
In chemical synapses information flow is polarized. However, the postsynaptic cells can affect transmitter release via retrograde chemical signaling. Here we explored the hypothesis that, in large synapses, having large synaptic cleft resistance, transmitter release can be enhanced by electrical (ephaptic) signaling due to depolarization of the presynaptic release site induced by the excitatory postsynaptic current itself. The hypothesis predicts that, in such synapses, postsynaptic hyperpolarization would increase response amplitudes &quot;supralinearly&quot;, i.e. stronger than predicted from the driving force shift. We found supralinear increases in the amplitude of minimal excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) during hyperpolarization of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Failure rate, paired-pulse facilitation, coefficient of variation of the EPSP amplitude and EPSP quantal content were also modified. The effects were especially strong on mossy fiber EPSPs (MF-EPSPs) mediated by the activation of large synapses and identified pharmacologically or by their kinetics. The effects were weaker on commissural fiber EPSPs mediated by smaller and more remote synapses. Even spontaneous membrane potential fluctuations were associated with supralinear MF-EPSP increases and failure rate reduction. The results suggest the existence of a novel mechanism for retrograde control of synaptic efficacy from postsynaptic membrane potential and are consistent with the ephaptic feedback hypothesis.
The repeated injection of cocaine causes an increase in the capacity of a subsequent acute injection to elevate extracellular glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens, and the present study sought to determine if the elevation in extracellular glutamate is regulated by the pairing of environmental stimuli with drug administration. Three treatment groups were injected daily for seven days with saline or cocaine (15 mg/kg, ip); 1) injection of saline in the home cage, 2) injection of cocaine in the home cage (cocaine-unpaired), and 3) injection of cocaine in the test apparatus (cocaine-paired). Three weeks following the last daily injection dialysis probes were placed into the nucleus accumbens and all rats were injected with saline followed by cocaine. Basal levels of extracellular glutamate were significantly reduced in the cocaine-paired treatment group. Moreover, only in the cocaine-paired group did the cocaine injection elevate extracellular glutamate. Repeated administration of cocaine also produces an enduring increase in the motor stimulant response to an acute cocaine injection and it was previously found that administration of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and kainic acid glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione inhibited the sensitized, but not the acute motor, response to cocaine. In this study it was found that the motor stimulant response elicited by cocaine was blunted by pretreatment of the nucleus accumbens with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione only in animals receiving daily cocaine injections in the paired environment. In contrast, the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist R-(-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid did not significantly affect cocaine-induced motor activity in any treatment group. These data support a hypothesis that environmental stimuli previously associated with daily cocaine administration can modulate glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens in a manner affecting cocaine-induced behavior.
A principle of opioid pharmacotherapy is that high medication doses should occupy fractionally more opioid receptors that mediate heroin effects. In this preliminary study we examined in vivo mu opioid receptor (muOR) binding in three healthy opioid-dependent volunteers during maintenance on 2 and 16 mg sublingual buprenorphine (BUP) liquid, and after detoxification (0 mg) under double-blind, placebo-controlled conditions, and once in matched controls. Binding measures were obtained with the muOR-selective radioligand [11C]carfentanil (CFN) and PET 4 hrs after BUP administration. BUP induced dose-dependent reductions in muOR availability, 36-50% at 2 mg and 79-95% at 16 mg relative to placebo. Heroin abusers also had greater muOR binding potential in the inferofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate regions during placebo, compared to matched controls. Further studies are warranted to examine the relationship of muOR availability with BUP therapeutic actions, and the clinical implications of increased muOR binding during withdrawal.
To understand the mechanism of the clinical efficacy of olanzapine and fluoxetine combination therapy for treatment-resistant depression (TRD), we studied the effects of olanzapine and other antipsychotics in combination with the selective serotonin uptake inhibitors fluoxetine or sertraline on neurotransmitter release in rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) using microdialysis. The combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine produced robust, sustained increases of extracellular levels of dopamine ([DA](ex)) and norepinephrine ([NE](ex)) up to 361 +/- 28% and 272 +/- 16% of the baseline, respectively, which were significantly greater than either drug alone. This combination produced a slightly smaller increase of serotonin ([5-HT](ex)) than fluoxetine alone. The combination of clozapine or risperidone with fluoxetine produced less robust and persistent increases of [DA](ex) and [NE](ex). The combination of haloperidol or MDL 100907 with fluoxetine did not increase the monoamines more than fluoxetine alone. Olanzapine plus sertraline combination increased only [DA](ex). Therefore, the large, sustained increase of [DA](ex), [NE](ex), and [5-HT](ex) in PFC after olanzapine-fluoxetine treatment was unique and may contribute to the profound antidepressive effect of the olanzapine and fluoxetine therapy in TRD.
The present study investigates the effects of bis(7)-tacrine, a novel dimeric acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, on hydrogen peroxide(H(2)O(2))-induced cell injury with comparison to the corresponding monomer, tacrine. Exposure of rat pheochromocytoma line PC12 cells to H(2)O(2) induced significant cell damage. This reagent also caused redox desequilibrium as indicated by a decrease in activities of intracellular antioxidant enzymes such as glutathione peroxidase as well as catalase and an accumulation of malondialdehyde, a product of lipid peroxidation. Pretreatment of cells with bis(7)-tacrine or tacrine attenuated H(2)O(2)-induced cell toxicity, and bis(7)-tacrine demonstrated higher potency than tacrine in improving redox desequilibrium. These results suggest that bis(7)-tacrine and tacrine significantly protect against H(2)O(2) insult, which might be beneficial for their potential usage in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Movement of the visual scene evokes tracking movement with the eyes (ocular following response, OFR) at short latency (Miles, F.A., Kawano, K., Optican, L.M., 1986. Short-latency ocular following responses of monkey. I. Dependence on temporospatial properties of visual input. J. Neurophysiol. 56, 1321-1354). We examined the effect of binocular disparity on the initial OFR. The dependence of the OFR on horizontal disparity steps was studied in three monkeys (Macaca fuscata), and the associated unit discharges in the medial superior temporal area (MST) were studied in two of these. Based on the changes in eye position over the period 50-83 ms (measured from stimulus onset), the initial OFR showed clear dependence on the disparity imposed during the preceding centering saccade. The disparity tuning curves were S-shaped with a peak at a small crossed disparity and a trough at uncrossed disparities. Based on the changes in discharge rate over the period 40-73 ms (measured from stimulus onset), almost all OFR-related MST neurons (80/83, 96.4%) showed significant dependence on the disparity step (Student's t-test, P &lt; 0.05). The early neuronal responses of the majority of units (41/75, 55%) had disparity tuning curves resembling those for the OFR, which peaked at small crossed disparities. These findings suggest that the neurons in the MST contain information on binocular disparity in their short-latency discharges, and are involved in the neural basis of the OFR's dependence on horizontal disparity.
Wide innervation of cholinergic projections throughout the cortex implies that acetylcholine (ACh) plays an essential role in information processing, but how it works is still enigmatic. Experimental as well as theoretical work in the olfactory cortex and hippocampus suggests that ACh, via the muscarinic receptors, serves to shift the dynamics of the cortical networks into a state where afferent influence predominates over intracortical influence. Recent experiments in the visual and somatosensory cortex suggested that this hypothesis could be extended to neocortex. In addition, participation of the nicotinic receptors in regulating the synaptic response in the somatosensory cortex further substantiates this hypothesis. This hypothesis, derived mainly from in vitro work, also seemed to account for results from in vivo experiments without any obvious inconsistencies.

Genetic mechanisms responsible for organophosphate (OP)-induced behavioral changes remain obscure. In the present study, provisional quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with acute sensitivity or insensitivity to hypolocomotion produced by the OP paraoxon were identified. Naive adult male and female mice of the BXD/Ty series (22 different BXD strains plus C57BL/6J and DBA/2J progenitor strains) received 0 or 0.25 mg/kg paraoxon (IP), immediately before placement in an activity chamber for a 30-min test. As expected, based on dose-response and time course studies with Swiss-Webster, C57BL/6, and DBA/2 mice, paraoxon treatment reduced locomotor activity in most, but not all BXD strains. Heritability (proportion of phenotypic variability attributed to genetic differences) was 0. 58 for the paraoxon treatment effect. Difference scores (strain mean for vehicle activity minus strain mean for paraoxon activity), and percent change in activity of paraoxon-treated mice compared to vehicle-treated mice were calculated for each BXD strain. QTL analyses using activity difference scores and percentage change in activity were conducted using a database with over 1300 unique genetic markers. Several provisional QTL found on different chromosomes were associated with the activity phenotype. Of these, several markers attained p&lt;0.01 or greater. These were as follows: Chr 1: Ly9, p&lt;0.006; Chr 6: D6Ncvs44, p&lt;0.0005; Chr 9: D9Mit15, p&lt;0. 003; Chr 11: D11Ncvs76, p&lt;0.002; Chr 15: Tstap198, p&lt;0.008. In addition, several markers on chromosome 3 approached p&lt;0.01. Identified genes found near these regions include two plasma carboxylesterase alleles on chromosomes 6 and 9, a glutamate receptor subtype on chromosome 11 and a glycine receptor subunit on chromosome 11, raising the possibility that these genes could be the basis for these provisional QTLs.
The cornea has been used extensively as a means to selectively stimulate trigeminal nociceptive neurons. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of descending modulatory control pathways on corneal unit activity by comparing the effects of conditioning stimulation of the pontine parabrachial area (PBA CS) and nucleus raphe magnus (NRM CS). Electrical stimulation of the cornea at A- and C-fiber intensities was used to activate neurons in two regions of the trigeminal spinal nucleus, the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition (Vi/Vc, 'rostral units') and laminae I-II at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition (Vc/C1, 'caudal units'), in chloralose-anesthetized rats. Corneal units were further classified according to convergent cutaneous receptive field properties and PBA projection status. None of 48 rostral and 23/28 caudal units projected to the ipsilateral or contralateral PBA. PBA CS inhibited the cornea-evoked responses (&lt;75% change from control) of approximately 65% of rostral and caudal units regardless of neuronal class. For rostral corneal units, PBA CS inhibited A- and C-fiber input equally (15+/-3 and 18+/-14% of control, respectively), whereas among caudal units, A-fiber input was inhibited more than C-fiber input (26+/-5 and 64+/-12% of control, respectively, P&lt;0.01). The magnitude of NRM CS inhibition on cornea-evoked activity of both rostral and caudal units was not different from that seen after PBA CS. Glutamate microinjections into PBA also inhibited rostral and caudal corneal units (6/9 tested). These results indicate that corneal input to rostral and caudal units is modified by activation of descending controls from the PBA and NRM. The significance for processing corneal sensory information is discussed in terms of functional differences between rostral and caudal neurons.

Three artemisinin antimalarials, arteether (AE), artesunate (AS), and artelinate (AL) were evaluated in rats using an auditory discrimination task (ADT) and neurohistology. After rats were trained on the ADT, equimolar doses of AE (25 mg/kg, in sesame oil, n=6), AS (31 mg/kg, in sodium carbonate, n=6), and AL (36 mg/kg, in saline, n=6), or vehicle (sodium carbonate, n=6) were administered (IM) for 7 consecutive days. Behavioral performance was evaluated, during daily sessions, before, during, and after administration. Histological evaluation of the brains was performed using thionine staining, and damaged cells were counted in specific brainstem nuclei of all rats. Behavioral performance was not significantly affected in any rats treated with AS, AL, or vehicle. Furthermore, histological examination of the brains of rats treated with AS, AL, and vehicle did not show damage. In stark contrast, all rats treated with AE showed a progressive and severe decline in performance on the ADT. The deficit was characterized by decreases in accuracy, increases in response time and, eventually, response suppression. When performance on the ADT was suppressed, rats also showed gross behavioral signs of toxicity that included tremor, gait disturbances, and lethargy. Subsequent histological assessment of AE-treated rats revealed marked damage in the brainstem nuclei, ruber, superior olive, trapezoideus, and inferior vestibular. The damage included chromatolysis, necrosis, and gliosis. These results demonstrate distinct differences in the ability of artemisinins to produce neurotoxicity. Further research is needed to uncover pharmacokinetic and metabolic differences in artemisinins that may predict neurotoxic potential.
Genetic differences in lithium-induced conditioned aversion were examined using both place- and taste-conditioning procedures. In the place-conditioning procedure, adult male C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) mice were exposed to a differential conditioning procedure in which each mouse received four 30-min pairings of a distinctive floor cue immediately after IP injections of either 0.75, 1.5, or 3. 0 mEq/kg LiCl. A different floor cue was paired with saline injections. A separate group of control mice received saline injections paired with both floor types. Subsequent floor preference testing revealed greater conditioned aversion in D2 mice compared to B6 mice in groups receiving 3.0 mEq/kg LiCl. Lower LiCl doses did not produce conditioning in either strain. In a conditioned taste-aversion procedure, fluid-restricted mice received four trials in which access to 0.2 M NaCl solution was followed by IP injection of either 0.75, 1.5, 3.0, or 6.0 mEq/kg LiCl. D2 mice showed stronger conditioned taste aversion than B6 mice at all doses, suggesting that taste conditioning may be a more sensitive index of aversive drug sensitivity than place conditioning. These findings are not well explained by strain differences in general learning ability or by strain differences in stimulus salience or innate preference. Rather, these data appear more consistent with previous studies showing strain differences in lithium pharmacokinetics and in general sensitivity to aversive events.
The nervous system of insects is profoundly reorganised during metamorphosis, affecting the fate of different types of neuron in different ways. Almost all adult motor neurons derive from larval motor neurons that are respecified for adult functions. A subset of larval motor neurons, those which mediate larval- or ecdysis-specific behaviours, die before and immediately after eclosion, respectively. Many adult interneurons develop from larval interneurons, whereas those related to complex adult sense organs originate during larval life from persisting embryonic neuroblasts. Sensory neurons of larvae and adults derive from essentially two distinct sources. Larval sensory neurons are formed in the embryonic integument and - with few exceptions - die during metamorphosis. Their adult counterparts, on the other hand, arise from imaginal discs. Special emphasis is given in this review to the metamorphic remodelling of persisting neurons, both at the input and output levels, and to the associated behavioural changes. Other sections deal with the programmed death of motor neurons and its causes, as well as with the metamorphic interactions between motor neurons and their target muscles. Remodelling and apoptosis of these two elements appear to be under independent ecdysteroid control. This review focusses on the two most thoroughly studied holometabolous species, the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster and the tobacco hornworm moth Manduca sexta. While Manduca has a long tradition in neurodevelopmental studies due to the identification of many of its neurons, Drosophila has been increasingly used to investigate neural reorganisation thanks to neurogenetic tools and molecular approaches. The wealth of information available emphasises the strength of the insect model system used in developmental studies, rendering it clearly the most important system for studies at the cellular level.
Clinical experience indicates that infants and young children respond to a variety of cardiovascular pharmacological and physiological interventions differently than adults. What is less clear, however, are the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to these age-related differences. Based largely upon results from animal models, it is apparent that developmental changes occur in numerous pathways and proteins involved in the regulation of contractile function and in the determinants of inotropic responsiveness. The purposes of this review are to provide a brief overview of cardiac excitation-contraction and to illustrate some of the important age-related differences in the mechanisms involved in calcium regulation in the heart. This scientific foundation may help to explain certain clinical observations in the very young. Furthermore, it is hoped that a better understanding of the fundamental processes involved in controlling cardiac contractile function will stimulate additional research in the search for more specific, rational and age-appropriate cardiovascular therapeutics.




Although memory has been widely studied using event-related potentials, memory-related changes in the electroencephalogram (EEG) have been relatively neglected. The aim of this study was to determine whether evidence could be found for memory-related changes in the EEG. EEG was recorded from a sample of healthy volunteers while they performed word and face recognition memory tasks. Data were analyzed using the method of event-related desynchronization. In the theta frequency range there was a short-duration increase in power that occurred in the first 250 ms that was maximal at temporal sites (T5/T6). For words, but not faces, there was a repetition effect in theta such that new words elicited greater synchronization than old words at the midline frontal electrode (Fz). In the alpha frequency range there was a lateralized repetition effect, which occurred from 750 ms. In upper alpha this effect was lateralized in the expected way with greater desynchronization at temporo-parietal sites on the left for words and on the right for faces. For lower alpha, the lateralization was reversed. The meanings of these findings are interpreted in the light of existing models of recognition memory.
A variety of processes contribute to successful recognition memory, some of which can be associated with spatiotemporally distinct event-related potential old/new effects. An early frontal and a subsequent parietal old/new effect are correlated with the familiarity and recollection subcomponents of recognition memory, respectively, whereas a late, postretrieval old/new effect seems to reflect an ensemble of evaluation processes that are set by the task context in which retrieval occurs. Both the early frontal and the parietal old/new effects are differentially modulated by the informational content (e.g., object forms and spatial locations) of recognition and seem to rely on brain systems damaged in amnesia. The late frontal effect appears to reflect prefrontal cortex activation. A neurophysiologically based model of recognition memory retrieval is presented and it is shown that coupling recognition memory subprocesses with distinct old/new effects allow examination of the time course of the processes that contribute to correct and to illusory memories. In conjunction with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging activation patterns the brain systems recruited by various aspects of episodic memory retrieval can be identified.

This review describes results from in vivo experiments on brain stem network mechanisms that control breathing. Multi-array recording technology and computational methods were used to test predictions derived from simulations of respiratory network models. This highly efficient approach has the advantage that many simultaneously recorded neurons are subject to shared stimulus, history, and state-dependent conditions. Our results have provided evidence for concurrent or parallel network interactions in the generation and modulation of the respiratory motor pattern. Recent data suggest that baroreceptors, chemoreceptors, nociceptors, and airway cough receptors shape the respiratory motor pattern, at least in part, through a system of shared coordinated 'multifunctional' neurons distributed in the brain stem. The 'gravity method' for the analysis and representation of multi-neuron data has demonstrated respiratory phase-dependent impulse synchrony among neurons with no respiratory modulation of their individual firing rates. The detection of this emergent property motivated the development of pattern detection methods that subsequently identified repeated transient configurations of these 'correlational assemblies'. These results support the view that information can be 'coded' in the nervous system by spike timing relationships, in addition to firing rate changes that traditionally have been measured by neurophysiologists.
The recent advances of Molecular Biology and Computer Sciences in Neurosciences open unprecedented perspectives for biomedical investigation. Neuroheuristics offers as a new paradigm where these disciplines are no longer restricted to their technical expertise, but rather subserve a dynamical approach to the clinical and fundamental research for the neurological sciences.
Neural transplantation may become an important treatment alternative for focal brain disorders. To date, the most successful grafts have been obtained in patients with Parkinson's disease. Completely normalized dopamine production and reduction of Parkinsonian symptoms have been demonstrated 10 years after grafting. However, the allogeneic donor tissue has to be obtained from induced abortions, and there are logistical difficulties, risks of infection, and ethical constraints limiting a wider clinical use. Xenografting is an alternative that could bridge these limitations if immunological rejection could be prevented. Pig embryonic neural tissue has been grafted to patients with Parkinson's disease, but no functional benefits have clinically been proven so far. The immune reactions to neural xenografts were incompletely characterized at the time of these early clinical trials, and it is likely that the treatments used were insufficient and that the grafts were rejected. In this article we will review new experiments addressing the immune responses against porcine neural tissue grafted to the adult brain, including the role of antibodies, complement, natural killer (NK) cells, lymphocytes, as well as the effects of immunosuppressive drugs and donor tissue modifications.
A plan to have scientists deposit functional magnetic resonance images of the brain in a public center at Dartmouth College as a condition of publication has drawn a flurry of objections. Brain scientists warn that if the project goes forward as planned, it could compromise the privacy of research subjects, get tangled up in technical knots, and rob authors of the credit they deserve. A new task force is attempting to elicit a consensus and draft a set of data-sharing guidelines supported by the entire field.
Vagal nerve stimulation using an NCP (Cyberonics) device has been suggested as a potential treatment for patients with epilepsy that has previously proven refractory. Ten patients in Northern Ireland have had this device implanted and been fully audited pre- and post-operatively. Twelve months post-implantation, five patients have demonstrated a greater than 50% reduction in seizure frequency. A statistical reduction in seizure severity of the ictal phase of the major seizures has also been shown. Improvement in the patients' overall quality of life has, however, not been demonstrated in parallel to seizure reduction.
We describe three patients with aberrant regeneration of the third nerve secondary to traumatic brain injury. The full blown features of the syndrome include horizontal gaze-eyelid synkinesis, pseudo-Graefe sign, limitation of elevation and depression of the eye with retraction of the globe on attempted vertical movements, adduction of the involved eye on attempted elevation or depression, pseudo-Argyll Robertson pupil and absent vertical optokinetic response. The 'misdirection' incidence in our study is 15%.



Twenty-nine chronic male alcoholics were examined with the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Tests with the POMS scale were carried out on the ward on Days 1 and 5 and after 21 days of sobriety. Our aim was to study the mood change in chronic alcoholics during detoxification and after 3 weeks of sobriety compared with a standard group (college students) and with psychiatric outpatients. A further aim was to study whether the patients who later underwent a Minnesota treatment program(n = 6) differed in mood compared with those who did not. An improvement was observed over time regarding all six POMS factors. The results for Day 21 were generally better than the expected normal values for the POMS profile sheet with regard to both psychiatric outpatients and college norms. The follow-up based on the patients' records 1.5-2 years after the detoxification occasion in question showed that 18 patients had been hospitalized, generally for alcohol detoxification. The 6 patients who participated in a Minnesota treatment program had no documented relapses. A comparison of these 6 patients with the rest showed that the former had significantly lower values on five of the subscales.



A 44-year-old woman presented with a painful abducens nerve palsy in the left eye. Examination revealed a white, quiet eye and an orbital bruit without proptosis. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated abnormal ipsilateral dural-based enhancement. Angiography confirmed a posterior draining carotid-cavernous fistula. Symptoms resolved spontaneously in approximately 8 months. The classification and treatment options for carotid-cavernous fistula are discussed.



Platelets regulate several polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) functions. We have found that thrombin-stimulated platelets potently inhibited PMN apoptosis. Cell-free supernatant from increasing concentrations of stimulated platelets inhibited PMN apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner, with an effect similar to that of corresponding concentrations of platelets. At the plateau, platelet supernatant inhibited PMN apoptosis by 54.6 +/- 6.8%, the anti-apoptotic activity being higher than that of GM-CSF and comparable to that of LPS. Neither IL-1ra nor a combination of anti-IL1alpha + betamAb affected the activity of platelet supernatant. In contrast a mAb recognizing the active form of TGF-beta1 significantly decreased this activity. Moreover, exogenous TGF-beta1 inhibited PMN apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. The active form of this cytokine was indeed present in the supernatant of stimulated platelets at a concentration able to elicit an anti-apoptotic effect. The p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 prevented the anti-apoptotic effect of TGF-beta1 in a dose-dependent manner. Interestingly, it also prevented the anti-apoptotic effect of IL-1alpha, but not that of GM-CSF, LPS and dexamethasone. In conclusion, we report for the first time that PMN apoptosis is potently inhibited by platelet-released mediators, that TGF-beta1 mediates an important part of this effect, and that p38 MAPK is involved in the TGF-beta1 signaling leading to its anti-apoptotic effect. These results provide novel evidence to support the central role of platelets in inflammation.
It has been pointed out that intracellular accumulation of bile acids cause hepatocyte injury in cholestatic disease process. This study was aimed to test if cytotoxicity of these compounds is mediated through mitochondria dysfunction. Bile acids effects on isolated rat liver mitochondrial were analyzed by monitoring changes in membrane potential and mitochondrial respiration, as well as alterations in H(+) membrane permeability and mitochondrial permeability transition pore induction. Increasing concentrations of the bile acids litocholic (LCA), deoxycholic (DCA), ursodeoxycholic (UDCA), chenodeoxycholic (CDCA), glycochenodeoxycholic (GCDC), or taurochenodeoxycholic (TCDC) decrease transmembrane potential (delta psi) developed upon succinate energization. These compounds also decreased state 3 respiration and enhanced state 4. We have also demonstrated that the observed concentration-dependent stimulation of state 4 by LCA, DCA, CDCA, TCDC, and GCDC, is associated with an enhanced permeability of mitochondria to H(+). Addition of LCA, DCA, CDCA, TCDC, GCDC, and UDCA to mitochondria energized with succinate resulted in a dose-dependent membrane depolarization and stimulation of mitochondrial permeability transition. Tauroursodeoxycholate (TUDC) elicited no significant effect on succinate-supported mitochondrial bioenergetics. In contrast, in the presence of glycoursodeoxycholic (GUDC), delta psi increases as a function of bile salt concentration. The results of this investigation demonstrate that at toxicologically relevant concentrations, most but not all bile acids alter mitochondrial bioenergetics, so impairment of mitochondrial function can be clinically relevant for patients with cholestasis.
Developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) has been associated with cognitive deficits in children. The current study assessed effects of gestational and lactational exposure to a commercial PCB mixture, Aroclor 1254 (A1254), on spatial learning and memory in rats, using the radial-arm maze (RAM). Pregnant Long-Evans females (10/dose group) were exposed to 0 or 6-mg/kg/day A1254 (po in corn oil) from gestation day (GD) 6 to weaning at postnatal day (PND) 21. After they reached adulthood, 1 male and 1 female from each litter were tested on a working/reference memory task using a 12-arm RAM. Eight of the 12 arms were baited, with the pattern of baited arms remaining the same on every trial for each rat. Compared to control males, the A1254-exposed males made significantly more working memory errors (2.15 +/- 0.13 and 3.20 +/- 0.18 errors +/- SEM for control and A1254 males, respectively) and reference memory errors (3.17 +/- 0.10 and 4.13+/-0.14 errors +/- SEM for control and A1254 males, respectively) on the RAM. In contrast, A1254-exposed females were not impaired relative to control females on the RAM. Drug challenges with dizocilpine (MK-801) and scopolamine did not differentially affect working or reference memory of control and exposed rats. These data suggest that perinatal exposure to A1254 may cause sex-specific deficits in spatial learning and memory, and that NMDA-mediated and muscarinic neurotransmission, as assessed with the drug challenges, were not markedly impaired in the A1254-exposed animals.
Language users have a remarkable ability to create, produce and comprehend complex words. Words such as undercut and bakery appear to be composed of units, traditionally called morphemes, that recombine in rule-like ways to form other words, such as underline and cannery. However, morphological systems are quasiregular: they are systematic and productive but admit many seemingly irregular forms. Thus, bakery is related to bake and cannery to can but what is the groce in grocery? There is no bread in sweetbreads, liver in deliver, corn in corner or ginger in gingerly. Such words exhibit partial regularities concerning the correspondences between form and meaning, the treatment of which has important implications for linguistic and psycholinguistic theories. This article describes an approach to morphological phenomena called the convergence theory, in which morphology is a graded, inter-level representation that reflects correlations among orthography, phonology and semantics.
A brief display that is clearly visible when shown alone can be rendered invisible by the subsequent presentation of a second visual stimulus. Several recently described backward masking effects are not predicted by current theories of visual masking, including masking by four small dots that surround (but do not touch) a target object and masking by a surrounding object that remains on display after the target object has been turned off. A crucial factor in both of these effects is attention: almost no masking occurs if attention can be rapidly focused on the target, whereas powerful masking ensues if attention directed at the target is delayed. A new theory of visual masking, inspired by developments in neuroscience, can account for these effects, as well as more traditional masking effects. In addition, the new theory sheds light on related research, such as the attentional blink, inattentional blindness and change blindness.
It is now well accepted that endogenous morphine is present in animals, both in invertebrates and vertebrates. It is a key signaling molecule that plays an important role in downregulating physiological responses, such as those in the immune system, including immune elements in the CNS. It has been demonstrated that a specific mu-opiate-receptor subtype, mu3, mediates these downregulatory effects through release of NO. This article examines morphine as an endogenous signaling molecule, in terms of its role in neural and immune regulation.


In addition to its direct pre- and postsynaptic actions on neurones, adenosine is rich in nuances of priming, triggering and inhibiting the action of several neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. These actions are mediated by membrane adenosine receptors (A1, A2 and A3) and involve receptor-receptor interactions, which require, in most cases, the formation of an intermediate second messenger. The harmonic way adenosine builds its influence at synapses to control neuronal communication is operated through fine-tuning, 'synchronizing' or 'desynchronizing' receptor activation for neuropeptides such as calcitonin gene-related peptide and vasoactive intestinal peptide, nicotinic acetylcholine autofacilitatory receptors, NMDA receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors, as well as its own adenosine receptors.
Arrestins participate in the termination of phototransduction in both vertebrates and invertebrates. However, the visual arrestins of invertebrates and vertebrates differ significantly from one another in that the invertebrate visual arrestins become phosphorylated rapidly in response to light while those in the photoreceptors of vertebrates do not. In an effort to understand the functional relevance of arrestin phosphorylation, we examined this process in the photoreceptors of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. We report that Limulus visual arrestin can be phosphorylated at three sites near its C-terminus and show that arrestin molecules phosphorylated on one, two, and three sites are normally present in both light- and dark-adapted photoreceptors. Light adaptation increases the amount of arrestin phosphorylated at three sites.
The perceived direction of a grating moving behind an elongated aperture is biased towards the aperture's long axis. This &quot;barber pole&quot; illusion is a consequence of integrating one-dimensional (1D) or grating and two-dimensional (2D) or terminator motion signals. In humans, we recorded the ocular following responses to this stimulus. Tracking was always initiated at ultra-short latencies (approximately 85 ms) in the direction of grating motion. With elongated apertures, a later component was initiated 15-20 ms later in the direction of the terminator motion signals along the aperture's long axis. Amplitude of the later component was dependent upon the aperture's aspect ratio. Mean tracking direction at the end of the trial (135-175 ms after stimulus onset) was between the directions of the vector sum computed by integrating either terminator motion signals only or both grating and terminator motion signals. Introducing an elongated mask at the center of the &quot;barber pole&quot; did not affect the latency difference between early and later components, indicating that this latency shift was not due to foveal versus peripheral locations of 1D and 2D motion signals. Increasing the size of the foveal mask up to 90% of the stimulus area selectively reduced the strength of the grating motion signals and, consequently, the amplitude of the early component. Conversely, reducing the contrast of, or indenting the aperture's edges, selectively reduced the strength of terminator motion signals and, consequently, the amplitude of the later component. Latencies were never affected by these manipulations. These results tease apart an early component of tracking responses, driven by the grating motion signals and a later component, driven by the line-endings moving at the intersection between grating and aperture's borders. These results support the hypothesis of a parallel processing of 1D and 2D motion signals with different temporal dynamics.
1. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic compound present in grape and wine, has beneficial effects against cancer and protective effects on the cardiovascular system. Resveratrol is sulphated, and the hepatic and duodenal sulphation might limit the bioavailability of this compound. The aim of this study was to see whether natural flavonoids present in wine, fruits and vegetables inhibit the sulphation of resveratrol in the human liver and duodenum. 2. In the liver, IC50 for the inhibition of resveratrol sulphation was 12+/-2 pM (quercetin), 1.0+/-0.04 microM (fisetin), 1.4+/-0.1 microM (myricetin), 2.2+/-0.1 microM (kaempferol) and 2.8+/-0.2 microM (apigenin). Similarly, in the duodenum, IC50 was 15+/-2 pM (quercetin), 1.3+/-0.1 microM (apigenin), 1.3+/-0.5 microM (fisetin), 2.3+/-0.1 microM (kaempferol) and 2.5+/-0.3 microM (myricetin). 3. The type of inhibition of quercetin on resveratrol sulphation was studied in three liver samples and was determined to be non-competitive and mixed in nature. Km (mean+/-SD; microM) was 0.23+/-0.07 (control), 0.40+/-0.08 (5 pM quercetin) and 0.56+/-0.09 (10 pM quercetin). Vmax (mean+/-SD; pmol min(-1) x mg(-1)) was 99+/-11 (control), 73+/-15 (5 pM quercetin) and 57 +/- 10 (10 pM quercetin). Kj and Kies estimates (mean+/-SD) were 3.7+/-1.8 pM and 12.1+/-1.7 pM respectively (p = 0.010). 4. Chrysin was a substrate for the sulphotransferase(s) and an assay was developed for measuring the chrysin sulphation rate in human liver. The enzyme followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and Km and Vmax (mean+/-SD) measured in four livers were 0.29+/-0.07 microM and 43.1+/-1.9 pmol x min(-1) x mg(-1) respectively. 5. Catechin was neither an inhibitor of resveratrol sulphation nor a substrate of sulphotransferase. 6. These results are consistent with the view that many, but not all, flavonoids inhibit the hepatic and duodenal sulphation of resveratrol, and such inhibition might improve the bioavailability of this compound.
The new neuroscience data rapidly accumulating by the end of the second millennium calls for radical revision of many long-established and widely accepted postulates. This paper reviews some data leading to new concepts of life and work of neurons. The adult brain contains stem cells which are the source of the precursors for all main types of the brain cells: neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendroglia. These cells can substitute the deteriorating elements in the adult and even old brain. The neurons occur to be highly resistant to lesion of their processes as well to anoxia, and inhibitory neurons are shown to be especially stable in some pathological conditions. Changes in the afferent inputs result in various types of rapid compensatory morphological and functional reorganizations at different levels. Thus, the previous fatalistic view of the nervous system is substituted now for an optimistic one regarding various possibilities of prolongation and restoration of normal functioning of the brain. Simultaneously, our concepts of the neurons changed drastically. An unitary neuron may operate by several neurotransmitting substances; their synaptic influences upon the dendrites may evoke the active propagation of calcium and sodium spikes, their axons may differentially release transmitter substances depending on parameters of excitation. All neuronal functions are helped and controlled by astroglia, which participates in the synthesis of transmitters and protects the neurons from the excitotoxic death. Besides the synaptic interactions between the neurons, there exist other types of communications, such as volume conduction of transmitters after their spillover from the excited synapses and non-synaptic (varicose) zones, as well as exchange of molecules and ions through the gap junctions. A complex picture of interneuronal communications with multiple synaptic, presynaptic, and parasynaptic interactions is further complicated by the intimate participation of neurotrophic substances and &quot;mediators of the immune system&quot;--cytokines in these processes. The mutual regulatory influences between neurotransmitters, neurotrophic, and neuroimmune systems show that in normal conditions all they are working in concert. This increase in number of factors determining the final result of interaction between the neurons contributes new difficulties to the development of theoretical concepts or simulation of brain functions. In this context it is possible to speak about a certain crisis of theoretical neurobiology at present, because multiplicity of fine details obtained by molecular neurobiology and neurogenetics cannot be integrated in a coherent view of the brain functions. Overcoming the present gap between the analytic and synthetic approaches to understanding the brain work will be the main aim for the neurobiologists of the third millennium.
Trisomy 16 (Ts16) mouse is considered an animal model of Down syndrome (human trisomy 21). Whole-cell patch-clamp was used to evaluate potassium and chloride currents of cultured tongue muscle cells from fetal Ts16 and diploid mice. No difference was found in membrane capacitance between the two groups. K(+) and Cl(-) currents were pharmacologically isolated. K(+) conductance was reduced by 31% in Ts16 cells (373 pS/pF) compared with diploid cells (539 pS/pF). Cl(-) conductance was 51% larger in Ts16 cells (103 pS/pF) compared with diploid cells (68 pS/pF). However kinetics for K(+) and Cl(-) currents did not differ between the cell types. An increase in Cl(-) conductance and a decrease in K(+) conductance in Ts16 muscle cells, if present in muscle of Down syndrome subjects, might account for the observed hypotonia in these subjects.
Caspases, which play crucial roles during apoptosis, are activated from their inactive proforms in a sequential cascade of cleavage by other members of the caspase family. Caspase-9 is autoprocessed by the Apaf-1/cytochrome c pathway and acts at an early point in this cascade, whereas Bcl-xL, an antiapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, prevents activation of caspases in vitro. Little is known, however, about the relation between caspase-9 and Bcl-xL during development of the mammalian nervous system. We used antisera against two cleavage sites in mouse caspase-9 that recognize only the activated form of mouse caspase-9, and we examined immunohistochemically the activation of mouse caspase-9 in the nervous system of Bcl-x-deficient mouse embryos. Mouse caspase-9 is processed at both D(353) and D(368), but it is processed preferentially at D(368) during apoptosis of cultured cells induced by various stimuli and in the nervous system of Bcl-x-deficient mouse embryos. We show that Bcl-xL protects against caspase-9- and/or caspase-3-dependent apoptosis in the caudal portion of the ventral hindbrain, anterior horn cells, and dorsal root ganglia neurons of the normal mouse embryos and against caspase-9/caspase-3-independent apoptosis in the dorsal region of the nervous system including the dorsal spinal cord. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Bcl-xL blocks cytochrome c release from mitochondria, causing activation of caspase-9 in anterior horn cells and dorsal root ganglia neurons in mouse embryos at embryonic day 11.5.

Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are commonly known to regulate cell proliferation. However, previous reports suggest that in cultured postmitotic neurons, activation of CDKs is a signal for death rather than cell division. We determined whether CDK activation occurs in mature adult neurons during focal stroke in vivo and whether this signal was required for neuronal death after reperfusion injury. Cdk4/cyclin D1 levels and phosphorylation of its substrate retinoblastoma protein (pRb) increase after stroke. Deregulated levels of E2F1, a transcription factor regulated by pRb, are also observed. Administration of a CDK inhibitor blocks pRb phosphorylation and the increase in E2F1 levels and dramatically reduces neuronal death by 80%. These results indicate that CDKs are an important therapeutic target for the treatment of reperfusion injury after ischemia.
Peptides can be designed that mimic protein interaction motifs and thus, can be used to specifically and selectively block particular steps in signal transduction cascades where protein interactions have been previously identified. This protocol describes methods to synthesize peptides coupled to a membrane-permeable sequence (MPS), designed from the signal sequence of Kaposi fibroblast growth factor, which has been previously shown to translocate covalently attached cargo peptides across the cell membrane. To increase efficiency, yield, and versatility in the preparation of these membrane-permeable peptides, a modular synthesis strategy based on two unprotected peptide segments was designed. The modular synthesis strategy allows the MPS and functional peptides to be synthesized separately. In this manner, the functional domain of a peptide or protein, synthesized by traditional fluoroenylmethyloxy-carbonyl (Fmoc) chemistry or derived from recombinant expression, may be purchased commercially to expedite synthesis. Subsequently, the MPS domain may be attached to any functional domain using a one-step conjugation reaction. This protocol provides detailed methods for peptide synthesis, activation of the MPS, and the subsequent conjugation protocol.
Sin3 proteins have a key role in transcriptional repression mediated by histone deacetylation. Mammalian Sin3 proteins, mSin3A and 3B, act as adapter molecules which bind both to repressive transcription factors and to the methyl-CpG-binding proteins (MeCPs) and recruit histone deacetylases to assemble a multiprotein repressor complex. We have recently observed (Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 252, 274-277, 1998) that the expression of mSin3A but not mSin3B protein is induced during neuronal apoptosis. The purpose of this study was to find out whether aging and replicative senescence affect the expression levels of mSin3A and 3B repressor proteins. We studied the expression levels of mSin3A and 3B mRNAs and proteins both in replicative senescence model of WI-38 fibroblasts and in liver and brain tissues of young (4-6 months) and old (26-30 months) male Wistar rats. Replicative senescence of human WI-38 fibroblasts did not affect the expression levels of mSin3A and 3B mRNAs. However, the late passage WI-38 fibroblasts showed a significant decline in the expression level of mSin3A protein. Immortalization of WI-38 fibroblasts with SV-40 transformation increased the expression level of 6.0 kb mSin3A mRNA. Aging of Wistar rats did not affect the expression levels of either mSin3A or mSin3B mRNAs in the liver and frontal cortex. Similarly, the protein levels of mSin3A and 3B were unaffected in the hippocampus, cerebellum and liver tissues during aging. These results show that aging in vivo, in contrast to replicative senescence, does not affect the expression levels of mSin3A and 3B repressor proteins. However, this does not exclude the possible age-related functional changes mediated by mSin3-histone deacetylase complexes.
Dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) undergo natural cell death during development in rats. Controversy exists as to the occurrence of this phenomenon in SNpc dopaminergic neurons in the developing mouse. Herein, by using an array of morphologic techniques, we show that many SNpc neurons fulfill the criteria for apoptosis and that the number of apoptotic neurons in the SNpc vary in a time-dependent manner from postnatal day 2 to 32. These dying neurons also show evidence of DNA fragmentation, of activated caspase-3, and of cleavage of beta-actin. Some, but not all of the SNpc apoptotic neurons still express their phenotypic marker tyrosine hydroxylase, confirming their dopaminergic nature. Consistent with the importance of target-derived trophic support in modulating developmental cell death, we demonstrate that destruction of intrinsic striatal neurons by a local injection of quinolinic acid (QA) dramatically enhances the magnitude of SNpc apoptosis and results in a lower number of adult SNpc dopaminergic neurons. Strengthening the apoptotic nature of the observed SNpc developmental cell death, we demonstrate that overexpression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 attenuates both natural and QA-induced SNpc apoptosis. The present study provides compelling evidence that developmental neuronal death with a morphology of apoptosis does occur in the SNpc of mice and that this process plays a critical role in regulating the adult number of dopaminergic neurons in the SNpc.
Morphologic and functional parameters altered during neuronal death were investigated in chick ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons in vitro isolated from embryonic day 8 (E8, stage 34). Neurons were separated from nonneuronal cells to investigate their inherent cell death program and were cultured with or without trophic support (choroid, iris, pigment epithelium) from their appropriate target tissue. The cell death process was characterized with investigations focused on the earliest events at the onset of commitment to cell death at 11 hours after plating. Initial morphologic changes in the process of cell death were cytoplasmic; swelling, dendritic retraction, blebbing, vacuolization, which are all characteristics of necrosis. Later, nuclear chromatin condensation occurred, a characteristic of apoptosis. An increase in membrane permeability was measured earlier at 8 hours. During these alterations (associated with the initiation of cell death) single cell analysis was performed to evaluate mobile Ca(2+) changes in the same trophically deprived neurons during the course of the death process; Ca(2+) levels remained at 50 nM. Transient Ca(2+) entry was buffered in control and deprived cells at 13 hours but with different parameters. During the execution stage of death mobile Ca(2+) levels were variable. In this final stage of cell death, neurons demonstrated nuclear damage, cytosol disintegration, or morphology sharing both characteristics. These observations define embryonic CG cell death in vitro as neither purely apoptotic nor necrotic but a form of that exhibits features of both. These results also demonstrate a disassociation of changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) from both CG neuronal survival and trophically deprived cell death in vitro.
Examination of brain regional neurochemistry in disease states reveals differences among brain regions. Knowing where alterations in brain function are located is crucial to understanding the disease effect. The anatomical distribution of neurotransmitter receptors is now often studied using quantitative autoradiography, but the large number of brain regions involved raises serious problems for statistical analysis of such data. Due to the dependence among the subjects in case control designs, statistical analysis based on a 'mixed model' is useful. Such an analysis is illustrated using a small autoradiographic data set. The Bonferroni method, the method of Holm, and two 'False Discovery Rate'-controlling methods for adjusting P-values for multiple comparisons are compared.
The circadian pacemaker of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is likely to control the timing of the sleep-wake cycle in mammals by modulating the daily activity patterns of brain regions important in sleep and wakefulness. One such brain region is the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT). In both nocturnal rats and the diurnal rodent Arvicanthis niltoicus (Nile grass rat), expression of Fos (the product of the immediate-early gene c-fos) in the PVT increases at times of day when the animals are most active. To compare the projections of the SCN to the PVT in these two species, the retrograde tracer cholera toxin (beta subunit; CTbeta) was microinjected into the PVT and the SCN was examined to identify labeled neurons. Further, the PVT-projecting SCN cells containing either arginine vasopressin (AVP) or gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) were also compared between species. In both nocturnal rats and diurnal Nile grass rats, the SCN sends a substantial projection to the PVT. In both species, many PVT-projecting SCN neurons contain AVP, and few contain GRP. Other work has shown that some AVP-containing neurons of the SCN function differently in rats and Nile grass rats. Projections from functionally distinct SCN neurons to the PVT may contribute to the difference in the temporal distribution of sleep and wakefulness seen between these two species.
Increased amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression and intracellular accumulation of its toxic fragments have been associated with acute neuronal death processes. However, the role of APP fragments in delayed neurodegeneration remains poorly understood. We have characterized the appearance of APP domains in rat substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpR) neurons targeted for delayed degeneration following neurotoxic striatal lesion. From 4 to 8 days postlesion (dpl) SNpR neurons ipsilateral to the lesion showed marked cytosolic accumulation of full length APP. Moreover, the nuclei of affected neurons also showed intense immunoreactivity (IR) for APP C-terminal and beta-amyloid domains but not for an N-terminal sequence. These data suggested the presence of APP C-terminal fragment. The absence of nuclear IR for a beta1-40 specific antibody supports this conclusion. Ultrastructural analysis of nigral sections from 6 dpl rats using a beta-amyloid domain antibody showed pronounced accumulation of immunogold-silver reaction product in the nuclei of affected SNpR neurons that was absent in control, contralateral SNpR neurons. These findings suggest that intranuclear APP C-terminal fragment may play a role in genomic events contributing to delayed neuron degeneration in the SNpR.
The action of pharmacological openers of K(ATP) channels depends on the availability and levels of various intracellular nucleotides. Since these are subject to change during myocardial ischaemia, K(ATP) channel openers may affect ischaemic and non-ischaemic tissue differentially. Using a recently developed dual coronary perfusion method, we investigated the effects on arrhythmias of the prototypical K(ATP) channel opener levcromakalim when applied selectively to ischaemic and/or non-ischaemic tissue. A novel perfusion cannula was used to independently perfuse the left and right coronary beds of hearts isolated from rats. Selective infusion of levcromakalim (3, 10 or 30 microM) into the left coronary bed in the absence of ischaemia did not induce ventricular arrhythmias. Regional zero-flow ischaemia was induced by cessation of flow to the left coronary bed and hearts received levcromakalim selectively into either the left, right, or both coronary beds. When applied selectively to the ischaemic left coronary bed, levcromakalim (3, 10 or 30 microM; n=10/group) delayed the onset of ventricular tachycardia in a dose-dependent manner (by 21*, 43* and 112%* at 3, 10 and 30 microM; *P&lt;0.05 vs. control). When applied only to the non-ischaemic right coronary bed, levcromakalim reduced the incidence of ventricular tachycardia during later phases of ischaemia (from 100% in controls to 30%*). When present in both coronary beds, levcromakalim had a striking anti-arrhythmic effect--the overall incidence of ventricular tachycardia being reduced from 100% in controls to 20%*. We conclude that levcromakalim may have an anti-arrhythmic effect when applied either to ischaemic or non-ischaemic tissue but that the mechanisms may differ depending on the metabolic state of the heart.
Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques, we examined the expression pattern of egr-1 mRNA and Egr-1 protein in several brain regions following administration of 3, 4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Furthermore, we also studied the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, dopamine D(1) receptor, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) transporter or 5-HT(2A) receptor in the induction of egr-1 mRNA by MDMA. Basal constitutive levels of egr-1 mRNA were detected in control rat brains. A single administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg) caused marked induction of egr-1 mRNA in the prefrontal cortex, striatum and hippocampal dentate gyrus. However, no changes in the egr-1 mRNA levels were detected in the CA1 region of hippocampus and occipital cortex after administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg). Furthermore, the expression of egr-1 mRNA in the prefrontal cortex, striatum and hippocampal dentate gyrus after administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg) was blocked significantly by pretreatment with NMDA receptor antagonist (5R, 10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,b]-cyclohepten-5, 10-imine ((+)-MK801; 1 mg/kg), dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1 mg/kg) or 5-HT uptake inhibitor paroxetine (5 mg/kg), but not by 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist SR46349B (5 mg/kg). However, high basal levels of Egr-1 immunoreactivity in the rat brain were not altered by administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg). These results suggest that MDMA alters the expression of egr-1 mRNA in several regions of rat brain, and that the expression of egr-1 mRNA by MDMA in the prefrontal cortex, striatum and hippocampal dentate gyrus appears to be mediated, at least in part, by NMDA receptor, dopamine D(1) receptor and 5-HT transporter.
To determine whether K(ATP) channels control liver growth, we used primary rat hepatocytes and several human cancer cell lines for assays. K(ATP) channel openers (minoxidil, cromakalim, and pinacidil) increased cellular DNA synthesis, whereas K(ATP) channel blockers (quinidine and glibenclamide) attenuated DNA synthesis. The channel inhibitor glibenclamide decreased the clonogenicity of HepG2 cells without inducing cytotoxicity or apoptosis. To demonstrate the specificity of drugs for K(+) channels, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made. Hepatocytes revealed K(+) currents with K(ATP) channel properties. These K(+) currents were augmented by minoxidil and pinacidil and attenuated by glibenclamide as well as tetraethylammonium, in agreement with established responses of K(ATP) channels. Reverse transcription of total cellular RNA followed by polymerase chain reaction showed expression of K(ATP) channel-specific subunits in rat hepatocytes and human liver cell lines. Calcium fluxes were unperturbed in glibenclamide-treated HepG2 cells and primary rat hepatocytes following induction with ATP and hepatocyte growth factor, respectively, suggesting that the effect of K(ATP) channel activity upon hepatocyte proliferation was not simply due to indirect modulation of intracellular calcium. The regulation of mitogen-related hepatocyte proliferation by K(ATP) channels advances our insights into liver growth control. The findings have implications in mechanisms concerning liver development, regeneration, and oncogenesis.
Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits has been shown to modify the functional properties of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. Moreover, calpain-mediated truncation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits has been found to alter the structure of the receptors. In the present study, we first used immunoprecipitation with a variety of antibodies against N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits and anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies to show that tyrosine-phosphorylated subunits of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor are protected against calpain-mediated truncation of their C-terminal domains. A GST fusion protein containing the C-terminal domain of NR2A was used to identify the calpain cutting sites in the C-terminal domain. One site was identified at residues 1278-1279, corresponding to one of the preferred calpain truncation sites. This site is adjacent to a consensus sequence for Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation, and Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of the GST-NR2A C-terminal fusion protein also inhibited calpain-mediated truncation of the fusion protein. We propose that phosphorylation of NR2 subunits and the resulting inhibition of calpain-mediated truncation of their C-terminal domains provide for the stabilization of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors in postsynaptic structures.
We determined whether caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) vasodepressor neurons tonically inhibit vasomotor tone in the ear in anesthetized rabbits. Injection of L-glutamate (10 nmol in 100 nl) into the CVLM decreased arterial pressure and increased superior mesenteric conductance. Ear conductance decreased (0.43+/-0.06 to 0. 33+/-0.05 cm s(-1) per mmHg, n=15 injections, 12 rabbits, P&lt;0.01). Conversely, bilateral injection of gamma-aminobutyric acid (100 nmol in 100 nl) increased arterial pressure and decreased superior mesenteric conductance. At the same time ear conductance increased (0.39+/-09 to 0.48+/-0.27 cm s(-1) per mmHg, n=8 injections, eight rabbits, P&lt;0.05). Results suggest that ear vessels are not tonically inhibited by the CVLM vasodepressor neurons. Presympathetic motoneurons regulating cutaneous flow may be excited, rather than inhibited, by the CVLM neurons.
How do you make yourself heard if you are standing far from the fray? If you are a synapse, like a human, you shout. So says new research published in the September issue of Nature Neuroscience, answering a question that has perplexed neuroscientists for decades: namely, how a message delivered at a synapse far from the cell body--which must fade as it travels through the cell--can make itself heard above the din of messages picked up by close-in synapses.

Contact-mediated axon repulsion by ephrins raises an unresolved question: these cell surface ligands form a high-affinity multivalent complex with their receptors present on axons, yet rather than being bound, axons can be rapidly repelled. We show here that ephrin-A2 forms a stable complex with the metalloprotease Kuzbanian, involving interactions outside the cleavage region and the protease domain. Eph receptor binding triggered ephrin-A2 cleavage in a localized reaction specific to the cognate ligand. A cleavage-inhibiting mutation in ephrin-A2 delayed axon withdrawal. These studies reveal mechanisms for protease recognition and control of cell surface proteins, and, for ephrin-A2, they may provide a means for efficient axon detachment and termination of signaling.

Neural sensorimotor gating mechanisms prevent the interruption of ongoing information processing routines by ensuing stimuli to permit mental integration and adaptive behavior. Prepulse inhibition (PPI), an operational measure of sensorimotor gating, is now being investigated using murine models to exploit transgenic and &quot;knockout&quot; technology. The present studies were undertaken to evaluate potential murine strain differences in the effects of serotonergic drugs on PPI and habituation. Two strains used most often as a genetic background for transgenic or knockout manipulations, C57BL/6 and 129Sv, and the outbred ICR strain were used. We assessed the effects of the 5-HT(1A/1B) agonist 5-methoxy-3(1,2,3,6)tetrahydropyridin-4-yl-1H-indole (RU24969), the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), the 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist (+/-)2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylamphetamine (DOM), and the serotonin releaser (+)3, 4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine (MDMA) on PPI and habituation of acoustic startle in the three strains. C57BL/6 mice exhibited lower baseline PPI levels than 129Sv and ICR mice, and 129Sv mice habituated less than C57BL/6 and ICR mice. MDMA decreased PPI in C57BL/6 and ICR, but not 129Sv mice, and RU24969 disrupted habituation in C57BL/6 and 129Sv, but not ICR mice. Lastly, RU24969 decreased and 8-OH-DPAT increased PPI across all strains, although qualitative differences were observed. Thus, both baseline and serotonergic drug-induced effects on murine PPI and habituation are strain-dependent.
The anticonvulsant sodium valproate has been shown to be an effective treatment for bipolar disorder, however, its precise mechanism of action has yet to be determined. It has been suggested that adaptational changes in gene expression are critical for valproate's prophylactic effects. Previous studies in our lab have shown that one gene that may be regulated by valproate is the 78-kilodalton glucose-regulated protein (GRP78). We report that treatment of rat C6 glioma cells with valproate can also increase the expression of additional endoplasmic reticulum stress proteins, GRP94 and calreticulin. All three proteins showed similar concentration-dependent increases in messenger RNA abundance. Chronic (seven days) treatment significantly increased GRP78 and GRP94 messenger RNA expression, whereas calreticulin expression increased after both acute and chronic treatment. Increases in mRNA expression corresponded to a similar increase in protein expression. The roles of GRP78, GRP94 and calreticulin as molecular chaperones and calcium binding proteins, suggest that these results might have functional relevance to the therapeutic action of valproate.
Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) with the broad spectrum mGluR agonist 1S,3R ACPD (10-50 microM) induced spontaneous field potentials at low frequencies ('burst-mode' activity; &lt;1 Hz) in the CA3 region of rat hippocampal slices. At higher concentrations (100-400 microM) ACPD switched this form of activity to a second, more complex pattern of activity in which intermittent episodes of theta frequency oscillations predominated ('theta-mode' activity; 4-14 Hz). Both patterns of activity were evoked by selective activation of group I mGluRs and, in particular, could be induced by activation of mGluR5 alone using the subtype selective agonist CHPG (0.5-5 mM). In contrast, activation of group II mGluRs (DCG IV; 100 microM) produced only burst-mode behaviour whilst activation of group III mGluRs (L-AP4; 100 microM) did not result in synchronised network activity. Concurrent extra- and intracellular recordings demonstrated that this mGluR-induced theta-mode activity represented the synchronous firing of CA3 pyramidal cells and that it shared a similar temporal signature to that generated by activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs). Furthermore, application of mGluR and mAChR agonists at concentrations sufficient to produce only burst-mode activity when applied individually, produced theta-mode activity when co-applied. These data suggest that the level of activation of different mGluRs and mAChRs crucially determine the pattern of rhythmical network activity generated in the hippocampal CA3 network. These results also indicate that individual receptor subtypes (i.e. mGluR5) can initiate patterns of coherent network activity but that interactions between the cholinergic and glutamatergic transmitter systems may also be important factors in governing the temporal patterning of hippocampal network activity.
Using an in vitro blood-nerve barrier (BNB) model, the authors tested the effect of various monoclonal antiganglioside antibodies on BNB function. Only anti-GM1 antibody significantly facilitated BNB leakage in a concentration-dependent, complement-independent manner. This study provided evidence that anti-GM1 antibody, frequently detected in sera from patients with inflammatory neuropathies, may participate BNB dysfunction and contribute to development of neuropathy.
The functional outcome of 42 patients with idiopathic adult hydrocephalus syndrome (IAHS) was followed over a 3-year period after shunting. Survival curves were compared with those of age-matched healthy elderly subjects and patients with first-ever ischemic stroke. Twenty-seven patients with IAHS were improved 3 months after the operation and 11 remained improved at the 3-year follow-up. The case fatality in patients with stroke and those with IAHS was similar (32% versus 28%), but the relative risk of death among IAHS patients compared to a general elderly population was 3.3.
Animals often attend to only a few of the cues provided by the complex displays of conspecifics. We suggest that these perceptual biases are influenced by mechanisms of signal recognition inherited from antecedent species. We tested this hypothesis by manipulating the evolutionary history of artificial neural networks, observing how the resulting networks respond to many novel stimuli and comparing these responses to the behaviour of females in phonotaxis experiments. Networks with different evolutionary histories proved equally capable of evolving to recognize the call of the tngara frog, Physalaemus pustulosus, but exhibited distinct responses to novel stimuli. History influenced the ability of networks to predict known responses of tngara frogs; network accuracy was determined by how closely the network history approximated the hypothesized history of the tngara frog. Our findings emphasize the influence of past selection pressures on current perceptual mechanisms, and demonstrate how neural network models can be used to address behavioural questions that are intractable through traditional methods.
We have found recently that white matter astrocytes in the spinal cord constitutively express immunoreactivity for Mts1 (S100A4) protein and that this expression is up-regulated ipsilaterally after sciatic nerve or dorsal root injury. Here, we have studied the expression pattern of Mts1 throughout the rat central nervous system (CNS). We found Mts1 immunoreactivity in myelinated tracts such as the olfactory tract, optic nerve, corpus callosum, internal capsule, fimbria, and spinal cord funiculi but not in cerebellar white matter. Mts1-immunoreactive (IR) cells were consistently astrocytic (glial fibrillary acidic protein positive). In addition to myelinated tracts, Mts1 immunoreactivity was also present in a few nonmyelinated or poorly myelinated areas, such as pituitary gland, olfactory bulb, and around the lateral ventricle. Based on location, three Mts1-IR astrocyte groups were distinguished: 1) astrocytes at the surfaces of the CNS, i.e., adjacent to the cerebrospinal fluid, organized perpendicularly to the bundles of axonal tracts; 2) astrocytes located in parallel to, and inserted between, axonal bundles; and 3) clusters of astrocytes around the lateral ventricle and in the olfactory bulb. We further analyzed the relationship between Mts1 immunoreactivity and the development of CNS fiber tracts by combining staining for Mts1 and myelin basic protein (MBP). Mts1 immunoreactivity appeared postnatally in recently myelinated areas. During the development of corpus callosum and the optic tract, Mts1 immunoreactivity was concentrated at the frontier of myelination. The developmental expression pattern suggests a role of Mts1-IR astrocytes in the maturation of myelinated fiber tracts. The preferential localization of Mts1 to the subpial region in the mature CNS suggests that Mts1 participates in astrocyte-mediated CNS-cerebrospinal fluid exchange.
Changes in glutamate transmission and alterations in glutamate receptor expression produced by the repeated administration of psychomotor stimulant drugs are considered an important neuroadaptation underlying the development and expression of behavioural and neurochemical sensitization to stimulant drugs. Two parallel experiments investigated the effects of repeated cocaine administration (five, once daily injections of 15 mg/kg, i.p.; 2 weeks withdrawal) on the expression of behavioural sensitization in response to a cocaine challenge (20 mg/kg, i.p.) and the changes in NMDA receptor binding in pooled tissue from the nucleus accumbens and the striatum. Compared with acute cocaine controls (n = 11), animals administered cocaine repeatedly displayed a sensitized stereotypic response to the cocaine challenge injection (n = 8). Despite this, no differences in either NMDA receptor density or affinity were observed between rats administered repeatedly with cocaine or saline, as indexed by [3H]MK-801 binding. The present findings call to question the rationale for NMDA receptor-based pharmacotherapies for the treatment of the enduring symptomatology of stimulant addiction.
To construct a model for the relapse of drug use, we investigated the reinstatement of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. After the morphine CPP paradigm was established, rats were left extinguishing for 9 days, then exposed to 15 min of random foot shock or s.c. drug priming with different doses of morphine or amphetamine, respectively. Foot shock or a higher dose (0.25 mg/kg) of both drugs could reinstate the CPP induced by 4 mg/kg of morphine after a 9-day extinction, while a lower dose (0.125 mg/kg) of both drugs had no effect. It is concluded that the CPP extinction-reinstatement paradigm might be used as a model to investigate the mechanism of relapse in addicts.
We recently reported that CaMKII-dependent phosphorylation of the neurofilament-L (NF-L) head domain was induced in the apical dendrites during long-term potentiation. Long-term depression (LTD) is another cellular model for neuronal plasticity. In the present study, we examined the phosphorylation of NF-L during hippocampal LTD using a series of phospho-specific antibodies against the NF-L head domain. During LTD, these antibodies visualized NF-L phosphorylation at Ser57 in the apical dendrites of the hippocampal pyramidal neurons. The assembly and disassembly of NF-L filaments are regulated by phosphorylation of its head domain. Thus, our results indicated that NF-L phosphorylation might be associated with alterations of the neuronal structure during LTD.
The role of G-proteins in D2 receptor supersensitivity was studied in striatal membranes from rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) induced lesions of the nigral dopamine (DA) system. Thirteen months after the lesion the number of [3H]raclopride binding sites was increased in the DA denervated striatum, but no changes in ligand binding affinities and in proportion of high-affinity agonist binding sites could be detected. The affinity of [35S]GTPgammaS binding was unaltered after the striatal DA denervation, whereas the binding affinity of GDP was decreased in the DA denervated as compared to the intact striatum. It is proposed that the decrease in GDP binding affinity to D2 DA receptor-coupled G proteins is an important factor in the D2 receptor supersensitivity following degeneration of the striatal DA terminals.
The lack of subtype-selective compounds for AMPA receptors (AMPA-R) led us to search for compounds with such selectivity. Homoibotenic acid analogues were investigated at recombinant GluR1o, GluR2o(R), GluR3o and GluR1o + 3o receptors expressed in Sf9 insect cells and affinities determined in [3H]AMPA radioligand binding experiments. (S)-4-bromohomoibotenic acid (BrHIBO) exhibited a 126-fold selectivity for GluR1o compared to GluR3o. Xenopus laevis oocytes were used to express functional homomeric and heteromeric recombinant AMPA-R and to determine BrHIBO potency (EC50) at these channels. (R,S)-BrHIBO exhibited a 37-fold selectivity range amongst the AMPA-R. It is hoped that BrHIBO can be used as a lead structure for the development of other subtype-selective compounds.
Pharmacological data suggest that opioids exert their excitatory action in brain indirectly, by inhibiting release of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. However, it is also possible that single neuron may interact with both opioids and GABA. In the present study, we investigated whether neurons in rat midbrain and medulla express both opioid and GABA(A) receptors. Coronal sections through rat brain were double-stained using antibodies against the alpha 1 subunit of GABA(A) receptor that were combined with antibodies either against the cloned mu-opioid receptor (MOR1) or the cloned kappa-opioid receptor (KOR1). Neurons double-labeled for GABA(A) receptors and either MOR1 or KOR1 were found in many brain regions including inferior colliculus, mesencephalic trigeminal nuclei, pontine reticular nuclei and raphe interpositus nucleus. Neurons double-labeled for GABA(A) and MOR1 were observed less frequently than those labeled for GABA(A) and KOR1. Our findings provide anatomical evidence that GABAergic and opioidergic systems are closely linked and activity of the same neuron may be regulated directly by both GABA and opioids.

The present study examined the neuroprotective actions of the N-acetylated-alpha-linked-acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) inhibitor 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid (2-PMPA) in four in vitro models of neurotoxicity. Using neuron-enriched primary cultures derived from rat embryo (E15) cerebellum, 2-PMPA afforded 100% neuroprotection from injuries induced by hypoxia (EC(50)=8.4 microM). In contrast, against glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) injury, 2-PMPA was less potent and its efficacy limited to a maximum of 46% and 16%, respectively. 2-PMPA was not effective against veratridine-induced injury. Also, the less potent analog of 2-PMPA, 2-[phosphonomethyl]succinic acid (2-PMSA), was ineffective. Unlike 2-PMPA, the endogenous NAALADase substrate and mGlu(3) receptor agonist N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) was neuroprotective against all four injury mechanisms and compared to 2-PMPA, exhibited a different &quot;phosphate effect&quot; on neuroprotection. These results confirm the superior efficacy of 2-PMPA to protect against injury caused by cellular anoxia, and are discussed relative to upstream modulation of hyperglutamatergic activity vs. downstream modulation of metabotropic receptors as possible targets for ischemia/stroke therapy.
Growing evidence suggests that certain cell cycle regulators also mediate neuronal death. Of relevance, cyclin D1-associated kinase activity is increased and the retinoblastoma protein (Rb), a substrate of the cyclin D1-Cdk4/6 complex, is phosphorylated during K(+) deprivation-evoked death of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors block this death, suggesting a requirement for the cyclin D1/Cdk4/6-Rb pathway. However, the downstream target(s) of this pathway are not well defined. The transcription factor E2F-1 is regulated by Rb and is reported to evoke death in proliferating cells when overexpressed. Accordingly, we examined whether E2F-1 was sufficient to evoke death of CGNs and whether it was required for death evoked by low K(+). We show that adenovirus-mediated expression of E2F-1 in CGNs results in apoptotic death, which is independent of p53, dependent upon Bax, and associated with caspase 3-like activity. In addition, we demonstrate that levels of E2F-1 mRNA and protein increase during K(+) deprivation-evoked death. The increase in E2F-1 protein is blocked by the CDK inhibitor flavopiridol. Finally, E2F-1-deficient neurons are modestly resistant to death induced by low K(+). These results indicate that E2F-1 expression is sufficient to promote neuronal apoptosis and that endogenous E2F-1 modulates the death of CGNs evoked by low K(+).
Chronic exposure to ethanol increases the number of functional L-type voltage-gated calcium channels in neural cells. In PC12 cells, this adaptive response is mediated by protein kinase C delta (PKCdelta), but the mechanisms by which this occurs are not known. Since expression of several different calcium channel subunits can increase the abundance of functional L-type channels, we sought to identify which subunits are regulated by ethanol. Incubation of PC12 cells with 120-150 mm ethanol for 6 days increased levels of alpha(1C), alpha(2), and beta(1b) subunit immunoreactivity in cell membranes and selectively increased the abundance of mRNA encoding the alpha(1C-1) splice variant of alpha(1C). In cells expressing a fragment of PKCdelta (deltaV1) that selectively inhibits PKCdelta, there was no increase in membrane-associated alpha(1C), alpha(2), and beta(1b) immunoreactivity following chronic ethanol exposure. However, ethanol still increased levels of alpha(1C-1) mRNA in these cells. These results indicate that ethanol increases the abundance of L-type channels by at least two mechanisms; one involves increases in mRNA encoding a splice variant of alpha(1C) and the other is post-transcriptional, rate-limiting, and requires PKCdelta.
In a continuing search for proteins that target calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) to postsynaptic density (PSD) substrates important in synaptic plasticity, we showed that the PSD protein densin-180 binds CaMKII. Four putative splice variants (A-D) of the cytosolic tail of densin-180 are shown to be differentially expressed during brain development. Densin-180 splicing affects CaMKII phosphorylation of specific serine residues. Variants A, B, and D, but not C, bind CaMKII stoichiometrically and with high affinity, mediated by a differentially spliced domain. Densin-180 differs from the previously identified CaMKII-binding protein NR2B in that binding does not strictly require CaMKII autophosphorylation. Binding of densin-180 and NR2B to CaMKII is noncompetitive, indicating different interaction sites on CaMKII. Expression of the membrane-targeted CaMKII-binding domain of densin-180 confers membrane localization to coexpressed CaMKII without requiring calcium mobilization, suggesting that densin-180 plays a role in the constitutive association of CaMKII with PSDs.
Activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptors in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones leads to inhibition of calcium (Ca(2+)) channels. The role of the GABA(B1) receptor subunit was assessed by its depletion achieved by microinjection of DRG neurones with an antisense (A/S) oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN). Control neurones were injected with a scrambled version of the A/S ODN (missense) or were not injected. Patch clamp recordings of Ca(2+) channel current were made two to four days after injection. GABA(B1) A/S substantially reduced the current inhibition induced by baclofen, a GABA(B) agonist. Therefore, most, if not all, native GABA(B) receptors which couple to Ca(2+) channels contain GABA(B1). Moreover, if native receptors are heterodimers of GABA(B1) and GABA(B2), then GABA(B2), in isolation, is unable to sustain coupling to Ca(2+) channels.
We investigated if the potentiated turning response to a challenge with the partial dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-38393, as seen after priming with L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) of unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, can be modulated by infusion of dynorphin A (1-17) in the striatum. Seventeen days after the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, rats received intrastriatal dynorphin (0. 08 or 3.85 microg) followed by L-DOPA (50 mg/kg i.p.) and were challenged 3 days later with SKF-38393 (3.0 mg/kg s.c.). Compared to controls, the lower dose of dynorphin caused an earlier onset of turning, while the higher dose decreased the response to SKF-38393. These findings suggest a dose-dependent modulatory role for striatal dynorphin in L-DOPA-priming of a D1-mediated behavioral response.
A single event may elicit several different sensory stimuli such as vision, sound, and touch. But how does the brain know which of the many different stimuli arriving in the sensory cortex of the brain are connected? In her Perspective, de Gelder discusses new findings showing that when a touch is applied on the same side of the body as a visual cue, vision is enhanced (Macaluso et al.). She explains that this effect is due to neurons projecting from the somatosensory (touch) area of the sensory cortex back to the visual cortex. These neurons keep the visual cortex informed about tactile stimuli elicited at the same time as the visual stimuli.
A sudden touch on one hand can improve vision near that hand, revealing crossmodal links in spatial attention. It is often assumed that such links involve only multimodal neural structures, but unimodal brain areas may also be affected. We tested the effect of simultaneous visuo-tactile stimulation on the activity of the human visual cortex. Tactile stimulation enhanced activity in the visual cortex, but only when it was on the same side as a visual target. Analysis of effective connectivity between brain areas suggests that touch influences unimodal visual cortex via back-projections from multimodal parietal areas. This provides a neural explanation for crossmodal links in spatial attention.
Sternberg introduced the additive factor method as a tool for discovering and studying in choice reaction time situations in human subjects. Underlying the method is the notion that if information processing consists of successive stages, then different factors affecting different stages must have additive effects on reaction-time measurements. The additive factor method has been extensively used in humans but few attempts have been made to examine whether or not additive reaction time patterns were obtainable in rats. In the present work, the subjects (13 Long-Evans rats) had to press down a lever and to respond to a visual (right or left) stimulus by releasing the lever and introducing the head into a lateral (right or left) operandum. The present findings show an additive pattern of effects of signal luminance and foreperiod duration on the mean reaction time which suggests that we have successfully manipulated two stages of rat information processing - the preprocessing stage and the motor adjustment stage, respectively. Accordingly, the present study sets the basis for the basis for investigating the effects of invasive manipulations (pharmacological and/or lesional) on information processing stages.

A gene family of small membrane proteins, represented by phospholemman and the gamma subunit of Na,K-ATPase, was defined and characterized by the analysis of more than 1000 related ESTs (expressed sequence tags). In addition to new and more complete cDNA sequence for known family members (including MAT-8, CHIF, and RIC), the findings included two new family members and new splicing variants. A large number of EST replicates made it possible to derive curated DNA sequence with higher confidence and accuracy than from the sequencing of individual clones. The family has a core motif of 35 invariant and conserved amino acids centered on a single transmembrane span. Features of each predicted protein product were compared, and tissue distributions were determined. The gene family was named FXYD (pronounced fix-id) in recognition of invariant amino acids in its signature motif. The abundant proteins are involved in the control of ion transport.
Flavonoids are a class of polyphenolic compounds widely distributed in the plant kingdom, which display a variety of biological activities, including chemoprevention and tumor growth inhibition. Our aim was to investigate the effects of several polyphenols on the growth and metastatic potential of B16-BL6 melanoma cells in vivo. Intraperitoneal administration of quercetin, apigenin, (-)-epigallocathechin-3-gallate (EGCG), resveratrol, and the anti-estrogen tamoxifen, at the time of i.m. injection of B16-BL6 cells into syngeneic mice, resulted in a significant, dose-dependent delay of tumor growth, without toxicity. The relative descending order of potency was EGCG &gt; apigenin = quercetin = tamoxifen &gt; resveratrol &gt; control. Furthermore, polyphenols significantly potentiated the inhibitory effect of a non-toxic dose of cisplatin. When tested for the ability to inhibit lung colonization, quercetin, apigenin, and tamoxifen (but not EGCG or resveratrol) significantly decreased the number of B16-BL6 colonies in the lungs in a dose-dependent manner, with quercetin and apigenin being more effective than tamoxifen. Interestingly, quercetin, apigenin, and tamoxifen (but not EGCG or resveratrol) significantly decreased the invasion of B16-BL6 cells in vitro, with quercetin and apigenin being more effective than tamoxifen. This suggests that anti-invasive activity is one of the mechanisms underlying inhibition of lung colonization by quercetin and apigenin. In conclusion, quercetin and apigenin inhibit melanoma growth and invasive and metastatic potential; therefore, they may constitute a valuable tool in the combination therapy of metastatic melanoma.
A chronic demyelinating disease results from murine infection with the neurotropic strain JHM of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV-JHM). Demyelination is largely immune mediated. In this study, the individual roles of CD4 and CD8 T cells in MHV-induced demyelination were investigated using recombination-activating gene 1-/- (RAG1-/-) mice infected with an attenuated strain of MHV-JHM. These animals develop demyelination only after adoptive transfer of splenocytes from mice previously immunized to MHV. In this study, we show that, following adoptive transfer, virus-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells rapidly infiltrate the CNS of MHV-JHM-infected RAG1-/- mice. Adoptive transfer of CD4 T cell-enriched donors resulted in more severe clinical disease accompanied by less demyelination than was detected in the recipients of undepleted cells. Macrophage infiltration into the gray matter of CD4 T cell-enriched recipients was greater than that observed in mice receiving undepleted splenocytes. In contrast, CD8 T cell-enriched recipients developed delayed disease with extensive demyelination of the spinal cord. MHV-JHM-infected RAG1-/- mice receiving donors depleted of both CD4 and CD8 T cells did not develop demyelination. These results demonstrate that the development of demyelination following MHV infection may be initiated by either CD4 or CD8 T cells. Furthermore, they show that CD4 T cells contribute more prominently than CD8 T cells to the severity of clinical disease, and that this correlates with increased macrophage infiltration into the gray matter.
Injury to the CNS results in the production and accumulation of inflammatory cytokines within this tissue. The origin and role of inflammation within the CNS remains controversial. In this paper we demonstrate that an acute trauma to the mouse brain results in the rapid elevation of IL-1beta. This increase is detectable by 15 min after injury and significantly precedes the influx of leukocytes that occurs hours after. To confirm that IL-1beta up-regulation is initiated by cells within the CNS, in situ hybridization for cytokine transcript was combined with cell type immunohistochemistry. The results reveal parenchymal microglia to be the sole source of IL-1beta at 3 h postinjury. A role for CNS-initiated inflammation was addressed by examining the expression of the neurotrophic factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). Analysis of their temporal relationship suggests the up-regulation of CNTF by IL-1beta, which was confirmed through three lines of evidence. First, the application of IL-1 receptor antagonist into the lesion site attenuated the up-regulation of CNTF. Second, the examination of corticectomized animals genetically deficient for IL-1beta found no CNTF up-regulation. Third, the lack of CNTF elevation in IL-1beta null mice was rescued through exogenous application of IL-1beta into the lesion site. These findings provide the first evidence of the requirement for IL-1beta in the production of CNTF following CNS trauma, and suggest that inflammation can have a beneficial impact on the regenerative capacity of the CNS.
Sjgren's syndrome (SS) is a systemic lymphoproliferative, autoimmune disease, which is characterized by dryness of the eyes, mouth, and other mucous membranes. The nervous system may be affected in up to 20% of the cases of primary or secondary SS. We present a case of a 54-year-old woman with trochlear nerve palsy complicating Sjgren's syndrome secondary to rheumatoid arthritis. We suggest that all patients with multiple cranial neuropathies, especially when associated with rheumatoid arthritis, should be carefully examined for the possible presence of secondary SS.
Adenosine is a putative endogenous sleep-inducing substance, and nitric oxide has been implicated in arousal and sleep mechanisms. We found that various nitric oxide donors, including diethylamine NONOate (DEA/NO), stimulated large increases in extracellular adenosine in nearly pure cultures of forebrain neurons. The effect of DEA/NO could be blocked by 2-phenyl-4,4,5, 5-tetramethyl-imidazoline-1-oxyl-oxide and could not be mimicked by degraded solutions of DEA/NO or by DEA itself; therefore, it was caused by nitric oxide release on hydrolysis of the parent compound. The accumulation of adenosine was not blocked by probenecid or GMP, suggesting that neither extracellular cAMP nor extracellular AMP was the source, and that adenosine was therefore the most likely species transported across the plasma membrane. To pursue this further, we tested the effect of DEA/NO on cellular ATP and found a significant fall in ATP associated with exposure to nitric oxide. In addition, exposure to DEA/NO nearly completely inhibited adenosine kinase activity. It has been found previously that adenosine kinase is inhibited by its substrate, adenosine. We found that exposure to nitric oxide increased intracellular adenosine to 125 +/- 18% of control values (p &lt; 0.01), consistent with the possibility that in our system the inhibition of adenosine kinase is related to an increase in intracellular adenosine, and that the effect of nitric oxide on extracellular adenosine is significantly potentiated by substrate inhibition of adenosine kinase. Furthermore, nitric oxide-stimulated adenosine accumulation may be important in the regulation of behavioral state.
Extrinsic afferent neurons play an essential role in both sensation and reflex control of visceral organs, but their specialized morphological peripheral endings have never been functionally identified. Extracellular recordings were made from fine nerve trunks running between the vagus nerve and esophagus of the guinea pig. Mechanoreceptors, which responded to esophageal distension, fired spontaneously, had low thresholds to circumferential stretch, and were slowly adapting. Calibrated von Frey hairs (0.12 mN) were used to probe the serosal surface at 100-200 sites, which were mapped on a video image of the live preparation. Each stretch-sensitive unit had one to three highly localized receptive fields (&quot;hot spots&quot;), which were marked with Indian ink applied on the tip of the von Frey hair. Recorded nerve trunks were then filled anterogradely, using biotinamide in an artificial intracellular solution. Receptive fields were consistently associated with intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) in myenteric ganglia, but not with other filled neuronal structures. The average distance of receptive fields to IGLEs was 73 +/- 14 microm (24 receptive fields, from 12 units; n = 5), compared to 374 +/- 17 microm for 240 randomly generated sites (n = 5; p &lt; 0.001). After maintained probing on a single receptive field, spontaneous discharge of units was inhibited, as were responses to distension. During adapted discharge to maintained distension, interspike intervals were distributed in a narrow range. This indicates that multiple receptive fields interact to encode mechanical distortion in a graded manner. IGLEs are specialized transduction sites of mechanosensitive vagal afferent neurons in the guinea pig esophagus.
The relationship among discharges of neurons that were recorded simultaneously with tetrodes in the rat medial prefrontal cortex was analyzed. Spatial working memory tasks were divided into several distinct stages based on the behavioral correlates of individual neurons, and interneuronal correlation of signal (mean discharge rate at each stage) and noise (trial-to-trial deviation from the signal) was calculated. Behavioral correlates of neighboring neurons were quite heterogeneous and, accordingly, average signal correlation was relatively low ( approximately 0.16). Noise correlation was even lower ( approximately 0.06), but neuronal noise was more correlated among the neurons with similar signals. Spikes underlying the signal and noise correlation among the prefrontal cortical neurons were loosely synchronized over a few hundred milliseconds. These results suggest that neighboring prefrontal cortical neurons process largely independent information and have weakly correlated noise and that precisely synchronized spikes play a relatively minor role in producing the correlated signal and noise among these neurons.
Rats use their facial vibrissae (&quot;whiskers&quot;) to locate and identify objects. To learn about the neural coding of contact between whiskers and objects, we investigated the representation of single-vibrissa deflection by populations of cortical neurons. Microelectrode arrays, arranged in a geometric 10 x 10 grid, were inserted into the thalamo-recipient layers of &quot;barrel cortex&quot; (the vibrissal region of somatosensory cortex) in urethane-anesthetized rats, and neuronal activity across large sets of barrel-columns was measured. Typically, 5 msec after deflection of a whisker a 0.2 mm(2) focus of activity emerged. It rapidly expanded, doubling in size by 7 msec, before retracting and disappearing 28-59 msec after stimulus onset. The total territory engaged by the stimulus ranged from 0.5 to 2.9 mm(2) (2-11 barrels). Stimulus site dictated the domain of activity. To quantify the coding of whisker location, we applied the population d' measure of discriminability. Activity patterns elicited by two whiskers were highly discriminable at the initial cortical response; peak discriminability typically occurred within 16 msec of stimulus onset. To determine how widely information about stimulus location was distributed, we measured population d' while excluding response data from the on-center electrodes of the two tested whiskers. Response patterns remained discriminable, indicating that information about stimulus location was distributed across barrel cortex. Taken together, these results show that single-whisker deflections are represented in a multicolumn region constrained by barrel cortex map topography. The nature of this coding allows information about stimulus location to be coded extremely rapidly and unambiguously by one to two spikes per neuron.
Spinal motoneurons (MNs) in the chick embryo undergo programmed cell death coincident with the establishment of nerve-muscle connections and the onset of synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Chronic treatment of embryos during this period with nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR)-blocking agents [e.g., curare or alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX)] prevents the death of MNs. Although this rescue effect has been attributed previously to a peripheral site of action of the nAChR-blocking agents at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), because nAChRs are expressed in both muscle and spinal cord, it has been suggested that the rescue effect may, in fact, be mediated by a direct central action of nAChR antagonists. By using a variety of different nAChR-blocking agents that target specific muscle or neuronal nAChR subunits, we find that only those agents that act on muscle-type receptors block neuromuscular activity and rescue MNs. However, paralytic, muscular dysgenic mutant chick embryos also exhibit significant increases in MN survival that can be further enhanced by treatment with curare or alpha-BTX, suggesting that muscle paralysis may not be the sole factor involved in MN survival. Taken together, the data presented here support the argument that, in vivo, nAChR antagonists promote the survival of spinal MNs primarily by acting peripherally at the NMJ to inhibit synaptic transmission and reduce or block muscle activity. Although a central action of these agents involving direct perturbations of MN activity may also play a contributory role, further studies are needed to determine more precisely the relative roles of central versus peripheral sites of action in MN rescue.
Previous studies suggest that the vesicular cysteine-string protein (CSP) may modulate presynaptic Ca(2+) channel activity in fast neurotransmitter release. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the dynamics of presynaptic Ca(2+) ion influx with the Ca(2+) indicator fluo-4 AM at csp mutant neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila. From 24 to 30 degrees C, stimulus-evoked, relative presynaptic Ca(2+) signals were increasingly larger in csp mutant boutons than in controls. Above 30 degrees C, Ca(2+) signals declined and were similar to controls at 34 degrees C. A prolonged decay of Ca(2+) signals in mutant boutons at high temperatures indicated abnormally slow Ca(2+) clearance. Cytosolic Ca(2+) at rest was determined with the ratiometric Ca(2+) indicator fura-2 AM and was similar in mutant and control boutons at 24 degrees C but higher in mutant boutons at 34 degrees C. Despite larger Ca(2+) signals in mutant boutons, evoked neurotransmitter release was always reduced in csp mutants and exhibited pronounced facilitation. Thus, a lack of Ca(2+) entry cannot explain the reduction of neurotransmitter release in csp mutants. At all temperatures tested, raising extracellular Ca(2+) increased transmitter release elicited by single stimuli in csp mutants. Collectively, these data suggest multiple functions for CSP at synaptic terminals. Increased Ca(2+) signals coupled with reduced release suggest a direct function of CSP in exocytosis downstream from Ca(2+) entry. Because the reduction of evoked release in csp mutants is counteracted by increased Ca(2+) levels, we suggest that CSP primarily increases the Ca(2+) sensitivity of the exocytotic machinery.
We performed nonradioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISH) in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the macaque monkey to investigate the distribution of mRNA for two growth-associated proteins, GAP-43 and SCG10. GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs were coexpressed in most neurons of both magnocellular layers (layers I and II) and parvocellular layers (layers III-VI). Double-labeling using nonradioactive ISH and immunofluorescence revealed that both GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs were coexpressed with the alpha-subunit of type II calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, indicating that both mRNAs are expressed also in koniocellular neurons in the LGN. We also showed that GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the LGN did not contain GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs, indicating that neither GAP-43 nor SCG10 mRNAs were expressed in inhibitory interneurons in the LGN. GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the perigeniculate nucleus, however, contained both GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs, indicating that both mRNAs were expressed in inhibitory neurons in the perigeniculate nucleus, which project to relay neurons in the LGN. Furthermore, to determine whether the expression of GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs is regulated by visual input, we performed nonradioactive ISH in the LGN and the primary visual area of monkeys deprived of monocular visual input by intraocular injections of tetrodotoxin. Both mRNAs were downregulated in the LGN after monocular deprivation for 5 d or longer. From these results, we conclude that both GAP-43 and SCG10 mRNAs are expressed in the excitatory relay neurons of the monkey LGN in an activity-dependent manner.
To gain insight into the role of F-actin in the organization of synaptic vesicles at release sites, we examined the synaptic distribution of F-actin by using a unique synaptic preparation of frog target-deprived nerve terminals. In this preparation, imaging of the synaptic site was unobstructed by the muscle fiber cytoskeleton, allowing for the examination of hundreds of synaptic sites in their entirety in whole mounts. At target-deprived synaptic sites F-actin was distributed in a ladder-like pattern and was colocalized with beta-fodrin. Surprisingly, F-actin stain, which we localized to the nerve terminal itself, did not overlap a synaptic vesicle marker, suggesting that it was concentrated in nonrelease domains of nerve terminals between clusters of synaptic vesicles. These findings suggest that the majority of the presynaptic F-actin is not involved in tethering synaptic vesicles. Instead, the strategic presynaptic positioning of this cytoskeletal meshwork in nonrelease domains of the nerve terminal suggests alternate functions such as restricting synaptic vesicles to release domains, recycling synaptic vesicles, or stabilizing the nerve terminal.
We have identified synaptic protein complexes in intact rat hippocampal slices using the rapid chemical cross-linking reagent paraformaldehyde. Cellular proteins were rapidly cross-linked, solubilized, separated electrophoretically by SDS-PAGE, and then identified immunologically. Multiple complexes containing syntaxin, the synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP25), and vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) were observed to coexist in a single hippocampal slice including a 100 kDa cross-linked protein complex that exhibited the same electrophoretic migration as a member of the previously identified SDS-resistant soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor &quot;core&quot; of the 20 S complex. A VAMP-synaptophysin complex, reported previously in vitro, was also observed in the hippocampal slices. This study links biochemical and physiological studies involving presynaptic proteins implicated in secretion and confirms that these proteins that have been studied extensively previously in the presence of detergent do form &quot;bona fide&quot; cellular complexes. Importantly, we have also detected additional novel protein complexes that do not correspond to complexes identified previously in vitro. After the induction of persistent synaptic potentiation, an abundant 40 kDa SNAP25-caveolin1 complex was observed. The SNAP25-caveolin1 complex was not abundant in control slices and, therefore, represents the first demonstration of a reorganization of protein complexes in intact hippocampal slices during the induction of synaptic potentiation. The interaction between caveolin1 and SNAP25 was confirmed biochemically by demonstration of the association of caveolin with recombinant-immobilized SNAP25 and by the coimmunoprecipitation of SNAP25 using caveolin-specific antisera. Caveolin1, like SNAP25, was observed to be abundant in isolated hippocampal nerve terminals (synaptosomes). Immunofluorescent studies demonstrated that both SNAP25 and caveolin1 are present in neurons and colocalize in axonal varicosities. These results suggest that a short-lasting SNAP25-caveolin interaction may be involved in the early phase of synaptic potentiation.
Dopamine D(2) receptors (Rs) and adenosine A(2A)Rs are coexpressed on striatopallidal neurons, where they mediate opposing actions. In agreement with the idea that D(2)Rs tonically inhibit GABA release from these neurons, stimulation-evoked GABA release was significantly greater from striatal/pallidal slices from D(2)R null mutant (D(2)R(-/-)) than from wild-type (D(2)R(+/+)) mice. Release from heterozygous (D(2)R(+/-)) slices was intermediate. However, contrary to predictions that A(2A)R effects would be enhanced in D(2)R-deficient mice, the A(2A)R agonist CGS 21680 significantly increased GABA release only from D(2)R(+/+) slices. CGS 21680 modulation was observed when D(2)Rs were antagonized by raclopride, suggesting that an acute absence of D(2)Rs cannot explain the results. The lack of CGS 21680 modulation in the D(2)R-deficient mice was also not caused by a compensatory downregulation of A(2A)Rs in the striatum or globus pallidus. However, CGS 21680 significantly stimulated cAMP production only in D(2)R(+/+) striatal/pallidal slices. This functional uncoupling of A(2A)Rs in the D(2)R-deficient mice was not explained by reduced expression of G(s), G(olf), or type VI adenylyl cyclase. Locomotor activity induced by the adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine was significantly less pronounced in D(2)R(-/-) mice than in D(2)R(+/+) and D(2)R(+/-) mice, further supporting the idea that D(2)Rs are required for caffeine activation. Caffeine increased c-fos only in D(2)R(-/-) globus pallidus. The present results show that a targeted disruption of the D(2)R reduces coupling of A(2A)Rs on striatopallidal neurons and thereby responses to drugs that act on adenosine receptors. They also reinforce the ideas that D(2)Rs and A(2A)Rs are functionally opposed and that D(2)R-mediated effects normally predominate.
The protein kinase C family of enzymes has been implicated in synaptic plasticity and memory in a wide range of animal species, but to date little information has been available concerning specific roles for individual isoforms of this category of kinases. To investigate the role of the beta isoform of PKC in mammalian learning, we characterized mice deficient in the PKC beta gene using anatomical, biochemical, physiological, and behavioral approaches. In our studies we observed that PKC beta was predominantly expressed in the neocortex, in area CA1 of the hippocampus, and in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. Mice deficient in PKC beta showed normal brain anatomy and normal hippocampal synaptic transmission, paired pulse facilitation, and long-term potentiation and normal sensory and motor responses. The PKC beta knock-out animals exhibited a loss of learning, however; they suffered deficits in both cued and contextual fear conditioning. The PKC expression pattern and behavioral phenotype in the PKC beta knock-out animals indicate a critical role for the beta isoform of PKC in learning-related signal transduction mechanisms, potentially in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala.
Potent and affordable video and computer systems for automatic data acquisition are becoming increasingly important in behavioural neuroscience. It has remained challenging, however, to acquire data from small and fast-moving animals, such as insects in flight, due to the limited spatial and temporal resolution of the systems currently available. Our research on free-flying insects motivated the development of new methods in the context of two different experimental settings. First, the position and precise body axis direction of honey bees approaching a food source were automatically measured. Second, the flight trajectories of a phonotactic parasitoid fly homing in on its cricket host were recorded in 3D. We used pan-tilt cameras, i.e. cameras with moveable optics, to follow the animal's path with a close up image. Novel methods were developed for image acquisition and position measurement using pan-tilt cameras, as well as calibration and data evaluation in 3D world coordinates. The innovations of this system comprise: (1) Acquisition of images in high spatial detail over large observation areas. (2) Image acquisition at a field rate of 50 Hz PAL. (3) Free positioning of the cameras for 3D acquisition. (4) Computation of the flight path in 3D world coordinates. We illustrate the capabilities of the system with data obtained from a calibration object as well as from the behaviour of unrestricted, free-flying flies and bees. Potential applications in behavioural neuroscience and the psychophysics of sensory perception are briefly discussed.
This paper describes a computer program, named ASAP (audio sequencing and presentation), that runs on IBM PC compatible hardware with a Microsoft Windows operating system and has been specially designed for facilitating auditory neuroimaging studies. The program's main characteristics are: (1) the ability to generate sequences of complex sounds; (2) an easy-to-use, graphical user interface; (3) full compatibility with Microsoft Windows 95 or later and Windows NT version 4.0 or later software; (4) precise timing of selected sound sequences; (5) the capability of triggering other devices; (6) the capability of being triggered to deliver stimuli; (7) support for both monotic and dichotic sound sequences; and (8) rudimentary support for the simultaneous presentation of pictures/text and sound.
Measurements of intrinsic optical signals (IOSs) from neural tissue, commonly with a reflection-type or transmittance-type set-up, have been used increasingly to study physiological events. Even for the same event, however, such as spreading depression (SD) or osmotic challenge, signals of opposite polarities (increase or decrease) have been obtained by different investigators using similar set-ups under similar conditions. The origin of the inconsistencies is still unknown. It is suggested here that the inconsistencies may be caused by artifacts associated with tissue surface scattering. The main goal of this paper was to present a photon counting fiber optic (PCFO) system designed to exclude surface artifacts and predominantly measure the light scattering (LS) within the tissue. Experiments on rat neocortical slices under osmotic challenges demonstrated the consistency of the PCFO data: hypertonic challenge always increased LS signal while hypotonic challenge decreased it, as long as the challenge did not induce SD. Under strong osmotic challenge (-100 mOsm), the signal suddenly reversed the polarity at the onset of SD induced by the challenge and continued to increase until the challenge was removed. When SD was blocked by high [Mg(2+)](o), the LS signal remained decreased during the -100 mOsm challenge. A spectroscopic study with the PCFO system showed that the spectrum of tissue scattering was almost a flat function in most of the visible range (650-470 nm) with a maximum at 500 nm and a rapid drop at 450 nm.
The main goal of this study was to investigate effects of typical (haloperidol) and atypical (risperidone) antipsychotic drugs on brain regional neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like immunoreactivity (-LI) tissue concentrations and on release of NPY-LI in freely moving rats. An additional aim was to explore the effect of d-amphetamine on NPY-LI release following pretreatment with typical and atypical antipsychotics. During a 4-week period, male Wistar rats were fed chow to which vehicle, risperidone (1.15 mg/100 g food or 2.3 mg/100 g food), or haloperidol (1.15 mg/100 g food) were added. In one series of experiments, the animals were sacrificed on day 30 with focused microwave irradiation, the brain regions dissected and extracted for radioimmunoassay of NPY-LI. In another experimental series, probes were inserted into the ventral striatum. The perfusates were collected at 60-min intervals; NPY-LI was determined by radioimmunoassay. Haloperidol significantly increased NPY-LI in hypothalamus and the occipital cortex. In contrast, haloperidol decreased tissue levels of NPY-LI in striatum. Moreover, haloperidol and risperidone also significantly decreased extracellular NPY-LI concentrations in the ventral striatum. d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) significantly increased extracellular NPY-LI in the vehicle group. Both haloperidol and risperidone pretreatments abolished the effect of d-amphetamine. The results show that d-amphetamine as well as haloperidol and risperidone selectively and specifically affect NPY-LI concentrations in brain tissue and microdialysates and that the effect of d-amphetamine is abolished by both typical and atypical antipsychotics.
Previous immunohistochemical and radioligand binding studies have shown a cell cycle-dependent regulation of the delta opioid receptor (DOR). The relationship between DOR expression and mitosis in primary astroglial cultures of rat cerebral cortex was investigated in this study. The cultures were arrested during the G(1)/S transition or during mitosis. The DOR protein level increased twofold (P = 0.009) during mitosis and DOR mRNA level increased threefold (P = 0.002) during the G(1)/S transition compared to nonsynchronized cultures. DOR mRNA was also elevated (1.6-fold, P = 0.008) during the G(1)/S transition compared with mitotic cells. A premitotic increase in DOR mRNA suggests that elevated DOR protein levels during mitosis might be regulated during transcription.
Bone marrow stromal cells exhibit multiple traits of a stem cell population. They can be greatly expanded in vitro and induced to differentiate into multiple mesenchymal cell types. However, differentiation to non-mesenchymal fates has not been demonstrated. Here, adult rat stromal cells were expanded as undifferentiated cells in culture for more than 20 passages, indicating their proliferative capacity. A simple treatment protocol induced the stromal cells to exhibit a neuronal phenotype, expressing neuron-specific enolase, NeuN, neurofilament-M, and tau. With an optimal differentiation protocol, almost 80% of the cells expressed NSE and NF-M. The refractile cell bodies extended long processes terminating in typical growth cones and filopodia. The differentiating cells expressed nestin, characteristic of neuronal precursor stem cells, at 5 hr, but the trait was undetectable at 6 days. In contrast, expression of trkA, the nerve growth factor receptor, persisted from 5 hr through 6 days. Clonal cell lines, established from single cells, proliferated, yielding both undifferentiated and neuronal cells. Human marrow stromal cells subjected to this protocol also differentiated into neurons. Consequently, adult marrow stromal cells can be induced to overcome their mesenchymal commitment and may constitute an abundant and accessible cellular reservoir for the treatment of a variety of neurologic diseases.
Interest in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lipoproteins has been stimulated by the association of certain alleles of the human apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and because apolipoprotein E (apoE) is one of the major apolipoproteins in CSF. CSF lipoproteins (d &lt; 1.210 g/ml fraction) are distinct from their plasma counterparts, and in AD patients CSF may contain novel particles. The protein concentration of CSF lipoproteins is reduced in AD patients. Moreover, the molecular distribution of apoE- and apoAII-containing apolipoproteins in CSF is dictated by APOE. The lipid composition suggests that CSF lipoproteins from AD patients may have undergone increased free radical-mediated damage; experimental data support the possibility that this may occur both before and after lipoprotein assembly. Finally, human CSF lipoproteins oxidized ex vivo are neurotoxic to neuronal cells in culture and disrupt microtubule structure, an activity not observed with oxidized bovine CSF lipoproteins. CSF lipoproteins may represent a means whereby apoE influences the outcome of free radical-mediated damage to brain.
To date, mutations in three genes, beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PS1), and presenilin 2 (PS2), have been found to be causally related to familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, polymorphisms in three other genes (among others), apolipoprotein E (apoE), alpha2-macroglobulin (alpham), and the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), are implicated to contribute to AD pathogenesis. Interestingly, the encoded gene products are all functionally related in various ways to LRP. Specifically apoE, alpha2m, secreted APP, and amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) complexed to either apoE or alpha2m are ligands of LRP. Furthermore, over-expression of presenilin 1 results in decreased expression of LRP. Since levels of many LRP ligands are increased in Alzheimer's disease and LRP and its ligands are present in senile plaques, decreased LRP function may be a central component in AD pathogenesis. This review explores the current knowledge of LRP in AD and its relationship to the other known AD susceptibility markers.
How well does the functional MRI (fMRI) signal reflect underlying electrophysiology? Despite the ubiquity of the technique, this question has yet to be adequately answered. Therefore, we have compared cortical maps generated based on the indirect blood oxygenation level-dependent signal of fMRI with maps from microelectrode recording techniques, which directly measure neural activity. Identical somatosensory stimuli were used in both sets of experiments in the same anesthetized macaque monkeys. Our results demonstrate that fMRI can be used to determine the topographic organization of cortical fields with 55% concordance to electrophysiological maps. The variance in the location of fMRI activation was greatest in the plane perpendicular to local vessels. An appreciation of the limitations of fMRI improves our ability to use it effectively to study cortical organization.
At early developmental stages, silent synapses have been commonly found in different brain areas. These synapses are called silent because they do not respond at rest but are functional at positive membrane potentials. A widely accepted interpretation is that N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors are functionally expressed on the subsynaptic membrane. Here we show that, in both CA3 and CA1 hippocampal regions, AMPA-mediated synaptic responses can be detected already at early stages of postnatal development. However, some synapses appear silent because of a very low probability of glutamate release. They can be converted into functional ones by factors that enhance release probability such as paired-pulse stimulation, increasing the temperature or cyclothiazide (CTZ), a drug that blocks AMPA receptor desensitization and increases transmitter release. Conversely, conducting synapses can be switched off by increasing the frequency of stimulation. Although we cannot exclude that &quot;latent AMPA receptors&quot; can become functional after activity-dependent processes, our results clearly indicate that, in the neonatal hippocampus, a proportion of glutamatergic synaptic connections are presynaptically rather than postsynaptically silent.
Conformational states and thermodynamic properties for two similar neuropeptides, GDPFLRF-NH(2) and GYPFLRF-NH(2), have been computed by Monte Carlo simulated annealing (MCSA) conformational searches and Metropolis Monte Carlo (MMC) calculations. These peptides were recently shown to have dramatically different conformations in solution by NMR [Edison et al., J Neuroscience 1999;19:6318-6326]. Final conformations of multiple independent MCSA runs were the starting points for MMC calculations, and conformations saved at intervals during MMC runs were characterized in terms of total energy, configuration entropy, side-chain fraction population, and ensemble average inter-nuclear distances. Without the use of any NMR data-generated pseudo-potentials, the present calculations were in excellent qualitative agreement with all previous NMR experimental data and provided a foundation by which to more quantitatively interpret the experimental NMR results. Proteins 2000;40:367-377.
Proteins used in signal transduction pathways are commonly found in different cell types and organs. However, specific proteins whose expression is highly restricted are also utilized for allowing discrete responsiveness to signals that are otherwise ignored by other cells. How the brain uses common and specific signal proteins for communication within and beyond the cerebrum has been an area of intense study. A new book concentrates on the signaling that occurs in the brain under normal and pathological conditions--memory, apoptosis, neurodegeneration, depression, and drug dependence--and is filled with chapters written by experts in neurobiology and neurophysiology. Bryan Roth reviews the book and discusses in detail several chapters that may lead to promising future research.
Time trends are present in many sequential experiments. Adaptive designs use accruing data to select future design points. It has been observed that the presence of time trends in adaptive designs can bias results of the study. We propose one method of dealing with time trends in analysing adaptive designs. The method, relevance weighted likelihood, weights individual components of the likelihood differently. Consequently, one can downweight earlier data if there is a clear time trend that converges at some point in the study. We apply this methodology to a data set from an adaptive design in neurophysiology. We find that the method is robust and useful in getting more precise estimates of an individual subject's median response.
Although the existence of cholinergic sympathetic vasodilatory innervation in limb muscle vasculature is well established for some species, previous pharmacological studies have failed to reveal the presence of such innervation in rats. Recently, Schafer and colleagues [Schafer, M.K., Eiden, L.E., Weihe, E., 1998. Cholinergic neurons and terminal fields revealed by immunohistochemistry for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. II. The peripheral nervous system. Neuroscience 84(2), 361-376] reported that vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity (VAChT-IR), a marker for cholinergic terminals, is present in the innervation of the microvasculature of rat hindlimb skeletal muscle and concluded that rats possess cholinergic sympathetic innervation of limb muscle vasculature. Because of our interest in identifying targets of cholinergic sympathetic neurons, we have analyzed the transmitter properties of the innervation of muscle vessels in rat and mouse limbs. We found that the innervation of vasculature in muscle is noradrenergic, exhibiting robust catecholamine histofluorescence and immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the peptide transmitters, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and occasionally vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). In contrast, cholinergic phenotypic markers,VAChT-IR and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, are absent. Neuron cell bodies in sympathetic ganglia, retrogradely labeled with injections of tracer into limb muscles, also lacked VAChT but contained TH-IR. The innervation of large extramuscular feed arteries in hindlimbs was also devoid of cholinergic markers, as were the cell bodies of sympathetic neurons innervating extramuscular femoral arteries. These results, like those of previous physiological studies, provide no evidence for the presence of cholinergic sympathetic innervation of muscle vasculature in rats or mice.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is one of several disorders caused by the expansion of a coding CAG repeat (exp-CAG). The presence of intranuclear inclusions (INIs) in patients and cellular models of exp-CAG-associated diseases has lead to a nuclear toxicity model. Similar INIs are found in oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, which is caused by a short expansion of an alanine-encoding GCG repeat. Here we propose that transcriptional or translational frameshifts occurring within expanded CAG tracts result in the production and accumulation of polyalanine-containing mutant proteins. We hypothesize that these alanine polymers deposit in cells forming INIs and may contribute to nuclear toxicity. We show evidence that supports our hypothesis in lymphoblast cells from MJD patients, as well as in pontine neurons of MJD brain and in in vitro cell culture models of the disease. We also provide evidence that alanine polymers alone are harmful to cells and predict that a similar pathogenic mechanism may occur in the other CAG repeat disorders.
We examined the localization and function of the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), a protein highly expressed in steroidogenic tissues and aggressive tumor cells, in cell lines derived from glioblastoma multiforme tumors. In MGM-1 cells, PBR is located in the nucleus, and cells proliferate in response to PBR ligands but do not synthesize steroids de novo. In MGM-3 cells, PBR is located in mitochondria and the cells synthesize steroids, but do not proliferate in response to PBR ligands. In glioblastoma biopsies, PBR is expressed in the nuclei of cells, while it is found in the cytosol of astrocytomas, and is absent from meningioma and medulloblastoma tumor biopsies. These data suggest that the subcellular localization of PBR defines its function.
For progression to clinical trials in stroke, putative neuroprotective compounds should show robust efficacy post-ischaemia in several experimental models of stroke. This paper describes the characterisation of (+)(1S, 2R)-cis-1-[4-(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)phenoxy]-2-methylamino indane hydrochloride (SB-221420-A), a Ca(2+) and Na(+) channel antagonist. SB-221420-A inhibited (IC(50)=2.2 microM) N-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channel currents in cultured superior cervical ganglion neurons, which were pretreated with 10 microM nimodipine to block L-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channel currents. In dorsal root ganglion neurons pretreated with 1 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA to block N-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channel currents, SB-221420-A inhibited the residual Ca(2+) current with an IC(50) of 7 microM. SB-221420-A also inhibited Na(+) currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons with an IC(50) of 8 microM. In rats, the pharmacokinetic profile of SB-221420-A shows that it has a half-life of 6.4 h, a high volume of distribution, is highly brain penetrating, and has no persistent metabolites. Following bilateral carotid artery occlusion in gerbils, SB-221420-A significantly reduced the level of ischaemia-induced hyperlocomotor activity and the extent of hippocampal CA1 cell loss compared to the ischaemic vehicle-treated group. SB-221420-A was also effective in focal models of ischaemia. In the mouse permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model, SB-221420-A (10 mg/kg) administered intravenously, post-ischaemia significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced lesion volume compared to the ischaemic vehicle-treated group. In the normotensive rat permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model, SB-221420-A (10 mg/kg) administered intravenously over 1 h, beginning 30 min postmiddle cerebral artery occlusion, significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced lesion volume from 291+/-16 to 153+/-30 mm(3), compared to ischaemic vehicle-treated controls when measured 24 h postmiddle cerebral artery occlusion. Efficacy was maintained when the same total dose of SB-221420-A was infused over a 6-h period, beginning 30 min postmiddle cerebral artery occlusion. SB-221420-A also significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced lesion volume following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in normotensive rats and permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Investigation of the side effect profile using the Irwin screen in mice revealed that, at neuroprotective doses, there were no overt behavioural or cardiovascular changes. These data demonstrate that robust neuroprotection can be seen post-ischaemia with SB-221420-A in both global and focal ischaemia with no adverse effects at neuroprotective doses, and indicate the potential utility of a mixed cation blocker to improve outcome in cerebral ischaemia.
A novel protein class, termed regulators of G protein signaling (RGS), negatively regulates G protein pathways through a direct interaction with Galpha subunits and stimulation of GTP hydrolysis. An RGS subfamily including RGS6, -7, -9, and -11, which contain a characteristic Ggamma -like domain, also has the unique ability to interact with the G protein beta subunit Gbeta(5). Here, we examined the behavior of Gbeta(5), RGS7, RGS9, and Galpha in tissue extracts using immunoprecipitation and conventional chromatography. Native Gbeta(5) and RGS7 from brain, as well as photoreceptor-specific Gbeta(5)L and RGS9, always co-purified as tightly associated dimers, and neither RGS-free Gbeta(5) nor Gbeta(5)-free RGS could be detected. Co-expression in COS-7 cells of Gbeta(5) dramatically increased the protein level of RGS7 and vice versa, indicating that cells maintain Gbeta(5):RGS stoichiometry in a manner similar to Gbetagamma complexes. This mechanism is non-transcriptional and is based on increased protein stability upon dimerization. Thus, analysis of native Gbeta(5)-RGS and their coupled expression argue that in vivo, Gbeta(5) and Ggamma-like domain-containing RGSs only exist as heterodimers. Native Gbeta(5)-RGS7 did not co-precipitate or co-purify with Galpha(o) or Galpha(q); nor did Gbeta(5)L-RGS9 with Galpha(t). However, in transfected cells, RGS7 and Gbeta(5)-RGS7 inhibited Galpha(q)-mediated Ca(2+) response to muscarinic M3 receptor activation. Thus, Gbeta(5)-RGS dimers differ from other RGS proteins in that they do not bind to Galpha with high affinity, but they can still inhibit G protein signaling.
Saiardi et al. (Saiardi, A., Erdjument-Bromage, H., Snowman, A., Tempst, P., and Snyder, S. H. (1999) Curr. Biol. 9, 1323-1326) previously described the cloning of a kinase from yeast and two kinases from mammals (types 1 and 2), which phosphorylate inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP(6)) to diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate, a &quot;high energy&quot; candidate regulator of cellular trafficking. We have now studied the significance of InsP(6) kinase activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by disrupting the kinase gene. These ip6kDelta cells grew more slowly, their levels of diphosphoinositol polyphosphates were 60-80% lower than wild-type cells, and the cells contained abnormally small and fragmented vacuoles. Novel activities of the mammalian and yeast InsP(6) kinases were identified; inositol pentakisphosphate (InsP(5)) was phosphorylated to diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (PP-InsP(4)), which was further metabolized to a novel compound, tentatively identified as bis-diphosphoinositol trisphosphate. The latter is a new substrate for human diphosphoinositol polyphosphate phosphohydrolase. Kinetic parameters for the mammalian type 1 kinase indicate that InsP(5) (K(m) = 1.2 micrometer) and InsP(6) (K(m) = 6.7 micrometer) compete for phosphorylation in vivo. This is the first time a PP-InsP(4) synthase has been identified. The mammalian type 2 kinase and the yeast kinase are more specialized for the phosphorylation of InsP(6). Synthesis of the diphosphorylated inositol phosphates is thus revealed to be more complex and interdependent than previously envisaged.
We recently described domains II and III as important determinants of fast, voltage-dependent inactivation of R-type calcium channels (Spaetgens, R. L., and Zamponi, G. W. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 22428-22438). Here we examine in greater detail the structural determinants of inactivation using a series of chimeras comprising various regions of wild type alpha(1C) and alpha(1E) calcium channels. Substitution of the II S6 and/or III S6 segments of alpha(1E) into the alpha(1C) backbone resulted in rapid inactivation rates that closely approximated those of wild type alpha(1E) channels. However, neither individual or combined substitution of the II S6 and III S6 segments could account for the 60 mV more negative half-inactivation potential seen with wild type alpha(1E) channels, indicating that the S6 regions contribute only partially to the voltage dependence of inactivation. Interestingly, the converse replacement of alpha(1E) S6 segments of domains II, III, or II+III with those of alpha(1C) was insufficient to significantly slow inactivation rates. Only when the I-II linker region and the domain II and III S6 regions of alpha(1E) were concomitantly replaced with alpha(1C) sequence could inactivation be abolished. Conversely, introduction of the alpha(1E) domain I-II linker sequence into alpha(1C) conferred alpha(1E)-like inactivation rates, indicating that the domain I-II linker is a key contributor to calcium channel inactivation. Overall, our data are consistent with a mechanism in which inactivation of voltage-dependent calcium channels may occur via docking of the I-II linker region to a site comprising, at least in part, the domain II and III S6 segments.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) causes dopaminergic cell loss in mice by inhibiting mitochondrial complex-I through its metabolite, MPP+, which binds to specific sites on complex-I. Since complex-I is highly vulnerable to oxidative stress, we have examined the nature of inhibition of complex-I by MPTP. Both MPTP and MPP+ inhibited complex-I activity, in vitro, in mouse brain slices, which was abolished by prior exposure of brain slices to glutathione. Further, the inhibited complex-I activity rebounded after incubation with disulfide reductant, dithiothreitol. Systemic administration of MPTP to mice resulted in inhibition of complex-I in striatum and midbrain which was also reversed by treatment of mitochondria with dithiothreitol. Inhibition of complex I activity by MPTP may be due to oxidation of thiol group(s) in complex-I, which may be reversed by thiol antioxidants.
The extracellular homeostasis of glutamate in the brain is maintained by the efficient uptake into astroglial cells. The high extracellular glutamate levels seen during seizures are therefore probably a result of both an increased synaptic release and a deranged glutamate uptake. In this study we used immuno-blotting technique to measure the cortical levels of the astrocytic glutamate transport protein (GLT-1) and of the glutamate and aspartate transporting protein (GLAST) in an epilepsy model induced by ferrous chloride injection in the cortex of rats. The levels of GLT-1 were lower in epileptic rats than in controls, day 1 and 5 after induction, but not at 3 months. Glial fibrillary protein (GFAP) levels increased with time in the epileptic model, whereas GLAST and beta-tubulin III remained unchanged compared to controls. The results suggest that the transient decrease of GLT-1 could play a role in epileptogenesis, while recurrent seizure activity may be maintained by other mechanisms.
Agonist affinity changes dramatically as a result of serine to alanine mutations (S193A, S194A, and S197A) within the fifth transmembrane region of D2 dopamine receptors and other receptors for monoamine neurotransmitters. However, agonist 2D-structure does not predict which drugs will be sensitive to which point mutations. Modeling drug-receptor interactions at the 3D level offers considerably more promise in this regard. In particular, a comparison of the same test set of agonists across receptors differing minimally (point mutations) offers promise to enhance the understanding of the structural bases for drug-receptor interactions. We have previously shown that comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) can be applied to comparisons of affinity at recombinant D1 and D2 dopamine receptors for the same set of agonists, a differential QSAR. Here, we predicted agonist K(L) for the same set of agonists at wild type D2 vs S193A, S194A, and S197A receptors using CoMFA. Each model used bromocriptine as the template. ln(1/K(L)) values for the low-affinity agonist binding conformation at recombinant wild type and mutant D2 dopamine receptors stably expressed in C6 glioma cells were used as the target property for the CoMFA of the 16 aligned agonist structures. The resulting CoMFA models yielded cross-validated R(2) (q(2)) values ranging from 0.835 to 0.864 and simple R(2) values ranging from 0.999 to 1.000. Predictions of test compound affinities at WT and each mutant receptor were close to measured affinity values. This finding confirmed the predictive ability of the models and their differences from one another. The results strongly support the idea that CoMFA models of the same training set of compounds applied to WT vs mutant receptors can accurately predict differences in drug affinity at each. Furthermore, in a &quot;proof of principle&quot;, two different templates were used to derive the CoMFA model for the WT and S193A mutant receptors. Pergolide was chosen as an alternate template because it showed a significant increase in affinity as a result of the S193A mutation. In this instance both the bromocriptine- and pergolide-based CoMFA models were similar to one another but different from those for the WT receptor using bromocriptine- or pergolide- as templates. The pergolide-based S193A model was more strikingly different from that of the WT receptor than was the bromocriptine-based S193A model. This suggests that a &quot;dual-template&quot; approach to differential CoMFA may have special value in elucidating key differences across related receptor types and in determining important elements of the drug-receptor interaction.
The early steps that lead to the rise in calcium and egg activation at fertilization are unknown but of great interest--particularly with the advent of in vitro fertilization techniques for treating male infertility and whole-animal cloning by nuclear transfer. This calcium rise is required for egg activation and the subsequent events of development in eggs of all species. Injection of intact sperm or sperm extracts can activate eggs, suggesting that sperm-derived factors may be involved. Here we show that nitric oxide synthase is present at high concentration and active in sperm after activation by the acrosome reaction. An increase in nitrosation within eggs is evident seconds after insemination and precedes the calcium pulse of fertilization. Microinjection of nitric oxide donors or recombinant nitric oxide synthase recapitulates events of egg activation, whereas prior injection of oxyhaemoglobin, a physiological nitric oxide scavenger, prevents egg activation after fertilization. We conclude that nitric oxide synthase and nitric-oxide-related bioactivity satisfy the primary criteria of an egg activator: they are present in an appropriate place, active at an appropriate time, and are necessary and sufficient for successful fertilization.
Malformations of cortical development (MCD) account for a high proportion of medically resistant partial seizures in children and figure prominently in pediatric surgical series. In contrast to the results of epilepsy surgery for postnatally acquired lesions, seizure freedom in patients with MCD is less certain owing to difficulties in defining the epileptic zone, and fully excising the epileptogenic cortex. The authors present evidence that, compared with postnatally acquired lesions such as those due to tumors or trauma, focal epileptogenesis associated with MCD is best conceptualized as a disorder of widespread and patchy disturbance of cortical networks. This developmental perspective implies that the epileptogenic region in MCD is rarely discrete even in patients with focal anatomic lesions, and may include remote cortical or subcortical areas. Preoperative investigative protocols based on this model have improved surgical results, but outcome remains far from optimal and further progress in understanding the complex developmentally based features of MCD is required.



Expression of the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) by different classes of spinal neuron has been shown to be developmentally regulated in both rat and monkey. From postmortem studies of eight human cervical spinal cords ranging in age from 11 to 35 weeks postconceptional age, we report that parvalbumin immunoreactivity is similarly plastic in human lower cervical spinal cord development, with many changes occurring prenatally. At 11-14 weeks postconceptional age, there was prominent immunostaining of primary sensory afferents that could be seen coursing through the dorsal horn and extensively innervating the motoneuron pools. Motoneurons were also found to be clearly immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase by this age. A few ventral horn neurons that were not motoneurons were also parvalbumin immunoreactive. By 24-27 weeks postconceptional age, sensory afferents were still immunoreactive, as were many other axons throughout the white matter. In addition, many ventral horn neurons were now immunoreactive as well as a few dorsal horn neurons. By 31-35 weeks postconceptional age, there was extensive immunostaining of neurons throughout the spinal cord, including a few moderately immunoreactive motoneurons. There were many immunopositive axons in all the white matter tracts except the corticospinal tracts; however, staining of sensory axons traversing the grey matter was less prominent by this age. In the rat, expression of PV by primary sensory neurons coincides with the onset of fetal limb movement. The onset of expression of PV in ventral horn neurons coincides with later developmental events after the arrival of corticospinal inputs, whereas widespread PV immunoreactivity in dorsal horn neurons marks the attainment of a mature pattern of PV expression. The extent to which expression of PV immunoreactivity can be taken to indicate landmarks in human development will be discussed.
The ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) in mice first emerges as a histologically distinct cell cluster around embryonic day 17 (E17). The earliest known marker for cells destined to form the VMH is the orphan nuclear receptor, steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1), which can be detected in the hypothalamic primordium by E11. Strikingly, the VMH is absent in newborn SF-1 knockout mice, suggesting that SF-1 is essential for the development of VMH neurons. We reported previously that the VMH can be identified before it emerges as a histologically distinct nucleus (i.e., at E13) by the exclusion of cells that are immunoreactive for both gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and the synthetic enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67). Subsequently, by E15, the developing VMH is demarcated further by cells that are immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y, estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), and galanin. It is noteworthy that the normal exclusion of GABA from the developing VMH is not seen in SF-1 knockout mice, and cells that are immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y, ERalpha, and galanin also are distributed aberrantly in this region. Thus, the absence of SF-1 profoundly affects the cellular architecture of the VMH from early stages in its formation. These data suggest that, directly or indirectly, SF-1 plays important roles in determining the distribution of cells in the mediobasal hypothalamus.
Semaphorins provide signals that guide growing axons to their appropriate destinations. The secreted semaphorin, Sema3A, mediates repulsive effects on axons from various neuronal populations in embryonic rats. The authors localized Sema3A mRNA expression in the primary olfactory pathway during development, in adult rats, and in adult rats that were subjected to a unilateral olfactory bulbectomy. Developing rats at ages from embryonic day 14 (E14) to E19 expressed Sema3A in the olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) of the olfactory epithelium and in chondrogenic structures surrounding the nasal cavity. In vitro, ORN axons at E14 avoided substrate-bound Sema3A. Low levels of Sema3A expression persisted in the normal adult epithelium both in ORNs scattered throughout the epithelium and in small clusters. Three days after a unilateral olfactory bulbectomy, Sema3A transcript levels increased in regenerating neurons. High levels of Sema3A transcript were found at 1 week postbulbectomy, persisted for 2 weeks, and diminished by 3 weeks. Several other murine semaphorins (Sema4A, Sema4B, and Sema4C) were expressed differentially in the primary olfactory pathway both during development and regeneration. These findings suggest that Sema3A and perhaps other semaphorins play a role in directing ORNs out of the epithelium and to the olfactory bulb, their target structure, during both development and regeneration.

By using a double immunofluorescence method we examined the distribution of noradrenergic neurons expressing substance P receptor (NK1) or neuromedin K receptor (NK3) in the rat brainstem. The distribution of SPR-like immunoreactive (-LI) neurons completely overlapped that of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-LI neurons in the locus coeruleus (A6), ventrolateral and lateral reticular formation of pons (A5 and A7). Partially overlapping distribution of SPR- and TH-LI neurons were found in certain regions of the medulla oblongata (A1-A4). Neurons showing both SPR- and TH-like immunoreactivities, however, were only found in the locus coeruleus complex (A5-A7): 100% of these TH-LI neurons displayed SPR-like immunoreactivity. Neurons showing both NKR- and TH-like immunoreactivities were not detected in the aforementioned areas of brainstem. The present study has provided morphological evidence for direct physiological modulation of noradrenergic neurons by tachykinins through SPR in locus coeruleus complex (A5-A7).
The espins are actin-bundling proteins of brush border microvilli and Sertoli cell-spermatid junctions. We have determined that espins are also present in hair cell stereocilia and have uncovered a connection between the espin gene and jerker, a recessive mutation that causes hair cell degeneration, deafness, and vestibular dysfunction. The espin gene maps to the same region of mouse chromosome 4 as jerker. The tissues of jerker mice do not accumulate espin proteins but contain normal levels of espin mRNAs. The espin gene of jerker mice has a frameshift mutation that affects the espin C-terminal actin-bundling module. These data suggest that jerker mice are, in effect, espin null and that the jerker phenotype results from a mutation in the espin gene.
We investigated the effects of mild oxidation on protein kinase C (PKC) using the xanthine/xanthine oxidase system of generating superoxide. Exposure of various PKC preparations to superoxide stimulated the autonomous activity of PKC. Similarly, thiol oxidation increased autonomous PKC activity, consistent with the notion that superoxide stimulates PKC via thiol oxidation. The superoxide-induced stimulation of PKC activity was partially reversed by reducing agents, suggesting that disulfide bond formation contributed to the oxidative stimulation of PKC. In addition, superoxide increased the autonomous activity of the alpha, beta(II), epsilon, and zeta PKC isoforms, all of which contain at least one cysteine-rich region. Taken together, our observations suggested that superoxide interacts with PKC at the cysteine-rich region, zinc finger motif of the enzyme. Therefore, we examined the effects of superoxide on this region by testing the hypothesis that superoxide stimulates PKC by promoting the release of zinc from PKC. We found that a zinc chelator stimulated the autonomous activity of PKC and that superoxide induced zinc release from an PKC-enriched enzyme preparation. In addition, oxidized PKC contained significantly less zinc than reduced PKC. Finally, we have isolated a persistent, autonomously active PKC by DEAE-cellulose column chromatography from hippocampal slices incubated with superoxide. Taken together, these data suggest that superoxide stimulates autonomous PKC activity via thiol oxidation and release of zinc from cysteine-rich region of PKC.
Phosphorylation-deficient serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptors were generated to determine whether phosphorylation promotes desensitization of receptor responses. Phosphorylation of mutant 5-HT(2C) receptors that lack the carboxyl-terminal PDZ recognition motif (Ser(458)-Ser-Val-COOH; DeltaPDZ) was not detectable based on a band-shift phosphorylation assay and incorporation of (32)P. Treatment of cells stably expressing DeltaPDZ or wild-type 5-HT(2C) receptors with serotonin produced identical maximal responses and EC(50) values for eliciting [(3)H]inositol phosphate formation. In calcium imaging studies, treatment of cells expressing DeltaPDZ or wild-type 5-HT(2C) receptors with 100 nm serotonin elicited initial maximal responses and decay rates that were indistinguishable. However, a second application of serotonin 2.5 min after washout caused maximal responses that were approximately 5-fold lower with DeltaPDZ receptors relative to wild-type 5-HT(2C) receptors. After 10 min, responses of DeltaPDZ receptors recovered to wild-type 5-HT(2C) receptor levels. Receptors with single mutations at Ser(458) (S458A) or Ser(459) (S459A) decreased serotonin-mediated phosphorylation to 50% of wild-type receptor levels. Furthermore, subsequent calcium responses of S459A receptors were diminished relative to S458A and wild-type receptors. These results establish that desensitization occurs in the absence of 5-HT(2C) receptor phosphorylation and suggest that receptor phosphorylation at Ser(459) enhances resensitization of 5-HT(2C) receptor responses.
Calcium influx through the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor and activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) are critical events in certain forms of synaptic plasticity. We have previously shown that autophosphorylation of CaMKII induces high-affinity binding to the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor (Strack, S., and Colbran, R. J. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 20689-20692). Here, we show that residues 1290-1309 in the cytosolic tail of NR2B are critical for CaMKII binding and identify by site-directed mutagenesis several key residues (Lys(1292), Leu(1298), Arg(1299), Arg(1300), Gln(1301), and Ser(1303)). Phosphorylation of NR2B at Ser(1303) by CaMKII inhibits binding and promotes slow dissociation of preformed CaMKII.NR2B complexes. Peptide competition studies imply a role for the CaMKII catalytic domain, but not the substrate-binding pocket, in the association with NR2B. However, analysis of monomeric CaMKII mutants indicates that the holoenzyme structure may also be important for stable association with NR2B. Residues 1260-1316 of NR2B are sufficient to direct the subcellular localization of CaMKII in intact cells and to confer dynamic regulation by calcium influx. Furthermore, mutation of residues in the CaMKII-binding domain in full-length NR2B bidirectionally modulates colocalization with CaMKII after NMDA receptor activation, suggesting a dynamic model for the translocation of CaMKII to postsynaptic targets.
Antibodies against the C-terminus of the beta1-adrenergic receptor were used for staining cultured astrocytes from the rat cerebral cortex. Immunoreactivity was found to be localized exclusively to an intracellular organelle structure similar to the Golgi complex, with no staining of the plasma membrane. The astrocytes stained positive with BODIPY CGP 12177, a FITC-conjugated beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, and this staining was blocked by the beta1-adrenergic antagonist atenolol, indicating that these receptors are expressed on the surface of the astrocytes. The presence of functional plasma membrane beta1-adrenergic receptors was further verified using microspectrofluorometry for measurements of intracellular calcium changes upon beta-adrenergic agonist stimulation. Intracellular immunoreactivity confined to the organelles was also found in astrocytes from mixed astroglial-neuronal cultures. In contrast, the neurons in these cultures showed a strong labeling of the cell bodies by the beta1-adrenergic receptor antibodies. Thus, the beta1-adrenergic receptor antibody, which stains the cell bodies of the neurons, recognizes the astroglial receptors only intracellularly, although functional beta1-adrenergic receptors are present on the astroglial surface. Taken together, these data suggest that the beta1-adrenergic receptors observed intracellularly might be processed on their passage to the surface to a modified form of the final plasma membrane receptor, which is not recognized by the antibodies.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator in the hippocampus acting mainly via inhibitory A(1) receptors but also via facilitatory A(2A) receptors. We now investigated the transducing system operated by hippocampal A(2A) receptors. The selective A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (10 nM), facilitated synaptic transmission by 14%, an effect not modified by the phosphodiesterase IV inhibitor, rolipram (30 microM), or by the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin (3 microM), or by the protein kinase A inhibitor, HA-1004 (10 microM), but nearly abolished by the protein kinase C inhibitors, chelerythrine (6 microM) or bisindolylmaleimide I (1 microM). Inhibition of protein kinase C also prevented the A(2A) receptor-induced attenuation of A(1) receptor-mediated inhibition of hippocampal synaptic transmission. These results indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor facilitation of hippocampal synaptic transmission involves protein kinase C rather than protein kinase A activation.
In contrast to the highly patchy patterns of Fos-like immunoreactivity seen in the rostral striatum after administration of a number of dopamine agonists, the monoamine uptake blocker cocaine has been reported to produce a relatively homogeneous pattern of gene expression. In the current study we extended these observations by using a quantitative technique to demonstrate that while amphetamine and apomorphine produce patchy striatal Fos expression, the selective dopamine uptake inhibitors amfonelic acid, nomifensine and GBR-12909 all, like cocaine, produce near random patterns of gene expression. These findings suggest that the production of relatively 'non-patchy' patterns of immediate early gene expression may be a general property of dopamine transport inhibitors unrelated to any unique pharmacological properties of cocaine.
Although roles of neurotrophin-3 (NT3) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) are suggested for sympathetic neuron development, survival activity of either NT3 or GDNF alone on cultured embryonic rat sympathetic neurons is low (10-20%). We demonstrate that a combination of both NT3 and GDNF exerts a remarkable survival activity (85%). NT3 and GDNF did not affect expression levels of their receptors. However, stimulation with both NT3 and GDNF caused tyrosine-phosphorylation of Ret/GDNF-receptor at a level higher than that caused by GDNF alone. Furthermore, stimulation with both GDNF and NT3 induced an enhanced Thr308-phosphorylation of Akt kinase. These results suggest that the actions of NT3 and GDNF converge at the Ret/GDNF-receptor to enhance survival of the developing sympathetic neurons through activation of the phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase/Akt pathway.
Event-related (ER) fMRI has evoked great interest due to the ability to depict the dynamic features of human brain function during various cognitive tasks. Thus far, all cognitive ER-fMRI studies have been based on blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast techniques. Compared with BOLD-based fMRI techniques, perfusion-based fMRI is able to localize the region of neuronal activity more accurately. This report demonstrates, for the first time, the detection of the brain response to a cognitive task using high temporal resolution perfusion-based ER-fMRI. An English verb generation task was used in this study. Results show that perfusion-based ER-fMRI accurately depicts the activation in Broca's area. Average changes in regional relative cerebral blood flow reached a maximum value of 30.7% at approximately 6.5 s after the start of stimulation and returned to 10% of the maximum value at approximately 12.8 s. Our results show that perfusion-based ER-fMRI is a useful tool for cognitive neuroscience studies, providing comparable temporal resolution and better localization of brain function than BOLD ER-fMRI.
This study was performed to explore the potential role of mitochondrial DNA mutations in the neurodegenerative process in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Using a semi-quantitative assay, a common mitochondrial DNA deletion mutation (mt DNA4977) was assayed in brain tissue obtained from six sporadic ALS patients and compared to four controls. In each brain, levels of this mutation were measured in a brain region affected by neurodegeneration, the motor cortex (Brodmann area 4), and compared to the temporal cortex (Brodmann area 17). In the ALS but not control brains, levels of mt DNA4977 were an average of more than 30-fold (range 15-250) higher in Brodmann area 4. These results support and extend those of previous studies implying that mitochondria may participate in the neurodegenerative process in ALS.
Central effects of psychostimulants such as cocaine are predominantly mediated by dopamine receptors. We have used mice with a targeted deletion of the D3 dopamine receptor subtype to investigate the role of this receptor in the regulation of gene expression in striatal neurons and behavior by acute and repeated treatment with cocaine (25 mg/kg). In mice lacking D3 receptors, acute administration of cocaine has more pronounced stimulatory effects on c-fos and dynorphin expression in the dorsal and ventral striatum. The behavioral response to cocaine is also increased in these mice. These findings indicate that the D3 receptor plays an inhibitory role in the action of cocaine on behavior and gene regulation in the striatum.
The regional distribution of c-Fos expression in the brain after the administration of two tremorgenic agents was studied. In both the harmaline- and oxotremorin-treated rats, c-Fos-positive neurons were extensively distributed in the basal ganglia nuclei and the cerebellum. Additionally, in the harmaline-treated rats, numerous c-Fos-positive neurons were also distributed throughout the inferior olivary nucleus. In the oxotremorine-treated rats, while the inferior olive was not involved, c-Fos was strongly expressed in the neurons of the reticular thalamic nucleus, possibly due to the muscarinic effects of oxotremorine. The present study revealed that the inferior olive is selectively activated in the harmaline-administered animals and that the basal ganglia are involved in both harmaline- and oxotremorine-induced tremors.
Boucart and Humphreys reported an automatic access to object identity when observers attend to a physical property of the form of an object (e.g. the orientation) but not to its colour. We sought evidence for automatic identification in a brain imaging study using fMRI. In an orientation decision task participants decided whether a picture was vertical or horizontal. In the colour decision task participants decided if a picture was blue or green. Activation of areas 18-19 was found for both color and orientation. Activation of the temporal area 37 occurred more frequently in the orientation than in the colour decision task. This result suggests that automatic identification activates the same brain area as overt processing of semantic information.
Here we describe response in the human amygdala to the presentation of racial outgroup vs ingroup faces. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measures of brain activity were acquired while subjects who identified themselves as White or Black viewed photographs of both White and Black faces. Across all subjects, we observed significantly greater blood oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal in the amygdala to outgroup vs ingroup faces, but only during later stimulus presentations. A region of interest (ROI)-based analysis of these voxels revealed a significant interaction between amygdala response to outgroup and ingroup faces over time. Specifically, the greater amygdala activation to outgroup faces during later stimulus presentations was the result of amygdala response habituation to repeated presentations of ingroup faces with sustained responses to outgroup faces. The present results suggest that amygdala responses to human face stimuli are affected by the relationship between the perceived race of the stimulus face and that of the subject. Results are discussed as consistent with a role for the amygdala in encoding socially and/or biologically relevant information. We conclude that researchers seeking to study brain responses to face stimuli in human subjects should consider the relationship between the race of subjects and stimuli as a significant potential source of variance. Moreover, these data provide a foundation for future related studies in the neuroscience of social cognition and race.
The effect of sodium azide (NaN(3)) upon platelet Ca(2+) signalling has been investigated. A 60 s preincubation with 1 mM NaN(3) reduced the Ca(2+) response to 1 microM serotonin without a corresponding reduction in the responses to 52 mU/ml thrombin or 70 microM beta-amyloid(25-35) (A beta(25-35)). The effect of NaN(3) upon the response to serotonin, which was not blocked by either glutathione ethyl ester (GTEE) or dithiothreitol (DTT), was similar in platelets obtained from patients with Alzheimer's disease and from age- and gender-matched controls. After a preincubation time of 5 min was used, the Ca(2+) response to thrombin was greatly reduced by 1 mM NaN(3), but not by 50 microM 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE, 50 microM). Platelet levels of HNE and malondialdehyde were not significantly affected by up to 30 min of incubation with NaN(3) at room temperature. It is concluded that the rapid effect of NaN(3) upon the Ca(2+) response to serotonin in human platelets is not mediated by an inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase, and is due to an action proximal to phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C.
APP is a precursor of beta amyloid deposited in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although genetic studies established that mutations in APP cause familial AD (FAD), the mechanism for neuronal death by FAD mutants has not been well understood. We established neuronal cells (F11/EcR/V642I cells) in which V642I APP was inducibly expressed by ecdysone. Treatment with ecdysone, but not vehicle, killed most cells within a few days, with rounding, shrinkage, and detachment as well as nuclear fragmentation. Death was suppressed by Ac-DEVD-CHO and pertussis toxin. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that apoptosis occurred in ecdysone-treated cells. V642I-APP-induced death was suppressed by the anti-AD factors estrogen and apoE2. These data demonstrate not only that expression of this FAD gene causes neuronal apoptosis, but that F11/EcR/V642I cells, the first neuronal cells with inducible FAD gene expression, provide a useful model system in investigating AD disorders.
The genomic region containing the genes encoding the first leukotriene B(4) receptor, BLTR, as well as the recently cloned second leukotriene B(4)-activated receptor, BLTR2, was mapped by (a) sequence analysis of a human bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library containing a 15-kb segment corresponding to chromosome 14q11. 2-12 where the BLTR/BLTR2 genes were previously shown to be located, together with (b) sequence analysis of 83 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from this region. The BLTR gene includes four different 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) and a mutual acceptor site for the exon containing the intronless open reading frame. The BLTR2 gene is intronless and overlapped by a 5' UTR splice version of BLTR and, on the reverse strand, of the apoptosis-related CIDE-B gene. This indicates a complex posttranscriptional gene regulation. Further adding to the complexity of the region is evidence of a fourth putative and novel gene, most homologous to the rat adenylyl cyclase IV gene.
By homology screening using BLAST searches of expressed sequence tags (ESTs), we have found a previously unidentified cDNA encoding a putative seven-transmembrane receptor with highest similarity to the leukotriene B(4) receptor, BLTR. Analysis of calcium flow in transfected cells, along with sequence analysis, revealed that the EST encoded a functionally inactive protein, lacking the segment corresponding to the C-terminal part of the putative receptor protein. The missing segment was obtained by PCR amplification of a human leukocyte cDNA library and ligated to the truncated EST cDNA. The novel cDNA encodes a full-length receptor with 39% identity to the previously cloned BLTR. Studies of intracellular calcium flow of transfected HeLa cells exposed to various leukotrienes showed that also the novel BLTR-like receptor can be activated by leukotriene B(4), and it is therefore tentatively named BLTR2.
In the brain, Dp71 is the most abundant protein product of the DMD gene and by alternative splicing of exon 78 two isoforms can be expressed, Dp71d and Dp71f. To explore the subcellular distribution of these Dp71 isoforms, specific monoclonal antibodies were used. Dp71d (with exon 78) was found in microsomes, while Dp71f (without exon 78) was detected in mitochondria. To determine the alterations which the absence of dystrophin proteins induces, we compared the expression of Dp71d in microsomes and Dp71f in mitochondria from mdx and mdx(3CV) mice. Dp71d in microsomes of mdx was similar to that of wild-type mice and, as expected, in mdx(3CV) this protein was undetectable. However, in mitochondria from mdx(3CV), Dp71f was overexpressed in comparison to mitochondria from mdx mice. Because in mdx(3CV) mice all the dystrophin proteins are mutated or diminished, we concluded that the protein detected in mitochondria is not a Dp71f but a novel product named Dp71f-like protein.
Immunohistochemical expression of doublecortin (DCX), KIAA0369 (KIA) and LIS1 proteins as well as nestin and vimentin in the cerebral cortices of six patients with Zellweger syndrome (ZS), aged 19 gestational weeks (GW) to 8 months, was compared with that in nine controls, aged 12 GW to 8 months. DCX immunoreactivity was apparently reduced in ZS, particularly in the cortical plate of fetuses, and in the subependymal foci of heterotopic neurons of the infants. Reduced expression of DCX in ZS was confirmed by Western blot analysis. On the other hand, neuronal expression of nestin was high in the cortical plate, migrating cells of the white matter and germinal cells in the ventricular zone in fetuses with ZS. Immunoreactivities for KIA, LIS1 and vimentin in ZS were comparable to those of controls. Reduced expression of DCX may be responsible for the neuronal migration disorder, and increased expression of nestin may be another evidence for delayed neuronal maturation in ZS.

A new theoretical model of craving is needed that uses a common language and standardized measures. The new conceptual model must fully integrate discoveries from cellular biology, neuroscience, animal and human laboratory, cognitive-behavioral social learning and socio-cultural disciplines. A transdisciplinary synthesis can then guide methods and measurement development. Mapping the structural pathways and interactions among mediators and moderators of craving will improve the diagnostic and prognostic tools in order to inform new treatments and prevention strategies.
Alcohol self-administration behavior is the common thread that is necessary to bring the insights of neuroscience, behavioral science and clinical science into synchrony around the concept of craving. Animal models should address the molecular and cellular changes that take place in behaviorally relevant brain regions of rats consequent to chronic self-administration of ethanol. Animal models can focus on the biology of the anticipatory state in alcohol preferring/consuming rats, as well as studies of the effects of possible medications on this state in the animal model, on actual alcohol consuming behavior, and on the residual effects of chronic alcohol on the non-human mammalian brain. In human studies of craving, cue-reactivity in the absence of the opportunity to drink alcohol does not have the same salience as cue-reactivity in which drinking is possible. Moreover, actual drinking behavior serves to validate self-reports of craving. Studies of limited alcohol self-administration in the laboratory are an essential element in screening new medications for the treatment of alcoholism. Studies to date suggest no adverse reaction to the participation of alcoholic subjects in limited alcohol self-administration studies, but the research community should continue to monitor carefully the outcomes of alcohol-dependent subjects who participate in this type of research, and efforts should always be made to encourage these subjects to enter active treatment. In outpatient clinical trials of new treatments for alcoholism, the assessment of craving should include queries regarding symptoms and signs of protracted abstinence such as sleep disturbances, as well as questions regarding situational craving. Field observations of alcoholics in their favorite drinking environments would contribute greatly to our understanding of the real-world phenomenology of craving.
All drugs of abuse have been shown to act either directly or indirectly by increasing dopamine neurotransmission within the limbic system. Thus, alcohol has been shown to increase dopamine transmission primarily by activating dopamine cell spike activity, whereas psychostimulants increase dopamine transmission by inhibiting the removal of dopamine from the synaptic space after its release. The spike-dependent release of dopamine that is modulated by drugs of abuse to lead to their rewarding actions has been termed the phasic dopamine response. In contrast, with repeated drug administration, dopamine will also accumulate in the extracellular space of the nucleus accumbens in concentrations too low to stimulate postsynaptic receptors, but of sufficient magnitude to activate dopamine release-inhibiting autoreceptors. In addition, the level of extracellular dopamine is proposed to be under the regulatory influence of cortico-accumbens afferents. This steady-state level of extrasynaptic dopamine has been termed the tonic dopamine response. In this paper it is proposed that several of the aspects of drug addiction, withdrawal and craving associated with the continued use of these drugs can be explained on the basis of their effects on tonic versus phasic dopamine system function. Thus, the increase in tonic dopamine levels that occurs with repeated drug administration would serve to oppose phasic dopamine release via stimulation of dopamine terminal autoreceptors, causing the subject to increase drug administration to restore the phasic response. Moreover, after withdrawal from the drugs, exposure to priming doses of drug or to drug-related stimuli are proposed to increase tonic dopamine levels, again triggering drug-seeking behavior in order to restore balance between the tonic and phasic dopamine systems. Therefore, one consequence of continued drug use is that these parameters of dopamine system function that normally serve to keep the system stable will enter into a new steady-state homeostasis, from which the system is particularly susceptible to destabilizing influences that may precipitate relapse.
The question of addiction specifically concerns (1), the process by which drug-taking behavior, in certain individuals, evolves into compulsive patterns of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior that take place at the expense of most other activities and (2), the inability to cease drug-taking; the problem of relapse. In this paper current biopsychological views of addiction are critically evaluated in light of the &quot;incentive-sensitization theory of addiction&quot;, which we first proposed in 1993, and new developments in research are incorporated. We argue that traditional negative reinforcement, positive reinforcement, and hedonic accounts of addiction are neither necessary nor sufficient to account for compulsive patterns of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. Four major tenets of the incentive-sensitization view are discussed. These are: (1) Potentially addictive drugs share the ability to produce long-lasting adaptations in neural systems. (2) The brain systems that are changed include those normally involved in the process of incentive motivation and reward. (3) The critical neuroadaptations for addiction render these brain reward systems hypersensitive (&quot;sensitized&quot;) to drugs and drug-associated stimuli. (4) The brain systems that are sensitized do not mediate the pleasurable or euphoric effects of drugs (drug &quot;liking&quot;), but instead they mediate a subcomponent of reward we have termed incentive salience (drug &quot;wanting&quot;). We also discuss the role that mesolimbic dopamine systems play in reward, evidence that neural sensitization happens in humans, and the implications of incentive-sensitization for the development of therapies in the treatment of addiction.
The aim of this paper is to 'look behind the statistics' and to study alcohol-related problems over time and to portray the recovery (treated and untreated) from these problems over the life course in a subset of 41 males, defined as DSM-IV alcoholics from the Lundby general population project. The subjects were interviewed with semi-structured interviews by a psychiatrist. There was only minimal attrition. An analysis was made of the distribution of alcohol-related problems among the current alcoholic group compared to the recovered one at follow-up. Due to the limited number of subjects the calculations were mainly descriptive. The dominant problems were medical (64% vs. 25%), mental (45% vs. 17%), family (27% vs. 0%) and work (18% vs. 8%). The overall functioning assessed by the GAF scale implied a change from continuous to transient symptoms and problems in the recovered group. The subjects' attributions of reasons for recovery were social stabilization (84%), treatment (58%), family and peer pressure (58%) and medical complications (33%). It is argued that the qualitative findings might be used to complement the large statistical investigations in order to understand how to link alcohol-related problems and social consequences to the life course studies.
Abnormal accumulation of the presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Because neurodegeneration in these conditions might be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, the effects of alpha-synuclein were investigated in a hypothalamic neuronal cell line (GT1-7). alpha-Synuclein overexpression in these cells resulted in formation of alpha-synuclein-immunopositive inclusion-like structures and mitochondrial alterations accompanied by increased levels of free radicals and decreased secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. These alterations were ameliorated by pretreatment with anti-oxidants such as vitamin E. Taken together these results suggest that abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein could lead to mitochondrial alterations that may result in oxidative stress and, eventually, cell death.
Injection of rats either with diazoxide (25 mg/kg iv), isoproterenol (0.33 mg/kg sc), or hydralazine (HDZ) (10 mg/kg ip) decreased arterial blood pressure from approximately 120 to 70-80 mmHg and stimulated renin secretion. However, diazoxide and isoproterenol treatments each stimulated water ingestion, whereas HDZ treatment did not. HDZ treatment did not reduce water intake evoked by systemic injection of hypertonic saline or 20% polyethylene glycol solution or by 24-h water deprivation, suggesting that HDZ treatment did not interfere with drinking behavior. In contrast, HDZ treatment markedly reduced water intake evoked by injection of diazoxide or isoproterenol or by intravenous infusion of renin. Furthermore, a highly significant correlation was observed when plasma ANG II levels were plotted as a function of plasma renin activity after intravenous infusion of renin and after diazoxide and isoproterenol treatments. However, values obtained after HDZ treatment alone or in combination with intravenous infusion of renin did not fall near the 99% confidence interval of the regression line, suggesting that HDZ treatment blocks ANG II production and/or promotes its clearance. Thus rats apparently do not increase water intake after HDZ treatment, because this drug interferes with the renin-angiotensin system. These results provide further evidence that arterial hypotension evokes thirst in rats predominantly by activation of the renin-angiotensin system.
Astronauts usually work under much mental stress. However, it is unclear how and whether or not an exposure to microgravity affects physiological response to mental stress in humans. To examine effects of microgravity on vasomotor sympathetic and peripheral vasodilator responses to mental stress, we performed 10 min of mental arithmetic (MA) before and after 14 days of 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR), a ground-based simulation of spaceflight. Total muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA, measured by microneurography) slightly increased during MA before HDBR, and this increase was augmented after HDBR. Calf blood flow (measured by venous occlusion plethysmography) increased and calf vascular resistance (calculated by dividing mean blood pressure by calf blood flow) decreased during MA before HDBR, but these responses were abolished after HDBR. Increases in heart rate and mean blood pressure during MA were not different between before and after HDBR. These findings suggest that HDBR augmented vasomotor sympathoexcitation but attenuated vasodilatation in the calf muscle in response to mental stress.

We report on the transient, patterned expression of p75 in the ventrobasal (VB) thalamus, the major thalamic relay for somatosensation. We immunostained the brains of developing rats ranging in age from embryonic day (E) 14.5 to postnatal day (PD) 15 with an antibody against p75. To compare p75 expression with the developing synaptic organization within VB, we also immunolocalized the synaptic-vesicle-associated protein, synaptophysin (SYN), on alternate sections. p75-immunoreactivity (IR) was dense and uniform in the ventroposterior medial nucleus (VPM) in the late embryonic and early postnatal periods (E 16.5 to PD 3). In contrast, from PD 4-10, p75-IR in the VPM was patterned, reminiscent of cytochrome-oxidase-stained barreloids, a characteristic feature of the VB in rodents. By PD 14, p75-IR in the VPM was no longer detectable. The ventroposterior lateral nucleus (VPL), in contrast, exhibited no p75-IR. No p75-IR was detected in the ventroposterior lateral nucleus (VPL) at any developmental stage in which VPM could be distinguished from VPL. Light, but clearly patterned SYN-IR, first detectable on PD 2-3, increased in intensity in both VPL and VPM through PD 15. Sectioning the infraorbital nerve on PD 0 resulted in blurred patterns of p75- and SYN-IR within VPM in PD 7-9 rat pups. Removing large portions of the somatosensory cortex on PD 0 resulted in subsequent greatly reduced p75- and SYN-IR within VB. To specify the source of the p75-IR terminals, we stereotaxically injected into the VPM of PD 4-5 rats a monoclonal antibody to p75. One to 2 days later, IR of retrogradely transported p75 antibodies could be traced within axons and cell bodies of neurons associated with the trigeminothalamic pathway through the caudal diencephalon and mesencephalon; labelling was confined to the contralateral trigeminal principal sensory nucleus. The observed, transiently patterned p75-IR in VPM the early postpartum period suggests a role for p75 in synaptogenesis and pattern formation.
The significance of the route for administration of murine recombinant interferon-beta (IFN-beta) for inducing its therapeutic effects has been studied. BALB/c mice were daily injected intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously with 1.5x10(3), 1. 5x10(4), or 1.5x10(5) IU of IFN-beta, from one day before to 8th day after mouse hepatitis virus (MHV-2) challenge. All mice received IFN-beta survived significantly longer than those without IFN. In the liver of those IFN-treated mice, viral growth and the histopathological damages were extremely alleviated. These results suggest that, irrespective of the differences in the route of administration, IFN-beta markedly suppressed viral activity when its administration was started prior to viral infection. For clinical use, however, further studies are needed on the optimal route for administration if IFN-beta is given after viral infection.
Changes in the concentrations of protein-mixed disulfides (XS-SP) of glutathione (GSH), cysteine (CSH), and cysteinylglycine (CGSH) were studied in human platelets treated with diamide and t-BOOH in timecourse experiments (time range, 1-30 min) in order to understand the contribution of minor thiols CSH and CGSH to the regulation of glutathione-protein mixed disulfides (GS-SP). Diamide was much more potent than t-BOOH in altering the platelet thiol composition of XS-SP (threshold dose: diamide, 0.03 mM; t-BOOH, 0.5 mM) and caused reversible XS-SP peaks whose magnitude was related to the concentration of free thiols in untreated cells. Thus maximum levels of GS-SP (8 min after 0.4 mM diamide) were about 16-fold higher than those of controls (untreated platelets, GS-SP = 0.374 nmol/10(9) platelets), whereas those of CS-SP and CGS-SP were only 4-fold increased (untreated platelets, CS-SP = 0.112 nmol/10(9) platelets; CGS-SP = 0.024 nmol/10(9) platelets). The greater effects of diamide with respect to t-BOOH were explained on the basis of the activities of fast reactive protein SH groups for diamide and glutathione reductase (GR) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) for t-BOOH. The addition of cysteine (0.3 mM, at 4 min) after treatment of platelets with 0.4 mM diamide increased the rate of reversal of GS-SP peaks to normal values, but also caused a relevant change in CGS-SP with respect to that of platelets treated with diamide alone. An increased gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity was found in platelets treated with diamide. Moreover, untreated platelets were found to release and hydrolyze GSH to CGSH and CSH. Ratios of thiols/disulfides (XSH/XSSX) and activities of GR and G-6PDH were also related to a high reducing potential exerted by GSH but not by minor thiols. The lower mass and charge of minor thiols is a likely requisite of the regulation of GS-SP levels in platelets.
It is known that eosinophils are actively involved in allergy and inflammation. The granular components of eosinophils, eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin/eosinophil protein X (EDN/EPX), play an important role in such allergic and inflammatory processes. Prurigo nodularis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with obvious cutaneous nervous involvement. To detect ECP and EDN/ EPX expression in the eosinophils and their relation to nerve fibres in prurigo nodularis, ECP and EDN/EPX single-labelling immunofluorescence, and ECP and PGP 9.5 double-labelling immunofluorescence, were performed. In prurigo nodularis lesional skin, the ECP- and EDN/EPX-containing cells, which were mainly distributed in the upper dermis, were significantly increased in number compared to their numbers in uninvolved and normal skin. The immunoreactivity of ECP and EDN/EPX in prurigo lesional skin was stronger than in uninvolved skin or control skin. The PGP 9.5-immunoreactive nerves were also increased in number in the areas where there were increased eosinophils. The nerves were in close proximity to eosinophils, and occasionally even seemed to be in contact. The present results indicate that the cutaneous nerves and the ECP- and EDN/EPX-containing eosinophils are possibly involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. The close relationship of nerves and eosinophils indicates that the cutaneous nerves may influence eosinophil function in the chronic inflammatory states of prurigo nodularis. ECP and EDN/EPX could thus be released to the local tissue and modulate the inflammation of the prurigo nodularis lesion.

As advances in gene mapping technology reveal genes associated with neurologic diseases, the need to identify a gene's normal function arises often. Experimental genetics is very useful in identifying a gene's function. It relies on model organisms both because it is not appropriate in humans, and because many processes are remarkably similar among eukaryotes. Many cellular processes have evolved once, and species differences are variations on a theme. Molecular genetic tools available in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae provide a means to more rapidly reach an understanding of gene function, yielding substantial insight into the same process in humans. Yeast will never complain of headache or &quot;spells,&quot; but do have expansions of trinucleotide repeats, prions, and other processes very much analogous to those underlying many neurologic diseases. In spite of the absence of a nervous system in yeast, yeast genetics has contributed substantial insight into neurologic diseases mechanisms. The real strength of yeast in studying human disease is in genetic analysis of gene function and in providing genetically powerful functional assays. Arch Neurol. 2000;57:1129-1134
The effect of chronic treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine on nicotinic receptor subtypes was investigated in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and in a fibroblast cell line (M10 cells) stably transfected with alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptors. Tacrine significantly increased the number of nicotinic receptors in SH-SY5Y cells, in a concentration dependent manner (10(-9) to 10(-4) M), when using [3H]epibatidine as labelled ligand. Chronic tacrine treatment of M10 cells significantly increased and decreased the number of alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptors in a concentration dependent manner (10(-9) to 5 x 10(-6) M and 2 x 10(-5) to 10(-4) M, respectively). The tacrine induced increase of nicotinic receptors in SH-SY5Y cells, was not blocked in the presence of the nicotinic antagonists tubocurarine or mecamylamine. A further increase in the number of nicotinic receptors was, however, observed in the presence of mecamylamine. This study demonstrates that the effect of tacrine on the number of nicotinic receptor subtypes is different in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma and M10 cells. The up-regulation of different nicotinic receptor subtypes obtained with tacrine might be achieved through interaction via different binding sites on the receptor, i.e. the acetylcholine binding site as well as an allosteric site.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChRs) proteins and gene transcripts are already present in human prenatal brain and spinal cord at 4-6 weeks gestation, and a clear age-related increase in number of nAChRs was apparent during first trimester. In pons, there was also a parallel increase in the alpha7 mRNA level with age. The highest specific binding of [3H]epibatidine and [3H]cytisine was detected in spinal cord, pons and medulla oblongata, and binding of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin was highest in spinal cord, medulla oblongata and mesencephalon. From the late fetal stage brain nAChRs have been shown to fall with increasing age. During aging (between 40 and 100 years) high affinity nicotine binding in the frontal cortex decreases in parallel with glutamate NMDA receptor binding ([3H]MK801). In the hippocampal formation and entorhinal cortex nicotine binding also declines with age, in common with [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin in the entorhinal cortex, but NMDA receptor binding remains unchanged. These reductions in nicotine binding with age may predispose the neo- and archicortex to the loss of nAChRs observed in age-associated neurodegenerative conditions. By contrast no loss in nAChR binding with aging is observed in the thalamus and only after the 70th decade in the striatum, although in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia deficits in nAChRs are observed in these areas and may be associated with specific disease-related processes.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats trained to discriminate nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, s.c. vs vehicle) using a two-lever food-reinforced operant discriminative stimulus (DS) paradigm were tested as to the ability of each subject to develop acute tolerance to nicotine. Nicotine (0.8 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered to nicotine-trained rats in their home cage and each rat tested as to its ability to detect a 2nd dose of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, s.c.) injected at 30 min intervals thereafter (90-180 min). Tolerance was determined by evaluating nicotine-correct responding during a 2 min test session. The results of this experiment indicated that 8 out of 31 rats (26%) displayed acute tolerance (desensitizers); 18 rats (58%) did not exhibit acute tolerance (non-desensitzers) and five rats (16%) fell into a middle group and were designated as neither desensitizers or non-desensitizers. The mode time for acute tolerance was 150 min, with each desensitizer rat displaying a unique temporal profile which was replicable 4-5 weeks later. Receptor autoradiographic analysis indicated no significant differences in [3H]epibatidine binding sites in the brains of desensitizers and non-desensitizers. In contrast, [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding was significantly higher in a number of brain regions in desensitizers. In situ hybridization analysis revealed no difference in alpha7 nAChR subunit mRNA levels between desensitizers and non-desensitizers. These observations can be interpreted to suggest that the ability to display acute tolerance to nicotine is contingent upon the ability to upregulate alpha7 nAChRs. These data may also be central to understanding the variability of tobacco use in humans, which may be contingent on the ability of the receptors binding to alpha-bungarotoxin to be responsive to nicotine-induced desensitization.
It has previously been shown that the reinforcing and dependence-producing properties of nicotine depend to a great extent on activation of nicotinic receptors within the ventral tegmental area (VTA), i.e. the site of origin of the mesolimbocortical dopaminergic projection. Based on the data reviewed in the present study, it is suggested that nicotine by stimulating presynaptic alpha7 nicotinic receptors within the VTA, that are probably localized on glutamatergic afferents from the medial prefrontal cortex, produces sequentially an increase in glutamate concentrations, stimulation of NMDA receptors found on dopamine (DA)-containing neurons in the VTA, enhanced firing activity of VTA-DA neurons, augmented DA release in the nerve terminal regions, and enhanced c-fos expression in the dopaminergic projection areas through activation of D1-DA receptors. In addition, it appears that alpha7 nicotinic receptors within the VTA are directly involved in nicotine-related reward and withdrawal responses. These data may be instrumental in understanding how nicotine interacts with the mesolimbocortical dopaminergic system, which is perhaps the most important component of the neural mechanisms underlying nicotine dependence. These results may also contribute to unraveling the cellular basis of nicotine's association with neuropsychiatric disorders, thereby offering the prospect of new therapeutic advances for their treatment.
A majority of habitual tobacco smokers find it very difficult to quit the habit because they become addicted to the nicotine present in tobacco smoke. Nicotine, like other psychostimulant drugs of abuse, increases dopamine release in the principal terminal field of the mesolimbic system, the nucleus accumbens, and there is evidence that this mediates the 'rewarding' properties of the drug, which reinforce its self-administration. This review focuses on the working hypothesis that addiction to nicotine, and other psychostimulant drugs, depends upon their ability to evoke a sustained increase in dopamine release directly into the extracellular space which lies between the cells in the nucleus accumbens where it stimulates extra-synaptic dopamine receptors. It is suggested that increased stimulation of these receptors is associated with increased incentive learning or the attribution of increased incentive salience to the cues associated with acquisition and delivery of the drug. The hypothesis proposes that these cues can become conditioned reinforcers of drug-taking behaviour. The receptors, which mediate the effects of nicotine on mesoaccumbens dopamine neurones, are desensitised by sustained exposure to nicotine at concentrations commonly found in the plasma of habitual smokers. It is proposed that, at times when the plasma nicotine concentration is sufficiently high to cause desensitisation of the receptors, tobacco smoking is maintained by the conditioned reinforcers present in the tobacco smoke. The hypothesis predicts, therefore, that conditioned reinforcement may play a more important role in the addiction to tobacco than for most other addictive behaviours. As a result, studies with nicotine have the potential to contribute to our understanding of the neurobiology of addiction which cannot easily be explored using drugs, such as cocaine and amphetamine, which invariably increase dopamine overflow in the forebrain.
The autonomic nervous system controls and coordinates several cardiovascular functions, including heart rate, arterial pressure, blood flow and vasomotor tone. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are the interface between the nervous system and the cardiovascular system, but it is not known which nAChR subtypes regulate autonomic function in vivo. Nicotinic AChRs containing the alpha7 subunit are a candidate subtype in autonomic ganglia. Stimulation of these nAChRs can increase neurotransmitter release via presynaptic mechanisms, as well as mediate fast synaptic transmission via postsynaptic mechanisms. To investigate the role of the alpha7 nAChR subunit in cardiac autonomic function, we measured baroreflex-mediated responses in alpha7 null mice. Here we show that the alpha7 null mice have impaired sympathetic responses to vasodilatation, as sodium nitroprusside infusion triggered a 48% heart rate increase in wild type mice but only a 21% increase in the alpha7 nulls (P &lt; 0.001). The mutant mice developed supersensitivity to adrenergic agonists, although norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerve terminals could be elicited through mechanisms alternative to nAChR stimulation. Baroreflex-mediated parasympathetic responses were normal in alpha7 null mice. The decreased baroreflex-mediated tachycardia in alpha7 mutant mice indicates that alpha7-containing nAChRs participate in the autonomic reflex that maintains blood pressure homeostasis. The alpha7 mutant mice may serve as a model of baroreflex impairment arising from autonomic dysfunction.
In male rats, noncontact erections occur concomitantly with an increase in NO2- and NO3- in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). In the present study, both responses were reduced by the blockade of PVN excitatory amino acid receptors by dizocilpine, (+)-MK-801(1 and 5 microg), but not by 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (5 microg) or (+)-2-amino-4-phosphono-butanoic acid (5 microg). Also ineffective when injected into the PVN were the dopamine antagonists SCH 23390 (5 microg), S(+)-raclopride (10 microg), and cis-flupenthixol (10 microg), and the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Om8-vasotocin (1 microg). However, when the last was given into the lateral ventricles, it reduced noncontact erections without modifying NO2- and NO3- increases. These results suggest that excitatory amino acid transmission increases in the PVN during noncontact erections. This may contribute to increased NO production in the PVN, and it may activate oxytocin neurons mediating this sexual response.
In Experiment 1, an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) was paired with footshock, except when it was preceded by another stimulus (a visual conditioned inhibitor [CI]). After conditioning, all mice displayed less CS-evoked freezing when the CI-CS compound was presented than when the CS was presented alone. However, lesions of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) potentiated CS-evoked freezing on each of the 2 sessions (i.e., CI CS and CS alone). In Experiment 2, mice were submitted to fear extinction (CS-alone presentation for 3 days). Lesioned mice exhibited a higher level of freezing behavior than controls on each of the 3 sessions. However, lesioned mice and controls displayed the same rate of reduction of freezing over the 3 days of extinction. These data in mice support previous studies in rats, which suggests that the dmPFC is not critical for either conditioned inhibition or extinction of acquired freezing behavior.
To provide a background for future studies on neurodegenerative changes in the spinal cord, the present study analysed the distribution of the activity of methionine adenosyltransferase (ATP:L-methionine S-adenosyltransferase, EC 2.5.1.6, MAT), an enzyme that catalyses the synthesis of the biological methyl group donor S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), in spinal cords from bovine and pig, and compared the results with those from human spinal cord. The enzyme activity was estimated by a radiochemical method measuring the rate of formation of [(3)H]AdoMet from L-[methyl-(3)H]methionine and ATP. The MAT activity (V(max)) was quite homogeneously distributed between spinal regions and species investigated (19-50 pmol [(3)H]AdoMet/mg protein/minute), with the highest level found in the male bovine group. The bovine group (both males and females) also presented a 20% higher enzymatic activity in the dorsal horn as compared to the ventral horn and white matter areas. In the pig spinal cord, the highest level of activity was found in the white matter. The lowest affinity for methionine (highest K(m)) was found in the human spinal cord. Whole spinal cords of one cat and one rhesus monkey were also analysed and the levels of MAT activity were similar to that of humans and bovine females, respectively. Studies of MAT stability in the rat spinal cord (post-mortem time 0-72 hr) showed a significant decrease in enzyme activity during the interval of 0-8 hr (23 degrees ). From this time point on and up to 72 hr (4 degrees ), the significant decrease in the activity remained at 60% of the initial value.
The primary sequence of the serpin endopin 2 predicts a reactive site loop (RSL) region that possesses high homology to bovine elastase inhibitor, suggesting inhibition of elastase. Moreover, endopin 2 possesses two cysteine residues that implicate roles for reduced Cys residue(s) for inhibitory activity. To test these predicted properties, mutagenesis and chemical modification of recombinant endopin 2 were performed to examine the influence of dithiothreitol (DTT), a reducing agent, on endopin 2 activity. Endopin 2 inhibited elastase in a DTT-dependent manner, with enhanced inhibition in the presence of DTT. The stoichiometry of inhibition in the presence of DTT occurred at a molar ratio of endopin 2 to elastase of 8/1, resulting in complete inhibition of elastase. However, a higher molar ratio (25/1) was required in the absence of DTT. DTT enhanced the formation of SDS-stable complexes of endopin 2 and elastase, a characteristic property of serpins. Site-directed mutagenesis of endopin 2, with substitution of Ala for Cys-232 or Cys-374, demonstrated that Cys-374 (but not Cys-232) was required for the DTT-sensitive nature of endopin 2. Chemical modification of Cys-374 by bis(maleimido)ethane also reduced inhibitory activity. Modified electrophoretic mobilities of mutant endopin 2 suggested the presence of intramolecular disulfide bonds; in addition, chemical modification suggested that Cys-374 influences the electrophoretic and conformational properties of endopin 2. Moreover, the reducing agent glutathione enhanced endopin 2 activity, suggesting that glutathione can function as an endogenous reducing agent for endopin 2 in vivo. These findings demonstrate the importance of Cys-374 for DTT-sensitive inhibition of elastase by endopin 2.
Progressive cerebral amyloid beta-protein (A beta) deposition is believed to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Elevated levels of A beta(42) peptide formation have been linked to early-onset familial AD-causing gene mutations in the amyloid beta-protein precursor (A beta PP) and the presenilins. Sequential cleavage of A beta PP by the beta- and gamma-secretases generates the N- and C-termini of the A beta peptide, making both the beta- and gamma-secretase enzymes potential therapeutic targets for AD. The identity of the A beta PP gamma-secretase and the mechanism by which the C-termini of A beta are formed remain uncertain, although it has been suggested that the presenilins themselves are novel intramembrane-cleaving gamma-secretases of the aspartyl protease class [Wolfe, M. S., Xia, W., Ostaszewski, B. L., Diehl, T. S., Kimberly, W. T., and Selkoe, D. J. (1999) Nature 398, 513-517]. In this study we report the identification of L-685,458 as a structurally novel inhibitor of A beta PP gamma-secretase activity, with a similar potency for inhibition of A beta(42) and A beta(40) peptides. This compound contains an hydroxyethylene dipeptide isostere which suggests that it could function as a transition state analogue mimic of an aspartyl protease. The preferred stereochemistry of the hydroxyethylene dipeptide isostere was found to be the opposite to that required for inhibition of the HIV-1 aspartyl protease, a factor which may contribute to the observed specificity of this compound. Specific and potent inhibitors of A beta PP gamma-secretase activity such as L-685,458 will enable important advances toward the identification and elucidation of the mechanism of action of this enigmatic protease.

In the present study we tested the effects of the antihyperalgesic compound gabapentin on dorsal horn neurones in adult spinal cord. Slices were taken from control and hyperalgesic animals suffering from streptozocin-induced diabetic neuropathy. At concentrations up to 100 microM, bath application failed to affect the resting membrane properties of dorsal horn neurones taken from both groups of animal. In contrast, bath application of gabapentin dramatically reduced the magnitude of the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) in neurones taken from hyperalgesic animals without altering the magnitude of the EPSC in control animals. Using a paired pulse stimulation protocol, together with analysis of miniature EPSC's, it was possible to demonstrate that gabapentin mediated these effects via a pre-synaptic site of action.
We report here the use of rat high-light social interaction to model the temporal anxiolytic/antidepressant effects of SSRIs seen in the clinic. Compared to vehicle controls, 21, but not 14, days of paroxetine treatment (3 mg kg(-1), p.o., daily) produced a marked increase in rat social interaction (Vehicle=71.3+/-7.3 s; Paroxetine=116.7+/-14.7 s; P&lt;0.01) with no concurrent effect on locomotor activity, consistent with anxiolysis. To assess whether concurrent 5-HT(1A) receptor blockade reduces the time to onset of anxiolysis seen with paroxetine alone (21 days), rats were implanted with osmotic minipumps to continuously infuse the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635 (1 mg kg(-1) day(-1), s.c., 7 days) alone or in combination with paroxetine (3 mg kg(-1), p.o., daily, 7 days), prior to anxiety testing. Paroxetine (Veh/Par=61.9+/-7.9 s) or WAY100635 (WAY/Veh=71.6+/-4.7 s) alone, had no effect on social interaction time compared to vehicle treated controls (Veh/Veh=76.4+/-4.9 s), whilst coadministration of WAY100635 with paroxetine, produced a marked elevation in social interaction (WAY/Par=149.3+/-16.8 s; P&lt;0.01) relative to all other groups with no concurrent change in locomotor activity. In contrast, acute administration of WAY100635 (0.03 mg kg(-1), s.c.) with paroxetine (3 mg kg(-1), p.o.) did not alter any behavioural measure, suggesting that the anxiolysis induced by the combination after 7 days is attributable to a CNS adaptive response. This data demonstrates that coadministration of a 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist with paroxetine markedly reduces the latency to anxiolysis, in the rat. This study supports the use of the rat social interaction test to further delineate adaptive changes in the CNS responsible for the anxiolytic/antidepressant action of SSRIs seen in humans.
Orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N) is a preferred endogenous ligand for the orphan opioid receptor-like-1 receptor. This peptide has been reported to increase intestinal, but not gastric, motor activity. In the present study, OFQ/N (0.6-60 nmol kg(-1) i.v.) increased intragastric pressure and antral contractility and, as expected, decreased blood pressure in anaesthetized rats. The gastric motor effects of OFQ/N (6 nmol kg(-1)) were not affected by inhibition of nitric oxide synthase or opioid receptor blockade. OFQ/N (6 nmol kg(-1)) evoked gastric motor increases and hypotension were not affected by prior administration of its derivative [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin-(1-13)-NH(2) unless the pseudopepotide was administered shortly (5 min) prior to OFQ/N. This putative antagonist (6-300 nmol kg(-1)) alone increased antral motility with approximately 100 fold lower potency than OFQ/N. Neither bilateral vagotomy nor spinal cord transection altered OFQ/N-evoked increases in intragastric pressure and antral contractility. In conclusion, OFQ/N induces gastric motor excitation in addition to its known effects to increase intestinal motility. The gastric responses to OFQ/N are not dependent on 'classical' opioid receptor activation or nitric oxide, similar to the case for the intestines. The primary site of action of OFQ/N on the stomach is probably via enteric nerves, since central descending vagal or sympathetic pathways are not necessary for OFQ/N to increase gastric motility. The gastric motor effects of the derivative [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin-(1-13)-NH(2) are similar to OFQ/N, although with lower potency. The effects of the derivative as a partial agonist or antagonist in different experimental paradigms may reflect tissue OFQ/N receptor reserve.
SB-271046, potently displaced [(3)H]-LSD and [(125)I]-SB-258585 from human 5-HT(6) receptors recombinantly expressed in HeLa cells in vitro (pK(i) 8.92 and 9.09 respectively). SB-271046 also displaced [(125)I]-SB-258585 from human caudate putamen and rat and pig striatum membranes (pK(i) 8.81, 9.02 and 8.55 respectively). SB-271046 was over 200 fold selective for the 5-HT(6) receptor vs. 55 other receptors, binding sites and ion channels. In functional studies on human 5-HT(6) receptors SB-271046 competitively antagonized 5-HT-induced stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity with a pA(2) of 8.71. SB-271046 produced an increase in seizure threshold over a wide-dose range in the rat maximal electroshock seizure threshold (MEST) test, with a minimum effective dose of &lt; or =0.1 mg kg(-1) p.o. and maximum effect at 4 h post-dose. The level of anticonvulsant activity achieved correlated well with the blood concentrations of SB-271046 (EC(50) of 0.16 microM) and brain concentrations of 0.01-0.04 microM at C(max). These data, together with the observed anticonvulsant activity of other selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists, SB-258510 (10 mg kg(-1), 2-6 h pre-test) and Ro 04-6790 (1-30 mg kg(-1), 1 h pre-test), in the rat MEST test, suggest that the anticonvulsant properties of SB-271046 are likely to be mediated by 5-HT(6) receptors. Overall, these studies demonstrate that SB-271046 is a potent and selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist and is orally active in the rat MEST test. SB-271046 represents a valuable tool for evaluating the in vivo central function of 5-HT(6) receptors.
SB-258585 (4-Iodo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-phenyl]-benzen esulphonamide) is a high affinity ligand at 5-HT(6) receptors. It displays over 100 fold selectivity for the 5-HT(6) receptor over all other 5-HT receptors tested so far. SB-258585 has been radiolabelled, to high specific activity, for its characterization as a 5-HT(6) receptor selective radioligand. [(125)I]-SB-258585 bound, with high affinity, to a single population of receptors in a cell line expressing human recombinant 5-HT(6) receptors. Kinetic and saturation binding experiments gave pK(D) values of 9.01+/-0.09 and 9.09+/-0.02, respectively. In membranes derived from rat or pig striatum and human caudate putamen, [(125)I]-SB-258585 labelled a single site with high levels (&gt;60%) of specific binding. Saturation analysis revealed pK(D) values of 8.56+/-0.07 for rat, 8.60+/-0.10 for pig and 8.90+/-0.02 for human. B(max) values for the tissues ranged from 173+/-23 and 181+/-25 fmol mg(-1) protein in rat and pig striatum, respectively, to 215+/-41 fmol mg(-1) protein in human caudate putamen. The pK(i) rank order of potency for a number of compounds, determined in competition binding assays with [(125)I]-SB-258585, at human caudate putamen membranes was: SB-271046&gt;SB-258585&gt;SB-214111&gt;methiothepin&gt;clozapine&gt;5-Me-OT&gt;5-HT&gt;Ro 04-6790&gt;mianserin&gt;ritanserin=amitriptyline&gt;5-CT&gt;mesulergine. Similar profiles were obtained from pig and rat striatal membranes and recombinant 5-HT(6) receptors; data from the latter correlated well with [(3)H]-LSD binding. Thus, [(125)I]-SB-258585 is a high affinity, selective radioligand which can be used to label both recombinant and native 5-HT(6) receptors and will facilitate further characterization of this receptor subtype in animal and human tissues.
We previously reported that cocaine may induce activation of cortical (cEEG) and hippocampal (hEEG) electroencephalographic signals, concurrent with inhibition of penile erection, via an action on the hippocampal formation. The present study further evaluates the role of noradrenergic neurotransmission at the hippocampal formation in this process, using adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats anaesthetized and maintained by chloral hydrate. Unilateral microinjection of cocaine (100 nmoles) into the hippocampal CA1 or CA3 subfield or dentate gyrus elicited significant activation of both cEEG and hEEG activity. At the same time, the intracavernous pressure (ICP), our experimental index for penile erection, underwent a discernible reduction. Co-administration of equimolar doses (250 pmoles) of prazosin, naftopidil, yohimbine or rauwolscine significantly reversed those effects elicited by cocaine on cEEG, hEEG and ICP. Microinjection unilaterally of equimolar doses (5 nmoles) of norepinephrine, phenylephrine or BHT 933 into the hippocampal formation, similar to cocaine, also induced appreciable cEEG and hEEG excitation, with a simultaneous decrease in ICP. We conclude that cocaine may activate cEEG and hEEG and decrease ICP via noradrenergic neurotransmission, possibly engaging at least alpha(1A/D)-, alpha(2B)- and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors at the hippocampal formation.
The molecular mechanisms involved in veratridine-induced chromaffin cell death have been explored. We have found that exposure to veratridine (30 microM, 1 h) produces a delayed cellular death that reaches 55% of the cells 24 h after veratridine exposure. This death has the features of apoptosis as DNA fragmentation can be observed. Calcium ions play an important role in veratridine-induced chromaffin cell death because the cell permeant Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA-AM and extracellular Ca(2+) removal completely prevented veratridine-induced toxicity. Following veratridine treatment, there is a decrease in mitochondrial function and an increase in superoxide anion production. Veratridine-induced increase in superoxide production was blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX; 10 microM), extracellular Ca(2+) removal and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore blocker cyclosporine A (10 microM). Veratridine-induced death was prevented by different antioxidant treatments including catalase (100 IU ml(-1)), N-acetyl cysteine (100 microM), allopurinol (100 microM) or vitamin E (50 microM). Veratridine-induced DNA fragmentation was prevented by TTX (10 microM). Veratridine produced a time-dependent increase in caspase activity that was prevented by Ca(2+) removal and TTX (10 microM). In addition, calpain and caspases inhibitors partially prevented veratridine-induced death. These results indicate that chromaffin cells share with neurons the molecular machinery involved in apoptotic death and might be considered a good model to study neuronal death during neurodegeneration.

Left neglect after right-hemisphere damage may involve perceptual and/or motor impairments. Here we discuss the limitations of previous attempts to separate these components, and introduce a new method. Six neglect patients (three with right inferior parietal lesions and three with right inferior frontal lesions) moved their right hand to a target light, which appeared unpredictably on either the left or the right of central fixation. The target appeared alone or with a distractor light in the opposite hemifield. Any directional motoric bias was measured by comparing reaches from a central start position with those for the same visual displays, but starting from the left of both possible targets (thus requiring only rightward reaches) or from the right (requiring only leftward reaches). All patients were slower to initiate reaches to left than right targets from a central start, which could reflect perceptual and/or motor biases. Critically, in the parietal neglect group only, initiation speed for left targets improved when a rightward reach was required to these (from a left start) rather than a leftward reach. This suggests a deficit in programming leftward movements into left hemispace, in addition to any visual impairment, for parietal neglect. A control task confirmed that this effect of start position was due to the associated change in reach direction and not to afferent inputs from the hand as it rested at the start position. Frontal neglect patients were slow to execute reaches to left targets, regardless of movement direction. Right visual distractors slowed visual reaction times to left targets more than vice versa in frontal neglect patients, and likewise for reach execution times in parietal neglect patients, suggesting that visual distractors on the neglected side have less impact. Distractor effects were unaffected by start position in the frontal neglect group (suggesting a perceptual basis), but distractors slowed reach initiation in the parietal neglect group only from left and central starts. Taken together, these findings demonstrate a directional motor component to parietal but not frontal neglect, and suggest that in man the inferior parietal lobe plays a role not only in perception but also in the programming of selective reaches. These conclusions are related to recent single-unit data from the monkey parietal lobe.
Neuroendocrine cells display a similar calcium dependence of release as synapses but a strongly different organization of channels and vesicles. Biophysical and biochemical properties of large dense core vesicle release in neuroendocrine cells suggest that vesicles and channels are dissociated by a distance of 100-300 nm. This distinctive organization relates to the sensitivity of the release process to mobile calcium buffers, the resulting relationship between calcium influx and release and the modulatory mechanisms regulating the efficiency of excitation-release coupling. At distances of 100-300 nm, calcium buffers determine the calcium concentration close to the vesicle. Notably, the concentration and diffusion rate of mobile buffers affect the efficacy of release, but local saturation of buffers, possibly enhanced by diffusion barriers, may limit their effects. Buffer conditions may result in a linear relationship between calcium influx and exocytosis, in spite of the third or fourth power relation between intracellular calcium concentration and release. Modulation of excitation-secretion coupling not only concerns the calcium channels, but also the secretory process. Transmitter regulation mediated by cAMP and PKA, as well as use-dependent regulation involving calcium, primarily stimulates filling of the releasable pool. In addition, direct effects of cAMP on the probability of release have been reported. One mechanism to achieve increased release probability is to decrease the distance between channels and vesicles. GTP may stimulate release independently from calcium. Thus, while in most cases primary inputs triggering these pathways await identification, it is evident that large dense core vesicle release is a highly controlled and flexible process.
Many physiological and behavioral processes show circadian rhythms which are generated by an internal time-keeping system, the biological clock. In rodents, evidence from a variety of studies has shown the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) to be the site of the master pacemaker controlling circadian rhythms. The clock of the SCN oscillates with a near 24-h period but is entrained to solar day/night rhythm by light. Much progress has been made recently in understanding the mechanisms of the circadian system of the SCN, its inputs for entrainment and its outputs for transfer of the rhythm to the rest of the brain. The present review summarizes these new developments concerning the properties of the SCN and the mechanisms of circadian time-keeping. First, we will summarize data concerning the anatomical and physiological organization of the SCN, including the roles of SCN neuropeptide/neurotransmitter systems, and our current knowledge of SCN input and output pathways. Second, we will discuss SCN transplantation studies and how they have contributed to knowledge of the intrinsic properties of the SCN, communication between the SCN and its targets, and age-related changes in the circadian system. Third, recent findings concerning the genes and molecules involved in the intrinsic pacemaker mechanisms of insect and mammalian clocks will be reviewed. Finally, we will discuss exciting new possibilities concerning the use of viral vector-mediated gene transfer as an approach to investigate mechanisms of circadian time-keeping.
Studies in humans suggest that exposure to stress increases the probability of relapse to drug use, but until recently there has been no animal model to study the mechanisms that mediate this effect. We have developed a reinstatement procedure that allows us to study the effect of stress on relapse to drug seeking in rats. Using this procedure, we have shown that exposure to intermittent footshock stress reliably reinstates heroin and cocaine seeking after prolonged drug-free periods. In the present paper, we summarize results from several studies on stress-induced reinstatement of heroin and cocaine seeking in rats. We first assess the degree to which the phenomenon of stress-induced relapse generalizes to other stressors, to behaviors controlled by other drugs of abuse, and to behaviors controlled by non-drug reinforcers. We then review evidence from studies concerned with the neurotransmitters, the brain sites, and the neural systems involved in stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. Finally, we consider the mechanisms that might underlie stress-induced relapse to drug seeking and the possible implications of the findings for the treatment of relapse to drug use in humans.
Retrograde labelling was combined with immunohistochemistry to localize neurons containing choline acetyltransferase, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, leu-enkephalin, neurotensin, and substance P-like immunoreactivity in the projection pathways from the septum-diagonal band complex to the retrosplenial granular cortex in the rat. Injections of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to subunit B of cholera toxin (CT-HRP) into the retrosplenial granular cortex resulted in retrogradely labelled neurons in the ipsilateral nuclei of the diagonal band of Broca, especially in the horizonatal nucleus of the diagonal band, and small numbers of CT-HRP-labelled neurons were also found in the medial septal nucleus. In the horizontal and vertical nuclei of the diagonal band of Broca, 90-95% of CT-HRP-labelled neurons (35-45 per section) were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and small numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons (2 to 4-5 per section) were also immunoreactive for GABA, glutamate, neurotensin, leu-enkephalin, or substance P. In the medial septal nucleus approximately 75-80% of the retrogradely labelled neurons (8-10 per section) were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and up to 25% of the CT-HRP labelled neurons (1-3 per section) in the medial septal nucleus also displayed GABA-, glutamate-, neurotensin-, leu-enkephalin-, or substance P-immunoreactivity. These results suggest that the complexity of the neurotransmitter(s)/neuromodulator(s) of septum-diagonal band complex projections to the retrosplenial granular cortex should be taken into account when considering the mechanisms of cortical activation.
International associations of scientists, set up to organize cooperative scientific investigations in an international scope and to lay down global binding standards of research, are of great and still growing importance for the advancement of science. This was also recognized at the beginning of the 20th century by the community of researchers in basic and clinical neurological sciences, who created their first international organization following the trend initiated by scholars in astronomy and geophysics. Thus, the so-called &quot;Brain Commission&quot; of the International Association of Academies was founded in 1903 and was active until the outbreak of the First World War. The Brain Commission had no successor for nearly half a century, until the &quot;International Brain Research Organization&quot; (IBRO) was founded in 1961. Although the Brain Commission could exert an impact on neurosciences only for one decade, this international scientific association inspired and promoted the foundation of a series of Brain Research Institutes, which in part still exist in Europe, and long-lasting innovations in the neurosciences.
Calmodulin (CaM) is a ubiquitous, highly conserved calcium sensor protein involved in the regulation of a wide variety of cellular events. In vertebrates, an identical CaM protein is encoded by a family of non-allelic genes, raising questions concerning the evolutionary pressure responsible for the maintenance of this apparently redundant family. Here we review the evidence that the control of the spatial and temporal availability of CaM may require multiple regulatory levels to ensure the proper localization, maintenance and size of intracellular CaM pools. Differential transcription of the CaM genes provides one level of regulation to meet tissue-specific, developmental and cell-specific needs for altered CaM levels. Post-transcriptional regulation occurs at the level of mRNA stability, perhaps dependent on alternative polyadenylation and differences in the untranslated sequences of the multiple gene transcripts. Recent evidence indicates that trafficking of specific CaM mRNAs may occur to specialized cellular locales such as the dendrites of neurons. This could allow local CaM synthesis and thereby help generate local pools of CaM. Local CaM activity may be further regulated by post-translational mechanisms such as phosphorylation or storage of CaM in a 'masked' form. The spatial resolution of CaM activity is enhanced by the limited free diffusion of CaM combined with differential affinity for and availability of target proteins. Preserving multiple CaM genes with divergent noncoding sequences may be necessary in complex organisms to ensure that the many CaM-dependent processes occur with the requisite spatial and temporal resolution. Transgenic mouse models and studies on mice carrying single and double gene 'knockouts' promise to shed further light on the role of specificity versus redundancy in the evolutionary maintenance of the vertebrate CaM multigene family.
The nucleocytoplasmic transport of functional molecules is mediated bidirectionally through the nuclear pore complex (NPC), which spans the double membranes of the nuclear envelope. It has recently been shown that signaling between the nucleus and the cytoplasm plays a key role in coordinating the cellular processes such as the cell cycle and cell differentiation (Yoneda, 2000). As the result of recent extensive analysis, significant progress has been made in our understanding of the fundamental mechanism of nuclear transport of proteins and RNAs and numerous transport factors have now been identified. In this special issue of review articles, we focus on our rapid growing knowledge of nucleocytoplasmic transport, especially the translocation of proteins through the NPC and mRNA export, and review this exciting field from various points of view including cell biology, structural biology and yeast genetics.

The neuronal diversity of the subplate and developing white matter in the mouse was studied using a variety of neuronal markers. The subplate was first visible in lateral cortical areas at E13, coinciding with the emergence of the cortical plate. During prenatal development, this layer was formed by morphologically heterogeneous neurons, subsets of which were immunoreactive for GABA- and calcium-binding proteins. From E18 onwards, a few subplate cells also contained neuropeptides. Colocalization experiments demonstrated that the percentages of neurons immunoreactive for each antigen were similar to those described in adult neocortex. By E15, subplate cells had received synaptic contacts. Moreover, a second early-neuronal population was conspicuous from E13 in the lower intermediate zone: the intermediate-subventricular population. Unlike subplate cells, these neurons were morphologically uniform, smaller and horizontally oriented. Nevertheless, a few of these cells also appeared within the ventricular zone, with a perpendicular/ oblique orientation. Most of these cells were GABA-positive and showed calbindin immunoreactivity. At the electron microscopic level, no synaptic contacts were found in these neurons. Tracing studies using DiI showed that subplate neurons were the first to send axons outside the neocortex towards the ganglionic eminence at E13. At E14, subplate axons and ingrowing thalamic fibers met in the striate primordium. Subplate cells retained their projection to the thalamus during prenatal development. Thalamocortical axons reached the subplate at E15, and 1 day later began to invade the upper cortical layers. Early callosal axons, in contrast, did not run through the subplate to reach the contralateral hemisphere, nor did subplate cells send out callosal fibers. Callosal axons ran just above the subventricular zone, intermingled with the intermediate-subventricular neuronal population. We conclude that the subplate neuronal population has a chemical heterogeneity reminiscent of that of the adult cortex and is crucial to the establishment of thalamocortical relationships, whereas the intermediate-subventricular neurons constituted a particular GABAergic population, which includes resident cells and tangentially migrating postmitotic neurons spatially related to the development of callosal connections.
An important recent advance in the understanding of odor adaptation has come from the discovery that complex mechanisms of odor adaptation already take place at the earliest stage of the olfactory system, in the olfactory cilia. At least two rapid forms and one persistent form of odor adaptation coexist in vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons. These three different adaptation phenomena can be dissected on the basis of their different onset and recovery time courses and their pharmacological properties, indicating that they are controlled, at least in part, by separate molecular mechanisms. Evidence is provided for the involvement of distinct molecular steps in these forms of odor adaptation, including Ca(2+) entry through cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels, Ca(2+)-dependent CNG channel modulation, Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase II-dependent attenuation of adenylyl cyclase, and the activity of the carbon monoxide/cyclic GMP second messenger system. Identification of these molecular steps may help to elucidate how the olfactory system extracts temporal and intensity information and to which extent odor perception is influenced by the different mechanisms underlying adaptation.
Goats have a well-developed vomeronasal (VN) system and exhibit pheromone-induced reproductive facilitation, but there are no reports on the projection pattern of VN neurons in this species. Rodent, guinea pig and opossum accessory olfactory bulbs (AOBs) have been shown to have a segregated pattern of projection of the VN neurons, which express the two alpha-subtypes of the G-protein, namely Gi2 and Go, to the rostral and caudal regions of the AOB, respectively. In this study we investigated the projection pattern of VN nerve terminals by immunocytochemical staining of the goat vomeronasal organ (VNO) and the AOB with antibodies to Gi2 and Go. Gi2-immunoreactivity was found on the luminal surface of the sensory epithelium of the VNO, and in the VN nerve and glomerular layer throughout the AOB. On the other hand, Go-immunoreactivity was not identified in either the VNO or the VN nerve layer of the AOB. These results indicate that the projection pattern of VN neurons from the VNO to the AOB in the goat is considerably different from that in rodents which show a distinct segregated pattern.
This article examines the two categories of learning strategies that physicians use in clinical practice. The strategies are similar in their overall architectures and differ (1) according to nature of the clinical problem that precipitated the need to learn, and (2) the ways in which learning resources are used.

The origins of the word &quot;shame&quot; recall the concept of the infraction of integrity both as scandal and as individualization. The human experience of shame stretches along a continuum from modesty to disabling interpersonal terror. Unlike other basic affects, its emergence is a fundamental moment in the process of self-awareness and self-object differentiation. Neglected by psychiatry because it was regarded as a moral concept, today it is possible to hypothesize that it has a biologic basis that one can attempt to describe in terms of corticothalamic pathways. In this respect, like other affects, it could be considered as a cognitive shortcut to activate specific and evolutionally useful behavioral patterns, such as concealment or a request for affiliation. It is fairly ubiquitous in psychopathology, but is clinically much more structured in its abnormal expressions in anxiety disorders, particularly social phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, eating disorders, body dysmorphic disorder, and even in bipolar mood disorder. In schizophrenia it has been described as being one stage in the construction of delusion. Its presence is connected to interpersonal relationship (altruism) though it seems absent in autism. The assessment of shame experiences in psychiatric patients could be useful for both pharmacological and psychotherapeutic strategies, and could provide a categorization of a new psychopathology based on abnormal affects.
Seeing is important for most species and it has been a key selective advantage throughout evolution. Consequently, there is a remarkable diversity among types of eyes. Animals have converged on eight optical solutions for collecting and focusing light; in contrast, all eyes share the same molecular strategy for absorbing photons. Recent studies have identified similarities in the genetic information that is used in the development of eyes, leading to the hypothesis that distinctly different eye types might have had a monophyletic origin. Across many species, there is a remarkable continuity of the developmental genes that participate in the construction of similar--but not necessarily homologous--eyes.

In the mid seventies a drug design programme using the Amanita muscaria constituent muscimol (7) as a lead structure, led to the design of guvacine (23) and (R)-nipecotic acid (24) as specific GABA uptake inhibitors and the isomeric compounds isoguvacine (10) and isonipecotic acid (11) as specific GABAA receptor agonists. The availability of these compounds made it possible to study the pharmacology of the GABA uptake systems and the GABAA receptors separately. Based on extensive cellular and molecular pharmacological studies using 23, 24, and a number of mono- and bicyclic analogues, it has been demonstrated that neuronal and glial GABA transport mechanisms have dissimilar substrate specificities. With GABA transport mechanisms as pharmacological targets, strategies for pharmacological interventions with the purpose of stimulating GABA neurotransmission seem to be (1) effective blockade of neuronal as well as glial GABA uptake in order to enhance the inhibitory effects of synaptically released GABA, or (2) selective blockade of glial GABA uptake in order to increase the amount of GABA taken up into, and subsequently released from, nerve terminals. The bicyclic compound (R)-N-Me-exo-THPO (17) has recently been reported as the most selective glial GABA uptake inhibitor so far known and may be a useful tool for further elucidation of the pharmacology of GABA transporters. In recent years, a variety of lipophilic analogues of the amino acids 23 and 24 have been developed, and one of these compounds, tiagabine (49) containing (R)-nipecotic acid (24) as the GABA transport carrier-recognizing structure element, is now marketed as an antiepileptic agent.
There is substantial evidence that obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is mediated by specific cortico-striatal- thalamic-cortical (CTSC) circuits. Here we discuss very recent publications that address the following questions: How does damage to CSTC circuitry come about?; What are the neurochemical systems involved in mediating this circuitry?; and What are the implications of such damage for understanding the pathogenesis and management of OCD? A cognitive-affective neuroscience perspective is helpful in advancing our understanding of the role of these circuits in OCD and the dysfunctional procedural strategies that appear to characterize this disorder. Furthermore, this model is becoming integrated with a range of data including brain imaging, genetic, immunologic, and neurochemical findings.

Pathological and biochemical studies have consistently associated endogenous catechol oxidation with dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, it has been proposed that products of catechol oxidation, the catechol thioethers, may contribute to dopaminergic neurodegeneration. In other organ systems, thioether cytotoxicity is influenced profoundly by the mercapturic acid pathway. We have pursued the hypothesis that endogenous catechol thioethers produced in the mercapturic acid pathway contribute to dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Our results showed that the extent of in vitro metal-catalyzed oxidative damage by catechol thioethers varied with the structures of the parent catechol and thioether adduct. Catechol mercapturates uniquely produced more oxidative damage than their parent catechols. In dopaminergic cell cultures, dopamine induced apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner from 5 to 50 microM. The apoptotic effect of dopamine was greatly enhanced by subcytotoxic concentrations of the mitochondrial inhibitor, N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+). Similarly, subcytotoxic levels of the mercapturate or homocysteine conjugate of dopamine significantly augmented dopamine-induced apoptosis. Finally, microsomal fractions of substantia nigra from PD patients or age-matched controls had comparable cysteine-S-conjugate N-acetyltransferase activity. These data indicate that the mercapturate conjugate of dopamine may augment dopaminergic neurodegeneration and that the mercapturate pathway exists in human substantia nigra.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a bifunctional enzyme expressed in each major anterior pituitary cell type. We used primary cultures of adult male rat anterior pituitary to examine PAM expression, processing, and secretion in the different pituitary cell types and to compare these patterns to those observed in transfected AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells. Immunostaining and subcellular fractionation identified PAM in pituitary secretory granules and additional vesicular compartments; in contrast, in AtT-20 cells, transfected PAM was primarily localized to the trans-Golgi network. PAM expression was highest in gonadotropes, with moderate levels in somatotropes and thyrotropes and lower levels in corticotropes and lactotropes. Under basal conditions, less than 1% of the cell content of monooxygenase activity was secreted per h, a rate comparable to the basal rate of release of individual pituitary hormones. General secretagogues stimulated PAM secretion 3- to 5-fold. Stimulation with specific hypothalamic releasing hormones demonstrated that different pituitary cell types secrete characteristic sets of PAM proteins. Gonadotropes and thyrotropes release primarily monofunctional monooxygenase. Somatotropes secrete primarily bifunctional PAM, whereas corticotropes secrete a mixture of mono- and bifunctional proteins. As observed in transfected AtT-20 cells, pituitary cells rapidly internalize the PAM/PAM-antibody complex from the cell surface. The distinctly different steady-state localizations of endogenous PAM in primary pituitary cells and transfected PAM in AtT-20 cell lines may simply reflect the increased storage capacity of primary pituitary cells.

The great diversity of neuronal nAChRs equips them for many roles. The broad, diffuse projections of the cholinergic system and their influence on multiple neurotransmitter systems enable nAChRs to have a wide modulatory influence on excitability on multiple time scales. Both excitatory and inhibitory synapses are directly modulated by nAChR activity. Although fast nicotinic transmission is not a major excitatory drive, it may alter the excitability of many synapses at one time. Depending on the neural area and stage of development, nAChRs of multiple subtypes will have varying degrees of importance in regulating neuronal excitability.

Although the affective and cognitive effects of seizures have long received attention, the anxiety spectrum of psychiatric complications of epilepsy has not been well-studied. Neither purely a mood, thought, or autonomic disorder, anxiety is a unique phenomenon in genesis and expression. Multidisciplinary efforts (neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, neuroendocrine, cognitive neuroscience, functional neuroimaging) are attempting to create a unified neuropsychiatric account of anxiety which, like epilepsy, can be regarded as a model phenomenon in the history of the relationship between neuroscience and mental illness. Comorbid anxiety and epilepsy offers a potentially rich nexus for theoretical and empiric investigation of the neurocircuitry and psychological mechanisms underlying each phenomenon.
Events such as the Nuremberg Trials in Germany, or the Truth and Reconciliation Commission proceedings in South Africa, raise questions about the psychology of perpetrators of crimes against humanity. While such violations occur within particular socio-political contexts, given the significant advances in clinical neuroscience in the past several decades, is it possible to outline a 'psychobiology of evil'? In this paper a preliminary approach towards this area of study is made on the basis of a review of the biological psychiatry literature. In particular, this literature is used to draw a distinction between the psychobiology of 'banal' evil and that of 'sadistic' evil. Whereas banal evil may involve a dissociation of cortico-striatal processing from limbic input (reason without passion), sadistic evil may involve a dissociation of limbic processing from frontal controls (passion without reason). A biological perspective on evil must, however, avoid several kinds of reductionism. A non-reductionistic psychobiological perspective may provide new insights into a spectrum of deviant behaviour ranging from everyday peccadilloes to pathological evil.
The effect of a non-nociceptive sural nerve stimulation on the H-reflex was examined in 6 young female gymnnasts and 12 control subjects. At the 70-90 ms delays investigated between conditioning and test stimulations, the sural nerve stimulation produced a facilitation that did not differ significantly between the gymnast group (6.15% of the maximal H-reflex size, Hmax) and the control group (8.12% Hmax). The intersubject dispersion was significantly larger in the control group (0.30%-21.04% Hmax) than in the gymnast group (4.44%-7.70% Hmax). It is suggested that this narrow range of sural nerve facilitation may have resulted from the prolonged specific training of these sportswomen.
We investigated whether volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) contributed to the accumulation of extracellular adenosine during hypoxia in area CA1. The rapid hypoxic depression of the fEPSP was greatly attenuated by the selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist DPCPX (50 nM), but not affected by the VRAC blockers tamoxifen (10-30 microM) or DNDS (1 mM). Our data argue against the efflux of adenosine per se or its precursor ATP through VRACs as making a significant contribution to extracellular adenosine during the early stages of hypoxia.
Physical activities such as long-distance running can be habit forming and associated with a sense of well-being to a degree that justifies comparison with drug-induced addictive behaviours. To understand molecular similarities and dissimilarities controlling these behaviours in humans we compared the effects of running in running wheels to the effects of chronic cocaine or morphine administration on mRNA levels in brain reward pathways in the inbred Fischer and Lewis rat strains. These strains are both inbred from the Sprague-Dawley strain; Lewis rats display a higher preference towards addictive drugs and running than do Fischer rats. After chronic cocaine or running a similar increase of dynorphin mRNA in medial caudate putamen was found in the Lewis rat, suggesting common neuronal adaptations in this brain region to both cocaine and running. Fischer and Lewis rats both responded to cocaine with increased dynorphin mRNA levels in medial caudate putamen. However, only Lewis rats increased dynorphin mRNA after running, possibly reflecting the much higher degree of running by the Lewis strain as compared to the Fischer strain. Moreover, the running-induced upregulation of dynorphin mRNA was blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. We suggest that running increases dynorphin mRNA by a mechanism that involves endogenous opioids. The voluntary wheel-running model in rats might be used to study natural reward and compulsive behaviours and possibly also to screen candidate drugs for treatment of compulsive disorders.
Gluco- and mineralocorticoid receptors (GR and MR) act via common promoter elements but may exert different effects on gene regulation in various regions of the forebrain. In order to separately analyse the role of GR and MR in the regulation of neurotrophic factor genes and their receptors, we used adrenalectomy and subsequent hormone injections in the rat as a model system. Twenty-four hours after adrenalectomy rats were injected with a single dose of corticosterone (2 and 10 mg/kg), aldosterone (0.5 mg/kg) or the synthetic glucocorticoid agonist RU 28362 (4 mg/kg). Gene expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and its high-affinity receptors [fibroblast growth factor receptor subtypes 1-3 (FGF-R1, FGF-R2, FGF-R3)], as well as brain-derived growth factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) was analysed at 4 h after the hormone injection in CA1-CA4 (cornus of Ammon areas of the hippocampus) and dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus and in neocortex by means of in situ hybridization. We found that bFGF is regulated in CA2, CA3 and dentate gyrus by GR and MR together, and in CA1, CA4 and neocortex by GR alone. FGF-R2 expression in the hippocampus seems to be regulated only by MR, while BDNF expression appears to depend on both receptors. FGF-R1, FGF-R3 and NT-3 were only moderately affected by the hormone activation of GR and MR acting in concert or alone in the various regions. Thus, the present findings suggest that the adrenal cortical system through GR and MR participate in the control of neurotrophic factor signalling in a highly subregion- and cellular-dependent manner.
Investigation of normal and pathological diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) has been hampered by the inability to effectively manipulate protein function in vivo. In order to address this important topic, we have evaluated the ability of penetratin, a novel cell-permeable peptide consisting of a 16-amino acid sequence derived from a Drosophila homeodomain protein, to act as a carrier system to introduce a cargo into brain cells. Fluorescently tagged penetratin was injected directly into rat brain, either into the striatum or the lateral ventricles, and rats were perfusion-fixed 24 h later in order to assess the brain response to the peptide. Immunohistochemistry following intrastriatal injection showed that injection of 10 microg penetratin caused neurotoxic cell death and triggered recruitment of inflammatory cells in a dose-dependent fashion. Doses of 1 microg or less resulted in reduced toxicity and recruitment of inflammatory cells, but interestingly, there was some spread of the penetratin. Injections of an inactive peptide sequence, derived from the same homeodomain, caused little toxicity but could still, however, trigger an inflammatory response. Intraventricular injections showed extensive inflammatory cell recruitment but minimal spread of either peptide. These results suggest that a dose of 1 microg of penetratin peptide is suitable for directing agents to small, discrete areas of the brain and as such is an interesting new system for analysing CNS function.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazle propionic acid (AMPA) receptors are ubiquitously expressed; however, their subtypes and abundance vary from region to region. We classified the neurons in various forebrain regions (hippocampus, striatum, amygdala, piriform cortex and somatosensory cortex) into six types: [R1+/R2+], [R1-/R2+], [R1+/R2-], [R1-/R2-], [R1++/R2+] and [R1++/R2-], and analysed the expression of Ca2+-binding proteins, such as parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k, using a triple-staining method. The neurons showing a high GluR1 : GluR2 expression ratio, [R1+/R2-], [R1++/R2+] and [R1++/R2-] neurons, comprised 13-30% of the total neuronal population. In addition, the expression of Ca2+-binding proteins was mainly observed in these three types of neurons. The results suggest that Ca2+-binding protein-positive neurons express Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors, because the Ca2+-permeability of AMPA receptors is enhanced by the relative scarcity of the GluR2 subunit. To directly test the possibility that Ca2+-binding protein-positive neurons express Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors, we performed Ca2+-imaging experiments in cultured cortical neurons. Ca2+ influx through AMPA receptors was measured selectively by addition of AMPA together with cyclothiazide in the presence of blockers of other Ca2+ influx routes. More than half of the calbindin-D28k-positive neurons showed a large increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), whilst most of the calbindin-D28k-undetectable neurons exhibited only a slight rise in [Ca2+]i after AMPA addition. These results suggest that the expression of calbindin-D28k is related to the expression of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors.
Programmed cell death (PCD) in the form of apoptosis is recognized as one of the central events in the development of the central nervous system. To study the time of onset, extent and distribution of PCD in the human telencephalon, embryos and fetuses from 4.5 to 27 gestational weeks (g.w.) were examined using the TUNEL (TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labelling) in situ method. At 4.5 g.w. sparse TUNEL(+) nuclei were observed in the ventricular zone of the neural tube. With the formation of the cortical plate at 7-8 g.w. , TUNEL(+) nuclei were seen in all developmental layers of the cortical anlage, as well as in the subcortical regions such as the ganglionic eminence and the internal capsule. The proliferative zones (the ventricular zone, the subventricular zone and the ganglionic eminence) contained the majority of all apoptotic nuclei observed in each specimen. However, the apoptotic index was highest in the subplate zone and in layer I. Double-labelling experiments suggested that neuronal precursors were the main population of cells undergoing PCD in the first trimester of gestation, whereas glial cells probably start dying around midgestation. The onset of labelling of microglial cells and apoptotic nuclei were synchronous, indicating the involvement of microglia in PCD. In conclusion, two distinct types of PCD were observed during human telencephalic development: embryonic apoptosis, which was synchronous with proliferation and migration of neuronal cells and probably not related to establishment of neuronal circuitry, and fetal apoptosis, which coincided with differentiation and synaptogenesis, and therefore may be related to the development of axonal-target connectivity.
During development, a highly differential neurotrophin dependency is reported for various types of nerve endings in the whisker follicle. To what extent these dependencies extend and play a role in adulthood is largely unresolved. We show here, using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry that the expression of neurotrophins and trk/p75 receptors persists in adulthood. As suggested by their expression profiles, many classes of cutaneous nerve endings disclose similar ligand-receptor dependencies in adult animals as during development, while other populations appear to switch their dependency. Furthermore, our data suggest that sensory endings that have a high turnover due to mechanical wear and tear, e. g. Merkel cell-neurite complexes at the level of ring sinus show a more complex ligand-receptor expression phenotype than do endings with a less vulnerable location, e.g. the Merkel cell-neurite complexes at the rete ridge collar. Thus, neurotrophin-3 (NT3)/trkA signalling is suggested to be important for a continuous terminal plasticity of Merkel cell-neurite complexes at the level of ring sinus in adulthood. Evidence supporting a role for neurotrophin signalling in maintaining the adult cutaneous innervation also comes from the close correlation between altered ligand-receptor expression(s) and axonal/terminal aberrations in senescence. Thus, an ageing-related decrease in target neurotrophin expression, notably NT3 and NT4, results in a site-specific loss of sensory terminals concomitant with an aberrant growth of regenerating/sprouting axons into new target fields. Ageing of the cutaneous innervation, manifested in degenerative and regenerative events, seems strongly associated with changes in neurotrophic interactions between sensory neurons and target tissues.
The aim was to investigate if female fibromyalgia patients (FMS) had experienced more negative life events than healthy women. Furthermore, the life events experienced in relation to onset of the FMS were evaluated. Another important area was to investigate the impact of the events experienced in the patients compared to healthy women. A new inventory was constructed to assess life events during childhood, adolescence and in adulthood as well as life events experienced in relation to the onset of the disorder. Forty female FMS patients and 38 healthy age-matched women participated in the study. During childhood or adolescence 51% of the patients had experienced very negative life events as compared to 28% of the controls. Conflict with parents was the most common life event. Before onset, 65% of the patients experienced some negative life event. Economic problems and conflicts with husband/partner were common. During the last year, 51% of the patients had life events which they experienced as very negative, compared to 24.5% of the controls (P &lt; 0.01). Stressful life events in childhood/adolescence and in adulthood seem to be very common in FMS. Furthermore, the life events were experienced as more negative than the life events experienced by healthy controls.
Compared with the control of precision grips involving the thumb and one or two fingers, the control of grasping using the entire hand involves a larger number of degrees of freedom that has to be controlled simultaneously, and it introduces indeterminacies in the distribution of grip forces suitable for holding an object. We studied the control of five-digit grasping by measuring contact forces when subjects lifted, held, and replaced a manipulandum. This study focused primarily on the patterns of coordination among the normal forces exerted by each of the digits, assessed by varying the center of mass of the manipulandum. The force patterns during the lift and hold phases were modulated as a function of the location of the center of mass. A frequency domain analysis revealed a consistent temporal synergy by which digits tended to exert normal forces in phase with each other across all experimental conditions. This tendency for in-phase covariations by the normal forces exerted by the digits extended over the entire functional frequency range (up to 10 Hz). When the effect of thumb force was removed, a second synergy was revealed in which forces in two fingers could be modulated 180 degrees out of phase (also prevailing throughout the range of frequencies studied). The first synergy suggests the presence of a &quot;common drive&quot; to all of the extrinsic finger muscles, whereas the second one suggests another input, ultimately resulting in a reciprocally organized pattern of activity of some of these muscles.
The role of the basal ganglia in the coordination of different body segments and utilization of motor synergies was investigated by analyzing reaching movements to remembered three-dimensional (3D) targets in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Arm movements were produced alone or in combination with a forward bending of the trunk, with or without visual feedback. Movements in PD patients were more temporally segmented, as evidenced by irregular changes in tangential velocity profiles. In addition, the relative timing in the onsets and offsets of fingertip and trunk motions were substantially different in PD patients than in control subjects. While the control subjects synchronized both onsets and offsets, the PD patients had large mean intervals between the onsets and offsets of the fingertip and trunk motions. Moreover, PD patients showed substantially larger trial-to-trial variability in these intervals. The degree of synchronization in PD patients gradually increased during the movement under the influence of visual feedback. The mean and variability of the intersegmental intervals decreased as the fingertip approached the target. This improvement in timing occurred even though the separate variability in the timing of arm and trunk motions was not reduced by vision. In combined movements, even without vision, the PD patients were able to achieve normal accuracy, suggesting they were able to use the same movement synergies as normals to control the multiple degrees of freedom involved in the movements and to compensate for the added trunk movement. However, they were unable to recruit these synergies in the stereotyped manner characteristic of healthy subjects. These results suggest that the basal ganglia are involved in the temporal coordination of movement of different body segments and that related timing abnormalities may be partly compensated by vision. Abnormal intersegmental timing may be a highly sensitive indicator of a deficient ability to assemble complex movements in patients with basal-ganglia dysfunction. This abnormality may be apparent even when the overall movement goal of reaching a target is preserved and normal movement synergies appear to be largely intact.
This article reports on the feasibility of using a contingency management intervention with adolescent smokers that has proven efficacious in adult substance abuse treatment. The study used 8 adolescent participants in an A (1 week)-B (1 week)-A (1 week) reversal design. During the 2 baseline phases, no contingencies were placed on cigarette smoking, and adolescents received money noncontingently. During the experimental intervention week, adolescents received payment contingent on not smoking. The magnitude of reimbursement available during the baseline and intervention phases was equated. Results indicated that the contingency management intervention was effective in reducing smoking, both in terms of increasing the total number of abstinences and consecutive abstinences. In addition, changes in adolescents' affective states during smoking cessation were found. Anxiety, depression, anger, and fatigue were reported, and these negative states ceased once smoking resumed.
Contingency-management interventions that provide reinforcement in the form of exchangeable vouchers, contingent on drug abstinence, are among the most effective substance abuse treatment strategies available. Factors known to contribute to the efficacy of these interventions include voucher magnitude and the schedule with which vouchers are made available. Another potential factor may be the delay between earning a voucher and exchanging it for a desired good or service. The authors adapted a laboratory analog of a voucher program to examine the effects of immediacy of reinforcement and its interaction with reinforcer magnitude. Abstinent cigarette smokers made repeated choices between puffs on a cigarette and points worth a variety of monetary values (10 cents-2 dollars). The time at which these points could be exchanged for money varied from the end of the session to 1 or 3 weeks. Results indicated that longer exchange delays and tower magnitude reinforcers increased the number of choices for drug.
This commentary examines and reinterprets the concept of relative persistence in drug self-administration studies, described by R. A. Meisch (2000), in behavioral economic terms. Over the past several years, investigators in the behavioral sciences have successfully applied consumer demand theory to the study of drug abuse and addiction. The economic concept of demand elasticity (i.e., the changes in the amount of a commodity demanded as a function of changes in price) and the concept of unit price are described in detail, and this commentary shows these concepts provide an alternative interpretation to the relative persistence of behavior. The application of the behavioral economic approach to understanding abuse potential of putative drugs of abuse, in development of medications for drug addiction and in characterizing the transition from drug use to drug addiction, is discussed.
Basic behavioral research continues to play an integral role in the National Institute on Drug Abuse's (NIDA's) search for solutions to the complex social and public health problems posed by drug abuse and addiction. Along with NIDA's basic molecular and neuroscience research programs, behavioral research has played an important role in increasing clinician's understanding of the mechanisms and processes that underlie addiction. Much has been learned about the ways in which animals and humans respond to their environment and the role these basic behavioral processes play in drug abuse and other drug-abuse-related phenomena, such as withdrawal, craving, and relapse, but there is still much more to be known. The author discusses how NIDA will continue to build and promote its behavioral research agenda and ensure that behavioral research findings are applied in real-life settings when applicable.
In the majority of patients, spinal cord injury (SCI) results in abnormal pain syndromes in which non-noxious stimuli become noxious (allodynia). To reduce allodynia, it would be desirable to implant a permanent biological pump such as adrenal medullary chromaffin cells (AM), which secrete catecholamines and opioid peptides, both antinociceptive substances, near the spinal cord. We tested this approach using a recently developed a mammalian SCI model of chronic central pain, which results in development of mechanical and thermal allodynia. Thirty day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were spinally hemisected at T13 and allowed 4 weeks for recovery of locomotor function and development of allodynia. Nonimmunosuppressed injured animals received either control-striated muscle (n = 7) or AM (n = 10) transplants. Nociceptive behavior was tested for 4 weeks posttransplant as measured by paw withdrawals to von Frey filaments, radiant heat, and pin prick stimuli. Hemisected animals receiving AM demonstrated statistically significant reductions in both fore- and hindlimb mechanical and thermal allodynia, but not analgesia, when compared to hemisected animals receiving striated muscle transplants (P &lt; 0.05). Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity indicated prolonged transplant survival and production of catecholamines. HPLC analysis of cerebrospinal fluid samples from animals receiving AM transplants demonstrated statistically significant increases in levels of dopamine (sevenfold), norepinephrine (twofold), and epinephrine (threefold), compared to control values several weeks following transplant (P &lt; 0.05). By 28 days posttransplant, however, antinociceptive effects were diminished. These results support the therapeutic potential of transplanted AM in reducing chronic central pain following spinal cord injury.
Opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore has increasingly been implicated in excitotoxic, ischemic, and apoptotic cell death, as well as in several neurodegenerative disease processes. However, much of the work directly characterizing properties of the transition pore has been performed in isolated liver mitochondria. Because of suggestions of tissue-specific differences in pore properties, we directly compared isolated brain mitochondria with liver mitochondria and used three quantitative biochemical and ultrastructural measurements of permeability transition. We provide evidence that brain mitochondria do not readily undergo permeability transition upon exposure to conditions that rapidly induce the opening of the transition pore in liver mitochondria. Exposure of liver mitochondria to transition-inducing agents led to a large, cyclosporin A-inhibitable decrease in spectrophotometric absorbance, a loss of mitochondrial glutathione, and morphologic evidence of matrix swelling and disruption, as expected. However, we found that similarly treated brain mitochondria showed very little absorbance change and no loss of glutathione. The absence of response in brain was not simply due to structural limitations, since large-amplitude swelling and release of glutathione occurred when membrane pores unrelated to the transition pore were formed. Additionally, electron microscopy revealed that the majority of brain mitochondria appeared morphologically unchanged following treatment to induce permeability transition. These findings show that isolated brain mitochondria are more resistant to induction of permeability transition than mitochondria from liver, which may have important implications for the study of the mechanisms involved in neuronal cell death.
The inferior alveolar nerve is a sensory branch of the trigeminal nerve that is frequently damaged, and such nerve injuries can give rise to persistent paraesthesia and dysaesthesia. The mechanisms behind neuropathic pain following nerve injury is poorly understood. However, remodeling of voltage-gated sodium channels in the neuronal membrane has been proposed as one possible mechanism behind injury-induced ectopic hyperexcitability. The TTX-resistant sodium channel SNS/PN3 has been implicated in the development of neuropathic pain after spinal nerve injury. We here study the effect of chronic axotomy of the inferior alveolar nerve on the expression of SNS/PN3 mRNA in trigeminal sensory neurons. The organization of sodium channels in the neuronal membrane is maintained by binding to ankyrin, which help link the sodium channel to the membrane skeleton. Ankyrin(G), which colocalizes with sodium channels in the initial segments and nodes of Ranvier, and is necessary for normal neuronal sodium channel function, could be essential in the reorganization of the axonal membrane after nerve injury. For this reason, we here study the expression of ankyrin(G) in the trigeminal ganglion and the localization of ankyrin(G) protein in the inferior alveolar nerve after injury. We show that SNS/PN3 mRNA is down-regulated in small-sized trigeminal ganglion neurons following inferior alveolar nerve injury but that, in contrast to the persistent loss of SNS/PN3 mRNA seen in dorsal root ganglion neurons following sciatic nerve injury, the levels of SNS/PN3 mRNA appear to normalize within a few weeks. We further show that the expression of ankyrin(G) mRNA also is downregulated after nerve lesion and that these changes persist for at least 13 weeks. This decrease in the ankyrin(G) mRNA expression could play a role in the reorganization of sodium channels within the damaged nerve. The changes in the levels of SNS/PN3 mRNA in the trigeminal ganglion, which follow the time course for hyperexcitability of trigeminal ganglion neurons after inferior alveolar nerve injury, may contribute to the inappropriate firing associated with sensory dysfunction in the orofacial region.
Chromaffin cells have been recognized for their ability to transform into sympathetic ganglion-like cells in response to nerve growth factor (NGF) or to stimulation of other neurotrophic factors. Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) family members have been shown to potentiate the effect of different trophic factors. The aim of this study was to investigate if TGFbeta may influence NGF-induced neuronal transformation and regulation of NGF, TGFbeta1, and their receptors in the adult rat chromaffin tissue after grafting. Intraocular transplantation of adult chromaffin tissue was employed and grafts were treated with TGFbeta1 and/or NGF. Graft survival time was 18 days after which the grafts were processed for TGFbeta luciferase detection assay, NGF enzyme immunoassay, or in situ hybridization. In grafts stimulated with NGF, increased levels of TGFbeta1 and TGFbeta1 mRNA were detected. When grafts instead were treated with TGFbeta1, enhanced levels of NGF protein were found. Furthermore, a positive mRNA signal corresponding to the transforming growth factor II receptor (TbetaRII) was found in the chromaffin cells of the normal adrenal medulla as well as after grafting. No increase of TbetaRII mRNA levels was detected after transplantation or after TGFbeta1 treatment. Instead a reduction of TbetaRII mRNA expression was noted after NGF treatment. NGF stimulation of grafts increased the message for NGF receptors p75 and trkA in the chromaffin transplants. Grafts processed for evaluations of neurite outgrowth were allowed to survive for 28 days and were injected weekly with NGF and/or TGFbeta1. NGF treatment resulted in a robust innervation of the host irides. TGFbeta1 had no additive effect on nerve fiber formation when combined with NGF. Combined treatment of NGF and anti-TGFbeta1 resulted in a significantly larger area of reinnervation. In conclusion, it was found that NGF and TGFbeta1 may regulate the expression of each other's protein in adult chromaffin grafts. Furthermore, TbetaRII mRNA was present in the adult rat chromaffin cells and became downregulated as a result of NGF stimulation. Although no synergistic effects of TGFbeta1 were found on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, it was found that TGFbeta1 and NGF signaling are closely linked in the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla.
Numerous lines of evidence indicate that some of the neurotoxicity associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is due to proteolytic fragments of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Most research has focused on the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). However, the possible role of other cleaved products of APP is less clear. We have previously shown that a recombinant carboxy-terminal 105 amino acid fragment (CT 105) of APP induced strong nonselective inward currents in Xenopus oocyte; it also revealed neurotoxicity in PC12 cells and primary cortical neurons, blocked later phase of long-term potentiation in rat hippocampus in vivo, and induced memory deficits and neuropathological changes in mice. We report here that the pretreatment with CT 105 for 24 h at a 10 microM concentration increases intracellular calcium concentration by about twofold in SK-N-SH and PC 12 cells, but not in U251 cells, originated from human glioblastoma. In addition, the calcium increase and toxicity induced by CT 105 were reduced by cholesterol and MK 801 in SK-N-SH and PC 12 cells, whereas the toxicity of Abeta(1-42) was attenuated by nifedipine and verapamil. CT 105 rendered SK-N-SH cells and rat primary cortical neurons more vulnerable to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Also, conformational studies using circular dichroism experiments showed that CT 105 has approximately 15% of beta-sheet content in phosphate buffer and aqueous 2,2, 2-trifluoroethanol solutions. However, the content of beta-sheet conformation in dodecyl phosphocholine micelle or in the negatively charged vesicles, is increased to 22%-23%. The results of this study showed that CT 105 disrupts calcium homeostasis and renders neuronal cells more vulnerable to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity, and that some portion of CT 105 has partial beta-sheet conformation in various environments, which may be related to the self-aggregation and toxicity. This may be significantly possibly involved in inducing the neurotoxicity characteristic of AD.
The present paper briefly reviews the most relevant experimental data on the reducing effect of some medicinal herbs on voluntary alcohol intake in animal models of alcoholism. Pueraria lobata, Tabernanthe iboga, Panax ginseng, Salvia miltiorrhiza and Hypericum perforatum proved to be effective in decreasing alcohol consumption. Reduction of alcohol absorption from the gastrointestinal system appears to be a common feature among most of the above plants. These data suggest that medicinal plants may constitute novel and effective pharmacotherapies for alcoholism.
Johann Nepomuk Czermak (1828-1873) gained a lasting reputation in the fields of laryngology, rhinology and dentistry. However, his works in the discipline he liked most--neurophysiology--have almost been forgotten. This paper focuses on those articles, which Czermak wrote during his last years in Leipzig (from 1869). Also it was here that he was finally able to fulfill his dream of a &quot;spectatorium&quot;, a perfect place for both research and teaching at that time. This institution was the perfect expression of Czermak's uncompromisingly scientific approach, his views in social as well as matters of teaching. It is part of his tragedy though, that Czermak died too early in Leipzig, the place where he could finally realize many of his scientific visions, and that his inheritance was soon forgotten.

We have recently identified a tandem repetitive DNA sequence that we designated the RS447 megasatellite. In this study, we describe a functional novel deubiquitinating enzyme (USP17, 60 kDa) gene that is intronless and encoded by the RS447 repeating unit. Northern blot analysis in conjunction with 5' and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends confirmed the presence of poly(A)(+) containing RS447 RNA in normal cells. We also identified a functional promoter sequence as well as an open reading frame within every RS447 repeat. When USP17 was expressed in Escherichia coli, it exhibited deubiquitinating activity in vivo. An antibody against USP17 detected USP17 protein in human cells. Our results indicate that the RS447 repeating unit on this megasatellite repeat codes for and actively expresses a functional deubiquitinating enzyme. Although it is expressed ubiquitously in human tissues, USP17 exhibited a unique expression pattern in that its complementary strand is transcribed as an antisense transcript that may modulate the level of USP17 expression in the human brain.

The type II isoform of carbonic anhydrase is abundant in astrocytes and oligodendroglia. To explore whether the expression of the type II isoform is required for interstitial carbonic anhydrase activity, we studied extracellular pH transients in hippocampal slices from mutant mice devoid of carbonic anhydrase type II and from wild-type littermates. Stimulation of the Schaffer collateral afferents evoked similar extracellular pH transients in the CA1 stratum pyramidale, consisting of a predominant alkaline shift and little or no subsequent acidosis. After 5-s stimulus trains at 10 Hz, alkaline shifts were not significantly different in carbonic anhydrase II-deficient and wild-type preparations, averaging 0.09 +/- 0.04 and 0.08 +/- 0.04 unit pH, respectively. Addition of 1.5 microM benzolamide amplified the alkaline shifts by 385 +/- 146 and 345 +/- 75% in the mutant and wild-type preparations, respectively. Dose response studies with benzolamide displayed similar sensitivity to this carbonic anhydrase inhibitor over a concentration range of 0. 03-10 microM. These data indicate that interstitial carbonic anhydrase activity is effectively unaltered in brains devoid of carbonic anhydrase type II. The results are consistent with the interpretation that a distinct extracellular isoform of carbonic anhydrase exists in brain.
Food deprivation blocks sexual behavior and disrupts estrous cycles in mammals. We asked whether reduced copulatory behavior, produced by limited food intake, could be reversed by brief refeeding intervals in the female musk shrew. In Experiment 1, animals were food restricted to 60% of ad lib (FR), and an additional group of FR females were refed for 90 min prior to testing (RF). Refed and ad lib (AL) fed females were significantly more likely to mate than FR females. To test the hypothesis that food-induced restoration of copulatory behavior is not the result of changes in peripheral steroids, we repeated Experiment 1 using ovariectomized and testosterone-implanted females. The results from Experiment 2 were similar to those found in the first study. Next, a more severe refeeding schedule was employed; females were restricted to 50% of ad lib intake. Females in the RF and FR groups were significantly less likely than the AL animals to mate. In the last experiment, females were food restricted to 50% and longer refeeding intervals were employed. Four and one-half hours of food intake did not reinstate sexual behavior, but females refed for 12 h were as likely to mate as ad lib fed controls. We also did not detect any differences in plasma concentrations of testosterone and cortisol in AL, FR, and RF ovary-intact animals. These results define a nutritional threshold for copulatory behavior in the musk shrew. Since this species is highly sensitive to small alterations in food intake, it is a useful model for studies of interactions between metabolic fuels and behavior.
Nystagmus is a potentially mind-boggling subject, as over forty different types are recognized. However, by classifying the various types into a small number of categories, the clinician can make sense of them, and so make use of a very important clinical sign.
The synapses of photoreceptors and bipolar cells in the retina are easily identified ultrastructurally by the presence of synaptic ribbons, electron-dense bars perpendicular to the plasma membrane at the active zones, extending about 0.5 microm into the cytoplasm. The neurotransmitter, glutamate, is released continuously (tonically) from these 'ribbon synapses' and the rate of release is modulated in response to graded changes in the membrane potential. This contrasts with action potential-driven bursts of release at conventional synapses. Similar to other synapses, neurotransmitter is released at ribbon synapses by the calcium-dependent exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. Most components of the molecular machinery governing transmitter release are conserved between ribbon and conventional synapses, but a few differences have been identified that may be important determinants of tonic transmitter release. For example, the presynaptic calcium channels of bipolar cells and photoreceptors are different from those elsewhere in the brain. Differences have also been found in the proteins involved in synaptic vesicle recruitment to the active zone and in synaptic vesicle fusion. These differences and others are discussed in terms of their implications for neurotransmitter release from photoreceptors and bipolar cells in the retina.
The retrograde axonal transport of neurotrophins occurs after receptor-mediated endocytosis into vesicles at the nerve terminal. We have been investigating the process of targeting these vesicles for retrograde transport, by examining the transport of [125I]-labelled neurotrophins from the eye to sympathetic and sensory ganglia. With the aid of confocal microscopy, we examined the phenomena further in cultures of dissociated sympathetic ganglia to which rhodamine-labelled nerve growth factor (NGF) was added. We found the label in large vesicles in the growth cone and axons. Light microscopic examination of the sympathetic nerve trunk in vivo also showed the retrogradely transported material to be sporadically located in large structures in the axons. Ultrastructural examination of the sympathetic nerve trunk after the transport of NGF bound to gold particles showed the label to be concentrated in relatively few large organelles that consisted of accumulations of multivesicular bodies. These results suggest that in vivo NGF is transported in specialized organelles that require assembly in the nerve terminal.
The product of the flightless I gene is predicted to provide a link between molecules of an as yet unidentified signal transduction pathway and the actin cytoskeleton. Previous work has shown that weak and severe mutations of the flightless I locus in Drosophila melanogaster cause disruption in the indirect flight muscles and in embryonic cellularization events, respectively, indicative of a regulatory role for the flightless I protein in cytoskeletal rearrangements. A C-terminal domain within flightless I with significant homology to the gelsolin-like family of actin-binding proteins has been identified, but evidence of a direct interaction between endogenous flightless I and actin remains to be shown. In the present study, chick, mouse and Drosophila melanogaster embryos have been examined and the localization of flightless I investigated in relation to the actin cytoskeleton. It is shown that flightless I localization is coincident with actin-rich regions in parasympathetic neurons harvested from chicks, in mouse blastocysts and in structures associated with cellularization in Drosophila melanogaster.
Hepatoblastoma is a rare pediatric liver tumor. While much progress has been made in the treatment of the disease, very little is known about the moleculer events underlying the pathogenesis of this disease. We sought to investigate a series of hepatoblastomas for alterations in gene expression patterns with emphasis on important cell regulatory genes, including chromatin modifying enzymes, cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors, growth factors, oncogenes and cell cycle regulators. Total RNA was extracted from a series of sporadic hepatoblastomas with matched normal liver, some unmatched tumors and fetal livers, and gene expression was measured for various genes using RNase Protection Analysis (RPA). The results of this analysis show that the expression of many important regulatory genes are distinctly altered in these tumors, and a subset of tumors can be distinguished on the basis of these gene expression differences and histopathological features. Because the molecular events underlying the pathogenesis of this rare tumor are so poorly understood, this study represents a first step in determining some of the possible mechanisms involved which may provide future avenues of research.


The utility of Coyne's (1976a) interactional model in predicting negative spousal attitudes toward depressed patients was examined. Eighty-nine couples with at least 1 member in treatment for depression were selected on the basis of semistructured diagnostic interviews. Overall, spouses living with a depressed patient reported significantly more distress than population norms. Consistent with prediction, patients' reassurance seeking and spouses' mood contributed to negative spousal attitudes. Additional analyses demonstrated that these effects persisted even after controlling for spouse marital adjustment, suggesting that negative spousal attitudes were more than a simple reflection of marital maladjustment.
Recent studies of patients with schizophrenia have consistently demonstrated marked deficits on measures of initial learning. However, contradictory results have been reported concerning retention and forgetting. The present study examined the level of initial and delayed recall of stories and visual figures in a group of 76 patients with schizophrenia and 51 normal controls. Schizophrenia patients demonstrated marked impairments in initial and delayed recall as well as significantly worse percentage retention scores. However, schizophrenia patients and healthy controls individually matched on level of initial recall had nearly identical delayed recall performance. The results suggest a primary deficit in the initial acquisition of information rather than an accelerated rate of forgetting in schizophrenia.


The auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) elicited by click stimuli were measured in heterosexual, homosexual, and bisexual males and females having normal hearing sensitivity. Estimates of latency and/or amplitude were extracted for nine peaks having latencies of about 2-240 ms, which are presumed to correspond to populations of neurons located from the auditory nerve through auditory cortex. For five of the 19 measures obtained, the mean latency or amplitude for the 57 homosexual and bisexual females was different from that of the 49 heterosexual females in a manner that implies a masculinization of the auditory systems of the homosexual and bisexual females. A similar masculinization effect was previously observed for the otoacoustic emissions generated by the cochlea. For five other measures, the mean latency or amplitude for the 53 homosexual and bisexual males was different from that of the 50 heterosexual males in a manner that implies a hypermasculinization of the auditory systems of the homosexual and bisexual males. Hypermasculinization has been reported recently for other physical characteristics of homosexual males. One parsimonious interpretation of these findings is that homosexual males and females both were exposed to higher than normal levels of androgens at some point(s) in development. Data are reported only for the female subjects not using oral contraceptives because those drugs can masculinize certain AEP measures.
We have shown recently that isolated cochlear outer hair cells change their axial stiffness when their membrane potential is altered under voltage-clamp. Here we extend those observations, using a more stable mechanical platform, the microchamber, to hold the cells and to deliver voltage commands. Cell stiffness is determined by opto-electronically measuring the amplitude of motion of a flexible fiber as it is loaded by the cell. Cell stiffness is decreased by depolarization and increased by hyperpolarization. The stiffness changes have been measured with sinusoidal electrical command signals up to 1750 Hz and fiber motion up to 2000 Hz. It is shown that electrically evoked stiffness changes and length changes (electromotility) have very similar characteristics and may arise in a common process.
The period of complex signals is encoded in the bullfrog's eighth nerve by a synchrony code based on phase-locked responding. We examined how these arrays of phase-locked activity are represented in different subnuclei of the auditory midbrain, the torus semicircularis (TS). Recording sites in different areas of the TS differ in their ability to synchronize to the envelope of complex stimuli, and these differences in synchronous activity are related to response latency. Cells in the caudal principal nucleus (cell sparse zone) have longer latencies, and show little or no phase-locked activity, even in response to low modulation rates, while some cells in lateral areas of the TS (magnocellular nucleus, lateral part of principal nucleus) synchronize to rates as high as 90-100 Hz. At midlevels of the TS, there is a lateral-to-medial gradient of synchronization ability: cells located more laterally show better phaselocking than those located more medially. Pooled all-order interval histograms from short latency cells located in the lateral TS represent the waveform periodicity of a biologically relevant complex harmonic signal at different stimulus levels, and in a manner consistent with behavioral data from vocalizing male frogs. Long latency cells in the caudal parts of the TS (cell sparse zone, caudal magnocellular nucleus) code stimulus period by changes in spike rate, rather than by changes in synchronized activity. These data suggest that neural codes based on rate processing and time domain processing are represented in anatomically different areas of the TS. They further show that a populationbased analysis can increase the precision with which temporal features are represented in the central auditory system.
We report the covalent surface modification of active-fixation pacemaker electrodes with butanethiol or dodecanethiol self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) using a platinum or gold metal-thiolate bond (i.e., changing the chemical identity of the exposed metal electrode from metal to organic) in such fashion that (a) the surface is organic in functionality with lipophilic physicochemical characteristics, (b) a possible degradation product is gold (I)-alkanethiolate with putative anti-inflammatory actions, and (c) current density/electric field strength is increased. Superior acute and chronic pacing performance with dodecanethiol-modified, gold-coated, platinum-iridium alloy pacemaker electrodes was observed with inferential evidence of reduced inflammation and scar. This approach may have applicability in other areas of bioelectrodes with practical applications in clinical cardiology, surgery, neuroscience, and subcutaneous sensors.
Of the memory deficits associated with aging, elders are most impaired at attributing the source to remembered information. Additionally, aging is marked by a decrease in the use of encoding strategies that are thought to enhance the acquisition and retention of information. We examined how manipulating the encoding strategy during acquisition affected item and source memory in 32 young and 68 elderly participants. Elderly participants were dichotomized into young-old and old-old based upon the median age (74 years). Memory was assessed using Word List A from the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) and its alternate form. Encoding strategy was manipulated by semantic clustering. For the Blocked List, words were presented grouped into their semantic categories, whereas for the Unblocked List categories were intermixed within the list. Item and source memory judgments were made 20 minutes after the final CVLT recall trial and again one week later. Results revealed a disproportionate decline in source, compared to item memory in the two older groups. Semantic blocking enhanced item memory for the elders, but not for the young. The amount of semantic clustering performed by the elders showed a decline with age and was positively related to source performance. Results also suggest that subtle age-related changes in semantic knowledge may be related to declines in semantic clustering and memory performance.
Gastrointestinal dysfunction is common in diabetic patients. In genetic (nonobese diabetic) and toxin-elicited (streptozotocin) models of diabetes in mice, we demonstrate defects in gastric emptying and nonadrenergic, noncholinergic relaxation of pyloric muscle, which resemble defects in mice harboring a deletion of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene (nNOS). The diabetic mice manifest pronounced reduction in pyloric nNOS protein and mRNA. The decline of nNOS in diabetic mice does not result from loss of myenteric neurons. nNOS expression and pyloric function are restored to normal levels by insulin treatment. Thus diabetic gastropathy in mice reflects an insulin-sensitive reversible loss of nNOS. In diabetic animals, delayed gastric emptying can be reversed with a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, sildenafil. These findings have implications for novel therapeutic approaches and may clarify the etiology of diabetic gastropathy.


For more than four decades, hearing in frogs has been an important source of information for those interested in auditory neuroscience, neuroethology and the evolution of hearing. Individual features of the frog auditory system can be found represented in one or many of the other vertebrate classes, but collectively the frog inner ear represents a cornucopia of evolutionary experiments in acoustic signal processing. The mechano-sensitive hair cell, as the focal point of transduction, figures critically in the encoding of acoustic information in the afferent auditory nerve. In this review, we provide a short description of how auditory signals are encoded by the specialized anatomy and physiology of the frog inner ear and examine the role of hair cell physiology and its influence on the encoding of sound in the frog auditory nerve. We hope to demonstrate that acoustic signal processing in frogs may offer insights into the evolution and biology of hearing not only in amphibians but also in reptiles, birds and mammals, including man.
Narcolepsy had been documented some twenty years before the psychoanalytic movement, emphasizing the central role of sleep and dreams in the understanding of mental health, offered an entirely novel theory of its aetiology. And when the full range of the behavioral aspects of the condition were documented, it was obvious that intense psychoanalytic interest in it was inevitable. Unfortunately, even mainstream neurology, lacking any rival physiological explanation, for a time tended to entertain a definite role for such beliefs, at least in some cases. However, such a theory involving outre concepts of repressed, guilt-ridden sexual drives as an explanation of the behavioral aspects of narcolepsy-cataplexy, of necessity simply added to the burdens of the sufferer. For it became clear that the condition by itself produced enough psycho-social problems without further adding to them. This historical note details the persistence of this misconceived theory up to the later decades of this century, and the burden that it placed upon those who suffered from this condition.
Luigi Luciani, the Italian physiologist who lived during the second half of the nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth, is generally remembered for his studies on the cerebellum, the physiology of the heart, the respiratory system and on fasting. Less well known is the experimental research he carried out in the field of cerebral localization. It should however be pointed out that, as a result of his work in experimental neurophysiology between the years 1875 and 1885, Luciani was perfectly familiar with the latest findings on the relationship between brain and behavioral functions, but above all he was led by this work to develop an interesting model for the description of brain functions. He refined this model in a close dialectic relationship, of comparison and contrast, with the theories of the leading European neurophysiologists of his time - either those who favored a localizationistic explanation of the brain's functions or those who opposed this view. This paper gives a quick presentation of Luciani's experimental work on the functions of the brain as well as what he thought of the question of cerebral localization. His localizationistic model is compared - both in its general characteristics and in its specific details - with other models which had been proposed during the same years by the outstanding European physiologists of the day like Goltz, Ferrier, and Munk. Luciani's epistemological foundations, as well as his experimental methodology, are analyzed within the context of his wider theoretical ideas about how nervous and psychic activity were linked, with his ideas on physiology, and more in general in relation to his view of man's biological place in the rest of the living world. On the basis of this analysis, the state of the experimental work being done in Italy by Luciani is placed within the European context of neurophysiology in which Luciani was an outstanding figure.
Neuroscience's evolution at Johns Hopkins, from neurophysiology to the new field of neurobiology, though unplanned, was rapid and important. Beginning in 1933 when Philip Bard became professor of physiology at Johns Hopkins, members of his department concentrated initially on neuroanatomical control of placing reactions and sexual activity. Vernon Mountcastle, extending available techniques, discovered vertical somato-sensory columns in the 1950's. Stephen Kuffler, who arrived at Hopkins in 1947, was a pioneer in single unit microelectrode recording techniques. He soon attracted scientists from all over the world to his laboratory. Among them, Torsten Wiesel and David Hubel discovered vertical neuronal columns in the visual cortex. During several decades at Johns Hopkins, these five scientists set extremely high scientific standards and established a climate of inquiry in which ideas were shared and young scientists encouraged. They contributed significantly to the emerging discipline of neuroscience.
Whereas Ivan P. Pavlov (1849-1936) is well-known for his work on classical conditioning, his contribution to neuroscience, particularly his interest in the function of neural centers in the central nervous system, is not as widely known. During the last three decades of his life, Pavlov explored cortical processes by salivary reflex conditioning, a method he used to develop his theory of higher nervous activity. This theory outlined the function of the brain in higher organisms in their interaction with the changing environmental contingencies. As early as 1908, Pavlov outlined a neurophysiological theory as the physiological basis of his theory of higher nervous activity. He maintained that the neural processes of excitation and inhibition irradiate and concentrate among the cortical neural centers. Most of all, he emphasized the plasticity of the cortex in higher organisms' in the Darwinian struggle for existence.

This Presidential address to the International Society for the History of the Neurosciences was given at Lausanne in September 1999. It reviews some of the contributions given at that conference and provides a brief overview of the history of the mind-brain problem in Western neuroscientific thought.

This Presidential address to the International Society for the History of the Neurosciences was given at Lausanne in September 1999. It reviews some of the contributions given at that conference and provides a brief overview of the history of the mind-brain problem in Western neuroscientific thought.
Identifying and quantifying autoaggressive responses in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been difficult in the past due to the low frequency of autoantigen-specific T cells, the high number of putative determinants on the autoantigens, and the different cytokine signatures of the autoreactive T cells. We used single-cell resolution enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays to study, directly ex vivo, proteolipid protein (PLP)-specific memory cell reactivity from MS patients and controls. Overlapping 9-aa-long peptides, spanning the entire PLP molecule in single amino acid steps, were used to determine the frequency and fine specificity of PLP-specific lymphocytes as measured by their IFN-gamma and IL-5 production. MS patients (n = 22) responded to 4 times as many PLP peptides as did healthy controls (n = 22). The epitopes recognized in individual patients, up to 22 peptides, were scattered throughout the PLP molecule, showing considerable heterogeneity among MS patients. Frequency measurements showed that the number of PLP peptide-specific IFN-gamma-producing cells averaged 11 times higher in MS patients than in controls. PLP peptide-induced IL-5-producing T cells occurred in very low frequencies in both MS patients and controls. This first comprehensive assessment of the anti-PLP-Th1/Th2 response in MS shows a greatly increased Th1 effector cell mass in MS patients. Moreover, the highly IFN-gamma-polarized, IL-5-negative cytokine profile of the PLP-reactive T cells suggests that these cells are committed Th1 cells. The essential absence of uncommitted Th0 cells producing both cytokines may explain why therapeutic strategies that aim at the induction of immune deviation show little efficacy in the established disease.
Src homology region 2 (SH2) domain-containing phosphatase-1 (SHP-1) is a cytosolic protein tyrosine phosphatase containing two SH2 domains in its NH2 terminus. That immunological abnormalities of the motheaten and viable motheaten mice are caused by mutations in the gene encoding SHP-1 indicates that SHP-1 plays important roles in lymphocyte differentiation, proliferation, and activation. To elucidate molecular mechanisms by which SHP-1 regulates BCR-mediated signal transduction, we determined SHP-1 substrates in B cells using the substrate-trapping approach. When the phosphatase activity-deficient form of SHP-1, in which the catalytic center cysteine (C453) was replaced with serine (SHP-1-C/S), was introduced in WEHI-231 cells, tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein of about 70 kDa was strongly enhanced. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot analyses revealed that this protein is the B cell linker protein (BLNK), also named SH2 domain leukocyte protein of 65 kDa, and that upon tyrosine phosphorylation BLNK binds to SHP-1-C/S in vitro. In vitro kinase assays demonstrated that hyperphosphorylation of BLNK in SHP-1-C/S-expressing cells was not due to enhanced activity of Lyn or Syk. Furthermore, BCR-induced activation of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase was shown to be significantly enhanced in SHP-1-C/S transfectants. Taken collectively, our results suggest that BLNK is a physiological substrate of SHP-1 in B cells and that SHP-1 selectively regulates c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase activation.
During neuronal pathfinding in vivo, growth cones must reorient their direction of migration in response to extracellular guidance cues. The developing grasshopper limb bud has proved to be a model system in which to examine mechanisms of growth cone guidance and motility in vivo. In this review we examine the contributions of adhesion and multiple guidance cues (semaphorins 1 and 2) in directing a growth cone steering event. Recent observations have suggested that the tibial pioneer growth cones are not directed via mechanisms of differential adhesivity. We present a model of growth cone steering that suggests a combination of adhesive and guidance receptors are important for a correct steering event and that guidance molecules may be important regulators of adhesive interactions with the actin cytoskeleton.

The mechanisms that guide axons through a complex cellular landscape to reach appropriate target cells are central to our understanding of neural development. Decades of work suggest that guidance information is interpreted by signaling machinery that controls the complex and dynamic cytoskeleton at the growth cone leading edge. Recent insights from the areas of signal transduction and cell biology have identified a number of key components that play central roles in this chain of command, including members of the Ena/VASP and WASP family of proteins. Although our understanding of the precise mechanism by which these proteins control actin assembly is still incomplete, these players are emerging as potential sites of integration that translate convergent signals into directional cell movement. This brief review explores some of the most recent articles on this topic.
The morphology of neuronal axons and dendrites is dependent on the dynamics of the cytoskeleton. An understanding of neurodevelopment and adult neuroplasticity must therefore include a detailed description of the intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms that regulate the organization and dynamics of actin filaments and microtubules. In this paper we review recent advances in the understanding of the dynamic regulation of neuronal morphology by interactions among cytoskeletal components and the regulation of the cytoskeleton by neurotrophins.
During development, growth cones direct growing axons into appropriate targets. However, in some cortical pathways target innervation occurs through the development of collateral branches that extend interstitially from the axon shaft. How do such branches form? Direct observations of living cortical brain slices revealed that growth cones of callosal axons pause for many hours beneath their cortical targets prior to the development of interstitial branches. High resolution imaging of dissociated living cortical neurons for many hours revealed that the growth cone demarcates sites of future axon branching by lengthy pausing behaviors and enlargement of the growth cone. After a new growth cone forms and resumes forward advance, filopodial and lamellipodial remnants of the large paused growth cone are left behind on the axon shaft from which interstitial branches later emerge. To investigate how the cytoskeleton reorganizes at axon branch points, we fluorescently labeled microtubules in living cortical neurons and imaged the behaviors of microtubules during new growth from the axon shaft and the growth cone. In both regions microtubules reorganize into a more plastic form by splaying apart and fragmenting. These shorter microtubules then invade newly developing branches with anterograde and retrograde movements. Although axon branching of dissociated cortical neurons occurs in the absence of targets, application of a target-derived growth factor, FGF-2, greatly enhances branching. Taken together, these results demonstrate that growth cone pausing is closely related to axon branching and suggest that common mechanisms underlie directed axon growth from the terminal growth cone and the axon shaft.

We previously reported a 50% reduction in cortical infarct volume following transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats preconditioned 3 days earlier with cortical spreading depression (CSD). The mechanism of the protective effect of prior CSD remains unknown. Recent studies demonstrate reversal of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) to be a principal cause for elevated extracellular glutamate levels during cerebral ischemia. The present study measured the effect of CSD preconditioning on (a) intraischemic glutamate levels and (b) regulation of glutamate transporters within the ischemic cortex of the rat. Three days following either CSD or sham preconditioning, rats were subjected to 200 min of focal cerebral ischemia, and extracellular glutamate concentration was measured by in vivo microdialysis. Cortical glutamate exposure decreased 70% from 1,772.4 +/- 1,469.2 microM-min in sham-treated (n = 8) to 569.0 +/- 707.8 microM-min in CSD-treated (n = 13) rats (p &lt;0.05). The effect of CSD preconditioning on glutamate transporter levels in plasma membranes (PMs) prepared from rat cerebral cortex was assessed by western blot analysis. Down-regulation of the glial glutamate transporter isoforms EAAT2 and EAAT1 from the PM fraction was observed at 1, 3, and 7 days but not at 0 or 21 days after CSD. Semiquantitative lane analysis showed a maximal decrease of 90% for EAAT2 and 50% for EAAT1 at 3 days post-CSD. The neuronal isoform EAAT3 was unaffected by CSD. This period of down-regulation coincides with the time frame reported for induced ischemic tolerance. These data are consistent with reversal of glutamate transporter function contributing to glutamate release during ischemia and suggest that down-regulation of these transporters may contribute to ischemic tolerance induced by CSD.
As a model of the reperfusion injury found in stroke, we have exposed neurons to hypoxia followed by reoxygenation. Neurons treated with hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) respond by activating nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB), releasing cytochrome c from their mitochondria, and ultimately dying. Further supporting an apoptotic mechanism, expression of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-x proteins was increased following H/R. In this model, adenoviral-mediated transduction of lkappaB expression inhibited NFkappaB activation and significantly accelerated cytochrome c release and caspase-dependent neuronal death. At the same time, expression of mutated lkappaB prevented the increased expression of endogenous Bcl-2 and Bcl-x. In the presence of mutated lkappaB, singular overexpression of only Bcl-2 by adenoviral-mediated transduction significantly inhibited cytochrome c release, caspase-3-like activation, and cell death in response to H/R. These findings suggest a pathway where NFkappaB activation induces overexpression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x, which function to prevent apoptotic cell death following H/R treatments.
Several cytokines have short-term effects on synaptic transmission and plasticity that are thought to be mediated by the activation of intracellular protein kinases. We have studied the effects of interleukin-6 (IL-6) on the expression of paired pulse facilitation (PPF), posttetanic potentiation (PTP), and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus as well as on the activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3), the mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK (MAPK/ERK), and the stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK). IL-6 induced a marked and dose-dependent decrease in the expression of PTP and LTP that could be counteracted by the simultaneous treatment with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor lavendustin A (LavA) but did not significantly affect PPF. The IL-6-induced inhibition of PTP and LTP was accompanied by a simulation of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and an inhibition of MAPK/ERK dual phosphorylation, in the absence of changes in the state of activation of SAPK/JNK. Both effects of IL-6 on STAT3 and MAPK/ERK activation were effectively counteracted by LavA treatment. The results indicate the tyrosine kinases and MAPK/ERK are involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and may represent preferential intracellular targets for the actions of IL-6 in the adult nervous system.
We have identified a class of tau fragments inducing apoptosis in different cellular contexts, including a human teratocarcinoma-derived cell line (NT2 cells) representing committed human neuronal precursors. We have found a transition point inside the tau molecule beyond which the fragments lose their ability to induce apoptosis. This transition point is located around one of the putative caspase-3 cleavage sites. This is the only site that can be effectively used by caspase-3 in vitro, releasing the C-terminal 19 amino acids of tau. These results establish tau as a substrate for an apoptotic protease that turns tau itself into an effector of apoptosis. Accordingly, tau may be involved in a self-propagating process like what has been predicted for the pathogenesis of different neurodegenerative disorders.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMPK-II) is a key regulatory enzyme in living cells. Modulation of its activity, therefore, could have a major impact on many cellular processes. We found that Zn(2+) has multiple functional effects on CaMPK-II. Zn(2+) generated a Ca(2+)/CaM-independent activity that correlated with the autophosphorylation of Thr(286), inhibited Ca(2+)/CaM binding that correlated with the autophosphorylation of Thr(306), and inhibited CaMPK-II activity at high concentrations that correlated with the autophosphorylation of Ser(279). The relative level of autophosphorylation of these three sites was dependent on the concentration of zinc used. The autophosphorylation of at least these three sites, together with Zn(2+) binding, generated an increased mobility form of CaMPK-II on sodium dodecyl sulfate gels. Overall, autophosphorylation induced by Zn(2+) converts CaMPK-II into a different form than the binding of Ca(2+)/CaM. In certain nerve terminals, where Zn(2+) has been shown to play a neuromodulatory role and is present in high concentrations, Zn(2+) may turn CaMPK-II into a form that would be unable to respond to calcium signals.
The metabolism of [U-(13)C]lactate (1 mM) in the presence of unlabeled glucose (2.5 mM) was investigated in glutamatergic cerebellar granule cells, cerebellar astrocytes, and corresponding co-cultures. It was evident that lactate is primarily a neuronal substrate and that lactate produced glycolytically from glucose in astrocytes serves as a substrate in neurons. Alanine was highly enriched with (13)C in the neurons, whereas this was not the case in the astrocytes. Moreover, the cellular content and the amount of alanine released into the medium were higher in neurons than astrocytes. On incubation of the different cell types in medium containing alanine (1 mM), the astrocytes exhibited the highest level of accumulation. Altogether, these results indicate a preferential synthesis and release of alanine in glutamatergic neurons and uptake in cerebellar astrocytes. A new functional role of alanine may be suggested as a carrier of nitrogen from glutamatergic neurons to astrocytes, a transport that may operate to provide ammonia for glutamine synthesis in astrocytes and dispose of ammonia generated by the glutaminase reaction in glutamatergic neurons. Hence, a model of a glutamate-glutamine/lactate-alanine shuttle is presented. To elucidate if this hypothesis is compatible with the pattern of alanine metabolism observed in the astrocytes and neurons from cerebellum, the cells were incubated in a medium containing [(15)N]alanine (1 mM) and [5-(15)N]glutamine (0.5 mM), respectively. Additionally, neurons were incubated with [U-(13)C]glutamine to estimate the magnitude of glutamine conversion to glutamate. Alanine was labeled from [5-(15)N]glutamine to 3.3% and [U-(13)C]glutamate generated from [U-(13)C]glutamine was labeled to 16%. In spite of the modest labeling in alanine, it is clear that nitrogen from ammonia is transferred to alanine via transamination with glutamate formed by reductive amination of alpha-ketoglutarate. With regard to the astrocytic part of the shuttle, glutamine was labeled to 22% in one nitrogen atom whereas 3.2% was labeled in two when astrocytes were incubated in [(15)N]alanine. Moreover, in co-cultures, [U-(13)C]alanine labeled glutamate and glutamine equally, whereas [U-(13)C]lactate preferentially labeled glutamate. Altogether, these results support the role proposed above of alanine as a possible ammonia nitrogen carrier between glutamatergic neurons and surrounding astrocytes and they show that lactate is preferentially metabolized in neurons and alanine in astrocytes.
With the recent revelation of considerable peptidergic innervation of the anterior pituitary in several mammalian species, including man, it becomes imperative to elucidate the physiological significance of such a morphological entity. We addressed this issue by employing an anterior pituitary slice in vitro superfusion system coupled with electrical field stimulation. Anterior pituitary slices of 0.8 mm were perfused with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate-bovine serum albumin buffer in a superfusion chamber for 30 min before electrical field stimulation. A square current of 30 mA, 10 Hz and 0.5 ms was then applied for 10 min. The perfusate was collected every 10 min and measured for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) by radio-immunoassay. It was found that under the experimental condition the basal release of ACTH was suppressed by electrical field stimulation of the nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary. Furthermore, vasopressin was added as a secretagogue. The suppression of ACTH by electrical field stimulation became even more marked. This is the first physiological evidence of the effect of stimulation of the nerve fibres innervating the anterior pituitary on its secretory activity.
We have used in situ hybridization and radio-immunoassay to compare temporal dynamics of components in the hypothalamo-pituitary limb of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis during sustained hypovolemic stress in adrenalectomized (ADX) rats to those previously reported in intact animals. We asked three questions: first, does corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) gene transcription occur in neuroendocrine neurones of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH) of ADX rats, and if so, how is it temporally organized; second, what is the expression pattern of the vasopressin and other genes known to be colocalized in these neuroendocrine neurones; third, if adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) secretion occurs, what is its temporal profile? We found that sustained hypovolemia evoked a brief episode of CRH gene transcription in ADX rats that occurred earlier than in intact rats. However, in contrast to saline-injected controls, this activation was not maintained because declines in CRH hnRNA and mRNA were seen as the stress continued. Although increased vasopressin gene transcription was not seen in intact hypovolemic rats, robust increases were measured throughout in ADX rats, suggesting that in the absence of corticosterone the vasopressin gene is transcribed preferentially to the CRH gene during sustained hypovolemia. c-fos and preproenkephalin mRNA profiles also exhibited earlier onsets compared to intact rats. Finally, the onset and duration of ACTH secretion was the same in ADX rats as previously reported in intact rats. Collectively, these data support two hypotheses regarding the actions of corticosterone. First, that it provides some form of facilitatory signal allowing neuroendocrine CRH transcriptional mechanisms to remain active during sustained hypovolemia. Second, that it strongly inhibits the response of the vasopressin gene to hypovolemic stress.
This study was undertaken to better understand the role of cytokines in the pathogenesis, especially in the mechanisms of relapse, of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). For this purpose, we induced acute and chronic relapsing (CR) EAE in DA rats and determined several immunological parameters in rats at various stages of two types of EAE. Histopathological analysis revealed that there was no significant difference in the severity of inflammation in the spinal cord lesions between the two groups. However, demyelination was observed only in rats with CR EAE. Cytokine analysis by competitive PCR demonstrated that levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-12 p40 mRNA in the spinal cord at the first attack of CR EAE were significantly higher than those at the peak stage of acute EAE. The mRNA expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-beta1, was generally low in both acute EAE and the first attack of CR EAE and upregulated at later stages of CR EAE. These findings suggest that persistent high-level expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines is closely associated with demyelination and relapse of EAE. In contrast, anti-inflammatory cytokines play only a minor role in the relapse.
We found that 19% (9/47) of healthy siblings of patients with clinically definite multiple sclerosis had an intrathecal immunological reaction with two or more 2 CSF-enriched oligoclonal bands (OCBs), in contrast to (4%) (2/50) unrelated healthy controls. Furthermore, in this group of nine healthy sibs the measles CSF IgG antibody titers were higher than that of the other sibs and that of controls. There were also differences in the serum titers for measles IgG antibody, which were higher in the group of all healthy sibs than in healthy volunteers, and (as with CSF titers) higher in the subgroup of healthy sibs with two or more 2 CSF-enriched OCBs than the other sibs. Thus a significant proportion of healthy siblings to MS patients have a partially hyperimmune condition similar to that occurring in MS, which in 19% manifested itself as an OCB reaction, in 9% as increased CSF measles IgG antibody titers, and in 21% as increased serum measles IgG antibody titers, these phenomena tending to occur in the same individuals. This condition is characterized by CSF-enriched OCBs with undefined specificity, although some increased antiviral reactivity is found both in the serum and CSF. While it needs further characterization, a genetic trait interacting with common infections is suggested. The recurrence risk of this condition is approximately five times higher than the 3-4% recurrence risk for manifest MS reported for sibs.
Little is known about the effects of age and symptoms of acute mountain sickness and the potential benefit of short term acclimatisation on fine motor performance at altitude. There is uncertainty about whether time spent at altitude results in permanent neurological sequelae. Nine hole pegboard tests were performed on a group of trekkers at sea level (n=61), after ascending to Kanchenjunga base camp (5100 m; n=46), and 20 weeks after return to sea level (n=43). Comparison of baseline and altitude times showed a mean slowing from 36.2 to 39.0 seconds, a 7. 8% deterioration in performance (p&lt;0.0001), which was greatest in subjects aged 50 years or older (5.04 v 1.93 seconds, p=0.017), those tested within 24 hours of arrival at 5100 m (4.75 seconds, 13. 3% v 0.48 seconds, 1.3% p&lt;0.001), and persons experiencing symptoms of acute mountain sickness (p=0.012), each of which were independent determinants of deterioration. Repeat pegboard testing at sea level after 20 weeks showed no significant change compared with baseline (p=0.68). This confirms the deleterious effects of altitude on fine motor function, emphasises the benefit of acclimatisation, and suggests that older persons and those with symptoms of acute mountain sickness are particularly susceptible. The risk of long term motor dysfunction after exposure to these relatively moderate altitudes seems to be small.

Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome (HSS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder clinically characterized by extrapyramidal signs and progressive dementia. In a typical case, the clinical symptoms become apparent during late childhood, and usually the course is protracted over a decade or more. We recently had an opportunity to study the brains of two cases of HSS with a clinical course of over 30 years. Case 1 was a 44-year-old female and case 2 was a 37-year-old male. Grossly, the brains showed severe fronto-temporal lobar atrophy with abundant spheroids and mild iron deposits in the globus pallidus, associated with features of motor neuron disease. In addition, there was diffuse sponginess in the atrophic cortex as well as widespread Alzheimer's neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and Lewy bodies (LBs) in the cortical and subcortical regions, including the spinal cord. Ultrastructurally, NFTs were composed of paired helical filaments, and LBs of central dense cores with radiating fibrils. Discrete immunostaining was demonstrated in NFTs and neuropil threads with various antibodies against phosphorylated tau, and in LBs with antibody against alpha-synuclein. In addition, diffuse, overlapping immunoreactivity of alpha-synuclein and phosphorylated tau was seen within the cytoplasm of many neurons. However, when LBs and NFTs coexisted within the same neurons, they were clearly segregated. The findings of our present cases as well as those reported in the literature may indicate that simultaneous and extensive occurrence of abnormal phosphorylation of tau and accumulation of alpha-synuclein may constitute cardinal pathological features of HSS with protracted clinical course.
Keeping in mind that the expression of vascular permeability factor (VPF) in astrocytic tumors has been related to tumor angiogenesis and peritumoral edema (PE), the aim of this study is to investigate the correlation between degree of VPF expression by tumor cells, and degree of PE and vascular endothelial surface (VES) in glioblastoma. Tumor tissue and neuroimaging data were studied in a series of 38 patients with glioblastoma. For each tumor, immunohistochemical and morphometric studies were performed in order to obtain a score of VPF expression, and a VES score, expressed as the CD-34 immunostained endothelial surface per each 1000 tumor cells. These parameters were related to the degree of PE. The results show that in glioblastomas there exist a clear correlation between the tumor-cell expression of VPF and VES, but we failed to obtain a significant correlation between degree of PE and degree of VES, or between degree of VPF expression and degree of PE. Our present results suggest that in glioblastomas, tumor angiogenesis is clearly related to the expression of VPF by tumor cells, but factors other than intratumoralpresence of VPF may contribute to the development of PE.
The shape and level tolerance of the excitatory frequency/intensity tuning curves (eFTCs) of 160 cat primary auditory cortical (A1) neurons were investigated. Overall, A1 cells were characterized by tremendous variety in eFTC shapes and symmetries; eFTCs were U-shaped ( approximately 20%), V-shaped ( approximately 20%), lower-tail-upper-sharp ( approximately 15%), upper-tail-lower-sharp (&lt;2%), slant-lower ( approximately 10%), slant-upper (&lt;3%), multipeaked ( approximately 10%), and circumscribed ( approximately 20%). Quantitative analysis suggests that eFTC are best thought of as forming a continuum of shapes, rather than falling into discrete categories. A1 eFTCs tended to be more level tolerant than eFTCs from earlier stations in the ascending auditory system as inferred from other studies. While individual peaks of multipeaked eFTCs were similar to single peaked eFTCs, the overall eFTC of multipeaked neurons (spanning the range of all peaks) tended to have high-frequency tails. Measurements of shape and symmetry indicate that A1 eFTCs, on average, tended to have greater area on the low-frequency side of characteristic frequency (CF) than on the high-frequency side. A1 cells showed a relationship between CF and the inverse slope of low-frequency edges of eFTCs, but not for high-frequency edges. These data demonstrate that frequency tuning, particularly along the eFTC low-frequency border, sharpens along the lemniscal pathway to A1. The results are consistent with studies in mustached bats (Suga 1997) and support the idea that spectral decomposition along the ascending lemniscal pathway up to A1 is a general organizing principle of mammalian auditory systems. Altogether, these data suggest that A1 neurons' eFTCs are shaped by complex patterns of inhibition and excitation accumulating along the auditory pathways, implying that central rather than peripheral filtering properties are responsible for certain psychophysical phenomena.
In this study, we used sensory neuron specific (SNS) sodium channel gene knockout (-/-) mice to ask whether SNS sodium channel produces the slow Na(+) current (&quot;slow&quot;) in large (&gt;40 microm diam) cutaneous afferent dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. SNS wild-type (+/+) mice were used as controls. Retrograde Fluoro-Gold labeling permitted the definitive identification of cutaneous afferent neurons. Prepulse inactivation was used to separate the fast and slow Na(+) currents. Fifty-two percent of the large cutaneous afferent neurons isolated from SNS (+/+) mice expressed only fast-inactivating Na(+) currents (&quot;fast&quot;), and 48% expressed both fast and slow Na(+) currents. The fast and slow current densities were 0.90 +/- 0.12 and 0.39 +/- 0.16 nA/pF, respectively. Fast Na(+) currents were blocked completely by 300 nM tetrodotoxin (TTX), while slow Na(+) currents were resistant to 300 nM TTX, confirming that the slow Na(+) currents observed in large cutaneous DRG neurons are TTX-resistant (TTX-R). Slow Na(+) currents could not be detected in large cutaneous afferent neurons from SNS (-/-) mice; these cells expressed only fast Na(+) current, and it was blocked by 300 nM TTX. The fast Na(+) current density in SNS (-/-) neurons was 1.47 +/- 0. 14 nA/pF, approximately 60% higher than the current density observed in SNS (+/+) mice (P &lt; 0.02). A low-voltage-activated TTX-R Na(+) current (&quot;persistent&quot;) observed in small C-type neurons is not present in large cutaneous afferent neurons from either SNS (+/+) or SNS (-/-) mice. These results show that the slow TTX-R Na(+) current in large cutaneous afferent DRG is produced by the SNS sodium channel.
Area V3A is an extrastriate visual area that provides a major input to parietal cortex. To identify the sensory, saccade-related, and cognitive signals carried by V3A neurons, we recorded from single units in alert monkeys during performance of fixation and memory guided saccade tasks. We found that visual responses to stationary stimuli in area V3A were affected by the behavioral relevance of the stimulus. The amplitude of the visual response differed between the memory-guided saccade task, in which the monkey had to use the information provided by the stimulus to guide its behavior, and the fixation task. For 18% (29/163) of V3A neurons, the response was significantly enhanced in the memory-guided saccade task as compared with that in the fixation task. For 8% (13/163) of V3A neurons, the amplitude of response in the memory-guided saccade task was significantly suppressed. We also observed task-related modulation of activity prior to stimulus onset. Among the V3A neurons (37/163) that showed significant differences between tasks in prestimulus activity, the majority (89%; 33/37) showed greater prestimulus activity in the memory-guided saccade task. Task-related increases in prestimulus activity in the memory-guided saccade task were not always matched by increases in the sensory response, indicating that visual responses and prestimulus activity can be modulated independently. Activity in the memory period was suppressed compared with prestimulus activity for 83% (49/59) of the V3A neurons that showed a significant difference in activity (59/197) between these two epochs. For some neurons, memory-period activity dropped even below the baseline level in the fixation task, indicating that there may be an active suppression mechanism. Many V3A neurons (75%, 148/197) also had activity in the saccade epoch. This activity was most prominent immediately after the saccade. Postsaccadic activity was observed even when testing was carried out in total darkness, indicating that this activity reflects, at least in part, extraretinal signals and is not simply a response to visual reafference. These results indicate that several kinds of signals are carried by single neurons in extrastriate area V3A. Moreover, activity in V3A is subject to modulation by extraretinal factors, including attention, anticipation, memory, and saccadic eye movements.
It is well established that the head and eye velocity axes do not always align during compensatory vestibular slow phases. It has been shown that the eye velocity axis systematically tilts away from the head velocity axis in a manner that is dependent on eye-in-head position. The mechanisms responsible for producing these axis tilts are unclear. In this model-based study, we aimed to determine whether muscle pulleys could be involved in bringing about these phenomena. The model presented incorporates semicircular canals, central vestibular pathways, and an ocular motor plant with pulleys. The pulleys were modeled so that they brought about a rotation of the torque axes of the extraocular muscles that was a fraction of the angle of eye deviation from primary position. The degree to which the pulleys rotated the torque axes was altered by means of a pulley coefficient. Model input was head velocity and initial eye position data from passive and active yaw head impulses with fixation at 0 degrees, 20 degrees up and 20 degrees down, obtained from a previous experiment. The optimal pulley coefficient required to fit the data was determined by calculating the mean square error between data and model predictions of torsional eye velocity. For active head impulses, the optimal pulley coefficient varied considerably between subjects. The median optimal pulley coefficient was found to be 0.5, the pulley coefficient required for producing saccades that perfectly obey Listing's law when using a two-dimensional saccadic pulse signal. The model predicted the direction of the axis tilts observed in response to passive head impulses from 50 ms after onset. During passive head impulses, the median optimal pulley coefficient was found to be 0.21, when roll gain was fixed at 0.7. The model did not accurately predict the alignment of the eye and head velocity axes that was observed early in the response to passive head impulses. We found that this alignment could be well predicted if the roll gain of the angular vestibuloocular reflex was modified during the initial period of the response, while pulley coefficient was maintained at 0.5. Hence a roll gain modification allows stabilization of the retinal image without requiring a change in the pulley effect. Our results therefore indicate that the eye position-dependent velocity axis tilts could arise due to the effects of the pulleys and that a roll gain modification in the central vestibular structures may be responsible for countering the pulley effect.
One mechanism of salt taste transduction by gustatory receptor cells involves the influx of cations through epithelial sodium channels that can be blocked by oral application of amiloride. A second mechanism is less clearly defined but seems to depend on electroneutral diffusion of the salt through the tight junctions between receptor cells; this paracellular pathway is insensitive to amiloride. Because the first mechanism is more sensitive to sodium salts and the second to nonsodium salts, these peripheral events could underlie the ability of rats to discriminate sodium from nonsodium salts on the basis of taste. Behavioral experiments indicate that amiloride, at concentrations that are tasteless to rats, impairs a rat's ability to discriminate NaCl from KCl and may do so by making both salts taste like KCl. In the present study, we examined the neural representation of NaCl and KCl (0.05-0.2 M), and mixtures of these salts with amiloride (0, 3, and 30 microM), to explore the neural correlates of this behavioral result. NaCl and KCl were represented by distinct patterns of activity in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Amiloride, in a concentration-dependent manner, changed the pattern for NaCl to one more characteristic of KCl, primarily by reducing activity in neurons responding best to NaCl and sucrose. The effect of amiloride concentration on the response to 0.1 M NaCl in NaCl-best neurons was virtually identical to its effect on behavioral discrimination performance. Modeling the effects of blocking the amiloride-insensitive pathway also resulted in highly similar patterns of activity for NaCl and KCl. These results suggest that activity in both the amiloride-sensitive and -insensitive pathways is required for the behavioral discrimination between NaCl and KCl. In the context of published behavioral data, the present results suggest that amiloride-sensitive activity alone is not sufficient to impart a unique signal for the taste of sodium salts.
The nature of remote memory impairment in patients with medial temporal lobe damage is the subject of some debate. While some investigators have found that retrograde amnesia in such patients is temporally graded, with relative sparing of remote memories (Squire and Alvarez, 1995), others contend that impairment is of very long duration and that remote memories are not necessarily spared (Sanders and Warrington, 1971; Nadel and Moscovitch, 1997). In this study, remote memory was assessed in 25 patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy and 22 non-neurologically impaired controls using the Autobiographical Memory Interview (Kopelman et al., 1989). Results indicate that patients have impaired personal episodic memory but intact personal semantic memory. The impairment extends even to the most remote time periods in early childhood, long before seizure onset in many patients. As well, patients awaiting temporal lobectomy for control of seizures perform as poorly as those who have already undergone resective surgery. These results support the hypothesis that temporal lobe damage or dysfunction, caused by recurrent seizures or surgical excision, results in extensive retrograde amnesia for personal episodic memories. Interestingly, patients with radiological evidence of hippocampal sclerosis were not significantly more impaired than those without obvious sclerosis. These results indicate that even minimal damage to medial temporal lobes results in significant impairment to autobiographical episodic memory. These findings are more compatible with a memory loss or retrieval deficit rather than a consolidation account of remote memory impairment.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examined the signal in parietal regions that were selectively activated during delayed pointing to flashed visual targets and determined whether this signal was dependent on the fixation position of the eyes. Delayed pointing activated a bilateral parietal area in the intraparietal sulcus (rIPS), rostral/anterior to areas activated by saccades. During right-hand pointing to centrally located targets, the left rIPS region showed a significant increase in activation when the eye position was rightward compared with leftward. As expected, activation in motor cortex showed no modulation when only eye position changed. During pointing to retinotopically identical targets, the left rIPS region again showed a significant increased signal when the eye position was rightward compared with leftward. Conversely, when pointing with the left arm, the right rIPS showed an increase in signal when eye position was leftward compared with rightward. The results suggest that the human parietal hand/arm movement region (rIPS), like monkey parietal areas (Andersen et al., 1985), exhibits an eye position modulation of its activity; modulation that may be used to transform the coordinates of the retinotopically coded target position into a motor error command appropriate for the wrist.
The inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir4.1 has been suggested to underlie the principal K(+) conductance of mammalian Mller cells and to participate in the generation of field potentials and regulation of extracellular K(+) in the retina. To further assess the role of Kir4.1 in the retina, we generated a mouse line with targeted disruption of the Kir4.1 gene (Kir4.1 -/-). Mller cells from Kir4.1 -/- mice were not labeled with an anti-Kir4.1 antibody, although they appeared morphologically normal when stained with an anti-glutamine synthetase antibody. In contrast, in Mller cells from wild-type littermate (Kir4.1 +/+) mice, Kir4.1 was present and localized to the proximal endfeet and perivascular processes. In situ whole-cell patch-clamp recordings showed a 10-fold increase in the input resistance and a large depolarization of Kir4.1 -/- Mller cells compared with Kir4.1 +/+ cells. The slow PIII response of the light-evoked electroretinogram (ERG), which is generated by K(+) fluxes through Mller cells, was totally absent in retinas from Kir4.1 -/- mice. The b-wave of the ERG, in contrast, was spared in the null mice. Overall, these results indicate that Kir4.1 is the principal K(+) channel subunit expressed in mouse Mller glial cells. The highly regulated localization and the functional properties of Kir4.1 in Mller cells suggest the involvement of this channel in the regulation of extracellular K(+) in the mouse retina.
Metabolic insult results in apoptosis and depletion of mature oligodendrocytes during demyelination. To examine the role of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) during acute demyelination and remyelination in the adult CNS, we exposed transgenic mice that continuously express IGF-1 (IGF-1 tg) to cuprizone intoxication. Demyelination was observed within the corpus callosum in both wild-type and IGF-1 tg mice 3 weeks after exposure to cuprizone. Wild-type mice showed significant apoptotic mature oligodendrocytes and a dramatic loss of these cells within the lesion that resulted in near complete depletion and demyelination by week 5. In contrast, the demyelinated corpus callosum of the IGF-1 tg mice was near full recovery by week 5. This rapid recovery was apparently caused by survival of the mature oligodendrocyte population because apoptosis was negligible, and by week 4, the mature oligodendrocyte population was completely restored. Furthermore, despite demyelination in both wild-type and IGF-1 tg mice, oligodendrocyte progenitors accumulated only in the absence of mature oligodendrocytes and failed to accumulate if the mature oligodendrocytes remained as demonstrated in the IGF-1 tg mice. These results suggest that IGF-1 may be important in preventing the depletion of mature oligodendrocytes in vivo and thus facilitates an early recovery from demyelination.
Mutations in the L1 neural cell adhesion molecule, a transmembrane glycoprotein, cause a spectrum of congenital neurological syndromes, ranging from hydrocephalus to mental retardation. Many of these mutations are single amino acid changes that are distributed throughout the various domains of the protein. Defective herpes simplex virus vectors were used to express L1 protein with the clinical missense mutations R184Q and D598N in the Ig2 and Ig6 extracellular domains, respectively, and S1194L in the cytoplasmic domain. All three mutant proteins were expressed at similar levels in infected cells. Neurite outgrowth of cerebellar granule cells was stimulated on astrocytes expressing wild-type or S1194L L1, whereas those expressing R184Q and D598N L1 failed to increase neurite length. Live cell immunofluorescent staining of L1 demonstrated that most defective vector-infected cells did not express R184Q or D598N L1 on their cell surface. This greatly diminished cell-surface expression occurred in astrocytes, neurons, and non-neural cells. In contrast to wild-type or S1194L L1, the R184Q and D598N L1 proteins had altered apparent molecular weights and remained completely endoglycosidase H (endoH)-sensitive, suggesting incomplete post-translational processing. We propose that some missense mutations in human L1 impede correct protein trafficking, with functional consequences independent of protein activity. This provides a rationale for how expressed, full-length proteins with single amino acid changes could cause clinical phenotypes similar in severity to knock-out mutants.
Elevated dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens is thought to be a primary mediator of addiction to cocaine. However, repeated exposure to cocaine is associated with the recruitment of glutamate transmission. This poses the possibility that the behaviors characterizing cocaine addiction, such as craving-induced relapse, may not be preferentially mediated by dopamine transmission. An animal model of relapse was used to demonstrate that glutamate, and not dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens, is a primary mediator of cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. Reinstatement was produced by a systemic injection of cocaine or by the microinjection of the glutamate receptor agonist AMPA or dopamine into the nucleus accumbens. It was found that microinjection of an AMPA receptor antagonist into the nucleus accumbens blocked reinstatement by all compounds, whereas a dopamine receptor antagonist was effective only in blocking reinstatement by intra-accumbens dopamine administration. These data suggest an important role for nucleus accumbens glutamate and not dopamine transmission in cocaine-induced relapse to drug-seeking behavior.
Fractalkine is a recently identified chemokine that exhibits cell adhesion and chemoattractive properties. It represents a unique member of the chemokine superfamily because it is located predominantly in the brain in which it is expressed constitutively on specific subsets of neurons. To elucidate the possible role of neuronally expressed fractalkine in the inflammatory response to neuronal injury, we have analyzed the regulation of fractalkine mRNA expression and protein cleavage under conditions of neurotoxicity. We observed that mRNA encoding fractalkine is unaffected by experimental ischemic stroke (permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion) in the rat. Similarly, in vitro, levels of fractalkine mRNA were unaffected by ensuing excitotoxicity. However, when analyzed at the protein level, we found that fractalkine is rapidly cleaved from cultured neurons in response to an excitotoxic stimulus. More specifically, fractalkine cleavage preceded actual neuronal death by 2-3 hr, and, when evaluated functionally, fractalkine represented the principal chemokine released from the neurons into the culture medium upon an excitotoxic stimulus to promote chemotaxis of primary microglial and monocytic cells. We further demonstrate that cleavage of neuron-derived, chemoattractive fractalkine can be prevented by inhibition of matrix metalloproteases. These data strongly suggest that dynamic proteolytic cleavage of fractalkine from neuronal membranes in response to a neurotoxic insult, and subsequent chemoattraction of reactive immune cells, may represent an early event in the inflammatory response to neuronal injury.
Serotonin and noradrenaline strongly influence mental behavior patterns, while dopamine is involved in movement. These three substances are therefore fundamental to normal brain function. For this reason they have been the center of neuroscientific study for many years. In the process of this study, new understanding has been gained of the neurochemistry of several important mental health disorders, especially depression and schizophrenia, as well as epilepsy. Such knowledge offers new opportunities for advancements in neuropharmacology, for example, the development of new drugs specific to certain receptor types that will provide relief of symptoms for many sufferers.
Failure to recognize the signs and symptoms of tethered cord syndrome in patients with spina bifida occulta can result in tragic consequences. Of patients with tethered spinal cord, 35% have bowel and/or bladder dysfunction. Scoliosis, foot or leg length discrepancies, pes cavus, and varus or valgus deformities also can occur. Early assessment and intervention by the neuroscience nurse who is familiar with these clinical signs can help prevent significant deformities and irreversible neurological deficits.
Serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system are crucial in the control of autonomic functions and behavior. Mechanisms by which development and maintenance of the serotonergic transmitter phenotype is regulated include activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Using cultures established from the E14 rat raphe we show here that forskolin (10 microM) increases numbers of neurons expressing tryptophan hydroxylase (TpOH), the key enzyme of serotonin synthesis, and uptake of the false serotonergic transmitter 5, 7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT). As shown by short-term treatments the effect is due to phenotype induction rather than survival. To begin to understand downstream or parallel signaling pathways required for the PKA-mediated induction of serotonergic markers, we have studied the putative implication of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor trkB. Treatment of raphe neurons with forskolin induced BDNF mRNA assayed by competitive RT-PCR. Moreover, trkB-IgG receptor bodies fully prevented the forskolin-induced numerical increase in TpOH- and 5,7-DHT-positive cells suggesting an implication of a TrkB-activated pathway. TrkC-IgG had no effect. K252b, a specific inhibitor of trk kinase activity likewise abolished the induction of serotonergic markers by forskolin. In turn, the inductive effect of BDNF on serotonergic markers was blocked by KT5720, a specific inhibitor of PKA. Taken together, these data suggest that co-activation of cAMP- and trkB-dependent signaling pathways plays a crucial role in the regulation of the serotonergic neuronal phenotype.
We have documented changes in the oligodendrocyte population during demyelinating insult to the adult CNS. Feeding of cuprizone to adult mice led to apoptotic death of mature oligodendrocytes followed by profound demyelination of the corpus callosum. A regenerative response was initiated even during active demyelination. Oligodendrocyte progenitors have begun to proliferate and then accumulate within the lesion. Many of these cells may have migrated from the sub-ventricular zone and fornix before their accumulation in the demyelinating corpus callosum. The accumulation of differentiating oligodendrocyte progenitors was followed closely by the reappearance of mature oligodendrocytes and remyelination. Interestingly, an increase in IGF-1 mRNA was detected at Week 3 through Week 7, suggesting potential involvement in remyelination. Other factors, however, such as PDGF, NT3, FGF, jagged, and notch remained unchanged. These results suggest that the mature oligodendroglial population depleted by apoptosis is replaced by a newly formed oligodendroglial population derived from progenitors; these accumulate and seem to differentiate during remyelination.
The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of secondary hypoxemia on visual discrimination accuracy after parasagittal fluid percussion injury (FPI). Rats lived singly in test cages, where they were trained to repeatedly execute a flicker-frequency visual discrimination for food. After learning was complete, all rats were surgically prepared and then retested over the following 4-5 days to ensure recovery to presurgery levels of performance. Rats were then assigned to one of three groups [FPI + Hypoxia (IH), FPI + Normoxia (IN), or Sham Injury + Hypoxia (SH)] and were anesthetized with halothane delivered by compressed air. Immediately after injury or sham injury, rats in groups IH and SH were switched to a 13% O2 source to continue halothane anesthesia for 30 min before being returned to their test cages. Anesthesia for rats in group IN was maintained using compressed air for 30 min after injury. FPI significantly reduced visual discrimination accuracy and food intake, and increased incorrect choices. Thirty minutes of immediate posttraumatic hypoxemia significantly (1) exacerbated the FPI-induced reductions of visual discrimination accuracy and food intake, (2) further increased numbers of incorrect choices, and (3) delayed the progressive recovery of visual discrimination accuracy. Thionine stains of midbrain coronal sections revealed that, in addition to the loss of neurons seen in several thalamic nuclei following FPI, cell loss in the ipsilateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLG) was significantly greater after FPI and hypoxemia than after FPI alone. In contrast, neuropathological changes were not evident following hypoxemia alone. These results show that, although hypoxemia alone was without effect, posttraumatic hypoxemia exacerbates FPI-induced reductions in visual discrimination accuracy and secondary hypoxemia interferes with control of the rat's choices by flicker frequency, perhaps in part as a result of neuronal loss and fiber degeneration in the dLG. These results additionally confirm the utility of this visual discrimination procedure as a sensitive, noninvasive means of assessing behavioral function after experimental traumatic brain injury.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) offers a unique insight into brain cellular metabolism following traumatic brain injury (TBI). The aim of the present study was to assess change in neurometabolite markers of brain injury during the recovery period following TBI. We studied 19 TBI patients at 1.5, 3, and 6 months postinjury and 28 controls. We used 1H-MRS to quantify N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine (Cre), choline (Cho), and myoinositol (mIns) in occipitoparietal gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) remote from the primary injury focus. Neuropsychological testing quantified cognitive impairment and recovery. At 1.5 months, we found cognitive impairment (mean z score = -1.36 vs. 0.18,p &lt; 0.01), lower NAA (GM: 12.42 mM vs. 13.03, p = 0.01; WM: 11.75 vs. 12.81, p &lt; 0.01), and elevated Cho (GM: 1.51 vs. 1.25, p &lt; 0.01; WM: 1.98 vs. 1.79, p &lt; 0.01) in TBI patients compared with controls. GM NAA at 1.5 months predicted cognitive function at outcome (6 months postinjury; r = 0.63, p = 0.04). GM NAA continued to fall by 0.46 mM between 1.5 and 3 months (p = 0.02) indicating continuing neuronal loss, metabolic dysfunction, or both. Between 3 and 6 months, WM NAA increased by 0.55 mM (p = 0.06) suggesting metabolic recovery. Patients with poorer outcomes had elevated mean GM Cho at 3 months postinjury, suggesting active inflammation, as compared to patients with better outcomes (p = 0.002). 1H-MRS offers a noninvasive approach to assessing neuronal injury and inflammation following TBI, and may provide unique data for patient management and assessment of therapeutic efficacy.
When a rough surface illuminated by coherent light is displaced perpendicularly to the optical axis of an imaging optical system the speckle pattern in the conjugate plane is transversally displaced too. This displacement has two components. The first one is proportional to the object displacement, and the second one depends on wave-front aberrations and, consequently, is strongly related to the optical system that is used. Usually, well-corrected photographic objectives are used for the measurement of transverse displacements by double-exposure laser speckle photography. Since in well-corrected objectives aberrations tend to compensate one another, it seems that the complementary displacement of the speckle pattern, caused by aberrations, is near zero and does not affect the accuracy of the measurement. Here it is analytically shown that the compensation of spherical aberrations does not guarantee a negligible complementary displacement. From the results obtained it follows that well-corrected objectives for laser speckle photography can be regarded as a particular class of photographic objectives, since they not only yield high-quality images but also minimize complementary displacement.
LY426965 [(2S)-(+)-1-cyclohexyl-4-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]2-methyl- 2-phenyl-1-butanone monohydrochloride] is a novel compound with high affinity for the cloned human 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)(1A) receptor (K(i) = 4.66 nM) and 20-fold or greater selectivity over other serotonin and nonserotonin receptor subtypes. Both in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that LY426965 is a full antagonist and has no partial agonist properties. LY426965 did not stimulate [(35)S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio) triphosphate (GTPgammaS) binding to homogenates of cells expressing the cloned human 5-HT(1A) receptor in vitro but did inhibit 300 nM 5-HT-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding with a K(i) value of 3.07 nM. After both p.o. and s.c. administration, LY426965 blocked the lower lip retraction, flat body posture, hypothermia, and increase in rat serum corticosterone induced by the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin). In pigeons, LY426965 dose-dependently blocked the stimulus cue induced by 8-OH-DPAT but had no 8-OH-DPAT-like discriminative properties. LY426965 completely reversed the effects of nicotine withdrawal on the auditory startle reflex in rats. In microdialysis experiments, LY426965 administered together with fluoxetine significantly increased extracellular levels of serotonin above those achievable with fluoxetine alone. In electrophysiological studies, the administration of LY426965 produced a slight elevation of the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus of anesthetized rats and both blocked and reversed the effects of fluoxetine on 5-HT neuronal activity. These preclinical results indicate that LY426965 is a selective, full 5-HT(1A) antagonist that may have clinical use as pharmacotherapy for smoking cessation and depression and related disorders.
Systemic administration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) elicits larger increases in serotonin (5-HT) in raphe than in forebrain sites. Because serotonergic neuronal activity is suppressed, the mechanism underlying SSRI-induced increases in extracellular 5-HT is unclear. This study determined whether local infusion of SSRIs also elicited regionally selective increases in extracellular 5-HT, and whether changes depended on serotonergic neuronal depolarization. Conventional microdialysis methods were used to measure 5-HT in dorsal raphe (DRN), median raphe, nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and frontal cortex of unanesthetized rats. During infusion of SSRIs into each site, the maximum response was an approximately 6- to 7-fold increase in 5-HT in NAcc and frontal cortex, and an approximately 20-fold increase in DRN and median raphe. The larger increase in 5-HT in raphe was confirmed using zero-net-flux microdialysis. In NAcc, baseline 5-HT was 0.7 nM, and levels increased to a maximum of 3.1 nM during infusion of the SSRI citalopram. Baseline 5-HT in DRN was greater, 1.3 nM, and increased to 12.4 nM in response to citalopram. Consistent with evidence that autoreceptor activation inhibits serotonergic neuronal discharge, SSRI infusion into DRN produced a moderate decrease in 5-HT in NAcc. However, increases in 5-HT in DRN elicited by SSRI infusion were attenuated by 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin and tetrodotoxin. These data indicate that depolarization-dependent 5-HT release was not fully inhibited during SSRI infusion into DRN. In summary, SSRIs produce larger increases in extracellular 5-HT in raphe than in forebrain sites. Increases depend in part on depolarization-induced release, which may be greater in raphe than in forebrain.
CI-1021 ([(2-benzofuran)-CH(2)OCO]-(R)-alpha-MeTrp-(S)-NHCH(CH (3))Ph) is a selective and competitive neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptor antagonist. This study examines its activity in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In mice, CI-1021 (1-30 mg/kg, s.c.) dose dependently blocked the development of the late phase of the formalin response with a minimum effective dose (MED) of 3 mg/kg. Two chemically unrelated NK(1) receptor antagonists, CP-99,994 (3-30 mg/kg) and SR 140333 (1-100 mg/kg), also dose dependently blocked the late phase, with respective MEDs of 3 and 10 mg/kg. PD 156982, a NK(1) receptor antagonist with poor central nervous system penetration, failed to have any effect. However, when administered i. c.v., it selectively blocked the late phase of the formalin response. Chronic constrictive injury (CCI) to a sciatic nerve in the rat induced spontaneous pain, thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia, and cold, dynamic, and static allodynia. CI-1021 (10-100 mg/kg) and morphine (3 mg/kg) blocked all the responses except dynamic allodynia. Carbamazepine (100 mg/kg) was weakly effective against all the responses. Once daily administration of morphine (3 mg/kg, s. c.) in CCI rats led to the development of tolerance within 6 days. Similar administration of CI-1021 (100 mg/kg, s.c.) for up to 10 days did not induce tolerance. Moreover, the morphine tolerance failed to cross-generalize to CI-1021. CI-1021 blocked the CCI-induced hypersensitivity in the guinea pig, with a MED of 0.1 mg/kg, p.o. CI-1021 (10-100 mg/kg, s.c.) did not show sedative/ataxic action in the rat rota-rod test. It is suggested that NK(1) receptor antagonists possess a superior side effect profile to carbamazepine and morphine and may have a therapeutic use for the treatment of inflammatory and neuropathic pain.
Cellular distribution and binding characteristics of native alpha(1)-adrenoceptors (ARs) were determined in a live, single, human smooth muscle cell (SMC) with confocal laser scanning microscopy and a fluorescent ligand, BODIPY-FL prazosin (QAPB). This allowed single-cell competitive ligand binding and showed that 40% of alpha(1)-AR-binding sites in native cells are intracellular. QAPB had high affinity and acted as a nonselective, competitive antagonist versus [(3)H]prazosin at cloned human alpha(1a)-, alpha(1b)-, and alpha(1d)-AR subtypes on membrane preparations and whole cells. RS100329 had 70-fold selectivity for alpha(1a)-ARs versus alpha(1b)- and alpha(1d)-ARs, validating its use to identify this subtype. In similar cells QAPB-associated fluorescence provided quantitative data analogous and comparable to [(3)H]prazosin binding in whole cells. In human, dissociated, prostatic smooth muscle cells QAPB-associated fluorescence binding exhibited specific high-affinity binding properties (FK(D) = 0.63 +/- 0.02 nM), which was 3- to 4-fold higher compared with recombinant cells (FK(D) = 2. 1-2.3 nM). Internal consistency in the data showed that affinity is greater, in general, in membrane preparations than in cells but also greater in the native prostatic tissues or cells than in equivalent recombinant receptors. Fluorescence revealed binding sites both on the plasmalemmal membrane and on intracellular compartments: at all locations RS100329 inhibited QAPB binding identifying the sites as alpha(1A)-ARs. Quantitative three-dimensional mapping of QAPB-associated fluorescence binding in native human cells showed that 40% of high-affinity-binding sites was in intracellular compartments. This provides a potential new site for physiological agonism and makes intracellular access a potential differentiator of drug action.
Ocular exposure to early morning room light can significantly advance the timing of the human circadian pacemaker. The resetting response to such light has a non-linear relationship to illuminance. The dose-response relationship of the human circadian pacemaker to late evening light of dim to moderate intensity has not been well established. Twenty-three healthy young male and female volunteers took part in a 9 day protocol in which a single experimental light exposure6.5 h in duration was given in the early biological night. The effects of the light exposure on the endogenous circadian phase of the melatonin rhythm and the acute effects of the light exposure on plasma melatonin concentration were calculated. We demonstrate that humans are highly responsive to the phase-delaying effects of light during the early biological night and that both the phase resetting response to light and the acute suppressive effects of light on plasma melatonin follow a logistic dose-response curve, as do many circadian responses to light in mammals. Contrary to expectations, we found that half of the maximal phase-delaying response achieved in response to a single episode of evening bright light ( approximately 9000 lux (lx)) can be obtained with just over 1 % of this light (dim room light of approximately 100 lx). The same held true for the acute suppressive effects of light on plasma melatonin concentrations. This indicates that even small changes in ordinary light exposure during the late evening hours can significantly affect both plasma melatonin concentrations and the entrained phase of the human circadian pacemaker.

Demyelination induced by mouse hepatitis virus (MHV), strain JHM, is in large part immune mediated, but little is known about the mechanisms involved in this process. Previous results suggest that inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) contributes transiently to MHV-induced demyelination. Herein, we show that equivalent amounts of demyelination were evident at day 12 after MHV infection in mice genetically deficient in NOS2 (NOS2(-/-)) and in C57BL/6 mice. Furthermore, using an established adoptive transfer model and pharmacological inhibitors of NOS2 function, we could demonstrate no effect on MHV-induced demyelination. These results indicate that NOS2 function is not required for demyelination in mice infected with MHV.
Infection of the brain by lentiviruses, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), causes inflammation and results in neurodegeneration. Molecular diversity within the lentivirus envelope gene has been implicated in the regulation of cell tropism and the host response to infection. Here, we examine the hypothesis that envelope sequence diversity modulates the expression of host molecules implicated in lentivirus-induced brain disease, including matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and related transcription factors. Infection of primary macrophages by chimeric HIV clones containing brain-derived envelope fragments from patients with HIV-associated dementia (HAD) or nondemented AIDS patients (HIV-ND) showed that MMP-2 and -9 levels in conditioned media were significantly higher for the HAD clones. Similarly, STAT-1 and JAK-1 levels were higher in macrophages infected by HAD clones. Infections of primary feline macrophages by the neurovirulent FIV strain (V(1)CSF), the less neurovirulent strain (Petaluma), and a chimera containing the V(1)CSF envelope in a Petaluma background (FIV-Ch) revealed that MMP-2 and -9 levels were significantly higher in conditioned media from V(1)CSF- and FIV-Ch-infected macrophages, which was associated with increased intracellular STAT-1 and JAK-1 levels. The STAT-1 inhibitor fludarabine significantly reduced MMP-2 expression, but not MMP-9 expression, in FIV-infected macrophages. Analysis of MMP mRNA and protein levels in brain samples from HIV-infected persons or FIV-infected cats showed that MMP-2 and -9 levels were significantly increased in lentivirus-infected brains compared to those of uninfected controls. Elevated MMP expression was accompanied by significant increases in STAT-1 and JAK-1 mRNA and protein levels in the same brain samples. The present findings indicate that two lentiviruses, HIV and FIV, have common mechanisms of MMP-2 and -9 induction, which is modulated in part by envelope sequence diversity and the STAT-1/JAK-1 signaling pathway.
Mismatch repair deficiency contributes to tumor cell resistance to O6-guanine methylating compounds and to other antineoplastic agents. Here we demonstrate that MeOSO2(CH2)2-lexitropsin (Me-Lex), a DNA minor groove alkylating compound which generates mainly N3-methyladenine, has cytotoxic and clastogenic effects in mismatch repair-deficient leukemic cells. Moreover, MT-1 cells, which express p53 upon drug treatment and possess low levels of 3-methylpurine DNA glycosylase activity, are more susceptible to cytotoxicity induced by Me-Lex, with respect to p53-null and 3-methylpurine DNA glycosylase-proficient Jurkat cells. In both cell lines, the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide, which inhibits base excision repair capable of removing N-methylpurines, increases cytotoxicity and clastogenicity induced by Me-Lex or by temozolomide, which generates low levels of N3-methyl adducts. The enhancing effect is more evident at low Me-Lex concentrations, which induce a level of DNA damage that presumably does not saturate the repair ability of the cells. Nuclear fragmentation induced by Me-Lex + 3-aminobenzamide occurs earlier than in cells treated with the single agent. Treatment with Me-Lex and 3-aminobenzamide results in augmented expression of p53 protein and of the X-ray repair cross-complementing 1 transcript (a component of base excision repair). These results indicate that N3-methyladenine inducing agents, alone or combined with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors, could open up novel chemotherapeutic strategies to overcome drug resistance in mismatch repair-deficient leukemic cells.
The feasibility of recording event-related potentials (ERP) during functional MRI (fMRI) scanning was studied. Using an alternating checkerboard stimulus in a blocked presentation, visually evoked potentials were obtained with their expected configuration and latencies. A clustered echoplanar imaging protocol was applied to observe the hemodynamic response due to the visual stimulus interleaved with measuring ERPs. Influences of the electrode/amplifier set up on MRI scanning and the scanning process on the recording of electrophysiological signals are reported and discussed. Artifacts overlaid on the electrophysiological recordings were corrected by post hoc filtering methods presented here. Implications and limitations of conducting combined ERP/fMRI experiments using higher-level cognitive stimuli are discussed. Magn Reson Med 44:277-282, 2000.

Denervation results in a series of changes in skeletal muscle. To elucidate the molecular basis underlying these changes, it is important to identify the profile of altered gene expression in skeletal muscle following nerve injury. In the present study, we have examined the differentially expressed genes in denervated gastrocnemius muscle using RNA fingerprinting by arbitrarily primed PCR. Eight differentially expressed mRNA transcripts have been identified. A bilateral regulatory profile can be observed for the up-regulated genes in both denervated and contralateral control muscle following unilateral sciatic nerve injury. The temporal expression profiles of the denervation-regulated genes in muscle during development, together with their dependency on nerve activity, suggest potential functional roles following nerve injury in vivo. In particular, the identification of two apoptosis-related genes in denervated muscle provides molecular evidence that the apoptotic process is likely to be involved in the intricate changes that lead to muscle atrophy. Our findings not only allow the identification of novel genes, but also suggest possible functions for some known genes in muscle following nerve injury. Taken together, these findings provide important insights into our understanding of the molecular events in denervated muscle and suggest that the differentially expressed genes may play potential roles during muscle denervation and regeneration.
It has been suggested that the increased production of endogenous BDNF after brain insults supports the survival of injured neurons and limits the spread of the damage. In order to test this hypothesis experimentally, we have produced transgenic mouse lines that overexpress the dominant-negative truncated splice variant of BDNF receptor trkB (trkB.T1) in postnatal cortical and hippocampal neurons. When these mice were exposed to transient focal cerebral ischemia by occluding the middle cerebral artery for 45 min and the damage was assessed 24 h later, transgenic mice had a significantly larger damage than wild-type littermates in the cerebral cortex (204 +/- 32% of wild-type, P = 0.02), but not in striatum, where the transgene is not expressed. Our results support the notion that endogenously expressed BDNF is neuroprotective and that BDNF signaling may have an important role in preventing brain damage after transient ischemia.
The GnRH gene is expressed exclusively in a highly restricted population of approximately 800 neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus in the mouse. The Otx2 homeoprotein has been shown to colocalize with GnRH in embryonic mouse brain. We have identified a highly conserved bicoid-related Otx target sequence within the proximal promoter region of the GnRH gene from several species. This element from the rat GnRH promoter binds baculovirus-expressed Otx2 protein and Otx2 protein in nuclear extracts of a hypothalamic GnRH-expressing neuronal cell line, GT1-7. Transient transfection assays indicate that the GnRH promoter Otx/bicoid site is required for specific expression of the GnRH gene in GT1-7 cells and that it can confer specificity to a neutral Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) promoter in GT1-7 cells but not in NIH3T3 cells. Overexpression of mouse Otx2 in GT1-7 cells induces expression of a GnRH promoter plasmid, an effect that is dependent upon the Otx binding site. Thus, the GnRH proximal promoter is regulated by the Otx2 homeoprotein. Finally, we have now demonstrated the presence of Otx2 protein in the GnRH neurons of the adult mouse hypothalamus. These data suggest that Otx2 is important in the development of the GnRH neuron and/or in the maintenance of GnRH expression in the adult mouse hypothalamus.
Plasticity is one of the most extensively studied aspects in neuroscience. Interest in it has primarily been related to its proposed role in learning and memory and its relevance to adaptive changes following injury. Plasticity can be evoked by changes in molecular, cellular, and synaptic properties, either as a result of activity-dependent effects, or by relatively slow-acting neuromodulatory transmitters. In addition, it is increasingly recognized that the plasticity evoked by these individual effects can be altered by previous inputs and is thus itself plastic. Here, I will review studies in the lamprey spinal cord that have examined individual and interactive activity-dependent and neuromodulator-mediated plasticity. The results show that activity-dependent and neuromodulator-mediated plasticity evoke neuron-and synapse-specific effects at different levels in the spinal cord, and that interactions within and between these effects can evoke dynamic changes in cellular, synaptic, and network plasticity.
Recent evidence suggests that blockade of normal excitation in the immature nervous system may have profound effects on neuronal survival during the period of natural cell death. Cell loss following depression of electrical activity in the central nervous system (CNS) may explain the neuropsychiatric deficits in humans exposed to alcohol or other CNS depressants during development. Thus, understanding the role of electrical activity in the survival of young neurons is an important goal of modern basic and clinical neuroscience. Here we review the evidence from in vivo and in vitro model systems that electrical activity participates in promoting neuronal survival. We discuss the potential role of moderate elevations of intracellular calcium in promoting survival, and we address the possible ways in which activity and conventional trophic factors may interact.
It has become evident that astrocytes play major roles in central nervous system (CNS) function. Because they are endowed with ion channels, transport pathways, and enzymatic intermediates optimized for ionic uptake, degradation of metabolic products, and inactivation of numerous substances, they are able to sense and correct for changes in neural microenvironment. Besides this housekeeping role, astrocytes modulate neuronal activity either by direct communication through gap junctions or through the release of neurotransmitters and/or nucleotides affecting nearby receptors. One prominent mode by which astrocytes regulate their own activity and influence neuronal behavior is via Ca2+ signals, which may be restricted within one cell or be transmitted throughout the interconnected syncytium through the propagation of intercellular calcium waves. This review aims to outline the most recent advances regarding the active communication of astrocytes that is encoded by intracellular calcium variation.
Recombinant receptor cell lines are widely used in G-protein-coupled receptor selectivity studies. To unequivocally interpret the results of such studies, it is essential that the host cell line does not endogenously express the receptor of interest and in addition is unresponsive to the receptor's natural ligand. Here we describe an approach to overcome such difficulties associated with orphan receptors or, as in the present case, receptors whose endogenous ligand ubiquitously affects mammalian cells. The functional heterologous assay system described is for the hEdg2 receptor, which uses lysophosphatidic acid as its endogenous ligand. Once activated, this receptor mediates its effects via multiple secondary messenger pathways, including a Gi-coupled pathway. We have transiently expressed a pertussis toxin-insensitive hEdg2 receptor-ratGialpha1 fusion protein into human embryonic kidney cells and have monitored the ability of compounds to stimulate [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in membranes prepared from these cells after pretreatment with toxin. Because the assay conditions used favor Gi-mediated responses and because endogenous Gialpha subunits are rendered inactive, the response measured is, by definition, fusion protein-mediated. Consequently, we have developed an assay that monitors definitively Edg2 receptor-mediated responses in a mammalian cell line. A limited structure activity relationship study suggests that the lysophospholipid carbon chain has a role in receptor activation and in addition indicates that certain modifications to the phosphate group are tolerated.
Retigabine is a novel anticonvulsant with an unknown mechanism of action. It has recently been reported that retigabine modulates a potassium channel current in nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells (), however, to date the molecular correlate of this current has not been identified. In the present study we have examined the effects of retigabine on recombinant human KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 potassium channels, expressed either alone or in combination in Xenopus oocytes. Application of 10 microM retigabine to oocytes expressing the KCNQ2/3 heteromeric channel shifted both the activation threshold and voltage for half-activation by approximately 20 mV in the hyperpolarizing direction, leading to an increase in current amplitude at test potentials between -80 mV and +20 mV. Retigabine also had a marked effect on KCNQ current kinetics, increasing the rate of channel activation but slowing deactivation at a given test potential. Similar effects of retigabine were observed in oocytes expressing KCNQ2 alone, suggesting that KCNQ2 may be the molecular target of retigabine. Membrane potential recordings in oocytes expressing the KCNQ2/3 heteromeric channel showed that application of retigabine leads to a concentration-dependent hyperpolarization of the oocyte, from a resting potential of -63 mV under control conditions to -85 mV in the presence of 100 microM retigabine (IC(50) = 5.2 microM). In control experiments retigabine had no effect on either resting membrane potential or endogenous oocyte membrane currents. In conclusion, we have shown that retigabine acts as a KCNQ potassium channel opener. Because the heteromeric KCNQ2/3 channel has recently been reported to underlie the M-current, it is likely that M-current modulation can explain the anticonvulsant actions of retigabine in animal models of epilepsy.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between APOE genotype and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) in a genetically homogeneous population. We examined 240 patients consulting the MS-clinic during a period of 3 years (1996 - 1999). The mean age of the patients was 41.7 years (range 19 - 80 Y, SD 10.0 Y). As a measure of the progression rate (PR) the last registered Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was divided by the time span (years) from disease onset until the latest assessment. The APOE genotype was determined from saliva and/or blood samples using PCR-techniques. The prevalence of different APOE genotypes was compared with the allele-distribution in a population of 361 persons from a Danish cross-sectional population study. The frequency of APOE-epsilon 4/epsilon 4 homozygotes was significantly higher in the MS-group as compared to controls (P&lt;0.05, odds ratio: 2.3), whereas the frequency distribution of other genotypes did not differ significantly. The rate of progression was significantly faster in the APOE-epsilon 4/epsilon 4 homozygotes compared to other genotypes in the MS group (P&lt;0.05). This study suggests that the APOE-epsilon 4/epsilon 4 homozygotes have an increased risk of developing MS. MS patients with the APOE-epsilon 4/epsilon 4 allele may also have an increased rate of disease progression. Multiple Sclerosis (2000) 6 226 - 230
The distinction of multiple system atrophy (MSA) from Parkinson's disease (PD) can be difficult, especially early in the disease. In MSA degeneration of sacral anterior horn cells (Onuf's nucleus) results in denervation-reinnervation of anal and urethral sphincter muscles, which can be recognized as neurogenic electromyographic (EMG) changes of motor unit potentials. Sphincter EMG has therefore been recommended as a test for distinguishing MSA from PD. Our results confirm the presence of marked neurogenic EMG changes of the external anal sphincter muscle in patients with probable MSA compared to healthy controls. However, in patients with probable PD, our quantitative EMG data show a scatter from normal to marked neurogenic changes and the degree of EMG abnormality is correlated to the duration of the disease. Thus an abnormal sphincter EMG cannot be taken as a strong indicator of MSA rather than PD in the individual patient, especially in long-standing cases.
We examined the expression of three neuropeptides that have been implicated in nociceptive transmission, and the sympathetic nerve fiber marker tyrosine hydroxylase, in 11 painful human Morton's neuromas, using immunohistochemistry. Antibodies against the neural markers RT97 and PGP 9.5 were used to map the general nerve fiber organization of the neuromas. Four specimens of normal human peripheral nerves were used as controls. Substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivities were more pronounced in neuroma tissue than in control nerves. Neuropeptide immunofluorescence was seen both in larger nerve fiber trunks and in masses of disorganized axon profiles dispersed in loose connective tissue. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was present at varying levels of expression in neuroma nerve fiber trunks, in connective tissue nerve fiber bundles, and around some blood vessels. Our findings suggest that neuropeptides are involved in the response to injury in Morton's neuromas and that they could play a role in initiation or modulation of pain. In addition, pain from Morton's neuromas could be influenced by sympathetic nerve fibers.
How are objects represented in the brain during natural behavior? Visual object recognition in primates is thought to depend on the inferotemporal cortex (IT). In most neurophysiological studies of IT, monkeys hold their direction of gaze fixed while isolated visual stimuli are presented (controlled viewing). However, during natural behavior, primates visually explore cluttered environments by changing gaze direction several times each second (free viewing). We examined the effect of free viewing on IT neuronal responses in monkeys engaged in a form-recognition task. By making small, real-time stimulus adjustments, we produced nearly identically retinal stimulation during controlled and free viewing. Nearly 90% of neuronal responses were unaffected by free viewing, and average stimulus selectivity was unchanged. Thus, neuronal representations that likely underlie form recognition are virtually unaltered by free viewing.
The inferotemporal cortex (area TE) of monkeys, a higher station of the visual information stream for object recognition, contains neurons selective for particular object features. Little is known about how and where this selectivity is generated. We show that blockade of inhibition mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) markedly altered the selectivity of TE neurons by augmenting their responses to some stimuli but not to others. The effects were observed for particular groups of stimuli related to the originally effective stimuli or those that did not originally excite the neurons but activated nearby neurons. Intrinsic neuronal interactions within area TE thus determine the final characteristic of their selectivity, and GABAergic inhibition contributes to this process.
To determine whether the concentrations of calcium-binding proteins present in some neurons and sensory cells are sufficient to influence presynaptic calcium signaling, we studied the predominant calcium-binding protein in a class of sensory hair cells in the frog ear. Based on antibody affinity and molecular weight, we identified this protein as calretinin. We measured its cytoplasmic concentration to be approximately 1.2 mM, sufficient to bind approximately 6 mM Ca2+. Calcium signaling was altered when the diffusible cytoplasmic components were replaced by an intracellular solution lacking any fast calcium buffer, and was restored by the addition of 1.2 mM exogenous calretinin to the intracellular solution. We conclude that calretinin, when present at millimolar concentration, can serve as a diffusionally mobile calcium buffer/transporter capable of regulating calcium signaling over nanometer distances at presynaptic sites.
5-HT1B autoreceptors are involved in the control of extracellular 5-HT levels from both the terminal and cell body regions of serotonergic neurones. In this study we report on the effect of a selective and potent 5-HT1B receptor inverse agonist, SB-236057-A (1'-ethyl-5-(2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl- 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl-2-yl)biphenyl-4-carbonyl)-2,3,6,7-tetrahydros piro [furo[2,3-f]indole-3,4' -piperidine] hydrochloride), on extracellular 5-HT levels in the cortex and dentate gyrus of the freely-moving guinea-pig, using the technique of in vivo microdialysis. SB-236057-A had ca. 23% bioavailability following oral drug administration. In vivo hypothermia pharmacodynamic assays demonstrated it was brain penetrant with a duration of action in excess of 18 h. SB-236057-A (0.75 mg/kg p.o.) increased extracellular 5-HT levels in the dentate gyrus to a maximum of 167+/-7% of basal but had no effect in the frontal cortex. However, a small increase in cortical 5-HT levels (117+11% of basal) was evident at 2.5 mg/kg p.o. In addition, SB-236057-A (0.75 mg/kg and 2.5 mg/kg p.o.) antagonised the sumatriptan-induced inhibition of extracellular 5-HT levels in the guinea-pig frontal cortex. These differences were attributed to MRN-innervated regions (e.g. dentate gyrus) being more responsive to 5-HT1B receptor-mediated negative feedback than DRN-innervated regions (e.g. frontal cortex). In the dentate gyrus, the increase in 5-HT release induced by SB-236057-A (0.75 mg/kg p.o.) was comparable to that after 14 days of paroxetine (10 mg/kg p.o.) administration, reaching a maximum of 183+/-13% of basal. These data suggest that acute 5-HT1B receptor blockade, by virtue of increased 5-HT release in the dentate gyrus, may provide a rapidly acting antidepressant.
We study a one-dimensional model of integrate-and-fire neurons that are allowed to fire only one spike, and are coupled by excitatory synapses with delay. At small delay values, this model describes a disinhibited cortical slice. At large delay values, the model is a reduction of a model of thalamic networks composed of excitatory and inhibitory neurons, in which the excitatory neurons show the post-inhibitory rebound mechanism. The velocity and stability of propagating continuous pulses are calculated analytically. Two pulses with different velocities exist if the synaptic coupling is larger than a minimal value; the pulse with the lower velocity is always unstable. Above a certain critical value of the constant delay, continuous pulses lose stability via a Hopf bifurcation, and lurching pulses emerge. The parameter regime for which lurching occurs is strongly affected by the synaptic footprint (connectivity) shape. A bistable regime, in which both continuous and lurching pulses can propagate. may occur with square or Gaussian footprint shapes but not with an exponential footprint shape. A perturbation calculation is used in order to calculate the spatial lurching period and the velocity of lurching pulses at large delay values. For strong synaptic coupling, the velocity of the lurching pulse is governed by the tail of the synaptic footprint shape. Moreover, the velocities of continuous and lurching pulses have the same functional dependencies on the strength of the synaptic coupling strength gsyn: they increase logarithmically with gsyn for an exponential footprint shape, they scale like (In gsyn)1/2 for a Gaussian footprint shape, and they are bounded for a square footprint shape or any shape with a finite support. We find analytically how the axonal propagation velocity reduces the velocity of continuous pulses; it does not affect the critical delay. We conclude that the differences in velocity and shape between the front of thalamic spindle waves in vitro and cortical paroxysmal discharges stem from their different effective delays.
The spike count distribution observed when recording from a variety of neurons in many different conditions has a fairly stereotypical shape, with a single mode at zero or close to a low average count, and a long, quasi-exponential tail to high counts. Such a distribution has been suggested to be the direct result of three simple facts: the firing frequency of a typical cortical neuron is close to linear in the summed input current entering the soma, above a threshold; the input current varies on several timescales, both faster and slower than the window used to count spikes; and the input distribution at any timescale can be taken to be approximately normal. The third assumption is violated by associative learning, which generates correlations between the synaptic weight vector on the dendritic tree of a neuron, and the input activity vectors it is repeatedly subject to. We show analytically that for a simple feed-forward model, the normal distribution of the slow components of the input current becomes the sum of two quasi-normal terms. The term important below threshold shifts with learning, while the term important above threshold does not shift but grows in width. These deviations from the standard distribution may be observable in appropriate recording experiments.
A recent report by T. L. Williamson et al. (1998, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 9631-9636) showed that disease caused by expression of mutant Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in mice was slowed down by disruption of the neurofilament light (NF-L) gene. This led to the conclusion that decreasing the axonal amount of neurofilaments reduces the vulnerability of motor neurons to toxicity mediated by mutant SOD1. We report here that, unexpectedly, overexpression of human NF-L proteins resulting in extra axonal neurofilaments does not shorten the life span of transgenic mice expressing a mutant SOD1 (SOD1(G37R)). Microscopic examination of spinal cord and ventral roots even shows modest protective effects of NF-L overexpression. These results suggest that axonal neurofilaments are not an exacerbating factor in motor neuron disease mediated by mutant SOD1 and that perikaryal neurofilaments may even have beneficial effects.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the role of ceramide in mediating apoptosis of dorsal root ganglion neurons induced by either nerve growth factor withdrawal or treatment with the chemotherapeutic agents suramin and cisplatin. Measurement of ceramide accumulation by mass spectrometry and the diacylglycerol kinase assay revealed elevation of intracellular ceramide only in suramin treated cultures. Ceramide-mediated neuronal cell death was inhibited by the caspase inhibitor zVAD.fmk. In these experimental models, ceramide accumulation mediated activation and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NFkappaB and cyclin D1 protein expression. Specific inhibition of NFkappaB using a molecular decoy strategy resulted in increased cell viability accompanied by diminished caspase activity and cyclin D1 expression. Inhibition of NFkappaB did not alter intracellular ceramide levels. Our study suggests that ceramide generation occurs upstream of NFkappaB activation, cell cycle reentry, and caspase activation in the neuronal death pathway.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a nuclear enzyme, activated by DNA strand breaks to participate in DNA repair. Overactivation of PARP by cellular insults depletes its substrate NAD(+) and then ATP, leading to a major energy deficit and cell death. This mechanism appears to be prominent in vascular stroke and other neurodegenerative processes in which PARP gene deletion and PARP-inhibiting drugs provide major protection. Cell death associated with PARP-1 overactivation appears to be predominantly necrotic while apoptosis is associated with PARP-1 cleavage, which may conserve energy needed for the apoptotic process. Novel forms of PARP derived from distinct genes and lacking classic DNA-binding domains may have nonnuclear functions, perhaps linked to cellular energy dynamics.
Astroglia have the capacity to monitor extracellular glutamate (Glu) and maintain it at low levels, metabolize Glu, or release it back into the extracellular space. Glu can induce an increase in astroglial cell volume with a resulting decrease of the extracellular space, and thereby alter the concentration of extracellular substances. Many lines of evidence show that K(+) can be buffered within the astroglial gap-junction-coupled network, and recent results show that gap junctions are permeable for Glu. All these events occur dynamically: the astroglial network has the capacity to interfere actively with neurotransmission, thereby contributing to a high signal-to-noise ratio for the Glu transmission. High-quality neuronal messages during normal physiology can then be maintained. With the same mechanisms, astroglia might exert a neuroprotective function in situations of moderately increased extracellular Glu concentrations, i.e., corresponding to conditions of pathological hyper-excitability, or corresponding to early stages of an acute brain injury. If the astroglial functions are failing, neuronal dysfunction can be reinforced.
Ammonia is a neurotoxic substance which accumulates in brain in liver failure and it has been suggested that ammonia plays a key role in contributing to the astrocytic dysfunction characteristic of hepatic encephalopathy. In particular, the effects of ammonia may be responsible for the reduced astrocytic uptake of neuronally-released glutamate and high extracellular glutamate levels consistently seen in experimental models of hepatic encephalopathy. To further address this issue, [(3)H]-D-aspartate uptake was examined in primary rat cortical astrocyte cultures exposed to 5 mM ammonium chloride for a period of 7 days. In addition, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot studies were performed to examine the mRNA and protein expression respectively of the glutamate transporter GLAST in ammonia-treated cells. Studies revealed a 57% (p&lt;0.05) decrease in [(3)H]-D-aspartate uptake and a concomitant significant decrease in GLAST transporter protein (43%, p&lt;0.05) and mRNA (32%, p&lt;0.05) expression. The reduced capacity of astrocytes to reuptake glutamate following ammonia exposure may result in compromised neuron-astrocyte trafficking of glutamate and could thus contribute to the pathogenesis of the cerebral dysfunction characteristic of hyperammonemic syndromes such as hepatic encephalopathy.
High-affinity glutamate transporters ensure termination of glutamatergic neurotransmission and keep the synaptic concentration of this amino acid below excitotoxic levels. However, neuronal glutamate transporters, EAAC1 and EAAT4, are located outside the synaptic cleft and contribute less significantly to the glutamate uptake in the brain than two astroglial transporters, GLAST and GLT1. Aberrant functioning of the glutamate uptake system seems to be linked to some neurodegenerative disorders (eg amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS). Expression of glutamate transporters is differentially regulated via distinct cellular mechanisms. GLT1, which is expressed at very low levels in cultured astrocytes, is strongly induced in the presence of neurons. The present immunocytochemical data provide further evidence that neuronal soluble factors, rather than physical contact between neurons and glia, determine the induction of GLT1 in astrocytes. This effect is apparently mediated by yet undefined growth factor(s) via the tyrphostin-sensitive receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signalling, that in turn, supports the downstream activation of p42/44 MAP kinases and the CREM and ATF-1 transcription factors. RTK-independent simultaneous activation of the CREB transcription factor suggests a possible involvement of complementary pathway(s). Neuronal soluble factors do not affect expression of GLAST, but induce supporting machinery for differential regulation of GLAST via the astroglial metabotropic glutamate receptors, mGluR3 and mGluR5. Thus, long-term treatment with the group I mGluR agonist, DHPG, causes down-regulation of GLAST, whereas the group II agonist, DCG-IV, has an opposite effect on the expression of GLAST in astrocytes. However, in BT4C glioma cells glutamate or other transportable substrates (D-aspartate and L-2,4-trans-PDC) induced cell-surface expression of EAAT4 in a receptor-independent manner. The activity-dependent trafficking of this transporter which also exhibits properties of a glutamate-gated chloride channel may play functional roles not only in neuronal excitability, but in glioma cell biology as well.
A novel concept is described, according to which both neurons and astrocytes are capable of metabolizing glucose all the way to CO(2) and water, but in addition interact metabolically in a process generating glutamate from glucose, and subsequently, metabolizing excess glutamate to CO(2) and water Hertz, L., Dringen, R., Schousboe, A., Robinson, S.R., 1999. Astrocytes: Glutamate producers for neurons (Journal of Neuroscience Research 57, 417-428). The proposed metabolic degradation of glucose via glutamate serves the purpose of adjusting transmitter pools of glutamate to the demands for glutamatergic transmission, and it must account for a major fraction of glucose utilization. Evidence in favor of this concept is presented and a multitude of in vivo data are interpreted in the context of metabolic trafficking between neurons and astrocytes. In addition, intracellular trafficking occurs between cytosol and mitochondria during synthesis of transmitter glutamate, partly explaining a robust quantitative correlation between glutamine synthesis, as a measure of release of transmitter glutamate, and glucose utilization, reported by several authors. Both intracellular and intercellular metabolic trafficking may be affected during pathological conditions, as evidenced by effects of hyperammonemia (mimicking hepatic encephalopathy) and energy deprivation (mimicking stroke). It is suggested that neuronal-astrocytic interactions may also be impaired during degenerative dementing diseases.
A classical item-recognition task was used to examine human verbal working memory in an event-related functional MRI (fMRI) study. A highly flexible experimental design incorporated a broad variation of memory load and delay time. This design allows for only three or four repetitions per stimulus condition. In a first step, linear regression analysis was applied to locate functional activation in the fMRI data. As a second step, the time course of the hemodynamic response (HR) was analyzed using nonlinear regression, which served to quantify the dependency between HR shape properties and stimulation conditions in several regions-of-interest. On the basis of this study, a closer description of the frontoparietal network involved in verbal working memory was possible.
Neurotoxic injury to the nervous system produces neuronal death or distal axonal degeneration. Neurotoxin-induced demyelination is relatively rare in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Major advances have occurred in our understanding of the mechanisms of apoptotic cell death. The pathways leading to apoptosis offer many new approaches to neuroprotection.
Four patients affected by severe Parkinson's disease developed leucopenia (900-1200 WBC) during treatment of psychosis (3) or untreatable insomnia (1) with clozapine (37.5-75 mg/day). Clozapine withdrawal was followed by recovery of leucopenia (4000-6000 WBC) in two weeks with no need for the administration of leucokines. After 1-6 months olanzapine was administered (increasing the dose from 2.5 to 10 mg/day) to treat persisting disturbances, but the drug induced severe worsening of parkinsonism and also this drug had to be withdrawn.

We studied the fine spatial structure of the receptive fields of retinal ganglion cells and its relationship to the dendritic geometry of these cells. Cells from which recordings had been made were microinjected with Lucifer yellow, so that responses generated at precise locations within the receptive field center could be directly compared with that cell's dendritic structure. While many cells with small receptive fields had domeshaped sensitivity profiles, the majority of large receptive fields were composed of multiple regions of high sensitivity. The density of dendritic branches at any one location did not predict the regions of high sensitivity. Instead, the interactions between a ganglion cell's dendritic tree and the local mosaic of bipolar cell axons seem to define the fine structure of the receptive field center.
Coordination between sequential steps in synaptic vesicle endocytosis, including clathrin coat formation, fission, and uncoating, appears to involve proteinprotein interactions. Here, we show that compounds that disrupt interactions of the SH3 domain of endophilin with dynamin and synaptojanin impair synaptic vesicle endocytosis in a living synapse. Two distinct endocytic intermediates accumulated. Free clathrin-coated vesicles were induced by a peptide-blocking endophilin's SH3 domain and by antibodies to the proline-rich domain (PRD) of synaptojanin. Invaginated clathrin-coated pits were induced by the same peptide and by the SH3 domain of endophilin. We suggest that the SH3 domain of endophilin participates in both fission and uncoating and that it may be a key component of a molecular switch that couples the fission reaction to uncoating.

The P300 is a positive wave which arises when an attended stimulus is detected. Its parameters depend on a number of variables, in particular the subject's mental state, the task that has to be accomplished, the significance of the stimulus, and the degree of attention. It can be recorded with accuracy, and the different stages of information processing can therefore be analyzed. The P300 wave shows the modifications in neuronal activity which take place during the cognitive process: P300 latency provides an indirect indication of the duration of the processes involved in stimulus discrimination while its amplitude, which is influenced by a number of variables, provides an index of the intensity of the energetic activation or arousal involved. The P300 wave consists of several components which reflect distinct information-processing events (P3a, P3b, P3e, P-SR, P-CR). According to the theoretical models, it is hypothesized that P300 could either represent the adaptation of the working memory to further environmental input ('context updating'), or indicate a closing process ('context closure') in information processing. As regards the physiological aspect of P300 and its association with cortical networks, various studies have suggested that several cortical generators of P300 may co-exist: the medial temporal lobe, the temporo-parietal junction, and the medial and lateral frontal lobe. Psychopharmacological studies have shown that different neurotransmitter systems are involved in the generation and modulation of P300, namely the cholinergic, noradrenergic, dopaminergic, serotoninergic and gabaergic systems. It appears that the noradrenergic agonists increase the amplitude of P300, dopaminergic agonists may have a biphasic effect (increase/reduction), while cholinergic antagonists and gabaergic agonists reduce P300 amplitude and prolong its latency.

Gaze is an important component of social interaction. The function, evolution and neurobiology of gaze processing are therefore of interest to a number of researchers. This review discusses the evolutionary role of social gaze in vertebrates (focusing on primates), and a hypothesis that this role has changed substantially for primates compared to other animals. This change may have been driven by morphological changes to the face and eyes of primates, limitations in the facial anatomy of other vertebrates, changes in the ecology of the environment in which primates live, and a necessity to communicate information about the environment, emotional and mental states. The eyes represent different levels of signal value depending on the status, disposition and emotional state of the sender and receiver of such signals. There are regions in the monkey and human brain which contain neurons that respond selectively to faces, bodies and eye gaze. The ability to follow another individual's gaze direction is affected in individuals with autism and other psychopathological disorders, and after particular localized brain lesions. The hypothesis that gaze following is &quot;hard-wired&quot; in the brain, and may be localized within a circuit linking the superior temporal sulcus, amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex is discussed.


Neural networks form the basis for the generation and control of various patterns of behavior. Such networks are subjected to modulatory systems that influence their operation and, thereby, the behavior. In the lamprey locomotor network, analysis on the ion channel, synaptic, and cellular levels has given new insights into the organization of such modulatory systems.

How microgravity influences autonomic function is still under investigation. Microgravity induces neuro-vestibular alterations and body fluid shift, and these two changes cause &quot;space motion sickness(SMS)&quot; and cardiovascular deconditioning. &quot;Space motion sickness&quot; is a autonomic syndrome that exhibits nausea, vomiting, headache, anorexia, pallor etc., whose incidence in Space Shuttle mission reaches 67.1%. There are several hypotheses for SMS mechanism: 1) sensory conflict, 2) fluid shift, 3) otolith asymmetry, 4) space orientation readaptation, 5) otolith tilt-translation reinterpretation, and these hypotheses are considered to be combined together to cause SMS. After space flight, 64% of the astronauts suffer from orthostatic intolerance, which is defined as incompletion of 15 min of 70 degrees head-up tilt. Several causes for the deconditioning have been hypothesized, dehydration followed by fluid shift, altered gain for baroreflex sensitivity, decreased venous capacitance, etc. In our previous studies, we recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity(MSNA) by microneurography under simulated and actual microgravity conditions. Parabolic flight, which induces 20 sec of actual microgravity, suppressed MSNA to 50%. Head-out water immersion suppressed MSNA to 20% while gradual recovery was observed during 3 hours of immersion. Dry immersion for 3 days revealed that MSNA was enhanced after simulated microgravity while the response to orthostasis was unchanged. Bed rest for 6, 14, and 120 days and Neurolab Project clarified the same tendency for longer duration of simulated microgravity. These alterations in MSNA might be attributed to the development of cardiovascular deconditioning after microgravity exposure.

Substance P (SP), a putative nociceptive transmitter, is increased in the CSF of patients with fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS). Because excitatory amino acids (EAAs) also appear to transmit pain, we hypothesized that CSF EAAs may be similarly involved in this syndrome. We found that the mean concentrations of most amino acids in the CSF did not differ amongst groups of subjects with primary FMS (PFMS), fibromyalgia associated with other conditions (SFMS), other painful conditions not exhibiting fibromyalgia (OTHER) or age-matched, healthy normal controls (HNC). However, in SFMS patients, individual measures of pain intensity, determined using an examination-based measure of pain intensity, the tender point index (TPI), covaried with their respective concentrations of glutamine and asparagine, metabolites of glutamate and aspartate, respectively. This suggests that re-uptake and biotransformation mask pain-related increases in EAAs. Individual concentrations of glycine and taurine also correlated with their respective TPI values in patients with PFMS. While taurine is affected by a variety of excitatory manipulations, glycine is an inhibitory transmitter as well as a positive modulator of the N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA) receptor. In both PFMS and SFMS patients, TPI covaried with arginine, the precursor to nitric oxide (NO), whose concentrations, in turn, correlated with those of citrulline, a byproduct of NO synthesis. These events predict involvement of NO, a potent signaling molecule thought to be involved in pain processing. Together these metabolic changes that covary with the intensity of pain in patients with FMS may reflect increased EAA release and a positive modulation of NMDA receptors by glycine, perhaps resulting in enhanced synthesis of NO.
Gaucher disease, the most common of the sphingolipidoses, results from the inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45). Although type 2 (acute neuronopathic) Gaucher disease is associated with rapidly progressive and fatal neurologic deterioration, the pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to the neurologic symptoms and early demise remain uncharacterized. While the pathology encountered in Gaucher disease has been attributed to glucocerebroside storage, glucosylsphingosine (Glc-sph), a cytotoxic compound, also accumulates in the tissues. Elevations of brain Glc-sph have been reported in patients with types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease. In this study, Glc-sph levels were measured using HPLC in tissues from mice with type 2 Gaucher disease created with a null glucocerebrosidase allele. Compared with unaffected littermates, homozygous mice with type 2 Gaucher disease had approximately a 100-fold elevation of Glc-sph in brain, as well as elevated levels in other tissues. This accumulation was detected in utero by E 13 and increased progressively throughout gestation. Similarly, elevated Glc-sph levels were seen in human fetuses with type 2 Gaucher disease, indicating that therapy initiated after birth may be too late to prevent the sequelae of progressive neurologic damage that begins early in gestation. These findings suggest that the accumulation of Glc-sph may be responsible for the rapid demise of mice with type 2 Gaucher disease and the devastating clinical course seen in patients with type 2 Gaucher disease.
Because plasma levels of protein C (PC) or activated protein C (APC) are altered in certain diseases associated with vascular dysfunction, and APC has therapeutic potential in preventing microvascular coagulation in severe sepsis, potential vascular effects of PC and APC were compared to those of the vasoactive peptide, thrombin. Thrombin was a more potent relaxant agonist than contractile agonist in aorta. Unlike thrombin, cumulatively administered APC (10(-9)-10(-7) M) did not exert vascular effects in rat or rabbit aorta. Noncumulative challenge of PC (10(-7) M) and APC (8 x 10(-8) M) also did not contract rat or rabbit aortae, either with or without endothelium. Likewise, the same concentrations of PC and APC also did not relax norepinephrine-induced (10(-7) M) vascular tone in either rat or rabbit aortae. Thus, in contrast to thrombin, PC and APC failed to modulate vascular tone, suggesting that the therapeutic use of APC is unlikely to be accompanied by any direct effects on vascular motility.
We found that spinorphin, a novel neuropeptide showed analgesia in a different manner compared with morphine. By measuring flexor responses induced by the intraplanter injection of substances, the presence of three different types of sensory neurons were demonstrated. Although spinorphin completely blocked 2-metylthioadenosine (2-MeS ATP, a P2X(3) agonist)-induced responses, morphine did not. On the other hand, morphine-induced blockade of bradykinin (BK, a B(2)-receptor agonist)-responses was attenuated by pertussis toxin (PTX) treatment, whereas that of spinorphin was not. Thus it is suggested that spinorphin has a spectrum of analgesia which covers the blockade of nociception insensitive to morphine.
The effectiveness of drug treatment in clinical practice is considerably lower than the efficacy shown in controlled studies. The lower effectiveness in practice presumably leads to lower cost effectiveness of drug treatment in real-life situations compared with that demonstrated by studies based on results from controlled trials. Improved cost effectiveness in routine clinical practice would be a significant advantage in the treatment of schizophrenia, one of the most costly diseases in society. The aetiology of schizophrenia is unknown, and there is no cure. The main aims of therapy with antipsychotic medication include the effective relief of symptoms without the introduction of adverse effects or serious adverse events, improved quality of life, cost effectiveness and a positive long term outcome. The older classical antipsychotic drugs do not always meet these requirements because of their well-known limitations, such as a lack of response in a subgroup of individuals with schizophrenia and intolerable adverse effects. There has long been a need for new antipsychotics that can ameliorate more symptoms and have no or few adverse effects. Some of the recently introduced antipsychotics have been shown to be more effective in certain clinical situations and to have a more favourable adverse effect profile than the classical antipsychotics. A major factor contributing to the lower effectiveness of drug treatment is noncompliance, which may be very high in schizophrenia. There are several factors influencing compliance, including drug type and formulation, patient, disease status, physician, health care system, community care and family. There have been very few studies of compliance improvement strategies in schizophrenia or, indeed, in medicine in general. Current methods are relatively complex and there are differing opinions on their effectiveness. There are several ways to increase compliance in schizophrenia--the evidence is strongest for psychoeducative methods, changing to a new drug or using a depot formulation. However, considerably more research is needed in the field of compliance strategies.
The effect of microinjections of baclofen into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), nucleus accumbens, or striatum on cocaine self-administration reinforced on a progressive ratio schedule was investigated. Intra-VTA baclofen produced the most potent modulation of cocaine intake, causing a significant reduction in cocaine-reinforced break points at a dose (56 ng/side) that was substantially lower than doses necessary to produce comparable reductions in the nucleus accumbens or striatum. During the time that cocaine-reinforced responding was suppressed, rats demonstrated the capacity to complete several hundred responses on a concurrently available food-reinforced lever, indicating that the effect of baclofen on cocaine intake was not due to a generalized disruption in operant responding. The results indicate that GABA(B) receptors in the VTA may have the potential to modulate reward processes associated with cocaine use.
In order to investigate palatability influences on the ad lib eating behavior of free-living humans, 564 participants were paid to maintain food intake diaries for 7 days. They recorded their intake along with a global rating of the palatability of the entire meal on a seven-point scale. It was found that most meals that are self-selected are palatable and that only 9.3% are rated as unpalatable. Meals that were highest in palatability were 44% larger than meals that were low in palatability, but palatability only accounted for around 4% of the variance in meal sizes. Multiple regression demonstrated that palatability appears to act on intake independent of the levels of other influential factors. These results were very similar to those observed for the French and suggest that palatability operates similarly on intake regardless of culture. Palatability appears to be an influence on the amounts ingested by free-living humans in their natural environments but appears to be only one of many influential factors and accounts for only a small proportion of the variance in intake.
An unusual intramembranous cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) by gamma-secretase is the final step in the generation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). Two conserved aspartates in transmembrane (TM) domains 6 and 7 of presenilin (PS) 1 are required for Abeta production by gamma-secretase. Here we report that the APP C-terminal fragments, C83 and C99, which are the direct substrates of gamma-secretase, can be coimmunoprecipitated with both PS1 and PS2. PS/C83 complexes were detected in cells expressing endogenous levels of PS. The complexes accumulate when gamma-secretase is inactivated either pharmacologically or by mutating the PS aspartates. PS1/C83 and PS1/C99 complexes were detected in Golgi-rich and trans-Golgi network-rich vesicle fractions. In contrast, complexes of PS1 with APP holoprotein, which is not the immediate substrate of gamma-secretase, occurred earlier in endoplasmic reticulum-rich vesicles. The major portion of intracellular Abeta at steady state was found in the same Golgi/trans-Golgi network-rich vesicles, and Abeta levels in these fractions were markedly reduced when either PS1 TM aspartate was mutated to alanine. Furthermore, de novo generation of Abeta in a cell-free microsomal reaction occurred specifically in these same vesicle fractions and was markedly inhibited by mutating either TM aspartate. Thus, PSs are complexed with the gamma-secretase substrates C83 and C99 in the subcellular locations where Abeta is generated, indicating that PSs are directly involved in the pathogenically critical intramembranous proteolysis of APP.
Spinophilin, a protein that interacts with actin and protein phosphatase-1, is highly enriched in dendritic spines. Here, through the use of spinophilin knockout mice, we provide evidence that spinophilin modulates both glutamatergic synaptic transmission and dendritic morphology. The ability of protein phosphatase-1 to regulate the activity of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors was reduced in spinophilin knockout mice. Consistent with altered glutamatergic transmission, spinophilin-deficient mice showed reduced long-term depression and exhibited resistance to kainate-induced seizures and neuronal apoptosis. In addition, deletion of the spinophilin gene caused a marked increase in spine density during development in vivo as well as altered filopodial formation in cultured neurons. In conclusion, spinophilin appears to be required for the regulation of the properties of dendritic spines.
The hypoactivity of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in schizophrenics is well known. One cause of this hypoactivity may be defective corticocortical or thalamocortical connections. Recent imaging studies of the thalamus suggest reductions in volume of the whole thalamus and reduced activity in the medial group of thalamic nuclei, which may indicate loss of functional input to the cortex. Using stereological techniques in six pairs of individually matched brains from schizophrenics and controls, we measured the volumes and obtained estimates of the number of neurons in the three subnuclei (parvocellular, pc; densocellular, dc; magnocellular, mc) of the mediodorsal nucleus (MD) and from the ventral posterior medial nucleus. There was a significant reduction in total neuron number in MD as a whole but this neuron loss was largely restricted to MDpc and MDdc [-30.9 and -24.5%, respectively (P &lt;/= 0.01)]. MDmc and the control ventral posterior medial nucleus showed no significant changes in cell number. Because the subnuclei of MD have different connections and project to different areas of the frontal cortex, the specific loss of neurons in MDpc and MDdc has implications for the functional defects observed in schizophrenia.
A basic concept in neuroscience is to correlate specific functions with specific neuronal structures. By discussing a specific example, an alternative concept is proposed: structures may be linked to rules of processing and these rules may serve different functions in different species or at different stages of evolution. The medial superior olive (MSO), a mammalian auditory brainstem structure, has been thought to solely process interaural time differences (ITD), the main cue for localizing low frequency sounds. Recent findings, however, indicate that this is not its only function since mammals that do not hear low frequencies and do not use ITDs for sound localization also possess a MSO. Recordings from the bat MSO indicate that it processes temporal cues in the milli- and submillisecond range, based on monaural or binaural inputs. In bats, and most likely in other small mammals, this temporal processing is related to pattern recognition and echo suppression rather than sound localization. However, the underlying mechanism, coincidence detection of several inputs, creates an epiphenomenal ITD sensitivity that is of no use for small mammals like bats or ancestral mammals. Such an epiphenomenal ITD sensitivity would have been a pre-adaptation which, when mammals grew larger during evolution and when localization of low frequency sounds became a question of survival, suddenly gained relevance. This way the MSO became involved in a new function without changing its basic rules of processing.
1. The mechanism underlying morphine and cannabinoid-induced excitation of meso-accumbens and nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons was investigated by extracellular single unit recording techniques coupled with antidromic activation from the nucleus accumbens and striatum respectively, in unanesthetized rats. 2. The intravenous administration of cumulative doses (1-4 mg/kg) of morphine, dose-dependently increased the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens and neostriatum, while the same doses inhibited the activity of pars reticulata neurons of the substantia nigra. Both effects were antagonized by naloxone (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) but not by the selective CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (1 mg/kg i.v.). 3. The intravenous administration of cumulative doses (0.125-0.5 mg/kg) of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC) also increased the firing rate of meso-accumbens and nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons; this effect was antagonized by SR 141716A (1 mg/kg i.v.), but not by naloxone. 4. Furthermore, nor delta9-THC up to a dose of 1 mg/kg, maximally effective in stimulating dopamine neurons, neither SR 141716A (1 mg/kg i.v.) at a dose able to reverse the stimulatory effect of delta9, THC on dopamine cells, did alter the activity of SNr neurons. 5. The results indicate that morphine and delta9-THC activate dopaminergic neurons through distinct receptor-mediated mechanisms; morphine may act by removing the inhibitory input from substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons (an effect mediated by mu-opioid receptors). Alternatively, the delta9-THC-induced excitation of dopaminergic neurons seems to be mediated by CB1 cannabinoid receptors, while neither mu-opioid receptors nor substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons are involved.

By using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the neural substrates involved in mental recitation of the single-digit multiplication table and serial subtraction were studied. The former depends mostly on well-learned arithmetical facts, while the latter requires arithmetic processing. Activation during each task was compared with that in a number counting control. During the recitation of single-digit multiplication, the activated regions included the area lying along the left intraparietal sulcus, the premotor and supplementary motor areas, and the posterior portion of the left inferior frontal gyrus. The areas activated during serial subtraction included these areas as well as the bilateral prefrontal and right parietal areas. From the results obtained during retrieval of the multiplication table in this study and previous studies, it was concluded that semantic memory of the multiplication table is stored in the area lying along the intraparietal sulcus and that the frontal areas play an executive role in utilizing the semantic memory of arithmetical facts. It was assumed that the arithmetical facts requiring actual calculation are also stored in the same region. The additional activation during serial subtraction compared with the activation during retrieval of the multiplication table is probably due to the processes of actual calculation. These processes include proper alignment of digits, which may have caused the right parietal activation, and maintaining digits needed for the mental serial subtractions, which may have caused the bilateral prefrontal activation.






ZO-1, ZO-2 and ZO-3 are tight junction (TJ)-associated proteins that belong to the MAGUK family. In addition to the presence of the characteristic MAGUK modules (PDZ, SH3 and GK), ZOs have a distinctive carboxyl terminal with splicing domains, acidic- and proline-rich regions. The modular organization of these proteins allows them to function as scaffolds, which associate to transmembrane TJ proteins, the cytoskeleton and signal transduction molecules. ZOs shuttle between the TJ and the nucleus, where they may regulate gene expression.
Using the whole cell patch clamp technique, the effects of interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-2 on the membrane potential and spontaneous discharges in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons from the rat hypothalamic slices in vitro were examined to determine the changes in sensitivity of supraoptic nucleus neurons to cytokine. The results obtained are as follows. IL-1beta (100 U/ml) hyperpolarized the SON neurons from the control rats (n=15) and the rats 9 d after i.p. lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (n=20), and decreased the rate of their spontaneous discharges. When 100 U/ml IL-2 was perfused, most SON neurons (n=14) from the control rats were hyperpolarized and the spontaneous firing decreased, but the rest (n=3) remained unchanged. When IL-2 (100 U/ml) was applied, 19 neurons out of the 45 SON neurons from the rats 9 days after i.p. LPS were depolarized accompanied with an increase of the discharges, 16 did not show significant changes in both membrane potential and spontaneous discharges, the rest 10 were hyperpolarized and their discharges were suppressed. These results show that the sensitivity of part of SON neurons from the immuned rat to cytokine IL-2 was altered, suggesting that IL-2 may be involved in modulation of the activity of SON neurons and thus play a role in modulation of the immune response.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-tolerant human promonocytic THP-1 cells produce decreased levels of inflammatory mediators such as eicosanoids and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in response to LPS. We hypothesized that transcriptional repression by newly synthesized proteins may be a mechanism for the reduced cellular response to a secondary challenge with LPS. THP-1 cells were desensitized after a 3.5 h or 20 h pre-exposure to LPS (1 microg/mL) and subsequently challenged with LPS (10 microg/mL). In cells rendered tolerant by exposure to LPS for 20 h, LPS-induced expression of cyclooxygenase (Cox)-2 and TNFalpha mRNA was suppressed. Cycloheximide (10 microM) prevented the transcriptional down-regulation of Cox-2 mRNA and to a lesser extent, TNFalpha mRNA, in LPS-tolerant cells. Transcriptional arrest with actinomycin D stabilized steady-state expression of Cox-2 mRNA in naive and tolerant cells but destabilized TNFalpha mRNA expression in LPS-tolerant cells. The observation that in naive cells Cox-2 and TNFalpha mRNA levels subside at 3 to 4 h after LPS (10 microg/mL or 1 microg/mL) suggested that LPS tolerance may occur earlier. Therefore, in subsequent experiments, the effect of LPS pretreatment for only 3.5 h was examined. This abbreviated tolerance regimen diminished secondary LPS-induced Cox-2 mRNA expression but had a lesser effect on TNFalpha mRNA expression. However, cycloheximide augmented both Cox-2 and TNFalpha mRNA expression in this group. Also, the serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid augmented Cox-2 and TNFalpha mRNA expression in the LPS-tolerant cells. Although LPS-induced TNFalpha production in LPS-tolerant cells was suppressed relative to the naive cells, okadaic acid induced comparable levels of TNFalpha in tolerant and naive cells. These findings support the concept that LPS tolerance is associated with induction of proteins that alter expression of certain genes. Expression of Cox-2 mRNA appears to be particularly sensitive to down-regulation and, to a lesser extent, TNFalpha mRNA. However, this seems to vary depending on the LPS pretreatment regimen. The ability of a phosphatase inhibitor to induce TNFalpha and expression of Cox-2 and TNFalpha mRNA in LPS tolerance suggests that there may be alterations in phosphorylation status of signaling pathways, transcriptional mechanisms, or post-transcriptional mRNA stability.
Achieving regeneration in the central nervous system represents one of the greatest intellectual and practical challenges in neurobiology, and yet it is an absolute requirement if spinal cord injury patients are to have any hope of recovery. The mission of the International Spinal Research Trust (ISRT), established in 1980, is to raise money specifically for spinal research, with a view to ending the permanence of paralysis caused by spinal cord injury. This review summarises some of the major steps forward made in recent years in understanding the mechanisms involved in spinal cord injury and where these discoveries fit in with the ISRT's overall objectives. We review approaches aimed at (1) preventing immediate adverse reactions to injury such as neuronal death and scar formation; (2) minimising inhibitory properties of the CNS environment and maximising the growth potential of damaged neurons; (3) understanding axonal guidance systems that will be required for directed outgrowth and functional reconnection; and (4) optimising the function of surviving systems. We also discuss 'infrastructural' prerequisites for applying knowledge gained through spinal research to the clinical condition, including basic scientific issues such as developing representative animal models of spinal cord injury and sensitive quantitative methods for assessing growth and functional restoration. In addition, we point out the importance of communication. The need to share knowledge between research groups is vital for advancing our understanding of injury and repair mechanisms. Equally important is the need for communication between basic scientists and clinicians which will be essential for what is the ultimate goal of the ISRT, the development of relevant treatment strategies that will prove beneficial to the spinal injured patient.


Drug-associated contextual cues can exert a powerful influence on behavior through associative pairing between the drug and the environment. However, the anatomical and molecular substrates for these effects are not well characterized. Using a drug-conditioning paradigm, we examined the expression of the immediate early gene product, Fos, within specific brain circuits using immunocytochemical detection. Rats were given either morphine (5 mg/ml/kg) or saline once a day for 10 days. The drug administration was always paired with a specific environment (activity monitors) different from the home cage. Following this treatment, the rats were returned to the cages at various times thereafter, with only a mock injection. Conditioned behavioral activation was observed in rats at 3, 5, and 7 days following treatment with morphine. In rats showing the conditioned motor response, several cortical and limbic areas showed substantial increases in the number of Fos positive cells, indicating that these regions were more active during exposure to the drug-paired environment. Areas that were most activated included prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens, and preoptic area. Further analysis showed that this increase in Fos expression was not directly related to the increase in motor activity, and that the drug-associated conditioning and Fos expression was lessened at 7 days and absent by 14 days post-treatment. These results are discussed in terms of their relevance to the problem of relapse in drug addiction.
This report describes sertraline pharmacokinetics derived from routine therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) data. A high-performance liquid chromatographic method with ultraviolet detection was established for routine sertraline TDM, and 924 analyses were performed from April 1995 to May 1997. Extensive predefined inclusion/exclusion criteria were applied to increase the validity of scientifically evaluated data. Subsequently, 605 samples (65.5%) were excluded. The remaining 319 samples from 319 patients, representative of steady state trough specimens and accompanied by essential clinical information provided on request forms, were scrutinized. A pronounced interindividual variability was observed. Smokers had significantly lower concentration-to-dose (C/D) mean ratios of serum sertraline (s-sert) and its main metabolite desmethylsertraline (s-dsert) than nonsmokers. Higher s-sert and s-dsert C/D mean ratios were found in elderly patients than in adults aged less than 65 years. In a subset of 20 patients in whom repeated TDM analyses were performed, observed intraindividual sertraline TDM outcome variability was low. The results highlight sertraline TDM as a tool for individual dose optimization and evaluation of patient drug compliance as well as drug-drug interactions.


The idea that genes can influence behavioural predispositions and their underlying psychological determinants is becoming increasingly tractable. In this article, recent findings are reviewed on a special type of inheritance, related to the transmission of traits via what have been termed 'imprinted' genes. In imprinted genes one allele is silenced according to its parental origin. This results in the inheritance of traits down the maternal or paternal line, in contrast to the more frequent mode of inheritance that is indifferent to the parental origin of the allele. Drawing on the advances made possible by combining the approaches of cognitive neuropsychology, behavioural neuroscience and contemporary molecular genetics, the detailed evidence for imprinted effects on behavioural and cognitive phenotypes is considered, focusing on findings from mental disorders, Turner's syndrome and experimental work in animal models. As prevailing evolutionary theories stress an essential antagonistic role of imprinted effects, these data might link such apparently diverse issues as neurodevelopment and the vulnerability to mental disease with the 'battle of the sexes', as joined at the level of cognitive and behavioural functioning.
Homologizing behaviour was once considered unreliable, but the application of modern comparative methods has been shown to provide strong evidence of behavioural homologies. Skilled forelimb movements were thought to originate in the primate lineage but in fact are common among tetrapod taxa and probably share a common origin in early tetrapods. Furthermore, skilled movements are likely to have been derived from, and elaborated through, food-handling behaviour. In addition, it is now thought that the role played by the lateral and medial descending pathways of the spinal cord in the execution of skilled forelimb movements could be synergistic, rather than the exclusive responsibility of an individual pathway.
Neurons that constitute the cerebral cortex must migrate hundreds of cell-body distances from their place of birth, and through several anatomical boundaries, to reach their final position within the correct cortical layer. Human neurological conditions associated with abnormal neuronal migration, together with spontaneous and engineered mouse mutants, define at least four distinct steps in cortical neuronal migration. Many of the genes that control neuronal migration have strong genetic or biochemical links to the cytoskeleton, suggesting that the field of neuronal migration might be closing in on the underlying cytoskeletal events.
Social rather than scientific barriers are impeding neuroscience theory. There are plenty of experimental data and mathematical methods to develop a rigorous, mathematical theory in neuroscience. However, structural mathematical efforts are being suffocated by the requirement to produce numbers immediately. Also theoretical development is tied too closely to one experimental group. The social barriers can be addressed by: (1) judging theory by structural accuracy rather than numerical output; (2) recognizing mathematical theory (not just computational modeling) as a method for producing insight into neurobiological phenomena; (3) funding fundamental theoretical neuroscience and (4) recognizing theoretical neuroscientists as neuroscientists.


Various methods, including functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), have recently been developed to allow investigators to study functional activity in the living brain. Such techniques are now being used to investigate regionally specific brain activity associated with the administration of CNS-active drugs. fMRI in particular is increasingly recognized as being a relatively non-invasive way to perform pharmacological investigations in experimental animals, healthy human volunteers, and individuals with CNS disease. This use of fMRI, dubbed 'pharmacological MRI' or 'phMRI', holds the promise of providing relatively straightforward pharmacodynamic assays and can be used to establish brain-penetrability parameters, or dose-ranging information for novel therapeutic compounds.



Substance P (SP) is the major endogenous ligand for neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors and, together with acetylcholine, has an important role in motivated behaviors involving the limbic shell and motor core of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). To determine the functional sites for SP activation of NK-1 receptors and potential interactions with cholinergic neurons in these regions, the authors examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization either of antisera against the NK1 receptor or of the NK1 receptor and either 1) SP or 2) the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT) in rat NAc. In both the NAc shell and core, NK1 receptor labeling was localized mainly to somatic and dendritic plasma membranes and nearby endosomal organelles in aspiny neurons. In sections through the ventromedial shell that were processed for NK1/SP labeling, 46% of the NK1-immunoreactive dendrites (n = 603 dendrites) showed symmetric or appositional contacts with SP-containing terminals. These terminals and several others that formed symmetric synapses also occasionally were immunoreactive for NK1 receptors. Analysis of the shell region for NK1/VAchT labeling showed that 61% of the total immunoreactive dendrites (n = 534 dendrites) contained NK1 receptors without VAchT, 29% contained both products, and 10% contained VAchT only. Many of the labeled somata and dendrites also received synaptic contact from VAchT-containing terminals. These findings suggest that, in the NAc, NK1 receptors are recycled through endosomal compartments and play a role in modulating mainly the postsynaptic responses, but also the presynaptic release, of SP and/or inhibitory neurotransmitters onto aspiny interneurons, some of which are cholinergic.
We prepared antibodies selective for the C-terminus of the human mGluR6 receptor and used confocal and electron microscopy to study the patterns of immunostaining in retina of monkey, cat, and rabbit. In all three species punctate stain was restricted to the outer plexiform layer. In monkey, stain was always observed in the central element of the postsynaptic &quot;triad&quot; of rod and cone terminals. In monkey peripheral retina, stain was seen only in central elements, but in the fovea, stain was also observed in some dendrites contacting the base of the cone terminal. S-cone terminals, identified by staining for S opsin, showed staining of postsynaptic dendrites. These were identified as dendrites of the ON S-cone bipolar cell by immunostaining for the marker cholecystokinin precursor. The staining pattern suggests that all types of ON bipolar cells, despite their marked differences in function, express a single isoform of mGluR6. Ultrastructurally, mGluR6 was located not on the tip of the central element, near the site of vesicle release, but on its base at the mouth of the invagination, 400-800 nm from the release site. Thus, the mGluR6 receptors of ON bipolar cells lie at about the same distance from sites of vesicle release as the iGluR receptors of OFF bipolar cells at the basal contacts.
The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD1 and -2) neurons in the locust visual system are parts of motion-sensitive pathways that detect objects approaching on a collision course. The dendritic processes of the LGMD1 and -2 in the lobula are localised to discrete regions, allowing the dendrites of each neuron to be distinguished uniquely. As was described previously for the LGMD1, the afferent processes onto the LGMD2 synapse directly with each other, and these synapses are immediately adjacent to their outputs onto the LGMD2. Here we present immunocytochemical evidence, using antibodies against choline-protein conjugates and a polyclonal antiserum against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; Chemicon Ab 143), that the LGMD1 and -2 and the retinotopic units presynaptic to them contain acetylcholine (ACh). It is proposed that these retinotopic units excite the LGMD1 or -2 but inhibit each other. It is well established that ACh has both excitatory and inhibitory effects and may provide the substrate for a critical race in the LGMD1 or -2, between excitation caused by edges moving out over successive photoreceptors, and inhibition spreading laterally resulting in the selective response to objects approaching on a collision course. In the optic lobe, ACh was also found to be localised in discrete layers of the medulla and in the outer chiasm between the lamina and medulla. In the brain, the antennal lobes contained neurons that reacted positively for ACh. Silver- or haematoxylin and eosin-stained sections through the optic lobe confirmed the identities of the positively immunostained neurons.

An automated method for the determination of neuronal cell death using trypan blue is described. Following various excitotoxic insults, murine mixed cortical cell cultures are stained with trypan blue (0.05%; 15 min), followed by SDS (1%) lysis. The absorbance of the dye is measured spectrophotometrically at 590 nm using a microtiter plate reader. When compared to the biochemical lactate dehydrogenase assay, no statistical difference in the calculated levels of excitotoxic neuronal cell death was noted between the assays in any given paradigm. This method is fast and reliable. It eliminates the need for cell counting, thus allowing for high volume sample analysis with a minimum of sample error. Utility of this trypan blue absorbance spectrophotometric assay is likely to extend beyond the study of excitotoxic neuronal injury and should complement existing methods for measuring neuronal viability and cytotoxicity in cell culture.
A horizontal slice preparation of postnatal rat lumbar spinal cord has been developed which allows correlative observations of the morphology, electrophysiology, and receptor pharmacology of lamina X neurons. These slices better maintain afferent input and somatodendritic morphology and are amenable to subsequent immunohistochemical processing. Stable intracellular recordings obtained from postnatal day 14-45 animals reveal that a number of different intrinsic membrane conductances contribute to the regulation of excitability in lamina X neurons. In addition, lamina X neurons possess inhibitory GABAergic as well as excitatory glutamate and cholecystokinin receptors. This preparation will be useful in future studies designed to characterize developmental changes in the intrinsic membrane properties, synaptic profiles and neuropeptide responsiveness of lamina X neurons in the rat. Such a characterization is important given that lamina X represents a unique sexually dimorphic region that is a convergence site for somatic and visceral afferent inputs, which includes nociceptive information.
Sucrose-based artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) is sometimes used to prepare brain slices for in vitro electrophysiological experiments. This study compared the effect of preparing brain slices using chilled sucrose-based aCSF versus the conventional method using chilled aCSF on hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Brain slices from each treatment group were transferred to normal aCSF before electrophysiological recordings were made. The stimulus-response relationship of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in the CA1 region was indistinguishable between the two treatment groups. However, the amount of LTP induced by either a &amp;theta;-burst (four stimuli at 100 Hz repeated ten times at 200 ms intervals) or tetanic stimulation (100 Hz for 1 s) was significantly reduced in slices that had been prepared using sucrose-based aCSF. This was associated with reduced facilitation of the fEPSPs during the high frequency stimulus, reduced post-tetanic potentiation and short-term potentiation. In sucrose-cut slices the fEPSPs were slightly shorter in duration (29%, P&lt;0.01), and during paired-pulse stimulation the broadening of the second fEPSP was enhanced. The LTP deficit in sucrose-cut slices was reversed by blocking GABA(A) receptor function with picrotoxin. These data suggest that the use of sucrose based aCSF better preserves GABA-mediated synaptic transmission, which limits the induction of LTP in hippocampal brain slices.
An increasing number of laboratories are studying population properties of the nervous system using data where the spike activity of more than one neuron is recorded on each electrode and where, accidentally or deliberately, these activities are not resolved into single unit spike trains. We have previously examined the consequences for measurement of cross-correlation between two such electrodes in the limited case where all individual distant (between electrode) correlations are the same and all individual close (on a single electrode) correlations are the same [Bedenbaugh, P.H., and Gerstein, G.L. (1997). Multiunit normalized cross correlation differs from the average single-unit normalized correlation. Neural Computation 9, 1265-1275]. Here, we lift these unrealistic restrictions to allow all values of individual correlation, and examine explicitly the cases of two or three unresolved neurons on each electrode. In these situations, the cross-correlation coefficient measured between the electrodes is a linear sum of the distant correlations, divided by a non-linear function of the close correlations. We then examine in detail the case of a single direct distant correlation and take account of all relevant indirect correlations. The measured interelectrode correlation shows a reduction of this actual distant correlation by a non-linear function of the close correlations on each electrode over most of their possible values. Finally, we examine the consequences of poor waveform sorting for correlation measures; here a supposedly isolated spike train is contaminated by some fraction of the activity of another train, a situation that unfortunately is all too common in experiments. All these distortions become far more serious in the more realistic situation of dynamic firing rates and correlations. This paper is intended as a cautionary note for those who want to draw inferences about neuronal organization and/or coding or representation by using cross-correlation analysis of unresolved recordings.
The resolution of patch-clamp recordings is limited by the geometrical and electrical properties of patch pipettes. The ideal whole-cell patch pipette has a blunt, cone-shaped tip and a low resistance. The best glasses for making patch pipettes are low noise, low capacitance glasses such as borosilicate and aluminasilicate glasses. Regrettably, nearly all borosilicate glasses form pipettes with sharp, cone-shaped tips and relatively high resistance. It is possible, however, to reshape the tip during fire polishing by pressurizing the pipette lumen during fire polishing, a technique we call 'pressure polishing.' We find that this technique works with pipettes made from virtually any type of glass, including thick-walled aluminasilicate glass. We routinely use this technique to make pipettes suitable for whole-cell patch-clamp recording of tiny neurons (1-3 microm in diameter). Our pipettes are made from thick-walled, borosilicate glass and have submicron tip openings and resistances &lt;10 MOmega. Similar pipettes could be used to record from subcellular neuronal structures such as axons, dendrites and dendritic spines. Pressure polishing should also be useful in patch-clamp applications that benefit from using pipettes with blunt tips, such as perforated-patch whole-cell recordings, low-noise single channel recordings and experiments that require internal perfusion of the pipette.

Neurons in the neocortex (regardless of their developmental state) are considered to be post-mitotic and incapable of dividing. We used dissociated primary cultures derived from the neocortices of 16-day-old fetuses to test the counter-hypothesis, that is, differentiating neocortical neurons can divide. The cultured cells experienced considerable cell death, yet the number of viable cells remained relatively constant over the first 5 days in vitro. The implication was that the cultures contained proliferating cells. This was confirmed with a [(3)H]thymidine ([3H]dT) incorporation study and cumulative bromodeoxyuridine labeling. In fact, over 1/4 of the cells were cycling and the length of the cell cycle was 20.0 h; kinetics which mirror those of the developing cortex in vivo. This population of proliferating cells was eliminated by 48 h treatment with fluorodeoxyuridine. Immunohistochemical procedures determined that most cultured cells (&gt;/=90%) expressed proteins associated with differentiating or mature neurons, e.g., neurofilament (NF) 200 and isoforms of microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 2. Markers for immature neurons (e.g., nestin) were expressed by 10% of the cells. In contrast, markers for glia and their precursors were expressed by &lt;/=2% of the population. Double-labeling with [3H]dT and a neural-specific antibody showed that cells expressing an antigen for immature neurons constituted most of the proliferating cells, however, a considerable number of [3H]dT-labeled cells expressed markers for differentiating neurons (e.g., NF200 and MAP2). Thus, differentiating neocortical neurons can be mitotically active and it appears that differentiating neurons are derived from both the ventricular and subventricular proliferative zones.
To establish if olfactory bulb sensitivity to functional deprivation is related to the degree of development at birth, we studied the effects of surgical closure of one naris in the gerbil olfactory bulb development. The naris closure was performed at three different ages: at birth, P7 and P14 and maintained for 30 or 60 days. In coronal sections we measured total bulbar surface area and surface area of the different bulbar layers establishing an estimate multiple regression model for the percentage of surface area decrease in the deprived bulb related to non deprived one. The internal and external plexiform layers are the most sensitive layers to deprivation and age and duration of deprivation were factors in their mathematical models. The glomerular layer showed a surface reduction of about 25% without dependence either on age or duration. The deprived glomerular layer showed a much lower tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity and immunoreactive cell density than those in the non deprived one. However, differences in calbindin-immunoreactive and NADPH-diaphorase positive cell density between deprived and non deprived glomerular layer were not significant. Our results indicate that olfactory bulb sensitivity to functional deprivation is not related to the degree of precocity and changes in age and duration of deprivation cause different effects on the olfactory bulb layers.

5-HT(6) receptor-like immunoreactivity has been previously found in association with both neuronal dendrites and cilia in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and islands of Calleja of the rat brain. Using immunogold pre-embedding immunocytochemical techniques to investigate the subcellular localization of 5-HT(6) receptor-like immunoreactivity in cilia, we showed that immunogold particles were associated with their plasma membrane, and not with microtubules. This membrane localization is consistent with a possible physiological role, which is still unknown, of these receptors.
This experiment used functional transcranial Doppler ultrasonography to demonstrate that blood flow velocity in the anterior cerebral artery is hyporeactive in Huntington's disease (HD) patients during maze testing (P&lt;0.05). These vascular changes are due to tracing, as opposed to problem solving, components of the maze task. Using logistic regression, the reactivity of the ACA during activation is able to categorize patients as being either gene negative, or positive, for HD (P=0.0007). The possible role that nitric oxide/peroxynitrite may play in this phenomena is discussed.
We investigated whether the reduction in ischemic brain injury in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) null mice is related to the iNOS gene copy number, and whether such protection is long lasting. The middle cerebral artery (MCA) was occluded in heterozygous (+/-) and homozygous (-/-) iNOS null mice, as well as in wild-type littermates (iNOS +/+). Four days after MCA occlusion, total infarct volume was reduced by 29% in iNOS -/- mice (n=6; P&lt;0.05) and by 14% in iNOS+/-mice (n=8; P&lt;0.05), compared to iNOS +/+ (n=8). Ten days after MCA occlusion, total infarct volume was still reduced in iNOS +/- (-14%) and -/- mice (-21%; P&lt;0.05 from iNOS +/+; n=8/group). These data indicate that the reduction in infarct volume is greater in iNOS -/- than in iNOS +/- mice and that the effect is stable in time. We conclude that the reduction in ischemic damage conferred by iNOS deletion exhibits a gene-dosing effect and that the protection is long lasting.
Myoclonic twitching is a ubiquitous feature of infant behavior that has been used as an index of active sleep. Although the active sleep of infants differs in some ways from the REM sleep of adults, their marked similarities have led many to view them them as homologous behavioral states. Recently, however, this view has been challenged. One avenue for resolving this issue entails examination of the neural substrates of active sleep. If the neural substrates of active sleep were found to be similar to those of REM sleep, then this would support the view that the two states are homologous. Therefore, in the present study, decerebrations were performed in the pons and midbrain to determine whether the mesopontine region is important for the expression of active sleep in infants, just as it is for the expression of REM sleep in adults. It was found that, in comparison to controls, caudal pontine decerebrations reduced myoclonic twitching by 76%, rostral pontine decerebrations reduced twitching by 40%, and midbrain transections had no significant effect on twitching. Moreover, analysis of the temporal organization of twitching indicated that pontine decerebrations predominantly affected high-frequency twitching while leaving unaffected the low-frequency twitching that is thought to be contributed by local spinal circuits at this age. These results indicate that the mesopontine region plays a central role in the expression of active sleep in infant rats.
The basal mRNA levels of kappa and mu opioid receptors, as well as their regulation after 'binge' cocaine administration, were determined with competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in brain regions of male Sprague-Dawley rats. The procedure proved to be a reliable method to quantify the relative opioid receptor gene expression. The highest basal mRNA levels for the kappa opioid receptor were found in the nucleus accumbens and hypothalamus, whereas the highest basal mRNA expression for the mu opioid receptor was observed in the hypothalamus. Rats were separately treated with 'binge' (three hourly injections) cocaine HCl (45 mg/kg/day i.p.) or saline (1 ml/kg i.p.) for 2 days. A significant down-regulation of the kappa opioid receptor mRNA was detected in the nucleus accumbens. The mu opioid receptor mRNA was not affected. The data suggest a selective effect on kappa receptor expression in the nucleus accumbens as a consequence of 'binge' cocaine use.
A cDNA clone encoding a plasma membrane alanine-preferring transporter (SAT2) has been isolated from glutamatergic neurons in culture and represents the second member of the system A family of neutral amino acid transporters. SAT2 displays a widespread distribution and is expressed in most tissues, including heart, adrenal gland, skeletal muscle, stomach, fat, brain, spinal cord, colon, and lung, with lower levels detected in spleen. No signal is detected in liver or testis. In the central nervous system, SAT2 is expressed in neurons. SAT2 is significantly up-regulated during differentiation of cerebellar granule cells and is absent from astrocytes in primary culture. The functional properties of SAT2, examined using transfected fibroblasts and in cRNA-injected voltage-clamped Xenopus oocytes, show that small aliphatic neutral amino acids are preferred substrates and that transport is voltage- and Na(+)-dependent (1:1 stoichiometry), pH-sensitive, and inhibited by alpha-(methylamino)isobutyric acid (MeAIB), a specific inhibitor of system A. Kinetic analyses of alanine and MeAIB uptake by SAT2 are saturable, with Michaelis constants (K(m)) of 200-500 microm. In addition to its ubiquitous role as a substrate for oxidative metabolism and a major vehicle of nitrogen transport, SAT2 may provide alanine to function as the amino group donor to alpha-ketoglutarate to provide an alternative source for neurotransmitter synthesis in glutamatergic neurons.
Interleukin-1 is an inflammatory cytokine implicated in secondary responses to traumatic brain injury. We utilized a specific IL-beta enzyme-linked immunoadsorbant assay to examine the expression of IL-beta after lateral fluid percussion brain injury in the rat. IL-beta was significantly elevated in the ipsilateral injured cortex at 4 h after injury. Increased levels of IL-beta were also observed at 12, 24 and 72 h after injury, although such changes did not reach statistical significance. To determine whether injury-induced IL-beta expression may contribute to subsequent neurological impairment, we treated rats with either of two structurally different, selective IL-1 antagonists and monitored neurological recovery 1, 7 and 14 days later. Intracerebroventricular treatment with either the endogenous interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (10 microg) at 15 min, 2, 4, 6, and 8 h after injury or soluble IL-1 receptors (10 microg) at 15 min, 4 and 8 h after injury did not significantly alter outcome in a series of motor tasks. These data suggest that cortical elevations of IL-beta follow traumatic brain injury, but they may not contribute to subsequent neurological impairment.
On page 628, neuroscientists report that painful stimuli delivered to rats shortly after birth permanently rewire the spinal cord circuits that respond to pain. Not only do the circuits contain more axons, but the axons extend to more areas of the spinal cord than they normally would. The results should help convince skeptics of the importance of managing pain in human infants.
Nociceptive neuronal circuits are formed during embryonic and postnatal times when painful stimuli are normally absent or limited. Today, medical procedures for neonates with health risks can involve tissue injury and pain for which the long-term effects are unknown. To investigate the impact of neonatal tissue injury and pain on development of nociceptive neuronal circuitry, we used an animal model of persistent hind paw peripheral inflammation. We found that, as adults, these animals exhibited spinal neuronal circuits with increased input and segmental changes in nociceptive primary afferent axons and altered responses to sensory stimulation.
Emotion is normally regulated in the human brain by a complex circuit consisting of the orbital frontal cortex, amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex, and several other interconnected regions. There are both genetic and environmental contributions to the structure and function of this circuitry. We posit that impulsive aggression and violence arise as a consequence of faulty emotion regulation. Indeed, the prefrontal cortex receives a major serotonergic projection, which is dysfunctional in individuals who show impulsive violence. Individuals vulnerable to faulty regulation of negative emotion are at risk for violence and aggression. Research on the neural circuitry of emotion regulation suggests new avenues of intervention for such at-risk populations.
Bees navigating between their nests and foraging sites rely on their ability to learn and to recall many complex visual patterns [1-4]. How are the elements that make up one of these patterns bound together so that the whole pattern can be recalled when it is required? Consider the sentence: 'Dons nod off.' The words in it can be distinguished by the pattern of elements or letters that they contain. Words may contain the same elements arranged in different orders (don, nod), or contain elements of different types, or vary in both these respects (nod, off). We show here that bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) can learn to group the elements of a pattern together, such that different identifiable patterns contain the same elements in different combinations--analogous to the grouping of letters found in words. Our results suggest that pattern binding in bees is achieved in part by linking pattern elements directly together and in part by associating the elements with cues that are related to the context in which the pattern is seen.

Complement proteins are integral components of amyloid plaques and cerebral vascular amyloid in Alzheimer brains. They can be found at the earliest stages of amyloid deposition and their activation coincides with the clinical expression of Alzheimer's dementia. This review will examine the origins of complement in the brain and the role of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in complement activation in Alzheimer's disease, an event that might serve as a nidus of chronic inflammation. Pharmacology therapies that may serve to inhibit Abeta-mediated complement activation will also be discussed.
The precursor of the non-amyloid beta/A4 protein (non-Abeta) component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP)/alpha-synuclein is the human homologue of alpha-synuclein, a member of a protein family which includes alpha-, beta- and gamma-synuclein. This protein is thought to be involved in neuronal plasticity because of its unique expression, mainly in the telencephalon during maturation. Consequently, disarrangement of NACP/alpha-synuclein might disrupt synaptic activity, resulting in memory disturbance. Previous studies have shown that damage to synaptic terminals is closely associated with global cognitive impairment and is an early event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Although the relationship between synaptic damage and amyloidogenesis is not clear, some proteins at the synaptic site have been implicated in both neuronal alteration and amyloid formation. Indeed, abnormal accumulation of both NACP/alpha-synuclein and Abeta precursor protein occurs at synapses of Alzheimer's patients. Other evidence suggests that NACP/alpha-synuclein is a component of the Lewy bodies found in patients with Parkinson's disease or dementia with Lewy bodies, and that a point mutation in this protein may be the cause of familial Parkinson's disease. Consequently, abnormal transport, metabolism or function of NACP/alpha-synuclein appears to impair synaptic function, which induces, at least in part, neuronal degeneration in several neurodegenerative diseases.

Of the 2885 patients participating in the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial, 90 (3.1%) had unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UIA), of which 96% had a diameter of less than 10 mm. During an average 5-year follow-up, only one patient had subarachnoid hemorrhage 6 days after carotid endarterectomy (CE). For patients with unrepaired UIA, the 5-year stroke risk was 10% after CE and 22.7% with best medical care. Both risks are similar to those of patients without UIA. The decision regarding CE probably should not be influenced by the presence of a small UIA.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are commonly found post-synaptically; they mediate fast excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system. In this study, we provide immunocytochemical data supporting the existence of presynaptic NMDA receptors in GABAergic terminals using polyclonal antisera raised against the C-terminus of the NMDAR1 subunit. At the light microscope level, rich plexuses of NMDAR1-positive varicose fibers were found in various nuclei in the basal forebrain (bed nucleus of stria terminalis, septum, parastrial nucleus, vascular organ of the lamina terminalis), thalamus (paraventricular nucleus, midline nuclei), and hypothalamus (parvocellular paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, preoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus). In the brainstem, labeled fibers were much less abundant and were confined to the ventral tegmental area, periaqueductal gray, parabrachial nucleus, and locus coeruleus. At the electron microscope level, NMDAR1-immunoreactive terminals examined in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, parvocellular paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, and arcuate nucleus formed symmetric synapses, contained darkly stained large dense-core vesicles, and displayed gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoreactivity. Terminals with similar ultrastructural features were found in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus. These findings demonstrate the existence of NMDAR1 subunit immunoreactivity in subsets of GABAergic terminals, which raises questions about the potential roles and mechanisms of activation of presynaptic NMDA heteroreceptors in the rat central nervous system. The pattern of distribution and ultrastructural features of these boutons suggest that they may arise from local GABAergic projections interconnecting a group of brain structures mediating stress responses and/or other endocrine, autonomic, and limbic functions.
The connections between the medial temporal cortical areas and CA1 of the hippocampus were examined in the Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata) by means of retrograde and anterograde tract-tracing methods with wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) and fluorescent dyes (Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow). The posterior parahippocampal (areas TF1, TF2, and TH), perirhinal (areas 35 and 36), and ventral inferotemporal areas (areas TEav and TEpv) were reciprocally connected with CA1. Projection fibers from CA1 to the medial temporal cortical areas originated in the pyramidal cell layer, whereas those from the medial temporal cortical areas to CA1 terminated in the molecular layer. Each of these cortical areas was reciprocally connected with the entire rostrocaudal extent of CA1. However, the intensity of the connections varied along the rostrocaudal axis of CA1: areas TH and TF2 were connected most markedly with the anterior and middle parts of CA1, respectively. Areas TF, 35, 36, TEav, and TEpv were connected predominantly with the posterior part of CA1. In the coronal plane of CA1, labeled cells were located in proximal CA1 (i. e., near the prosubiculum), but not in distal CA1 (i.e., near CA2). The medial temporal cortical areas in direct reciprocal connection with CA1 were presumed to be involved in the memory system, especially in the system for declarative memory.
Leptin has profound effects on food intake, body weight, and neuroendocrine status. The lack of leptin results in hormonal and metabolic alterations and a dramatic increase in body weight. Leptin acts in the brain, especially in the hypothalamus; however, the central nervous system sites that respond to leptin have not been examined comprehensively. In this study, we explored systematically the distribution of leptin-activated neurons throughout the rat brain. Furthermore, we investigated the chemical identity of subsets of these leptin-activated cells. Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) was investigated in the rat brain after two different doses of leptin (1.0 mg/kg and 5.0 mg/kg) at 2 hours and 6 hours after injections. The induction of Fos-IR was observed in hypothalamic nuclei, including the paraventricular nucleus (PVH), the retrochiasmatic area (RCA), the ventromedial nucleus (VMH), the dorsomedial nucleus (DMH), the arcuate nucleus (Arc), and the ventral premammillary nucleus (PMV). In addition, leptin-induced Fos-IR was found in several nuclei of the brainstem, including the superior lateral and external lateral subdivisions of the parabrachial nucleus (slPB and elPB, respectively), the supragenual nucleus, and the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). By using double-labeling immunohistochemistry or immunohistochemistry coupled with in situ hybridization, leptin-activated neurons were found that contained cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript mRNA in several hypothalamic nuclei, including the RCA, Arc, DMH, and PMV. In the Arc and DMH, leptin-induced Fos-IR was observed in neurons that expressed neurotensin mRNA. Dynorphin neurons in the VMH and in the Arc also expressed Fos-IR. In the brainstem, we found that cholecystokinin neurons in the slPB and glucagon-like peptide-1 neurons in the NTS were activated by leptin. We also investigated the coexpression of Fos-IR and the long form of the leptin receptor (OBRb) mRNA. We found double-labeled neurons surrounding the median eminence and in the RCA, Arc, VMH, DMH, and PMV. However, in brainstem sites, very little OBRb mRNA was found; thus, there were very few double-labeled cells. These results suggest that leptin stimulates brain pathways containing neuropeptides that are involved in the regulation of energy balance, autonomic homeostasis, and neuroendocrine status.
In the pteropod mollusc Clione limacina, two groups of locomotor motoneurons, located in the pedal ganglion, innervate the dorsal and ventral muscle layers of the ipsilateral wing through the wing nerve. Separate branches of this nerve go either only to the dorsal muscle layer or only to the ventral one. In the present study, growth of novel neurites of the wing motoneurons was induced by cutting the wing nerve. In addition, all other peripheral nerves and connectives of the pedal ganglion were cut, except for the pedal commissure to the contralateral pedal ganglion. Thus, the neurites were allowed to grow only towards the contralateral pedal ganglion. We have found that the novel neurites, entering the contralateral pedal ganglion, were capable of growing everywhere inside the central nervous system (CNS) and into any peripheral nerve. However, they preferred the wing nerve. This finding suggests that the preference is caused by the guiding cues in the wing nerve or the attractive influence of the wing muscles. Because the contralateral pedal ganglion and nerves were left intact, the growth direction of the new neurites could be determined only by factors permanently existing in the CNS, rather than induced by nerve injury or muscle denervation. Within the wing nerve, the neurites could not discriminate between the nerve branches going to the dorsal and ventral muscle layers. They formed synapses on muscles of both layers, despite the fact that the muscles were innervated by their own motoneurons.
Increasing evidences show a global immune disregulation in multiple sclerosis (MS). The possible involvement of myelin and non-myelin (auto-)antigens in the autoaggressive process as well as the disregulation of both adaptive and innate immunity challenge the concept of specific immunotherapy. T cells at the boundary between innate and adaptive immunity, whose immunoregulatory role is becoming increasingly clear, have recently been shown to bear relevance for MS pathogenesis. Global immune interventions (and type I interferons may be considered as such) aimed at interfering with both innate and acquired immune responses seem to be a most promising therapeutic option in MS.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by the expansion of a polymorphic (CAG)(n) tract, which is translated into an expanded polyglutamine tract in the ataxin-2 protein. Although repeat length and age at disease onset are inversely related, approximately 50% of the age at onset variance in SCA2 remains unexplained. Other familial factors have been proposed to account for at least part of this remaining variance in the polyglutamine dis-orders. The ability of polyglutamine tracts to interact with each other, as well as the presence of intra-nuclear inclusions in other polyglutamine disorders, led us to hypothesize that other CAG-containing proteins may interact with expanded ataxin-2 and affect the rate of protein accumulation, and thus influence age at onset. To test this hypothesis, we used step-wise multiple linear regression to examine 10 CAG-containing genes for possible influences on SCA2 age at onset. One locus, RAI1, contributed an additional 4.1% of the variance in SCA2 age at onset after accounting for the effect of the SCA2 expanded repeat. This locus was further studied in SCA3/Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), but did not have an effect on SCA3/MJD age at onset. This result implicates RAI1 as a possible contributor to SCA2 neurodegeneration and raises the possibility that other CAG-containing proteins may play a role in the pathogenesis of other polyglutamine disorders.
Recently, it was shown that conversion of cdk5 activator protein p35 to a C-terminal fragment p25 promotes a deregulation of cdk5 activity, which may contribute to neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we present evidence that calpain is a protease involved in the conversion of p35 to p25. To activate calpain, rat cerebellar granule neurons were treated with maitotoxin (MTX). A C-terminus-directed anti-p35 antibody detected that p35 conversion to p25 paralleled the formation of calpain-generated alpha-spectrin (alpha-fodrin) breakdown products (SBDP's) in a maitotoxin-dose-dependent manner. Two calpain inhibitors (MDl28170 and SJA6017) reduced p35 processing but were unchanged when exposed to the caspase inhibitor carbobenzoxy-Asp-CH(2)OC(=O)-2, 6-dichlorobenzene or the proteasome inhibitors (lactacystin and Z-Ile-Glu(OtBu)Ala-Leu-CHO). p35 protein was also degraded to p25 when rat brain lysate was subjected to in vitro digestion with purified mu- and m-calpains. Additionally, in a rat temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion model, p35 processing to p25 again paralleled SBDP formation in the ischemic core. Lastly, in malonate-injured rat brains, the ipsilateral side showed a striking correlation of SBDP formation with p35 to p25 conversion and tau phosphorylation (at Ser202 and Thr205) increase. These data suggest that calpain is a major neuronal protease capable of converting p35 to p25 and might play a pathological role of activating cdk5 and its phosphorylation of tau in Alzheimer's disease.
The phenomenon of sensitization has been implicated in various aspects of drug addiction. As such, the present study determined the effects of a potential anti-addictive agent, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC; 40 mg/kg, IP, 19 h earlier), on the expression of sensitization following the repeated administration of cocaine (COC; five once daily injections of 15 mg/kg, IP) or saline. The effects of 18-MC on COC metabolism were also assessed. Compared to vehicle controls, 18-MC significantly enhanced the expression of COC-induced locomotion (0, 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, IP) in chronic COC treated rats only. In both acute and chronic COC rats, 18-MC potentiated the stereotypy induced by higher COC doses (20 and 40 mg/kg, IP). In contrast, 18-MC abolished the sensitized dopamine (DA) response in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) to COC (20 mg/kg), without altering the DA response of acute COC rats. None of the interactions between 18-MC and COC appear to be related to alterations in COC metabolism as no effect of 18-MC pretreatment was observed on extracellular levels of COC or two of its metabolites, benzoylecogonine and norcocaine. From the present findings, it is concluded that the enhancement of COC-induced behaviour produced by 18-MC pretreatment is independent of effects on either COC pharmacokinetics or COC-induced alterations in DA transmission. However, given that 18-MC decreases the self-administration of COC in laboratory animals, it is proposed that the anti-addictive efficacy of 18-MC might be related to an ability to selectively block the expression of sensitized extracellular levels of DA in the NAC in rats with previous COC experience.
We have previously reported that the specific group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist LY379268 inhibited phencyclidine (PCP)-induced motor activations in rats, but had mixed effects on behaviors produced by amphetamine. Here, LY379268 (1 mg/kg subcutaneous (s.c.)) attenuated amphetamine-induced ambulations and rearing but did not alter amphetamine-evoked fine motor movements. Consistent with a mechanism involving mGlu(2/3) receptors, the inhibitory actions of LY379268 on ambulations and rearing were reversed by LY341495, a mGlu(2/3) receptor antagonist. These data further suggest antipsychotic actions of mGlu(2/3) receptor agonists with a low propensity for extra-pyramidal side effects.
The present study characterized the behavioral effects of the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, atipamezole, in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. Atipamezole (1 mg/kg, s.c.) or desipramine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), a noradrenaline reuptake blocker, was administered either as a single injection 2 days after ischemia induction or for 10 days thereafter (subacute administration). A subacute atipamezole treatment given 30 min before behavioral assessment improved performance in the limb-placing test (days 5, 7, 9, and 11) and in the foot-slip test (days 3 and 7), but not in the beam-walking test. There was no difference between experimental groups in behavioral performance following a single administration of atipamezole or following single or subacute administration of desipramine. The drug treatments did not attenuate the impairment of spatial cognitive performance of ischemic rats in the Morris water-maze test. These results suggest that repeated use-dependent release of noradrenaline by atipamezole facilitates the sensorimotor recovery following focal cerebral ischemia in rats.
A mathematical model which allows the calculation of the level of neurofilament protein in the cell body (x) and in the neurites (y) of differentiating SK-N-SH cells is presented. The model considers the changes in cell number (proliferating cells) and the number of cells with neurites (differentiating cells). It takes into account the fact that (i) when cells are cultured in differentiating conditions, an increase in cell number is initially observed and (ii) in a non-synchronized population of differentiating cells, the length of neurite extended by individual cells varies within the population. Total neurofilament protein levels in a population of cells were measured by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbant assay and application of the model to the data allowed values for x and y to be calculated. The validity of the model is supported by the fact that the predicted total neurofilament protein levels are highly correlated with the experimentally derived neurofilament protein levels. The model should be of use in temporal studies of cytoskeletal proteins involved in neuronal growth/differentiation and also in studies in which the system is a target of toxic insult.
The aim of this study was to determine whether Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide at the doses of 25, 50 and 100 microM influences arginine-vasopressin (AVP) secretion in young rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) neurons. Lipopolysaccharide administered in the medium for 3 h increased significantly the arginine-vasopressin release lasting up to 6 h after treatment. These results provide the first evidence that lipopolysaccharide influences AVP secretion in SCN neurons. Moreover, these findings may explain some central effects observed in vivo after lipopolysaccharide administration.
Because apolipoprotein E (ApoE) deficient mice have cognitive deficits (Neurosci. Lett., 199 (1995) 1-4; Neuroscience, 92 (1999) 1273-1286; Brain Res., 752 (1997) 189-196) that may involve decreased phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) activity (Neuroscience, 92 (1999) 1273-1286), striatal, hippocampal, and parieto-temporal PLA(2) activity was measured in cytosol from 3 and 20-month-old ApoE deficient and control mice. Samples were homogenized and cytosol prepared by ultracentrifugation. PLA(2) activity in each cytosolic fraction was measured in triplicate using a continuous fluorometric assay (J. Neurosci. Methods (2000) in press). In 3-month-old animals, there was a trend for decreased hippocampal PLA(2) activity between groups. In 20-month-old animals, hippocampal PLA(2) activity was significantly (P=0.0304) decreased nearly 20% in ApoE deficient mice as compared to age-matched control mice. No differences were found in other brain regions, although activity in the striatal samples were nearly 65% less than in the other two regions.
Sodium azide has been reported in the literature to reduce the release of secreted amyloid beta-precursor protein (AbetaPPs) and to produce a large increase in the cellular level of an 11.5 kDa C-terminal AbetaPP derivative containing the beta-amyloid (Abeta) sequence. Here we report that 1 mM of sodium azide, reduced the constitutive AbetaPPs secretion from cultured embryonic chick neurons after 12 h of incubation. After 24 h of incubation there was a modest increase in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and no change in MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) reduction, suggesting that the reduced AbetaPPs secretion was not due to the cell toxic effects of NaN(3). However, NaN(3) reduced the accumulation of Abeta(1-40) in the cell lysates and decreased the acetylcholine esterase activity both in cell culture media and in cell lysates. It is concluded that the effect of NaN(3) upon AbetaPP metabolism in the chick cultured neurons may be a rather non-specific effect.
We investigated whether the medullary cerebrovasodilator area (MCVA), a region of ventral medulla mediating elevations of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and electroencephalogram (EEG) synchronization elicited in cerebral cortex from stimulation of reticulospinal neurons of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), also mediates comparable responses from the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN). In spinalized rats, electrical stimulation of MCVA, RVLM or FN elevated rCBF and synchronized the EEG. The FN-evoked responses were significantly attenuated or blocked by bilateral lesions of MCVA. The MCVA is a novel region of medullary reticular formation mediating actions of medullary and cerebellar centers on rCBF and EEG to link visceral centers of brainstem and cerebral cortex.
Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) JHMV and its soluble receptor-resistant (srr) mutants, srr7, srr11, and srr18, grew and induced syncytia equally well in BHK-R1 cells expressing the MHVR1 receptor derived from MHV-susceptible BALB/c mice. In contrast, srr growth and syncytia formations were drastically reduced relative to wild-type (wt) virus in BHK-R2 cells expressing the MHVR2 receptor from MHV-resistant SJL mice. Infections by these srr mutants in BHK-R2 cells were 0.7 to 1.5 log10 less efficient than those of wt virus. BHK cells expressing both MHVR1 and MHVR2 supported srr replication to the same extent as did BHK-R1 cells, suggesting that inefficient infection by srr mutants in BHK-R2 cells resulted from the absence of the effective receptor MHVR1. Virus-receptor binding tests failed to demonstrate a difference between the abilities of wt and srr18 to bind MHVR2. The binding of srr7 and srr11 to both MHVR1 and MHVR2 was revealed lower by two- to fourfold relative to the wt binding. The fusion activity of srr S proteins as examined by the expression with recombinant vaccinia virus was apparently lower than that of the wt S protein in BHK-R2 cells, while there was not such a remarkable difference in BHK-R1 cells. This suggests that the most likely reason for inefficient infection by mutants in BHK-R2 is impaired virus entry into cells. These observations suggest that inefficient infections in BHK-R2 cells by srr mutants occur in the absence of a functional receptor MHVR1, which plays an important role in srr entry into cells.
Neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS) is dynamically regulated in response to a variety of physiologic and pathologic stimuli. Although the dynamic regulation of nNOS is well established, the molecular mechanisms by which such diverse stimuli regulate nNOS expression have not yet been identified. We describe experiments demonstrating that Ca(2+) entry through voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels regulates nNOS expression through alternate promoter usage in cortical neurons and that nNOS exon 2 contains the regulatory sequences that respond to Ca(2+). Deletion and mutational analysis of the nNOS exon 2 promoter reveals two critical cAMP/Ca(2+) response elements (CREs) that are immediately upstream of the transcription start site. CREB binds to the CREs within the nNOS gene. Mutation of the nNOS CREs as well as blockade of CREB function results in a dramatic loss of nNOS transcription. These findings suggest that nNOS is a Ca(2+)-regulated gene through the interactions of CREB on the CREs within the nNOS exon 2 promoter and that these interactions are likely to be centrally involved in the regulation of nNOS in response to neuronal injury and activity-dependent plasticity.
Most cases of autosomal-dominant familial Alzheimer's disease are linked to mutations in the presenilin genes (PS1 and PS2). In addition to modulating beta-amyloid production, presenilin mutations also produce highly specific and selective alterations in intracellular calcium signaling. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are not known, one candidate molecular mediator is calsenilin, a recently identified calcium-binding protein that associates with the C terminus of both PS1 and PS2. In this study, we investigated the effects of calsenilin on calcium signaling in Xenopus oocytes expressing either wild-type or mutant PS1. In this system, mutant PS1 potentiated the amplitude of calcium signals evoked by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and also accelerated their rates of decay. We report that calsenilin coexpression reverses both of these potentially pathogenic effects. Notably, expression of calsenilin alone had no discernable effects on calcium signaling, suggesting that calsenilin modulates these signals by a mechanism independent of simple calcium buffering. Our findings further suggest that the effects of presenilin mutations on calcium signaling are likely mediated through the C-terminal domain, a region that has also been implicated in the modulation of beta-amyloid production and cell death.
Diffusion of molecules in brain extracellular space is constrained by two macroscopic parameters, tortuosity factor lambda and volume fraction alpha. Recent studies in brain slices show that when osmolarity is reduced, lambda increases while alpha decreases. In contrast, with increased osmolarity, alpha increases, but lambda attains a plateau. Using homogenization theory and a variety of lattice models, we found that the plateau behavior of lambda can be explained if the shape of brain cells changes nonuniformly during the shrinking or swelling induced by osmotic challenge. The nonuniform cellular shrinkage creates residual extracellular space that temporarily traps diffusing molecules, thus impeding the macroscopic diffusion. The paper also discusses the definition of tortuosity and its independence of the measurement frame of reference.
Inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs), including neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP), inhibit cell death. Other IAPs inhibit key caspase proteases which effect cell death, but the mechanism by which NAIP acts is unknown. Here we report that NAIP, through its third baculovirus inhibitory repeat domain (BIR3), binds the neuron-restricted calcium-binding protein, hippocalcin, in an interaction promoted by calcium. In neuronal cell lines NSC-34 and Neuro-2a, over-expression of the BIR domains of NAIP (NAIP-BIR1-3) counteracted the calcium-induced cell death induced by ionomycin and thapsigargin. This protective capacity was significantly enhanced when NAIP-BIR1-3 was co-expressed with hippocalcin. Over-expression of the BIR3 domain or hippocalcin alone did not substantially enhance cell survival, but co-expression greatly increased their protective effects. These data suggest synergy between NAIP and hippocalcin in facilitating neuronal survival against calcium-induced death stimuli mediated through the BIR3 domain. Analysis of caspase activity after thapsigargin treatment revealed that caspase-3 is activated in NSC-34, but not Neuro-2a, cells. Thus NAIP, in conjunction with hippocalcin, can protect neurons against calcium-induced cell death in caspase-3-activated and non-activated pathways.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is expressed in a special type of glial cell, the olfactory ensheathing cells, that surround the axons of olfactory sensory neurons on their way from the olfactory epithelium to the glomeruli in the olfactory bulb. The expression of NPY in ensheathing cells was examined during prenatal development of the olfactory system by using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. NPY expression was compared with the expression of growth associated protein-43, olfactory marker protein, the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75) and S-100, factors expressed in the olfactory system at known stages of development. NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) and NPY mRNA expression was first detected in the olfactory nerve layer of the olfactory bulb at embryonic day 15. From embryonic day 16 and onward, a clear segregation could be observed in the intensity of both NPY-LI and NPY mRNA expression within the olfactory nerve layer. NPY expression was most intense in the inner part of the olfactory nerve layer. In the outer olfactory nerve layer, a clear decrease in NPY expression was observed. The inner olfactory nerve layer, showing high NPY expression, did not stain for S-100 or p75. However, NPY-LI was found to coexist with S-100-LI from the outer olfactory nerve layer until the olfactory epithelium and with p75-LI in cells surrounding the olfactory nerve. These results show that NPY is expressed in ensheathing cells before olfactory sensory neurons mature and the formation of the glomerular layer starts. NPY might be involved in the guidance, growth, or both, of olfactory sensory axons toward their target glomeruli in the olfactory bulb or have a function in the maturation of the olfactory sensory neurons.
A method was developed for mass spectrometric detection of neurotensin (NT)-like immunoreactivity and quantification of NT in human brain tissue. The method is based on immunoprecipitation followed by analysis using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS). The identity of the major component of the immunoprecipitates as neurotensin was confirmed by fragment ion analysis on an electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight instrument. MALDI-TOF-MS quantification of NT was achieved using stable-isotope-labeled NT as the internal standard, yielding an error of less than 5%. The method allowed detection of low-femtomole amounts of NT, staring from low-milligram amounts of lyophilized brain tissue. In addition to NT, several other peptides were detected in the purified samples, most of which, according to their molecular masses, corresponded to fragments of NT. The method is demonstrated with quantification of NT from human hypothalamus tissue, and a comparison is made with results obtained from competitive radioimmunoassay.
A simple, inexpensive, and reproducible procedure is described for large-scale synthesis of highly stable nanocrystalline ZnS powders. Cysteine-capped ZnS nanocrystals (NCs) were produced by a colloidal aqueous synthesis, employing a ligand-competition mechanism in which sulfide was introduced into a preformed zinc-cysteine solution. The synthesis procedure resulted in highly concentrated ZnS NC solutions ( approximately 100 mM) which could be ethanol-precipitated, redissolved, and dried to produce fine powders stable for more than 30 months at 4 degrees C. The NC powders were readily dissolved in aqueous solvents to concentrations as high as 300 mM. ZnS NCs could be prepared without cysteine capping, but only at extremely dilute concentrations ( approximately 0.2 mM ZnSO(4)) as per Sooklal et al. J. Phys. Chem. 100, 4551 (1996). The 30-month-old ZnS NC powders retained their original optical and photocatalytic properties and could be handled much like routine shelf chemicals, unaffected by ambient air or moderate moisture and temperature. UV/vis absorption spectroscopy showed band gap energies (E(g)) ranging from 4.82 eV (257 nm lambda(max)) to 4.47 eV (277 nm lambda(max)) for ZnS samples prepared with 0.25-2.0 initial sulfide ratios (as compared to zinc). Samples stored at 4 degrees C for 30 months showed equivalent band gap energies and spectral profiles. The average NC particle size was estimated to be 6.08+/-0.76 nm by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. Selected-area electron diffraction and X-ray diffraction analyses concurred in suggesting a hexagonal crystal structure, with diffractions near d=3.1, 1.9, and 1.6 . The average NC composition of size-fractionated samples was estimated to be Cys(1)Zn(7)S(6). p-Nitrophenol, a model organic, was photocatalytically degraded using 30-month-old ZnS NC powders dissolved in an aqueous buffer. Rates of degradation (first-order rate constant k=0.261 min(-1); t(1/2)=2.66 min) were comparable to those of experiments using freshly prepared ZnS NCs (first-order rate constant k=0.247 min(-1); t(1/2)=2.80 min), further demonstrating the long-term stability of thus-produced NC powders. Copyright 2000 Academic Press.
Cellular properties of CA1 neurons were studied in hippocampal slices 24 hr after acquisition of trace eyeblink conditioning in young adult and aging rabbits. Aging rabbits required significantly more trials than young rabbits to reach a behavioral criterion of 60% conditioned responses in an 80 trial session. Intracellular recordings revealed that CA1 neurons from aging control rabbits had significantly larger, longer lasting postburst afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) and greater spike frequency adaptation (accommodation) relative to those from young adult control rabbits. After learning, both young and aging CA1 neurons exhibited increased postsynaptic excitability compared with their respective age-matched control rabbits (naive and rabbits that failed to learn). Thus, after learning, CA1 neurons from both age groups had reduced postburst AHPs and reduced accommodation. No learning-related differences were seen in resting membrane potential, membrane time constant, neuron input resistance, or action potential characteristics. Furthermore, comparisons between CA1 neurons from trace-conditioned aging and trace-conditioned young adult rabbits revealed no statistically significant differences in postburst AHPs or accommodation, indicating that similar levels of postsynaptic excitability were attained during successful acquisition of trace eyeblink conditioning, regardless of rabbit age. These data represent the first in vitro demonstration of learning-related excitability changes in aging rabbit CA1 neurons and provide additional evidence for involvement of changes in postsynaptic excitability of CA1 neurons in both aging and learning.
Experimental and computational techniques have been used to investigate the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated increase in the frequency of spinal cord network activity underlying locomotion in the lamprey. Group I mGluR activation potentiated the amplitude of NMDA-induced currents in identified motoneurons and crossed caudally projecting network interneurons. Group I mGluRs also potentiated NMDA-induced calcium responses. This effect was blocked by a group I mGluR-specific antagonist, but not by blockers of protein kinase A, C, or G. The effect of group I mGluRs activation was also tested on NMDA-induced oscillations known to occur during fictive locomotion. Activation of these receptors increased the duration of the plateau phase and decreased the duration of the hyperpolarizing phase. These effects were blocked by a group I mGluR antagonist. To determine its role in the modulation of NMDA-induced oscillations and the locomotor burst frequency, the potentiation of NMDA receptors by mGluRs was simulated using computational techniques. Simulating the interaction between these receptors reproduced the modulation of the plateau and hyperpolarized phases of NMDA-induced oscillations, and the increase in the frequency of the locomotor rhythm. Our results thus show a postsynaptic interaction between group I mGluRs and NMDA receptors in lamprey spinal cord neurons, which can account for the regulation of the locomotor network output by mGluRs.
GABA transmission in the deep layers of the superior colliculus/deep mesencephalic reticular formation (deep SC/Me) mediates several motor responses, including those expressed after systemic administration of dopamine agonists. In the present study we examined the role of the deep SC/Me in the modulation of the acoustic startle reflex and its enhancement by the dopamine D(1) agonist SKF 82958. Rats were implanted with bilateral cannulas into the deep SC/Me or superficial layers of the SC (super SC) and 1 week later were infused with various compounds. The GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline (0, 5, and 10 ng) produced a dose- and time-dependent enhancement of startle after infusion into the deep SC/Me, but not the super SC. Infusion of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (0.1 microg) into the deep SC/Me, but not the super SC, blocked the enhancement of startle by systemic SKF 82958 (1 mg/kg) but had no effect on baseline startle by itself. This effect was not produced by infusion of the D(1) antagonist SCH 23390(1 microg) or the glutamate antagonist NBQX (0.1 microg). Deposits of FluoroGold into the deep SC/Me, combined with immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), confirmed a direct GABAergic input from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) to the deep SC/Me. These results suggest that GABA tone in the deep SC/Me modulates the expression of startle as well as the enhancement of startle by dopamine D(1) agonists. On the basis of these data and previous work, we have proposed a striatonigral-tectal-reticular neural pathway mediating the effects of dopamine D(1) agonists on startle.
Lurcher is a gain-of-function mutation in the delta2 glutamate receptor gene (Grid2) that turns the receptor into a leaky ion channel. The expression of the Lurcher gene in heterozygous (Grid2(Lc/+)) mutants induces the death of almost all Purkinje cells starting from the second postnatal week. Ninety percent of the granule cells and 60-75% of the inferior olivary neurons die because of the loss of their target neurons, the Purkinje cells. The apoptotic nature of the neurodegeneration has been demonstrated previously by the presence of activated caspase-3 and DNA fragmentation. Bax, a pro-apoptotic gene of the Bcl-2 family, has been shown to be involved in developmental neuronal death. To study the role of Bax in Grid2(Lc/+) neurodegeneration, double mutants with Grid2(Lc/)+ mice and Bax knock-out mice (Bax-/-) were generated. Bax deletion had no effect on the death of Purkinje cells and inferior olivary neurons, although a temporary rescue of some Purkinje cells could be detected in P15 Grid2(Lc/)+;Bax-/- animals. From postnatal day 15 (P15) to P60, the number of granule cells in Grid2(Lc/)+;Bax-/-mice did not significantly change and was significantly increased compared with the number found in Grid2(Lc/)+;Bax+/+ mice. Granule cell number in P60 Grid2(Lc/)+;Bax-/- mice corresponded to 70% of the number found in wild-type mice. Our results show that Bax inactivation in Grid2(Lc/+) mice does not rescue intrinsic Purkinje cell death or the target-related cell death of olivary neurons, but Bax inactivation does inhibit persistently target-related cell death in cerebellar granule cells.
The shape of dendritic trees and the density of dendritic spines can undergo significant changes during the life of a neuron. We report here the function of the small GTPases Rac and Rho in the maintenance of dendritic structures. Maturing pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slice culture were biolistically transfected with dominant GTPase mutants. We found that expression of dominant-negative Rac1 results in a progressive elimination of dendritic spines, whereas hyperactivation of RhoA causes a drastic simplification of dendritic branch patterns that is dependent on the activity of a downstream kinase ROCK. Our results suggest that Rac and Rho play distinct functions in regulating dendritic spines and branches and are vital for the maintenance and reorganization of dendritic structures in maturing neurons.
Protein aggregates containing intermediate filaments (IFs) are a hallmark of degenerating spinal motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Recently, we reported that a deficiency in neurofilament light subunit (NF-L), a phenomenon associated with ALS, promoted the formation of IF inclusions with ensuing motor neuron death in transgenic mice overproducing peripherin, a type III IF protein detected in axonal inclusions of ALS patients. To further assess the role of NF-L in the formation of abnormal IF inclusions, we generated transgenic mice overexpressing human neurofilament heavy subunits (hNF-H) in a context of targeted disruption of the NF-L gene (hH;L-/- mice). The hH;L-/- mice exhibited motor dysfunction, and they developed nonfilamentous protein aggregates containing NF-H and peripherin proteins in the perikarya of spinal motor neurons. However, the perikaryal protein aggregates in the hH;L-/- mice did not provoke motor neuron death, unlike toxic IF inclusions induced by peripherin overexpression in NF-L null mice (Per;L-/- mice). Our results indicate that different types of IF protein aggregates with distinct properties may occur in a context of NF-L deficiency and that an axonal localization of such aggregates may be an important factor of toxicity.
In human astrocytes, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a potent inducer of genes associated with inflammation. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that in primary cultures of human fetal astrocytes signaling by the P2 purinergic nucleotide receptor pathway contributes to, or modulates, cytokine-mediated signal transduction. Calcium imaging studies indicated that most cells in culture responded to ATP, whereas only a subpopulation responded to UTP. Pretreatment of astrocytes with P2 receptor antagonists, including suramin and periodate oxidized ATP (oATP), resulted in a significant downregulation of IL-1beta-stimulated expression of nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor (TNFalpha), and IL-6 at both the protein and mRNA levels, without affecting cell viability. In cells transiently transfected with reporter constructs, IL-1beta demonstrated more potent activation of the transcription factors nuclear factor -kappaB (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) than TNFalpha. However, pretreatment with oATP downregulated activation of NF-kappaB and AP-1 by IL-1beta or TNFalpha. Electromobility shift assays using oligonucleotides containing specific NF-kappaB binding sequences confirmed that pretreatment with oATP or apyrase attenuated cytokine-mediated induction of this transcription factor. From these data, we conclude that P2 receptor-mediated signaling intersects with that of IL-1beta and TNFalpha to regulate responses to cytokines in the CNS. Because inflammation, trauma, and stress all lead to the release of high levels of extracellular nucleotides, such as ATP and UTP, signaling via P2 receptors may provide a mechanism whereby cells can sense and respond to events occurring in the extracellular environment and can fine tune the transcription of genes involved in the inflammatory response.
Double (plp-/-mag-/-) and triple (plp-/-mbp-/-mag-/-) null-allelic mouse lines deficient in proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), and myelin basic protein (MBP) were generated and characterized genetically, biochemically, and morphologically including their behavioral capacities. The plp-/-mag-/- mutant develops a rapidly progressing axon degeneration in CNS with severe cognitive and motor coordinative deficits but has a normal longevity. CNS axons of the plp-/-mbp-/-mag-/- mouse are hypomyelinated and ensheathed by &quot;pseudomyelin&quot; with disturbed protein and complex lipid composition. The shiverer trait in the plp-/-mbp-/-mag-/- similar to the plp-/-mbp-/- mutant is significantly ameliorated, and its lifespan is considerably prolonged. The longevity of these dysmyelinosis mouse mutants recommends them as suitable models for the long-term evaluation of stem cell therapeutic strategies.
An acute trauma to the CNS rapidly results in the upregulation of inflammatory cytokines that include interleukin-1 (IL-1). We report here that the levels of several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are also elevated following a corticectomy trauma injury to the mouse CNS. The delayed upregulation of MMPs compared to that for IL-1 suggests the possibility that inflammatory cytokines regulate MMP production in CNS trauma. To resolve this, we developed a method to isolate and maintain highly enriched human fetal neurons or astrocytes in culture and examined the regulation by cytokines of the activity of a subgroup of MMPs, the gelatinases (MMP-2 and -9). While both neuronal and astrocytic cultures displayed comparable MMP-2 activity, as evidenced by gelatin zymography, levels of MMP-9 were proportionately higher in neurons compared to astrocytes. Of a variety of cytokines and growth factors tested in vitro, only IL-1beta was effective in increasing the neuronal expression of MMP-9. Finally, an IL-1 receptor antagonist attenuated the increase of neuronal MMP-9 in culture and abolished the injury-induced increase of MMP-9 in the mouse brain. These results implicate IL-1beta as a key regulator of neuronal MMP-9 in culture and of the elevation of MMP-9 that occurs following mouse CNS trauma.
Spodoptera frugiperda insect cells (Sf-9 cells) were used to study GABA(A) receptor assembly. Time courses of the expression level of alpha1beta2 and alpha1beta2gamma2 receptor protein showed [(3)H]muscimol binding to appear 2 hr before [(3)H]flunitrazepam and [(35)S]TBPS binding. This indicates that muscimol may bind to pentamers with an immature conformation or to molecules smaller than the pentamer. Binding studies performed on fractions from sucrose gradients loaded with solubilized alpha1beta2 or alpha1beta2gamma2 containing membranes revealed no binding other than to the pentameric fractions. Western blotting on fractionated sucrose gradients, however, clearly revealed the existence of GABA(A) receptor intermediates. The alpha1 subunit was seen in fractions corresponding to molecules smaller than the pentamer only when co-expressed with gamma2, indicating that the gamma2 subunit is needed for the alpha1 to form relatively long lasting intermediates. Moreover, Western blots revealed multiple isoforms for each subunit. In general, it was primarily the lower molecular weight forms that were detected in the pentameric fractions. The exception being for the alpha1 and gamma2 forms in subunit combinations that did not contain both of these subunits (i.e., alpha1, gamma2, alpha1beta2, beta2gamma2), where higher molecular weight forms were strongly represented. These findings show that alpha1 and gamma2 prefer specific protein forms when expressed together.
1. The role of phosphorylation in synaptic transmission was investigated at a large glutamatergic terminal, the endbulb of Held, on bushy cells in the rat anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN). 2. Whole-cell recordings of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were used to examine the effects of kinase inhibitors and activators on low-frequency (baseline) evoked release, spontaneous release, paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) or depression (PPD), repetitive stimuli and recovery from depression. 3. Application of the kinase inhibitor H7 (100 microM) reduced low-frequency evoked EPSC amplitude (by 15 %) and simultaneously increased PPF (or reduced PPD), with no significant change in other aspects of transmission. H7 did not affect the amplitude or frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs. 4. Phorbol esters increased EPSC amplitude (by 50 %) with a concomitant decrease in PPF (or increase in PPD), and reduced the final EPSC amplitude during repetitive stimuli. The effect of phorbol esters was due exclusively to protein kinase C (PKC) activation, as the specific PKC inhibitor bis-indolylmaleimide (Bis) completely blocked the potentiating effect of phorbol esters on EPSC amplitude. 5. Significantly, phorbol esters did not increase the evoked EPSC amplitude at connections in which release was maximized using high extracellular calcium concentrations (4-6 mM). 6. Phorbol esters increased the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs in physiological calcium (by 275 %), and in high extracellular calcium (by 210 %) when phorbol esters did not increase the evoked EPSC amplitude. 7. Our results are most consistent with the actions of H7 to decrease low-frequency release probability and phorbol esters to increase low-frequency release probability at the endbulb-bushy cell synaptic connection in the AVCN. The effects of H7 and phorbol esters on paired-pulse responses and tetanic depression appear to be largely consequential to these changes in low-frequency release probability.
1. The contribution of low voltage-activated (LVA) T-type Ca2+ channels and four different types of high voltage-activated (HVA) Ca2+ channel to exocytosis, and the relationship between calcium influx and exocytosis during action potentials (APs) were studied in pituitary melanotropes. 2. Selective HVA Ca2+ channel blockers reduced exocytosis, monitored by membrane capacitance measurements, proportional to the reduction in Ca2+ influx. The efficacy of Ca2+ in stimulating exocytosis did not change in the presence of the Ca2+ channel blockers, indicating that all HVA Ca2+ channels act together in stimulating exocytosis. 3. The relationship between Ca2+ influx and exocytosis during the AP was examined using APs recorded from spontaneously active melanotropes as command templates under voltage clamp. Under voltage clamp, multiphasic Ca2+ currents were activated over the entire duration of the APs, i.e. during the rising phase as well as the plateau phase. The maximum amplitude of the Ca2+ current coincided with the peak of the AP. 4. The relationship between Ca2+ entry and exocytosis was linear for the different phases of the AP. Also, the influx of Ca2+ through LVA T-type channels stimulated exocytosis with the same efficacy as through the HVA channels. 5. APs of increasing duration ( approximately 50 to approximately 300 ms) evoked increasing amounts of exocytosis. The number of entering Ca2+ ions and the capacitance change were linearly related to AP duration, resulting in a fixed relationship between Ca2+ entry and exocytosis. 6. The results show that Ca2+ ions, entering a melanotrope, couple with equal strength to exocytosis regardless of the channel type involved. We suggest that the linear relationship between Ca2+ entry and secretion observed under physiological conditions (during APs), results from the equal strength with which LVA and HVA channels in melanotropes couple to exocytosis. This guarantees that secretion takes place over the entire duration of the AP.
The synapses of photoreceptors and bipolar cells in the retina are characterized ultrastructurally by the presence of an electron-dense bar, the synaptic ribbon, lying perpendicular to the plasma membrane at the active zone and extending about 0.5 microm into the cytoplasm. Hence, these synapses are known as ribbon synapses. All neurons that make ribbon synapses release neurotransmitter tonically. That is, neurotransmitter is released continuously from these neurons and the rate of release is modulated in response to graded changes in the membrane potential. This contrasts with action potential-driven, phasic release from other neurons. Similar to other synapses, neurotransmitter is released at ribbon synapses by the calcium-dependent exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. Most components of the molecular machinery governing transmitter release are conserved between ribbon and conventional synapses, but several differences that may be important determinants of tonic transmitter release have been identified in the retina by immunohistochemistry. For example, the presynaptic calcium channels of bipolar cells and photoreceptors are different from those elsewhere in the brain. Differences have also been found in the proteins involved in synaptic vesicle recruitment to the active zone and in synaptic vesicle fusion. These differences and others are discussed in terms of their implications for neurotransmitter release from photoreceptors and bipolar cells in the retina.
We previously reported that adult male rats with bilateral induced microgyria exhibit deficits in rapid auditory processing, which appear similar to auditory processing deficits seen in individuals with developmental language disabilities. The current study was designed to further elaborate that finding using an improved paradigm in which stimulus duration was uncoupled from testing experience and learning effects. Specifically, two-tone stimuli with durations of 540, 390, 332 and 249 ms were all presented within a single test session in a modified operant conditioning paradigm. Subjects were tested over a period of 12 days using this variable-stimulus format. Results confirmed microgyric male rats were impaired only in processing two-tone stimuli presented at rapid rates (i.e., 249 ms duration). Thus the current results support the previously observed link between focal malformations and deficits in rapid auditory processing.
As methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity has been proposed to involve oxidative stress, reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG, respectively), vitamin E and ascorbate were measured in the striata of rats killed 2 or 24 h after a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine. At 2 h, methamphetamine increased GSH and GSSG (32. 5% and 43.7%, respectively) compared to controls at 2 h. No difference was seen in glutathione at 24 h, and in vitamin E and ascorbate at either time point. These findings indicate selectivity of methamphetamine for the glutathione system and a role for methamphetamine in inducing oxidative stress.
CHP212 neuroblastoma cells were exposed to two different nitric oxide (NO) donors, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and sodium nitroprusside. Apoptosis and necrosis were determined with flow cytometric analysis of annexin V binding and propodium iodide uptake. Both S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and sodium nitroprusside induced apoptosis, but with a different time dependency. Oxyhemoglobin (NO scavenger) attenuated the toxicity of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, but had no effect on the toxicity of sodium nitroprusside. By contrast, deferoxamine (iron chelator) attenuated the toxicity of sodium nitroprusside, but had no effect on the toxicity of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine. Urate (ONOO(-) scavenger) did not influence the toxicity of either S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine or sodium nitroprusside, but protected from SIN-1 (3-morpholinosydnonimine, ONOO(-) donor). It was shown that both dithiothreitol and ascorbic acid affected the toxicity of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and sodium nitroprusside in opposite ways. In the presence of dithiothreitol, superoxide dismutase and catalase decreased the toxicity of sodium nitroprusside. In the presence of cells, but not in their absence, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine decomposed with a half-life of about 4 h as assessed by the production of nitrite and absorbance reduction at 335 nm. Sodium nitroprusside decomposed very slowly in the presence of cells as assessed by the production of ferrocyanide. It can be concluded that (1) slow and sustained release of NO from S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine at the cell surface causes apoptosis in CHP212 cells, probably without the involvement of ONOO(-), (2) sodium nitroprusside causes apoptosis by the production of H(2)O(2) and/or iron, rather than NO, and probably has to be taken up by the cell for decomposition.
The spider toxin omega-agatoxin IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA) is a potent inhibitor of high voltage-activated calcium currents in the mammalian brain. To establish the biochemical parameters governing its action, we radiolabeled the toxin and examined its binding to native and recombinant calcium channels. In experiments with purified rat synaptosomal membranes, both kinetic and equilibrium data demonstrate one-to-one binding of omega-Aga-IIIA to a single population of high affinity sites, with K(d) = approximately 9 pm and B(max) = approximately 1.4 pmol/mg protein. Partial inhibition of omega-Aga-IIIA binding by omega-conotoxins GVIA, MVIIA, and MVIIC identifies N and P/Q channels as components of this population. omega-Aga-IIIA binds to recombinant alpha(1B) and alpha(1E) calcium channels with a similar high affinity (K(d) = approximately 5-9 pm) in apparent one-to-one fashion. Results from recombinant alpha(1B) binding experiments demonstrate virtually identical B(max) values for omega-Aga-IIIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIA, providing further evidence for a one-to-one stoichiometry of agatoxin binding to calcium channels. The combined evidence suggests that omega-Aga-IIIA defines a unique, high affinity binding site on N-, P/Q-, and R-type calcium channels.
Barx1 and Barx2 are homeodomain proteins originally identified using regulatory elements of genes encoding certain cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). In the present study, we characterize regions of Barx2 that bind to regulatory elements of genes encoding three CAMs, L1, neuron-glia CAM (Ng-CAM), and neural CAM (N-CAM), and identify domains of Barx2 that regulate N-CAM transcription. The homeodomain of Barx2 was sufficient for binding to homeodomain binding sites (HBS) from all three CAM genes. The presence of a 17-amino acid Barx basic region resulted in a 2-fold decrease in binding to HBS sequences from the Ng-CAM and L1 genes, whereas it led to a 6.5-fold increase in binding to the HBS from the N-CAM promoter. Thus, the Barx basic region influences the strength and specificity of Barx2 binding to DNA. In co-transfection experiments, Barx2 repressed N-CAM promoter activity. A 24-residue N-terminal region of Barx2 was essential for repression. When this region was absent, Barx2 activated the N-CAM promoter. A 63-residue C-terminal domain was required for this activation. In GST pull-down experiments, Barx2 bound to proteins of the CREB family, CREB1 and ATF2. Overall, these findings provide a framework for understanding developmental and physiological contexts that influence repressor or activator functions of Barx2.
Beta-amyloid (A beta) accumulation is believed to contribute to neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease. To understand the role of cAMP in the regulation of A beta induced cell death, we used 8-chlorophenylthio-cAMP (8-CPT-cAMP, a cAMP analog) to raise intracellular cAMP levels. Exposure of rat cortical neurons to A beta(25-35) resulted in a gradual increase in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) over 48 h, which was preceded by a transient elevation in caspase-3-like activity. In the presence of 8CPT-cAMP, both caspase-3 activity and LDH release was significantly reduced. These data suggest that elevation of intracellular cAMP levels attenuate A beta-induced neurotoxicity and may delay or prevent the onset of A beta-induced neurodegeneration.
Recent evidence suggests that the activation of the Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signal transduction pathway may be important in neuronal responses to stresses such as trophic factor deprivation. Preventing the activation of JNK and expression of c-Jun may, therefore, be neuroprotective. Here, we report that the small molecule CEP-1347, which has been shown to inhibit the JNK signalling pathway, promotes cholinergic activity in cultured embryonic septal neurones. In vivo, we have shown that CEP-1347, administered either by sub-cutaneous (s.c.) injection or by continuous infusion, is partially neuroprotective, for cholinergic neurones in the medial septum, following fimbria-fornix transection. These data suggest that small molecules such as CEP-1347 may have beneficial effects in treating neurodegenerative diseases.
Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of neuronal degenerative diseases. Oxidative stress has been shown to activate extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK)1/2. We investigated the role of these mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in oxidative neuronal injury by using a mouse hippocampal cell line (HT22) and rat primary cortical cultures. Here, we show that a novel MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) specific inhibitor U0126 profoundly protected HT22 cells against oxidative stress induced by glutamate, which was accompanied by an inhibition of phosphorylation of ERK1/2. U0126 also protected rat primary cultured cortical neurons against glutamate or hypoxia. However, U0126 was not protective against death caused by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), A23187, or staurosporine. These results indicate that MEK plays a central role in the neuronal death caused by oxidative stress.
We examined whether signals from the neuroma or the dorsal root ganglion of the injured segment are critical for the generation of neuropathic pain. To this aim, we used a rat model of peripheral neuropathy made by transecting the inferior and superior caudal trunks at the level between the S1 and S2 spinal nerves under enflurane anesthesia. These animals displayed tail-withdrawal responses to normally innocuous mechanical stimulation applied to the tail with a von Frey hair (2 g). Also, these animals, compared to pre-surgical value, displayed shorter tail-withdrawal latencies following immersion of the tail to warm (40 degrees C) or cold (4 degrees C) water. Transection of the S1 spinal nerve between the dorsal root ganglion and neuroma did not change the behavioral signs of neuropathic pain. In contrast, S1 dorsal rhizotomy significantly reduced the behavioral signs. The data suggest that signals arising from the dorsal root ganglion cells of the injured segment, but not from the neuroma, are critical for the generation of neuropathic pain in this model.
An association between monoamino oxidase B enzyme (MAO-B) sites and I(2)-imidazoline receptors (I(2)-IR) has been established in human brain on the basis of correlational studies of radiolabelled binding sites. Because both MAO-B and I(2)-IR densities increase with aging, the age at death could be partially involved in the observed correlations. The evaluation of two independent but similar datasets demonstrated that the linear correlation between MAO-B and I(2)-IR densities dropped from 0.70 (P=0.02) and 0.41 (P=0.14) in the crude analyses to the negligible values of 0.07 (P=0.84) and 0.09 (P=0.75) when the age at death was controlled for in the statistical analyses. The results lead to conclude, contrary to former interpretations, that there is not any statistical association linking both MAO-B catalytic unit sites and I(2)-IR densities in the human brain.

Neurofilaments are transported through axons by slow axonal transport. Abnormal accumulations of neurofilaments are seen in several neurodegenerative diseases, and this suggests that neurofilament transport is defective. Excitotoxic mechanisms involving glutamate are believed to be part of the pathogenic process in some neurodegenerative diseases, but there is currently little evidence to link glutamate with neurofilament transport. We have used a novel technique involving transfection of the green fluorescent protein-tagged neurofilament middle chain to measure neurofilament transport in cultured neurons. Treatment of the cells with glutamate induces a slowing of neurofilament transport. Phosphorylation of the side-arm domains of neurofilaments has been associated with a slowing of neurofilament transport, and we show that glutamate causes increased phosphorylation of these domains in cell bodies. We also show that glutamate activates members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family, and that these kinases will phosphorylate neurofilament side-arm domains. These results provide a molecular framework to link glutamate excitotoxicity with neurofilament accumulation seen in some neurodegenerative diseases.
Two days of monocular deprivation (MD) of kittens during a critical period of development is known to produce a loss of visual responses in the primary visual cortex to stimulation of the nondeprived eye, and 7 days of deprivation results in retraction of axon branches and loss of presynaptic sites from deprived-eye geniculocortical arbors. The rapid loss of responsiveness to deprived-eye visual stimulation could be due to a decrease in intracortical excitatory input to deprived-eye ocular dominance columns (ODCs) relative to nondeprived-eye columns. Alternatively, deprived-eye visual responses could be suppressed by an increase in intracortical inhibition in deprived columns relative to nondeprived columns. We tested these hypotheses in critical period kittens by labeling ODCs in layer IV of primary visual cortex with injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into lamina A of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). After either 2 or 7 days of MD, densities of intracortical excitatory presynaptic sites within deprived relative to nondeprived ODCs were estimated by measuring synaptic vesicle protein (SVP) immunoreactivity (IR). Because most of the synapses within layer IV of primary visual cortex are excitatory inputs from other cortical neurons, levels of SVP-IR provide an estimate of the amount of intracortical excitatory input. We also measured levels of immunoreactivity of the inhibitory presynaptic terminal marker glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)65 in deprived relative to nondeprived ODCs. Monocular deprivation (either 2 or 7 days) had no effect on the distributions of either SVP- or GAD65-IR in deprived and nondeprived columns. Therefore, the rapid loss of deprived-eye visual responsiveness following MD is due neither to a decrease in intracortical excitatory presynaptic sites nor to an increase in intracortical inhibitory presynaptic sites in layer IV of deprived-eye ODCs relative to nondeprived columns.
RANTES (regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted), a CC chemokine, appears to play a role in the pathogenesis of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RR-MS), enhancing the inflammatory response within the nervous system. We have demonstrated that RANTES production is increased in RR-MS compared to controls. Interferon-beta-1b (IFN-beta-1b) treatment reduces RANTES production in sera and peripheral blood adherent mononuclear cell (PBAM) supernatants both in relapse and remission. IFN-beta-1b also reduces RANTES expression in PBAM. Our results suggest that RANTES modulation might represent one of the mechanisms of action of IFN-beta-1b in RR-MS.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-containing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in the hypothalamus of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients are hyperactivated. Since interleukin-1 (IL-1)beta is a powerful activator of CRH neurons, its immunohistochemical expression was studied in the postmortem hypothalamus of MS patients (n=11) and matched controls (n=11). Hypothalamic tissue of 10/11 MS patients showed demyelinating lesions that in many cases contained IL-1beta-immunoreactive (ir) macrophages and glial cells. In control subjects IL-1beta-ir was only sporadically found in glial cells. Interestingly, abundant IL-1beta-ir was also present in hypothalamic neurons. Neuronal IL-1beta co-localised with oxytocin and not with vasopressin or CRH. IL-1beta clearly yielded a less intense staining in neurons and numbers of IL-1-ir neurons in the PVN were 4.5-fold reduced in MS. We suggest that IL-1beta produced by activated glial cells in the hypothalamus of MS patients may contribute to the activation of the hypothalamic CRH neurons, while reduced expression of neuronal IL-1beta in MS patients may have consequences for neuroendocrine, behavioural or autonomic functioning.
ARPP-21 is a cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 21 kDa that is enriched in the cell bodies and terminals of medium-sized spiny neurons in the basal ganglia. Using a new phosphorylation state-specific antibody selective for the detection of ARPP-21 phosphorylated on Ser(55), we have demonstrated that activation of dopamine D1 receptors increased the level of ARPP-21 phosphorylation in mouse striatal slices. Conversely, activation of D2 receptors caused a large decrease in ARPP-21 phosphorylation. Treatment of mice with either methamphetamine or cocaine resulted in increased ARPP-21 phosphorylation in vivo. Studies using specific inhibitors of protein phosphatases and experiments in mice bearing a targeted deletion of the gene for DARPP-32, a dopamine-activated inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1, indicated that protein phosphatase-2A is primarily responsible for dephosphorylation of ARPP-21 in mouse striatum. These results demonstrate that phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of ARPP-21 are tightly regulated in the striatum. We speculate that ARPP-21 might mediate some of the physiologic effects of dopamine and certain drugs of abuse in the basal ganglia.
The selective mGlu5 antagonists, MPEP, 2-methyl-6-phenylethynyl-pyridine, and SIB1893, (E)-6-methyl-2-styryl-pyridine, have been evaluated as antiepileptic drugs in DBA/2 mice and lethargic mice. Clonic seizures induced by the selective mGlu5 agonist, (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG), 3 micromol intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), are potently suppressed by both compounds (MPEP, ED(50)=0.42 [0.28-0.62] mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.); SIB 1893 ED(50)=0.19 [0.11-0.33] mg/kg i.p. ). Clonic seizures induced by the mGlu1,5 agonist, 3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), 1.5 micromol i.c.v., are less potently suppressed by both compounds (MPEP, ED(50)=22 [13-38] mg/kg i.p., 110 [67-180] nmol i.c.v.; SIB1893, ED(50)=31 [18-54] mg/kg i.p. , 95 [82-110] nmol i.c.v.). Sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice are suppressed at 15 min by MPEP and SIB 1893 (MPEP ED(50) clonic seizures=18 [10-32] mg/kg i.p., 93 [69-125] nmol i.c.v.; tonic seizures=6.1 [4.5-8.3] mg/kg i.p., 46 [26-80] nmol i.c.v.; SIB 1893 ED(50) clonic seizures=27 [17-44] mg/kg i.p., 825 [615-1108] nmol i. c.v., tonic seizures=5.4 [3.4-8.6] mg/kg i.p., 194 [113-332] nmol i. c.v.). The ED(50) for MPEP for impaired rotarod performance is 128 [83-193] mg/kg i.p., at 15 min, i.e. a therapeutic index for sound-induced seizures of 5-20. In lethargic mice (lh/lh), a genetic absence model, MPEP, 50 mg/kg i.p., caused a marked reduction in the incidence of spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges. These selective antagonists of mGlu5 block seizures due to activation of mGlu5 at very low systemic doses. At rather higher doses they block convulsive and non-convulsive primary generalised seizures.
Electrophysiological investigation of cultured cerebellar murine granule cells revealed differences between the GABA(A) receptors at inhibitory synapses and those on the cell body. Specifically, mIPSCs decayed more rapidly than cell body receptors deactivated, the mean single channel conductance at the synapse (32 pS) was greater than that at cell body (21 pS) and only cell body receptors were sensitive to Zn(2+) (150 microM), which depressed response amplitude by 82+/-5% and almost doubled the rate of channel deactivation. The GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit is selectively expressed in cerebellar granule cells. Although concentrated at synapses, it is also found on extrasynaptic membranes. Using a mouse line (Deltaalpha6lacZ) lacking this subunit, we investigated its role in the somato-synaptic differences in GABA(A) receptor function. All differences between cell body and synaptic GABA(A) receptors observed in wild-type (WT) granule cells persisted in Deltaalpha6lacZ cells, thus demonstrating that they are not specifically due to the cellular distribution of the alpha6 subunit. However, mIPSCs from WT and Deltaalpha6lacZ cells differed in both their kinetics (faster decay in WT cells) and underlying single channel conductance (32 pS WT, 25 pS Deltaalpha6lacZ). This provides good evidence for a functional contribution of the alpha6 subunit to postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors in these cells. Despite this, deactivation kinetics of mIPSCs in WT and Deltaalpha6lacZ granule cells exhibited similar benzodiazepene (BDZ) sensitivity. This suggests that the enhanced BDZ-induced ataxia seen in Deltaalpha6lacZ mice may reflect physiological activity at extrasynaptic receptors which, unlike those at synapses, display differential BDZ-sensitivity in WT and Deltaalpha6lacZ granule cells (Jones, A.M., Korpi, E.R., McKernan, R.M., Nusser, Z., Pelz, R., Makela, R., Mellor, J.R., Pollard, S., Bahn, S., Stephenson, F.A., Randall, A.D., Sieghart, W., Somogyi, P., Smith, A.J.H., Wisden, W., 1997. Ligand-gated ion channel partnerships: GABA(A) receptor alpha(6) subunit inactivation inhibits delta subunit expression. Journal of Neuroscience 17, 1350-1362).
A visual social signal inhibiting aggression is coincident with limiting serotonergic and noradrenergic activity in subiculum, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, medial amygdala, but not lateral amygdala, septum, and hypothalamus. Darkening of postorbital skin in the lizard Anolis carolinensis is stimulated by sympathetic activation of beta(2)-adrenergic receptors via adrenal catecholamines, and occurs more rapidly in dominant males during social interaction. Eyespot darkening functions as a social signal limiting aggressive interaction. To assess the effect of this social signal on telencephalic activity of monoamines, males were painted postorbitally with green or black paint, and exposed to a mirror. Serotonergic and noradrenergic turnover, as estimated by ratios of catabolite to transmitter, were elevated in the subiculum, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, and medial amygdala of animals in which the eyespots were masked by green paint. Conversely, dopaminergic activity in these brain regions was lower in males with hidden eyespots (painted green). Hiding the eyespot evoked significantly increased aggressive activity toward the mirror image. Furthermore, changes in monoaminergic turnover were coincident with altered aggressive behavior, suggesting a relationship between them. Changes of monoaminergic activity were not observed in the septum, lateral amygdala, or hypothalamus, when males with eyespots permanently marked (black) were compared with those with eyespots hidden (painted green). Stimulated (serotonergic and noradrenergic) or inhibited (dopaminergic) activity due to social signal and aggression are confined to regions of the brain similarly activated during social stress, and do not constitute a generalized activation of monoaminergic systems.
Responses of single units in the hindpaw representational area of the left primary somatosensory cortex to electrical stimulation of both hindpaws and the right forepaw were recorded under urethane anaesthesia in three groups of adult male rats: a control group and two groups in which the right hindpaw representational area had been ablated 3-4 weeks previously, immediately after intraperitoneal injection of saline vehicle or DSP4, to destroy cortical noradrenergic terminals arising from the locus coeruleus. The lesion increased the overall number of neurones responding within 500 ms after the stimulation of the contralateral hindpaw (from 64 to 91%), and the proportion exhibiting short-latency response increased from 41 to 61%. Interestingly, the proportion of neurones with bilateral representation increased from 3 to 10% after the cortical lesioning. The changes were prevented by injection of DSP4 prior to lesioning and therefore depended on an intact central noradrenergic system. The increase in bilateral representation could not have been due to direct interhemispheric connections between corresponding representational areas because it occurred after lesioning of the homologous area in the contralateral hemisphere. The phenomenon was termed 'transhemispheric reorganization' and because it was somatotopically oriented (e.g. to either hindpaw); its function may be to ensure that when a sensory cortical area is damaged, its basic sensory functions are 'taken over' by the corresponding contralateral area.
Lactating female rodents are aggressive against intruders when they are rearing and protecting pups. In prairie voles, Microtus ochrogaster, females exhibit a dramatic increase in citrulline immunoreactivity (citrulline-IR) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), but not in control regions of the brain, in association with maternal aggression. Citrulline is an indirect indicator of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis and it is possible that NO release in the PVN is an important element in the control of maternal aggression in prairie voles. In this study, we sought to examine the role of NO in maternal aggression by selectively inhibiting neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in lactating prairie voles. Intraperitoneal injections of the nNOS inhibitor, 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (3-Br-7NI) (20 mg/kg), three time per day over 4 days resulted in significant impairment of the expression of maternal aggression in terms of the average time in aggressive encounters, the average number of attacks, and the average latency to first attack. These behavioral deficiencies were observable beginning two days following the onset of drug treatment. The average time spent sniffing the intruder was indistinguishable between the 3-Br-7NI- and oil-treated females. In 3-Br-7NI-treated relative to oil-treated females, the number of citrulline-positive cells was reduced by 70% in the PVN and by 50% in the anterior amygdaloid area, a control region of the brain. Taken together, these results indicate that 3-Br-7NI effectively inhibits maternal aggression and NO production in prairie voles and suggest that the central release of NO may play an important role in the production of maternal aggression in prairie voles.
Increases in concentration of brain NO are proposed to initiate and mediate migraine headache. Triggered by focal depolarisation, spreading depression (SD) represents a suitable mechanism for eliciting widespread release of nitric oxide. The current study examines the effect of sumatriptan, a 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist and effective antimigraine therapy, on free radical release (nitric oxide and superoxide) in SD in the simple and complex cortices of the rat and cat. Following initiation of SD, sumatriptan pretreatment (300 microg kg(-1) i.v., 15 min prior to SD) modulated all phases of nitric oxide release associated with each SD in both cats and rats. As a result, superoxide levels were observed to significantly (ANOVA, post hoc LSD) increase versus vehicle treated animals (saline 1 ml kg(-1) i.v. 15 min prior to SD) during specific phases of each SD depolarisation. Averaged over all SD depolarisations, mean peak SD nitric oxide levels per depolarisation were 0.73+/-0.23 microM (n=29) in cats, and 0.42+/-0.09 microM (n=34) in rats. Sumatriptan significantly (Students t-test, P&lt;0.05, two tailed hypothesis, P&lt;0.05) modulated this increase in cortical nitric oxide concentrations to 0.32+/-0.06 microM (n=25) and 0. 22+/-0.07 microM (n=37) in cats and rats. Sumatriptan appears to decrease the amplitude of nitric oxide release but enhances extracellular superoxide concentrations in both lissencephalic and gyrencephalic cortices during SD.
Previously, we generated gastrin-releasing peptide receptor null mutant mice (GRP-R-deficient mice), and found that these animals displayed increased non-aggressive social responses in an ordinary social interaction test using a resident-intruder method. In the present study, we examined in more detail the social behaviors of GRP-R-deficient male mice. In social interaction tests, GRP-R-deficient mice showed more social responses, such as sniffing and nosing, relative to wild-type mice, and similar results were obtained whether GRP-R-deficient mice served as intruders or residents. In the same way, they showed more contact behaviors toward an anesthetized conspecific, and less locomotor activity than wild-type mice in a social investigation test toward an anesthetized male mouse. Since olfactory systems play important roles in the social behavior of rodents, olfactory preference tests were conducted in order to evaluate the olfactory properties of GRP-R-deficient mice. The results suggest that no differences exist between wild-type mice and GRP-R-deficient mice in the preference between a novel sawdust odor and their own odor, or that of other male mice. However, GRP-R-deficient mice preferred the odor of other male mice to their own, in contrast to wild-type mice. Furthermore, the preferences of GRP-R-deficient and wild-type mice were not disrupted by intraperitoneal infusion of diazepam (1.5 mg/kg). These results indicate that neither the motion, nor the behavior of conspecifics, nor reduced anxiety lead to the increased non-aggressive social responses and/or social investigatory behaviors in GRP-R-deficient mice. Rather, these latter behaviors may be a consequence of altered cognition of conspecific odors in the mutant mice.
Our laboratory has generated a mouse deficient in the alpha (alpha) subunit of the G protein, G(z), (G(z alpha)) gene and we have examined the involvement of G(z alpha) in spinal and supraspinal analgesia and tolerance mechanisms. Spinal analgesia was tested by the response times to heat or cold tail flick times in a water bath at 50 degrees C or -5 degrees C and supraspinal analgesia was tested by the times for paw licking and jumping from a plate at 52 degrees C or 0.5 degrees C. Tolerance to morphine was induced in wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient mice over a 5 day period and the behavioral tests were performed daily. The tail flick reaction times to both hot and cold stimuli did not differ between the wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient mice. Analysis of the reaction times from the hot and cold plate tests showed the G(z alpha)-deficient mice developed tolerance to morphine to a greater degree and at a faster rate than wild type mice. Opioid binding assays were performed on synaptic membranes prepared from naive and morphine tolerant wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient brains. No changes in the affinity of morphine for its receptor or in the density of mu and delta opioid receptors were found between the two groups of mice in the naive or morphine tolerant state. This indicates that the absence of G(z alpha) does not affect opioid receptor affinity or receptor up or down regulation. Our results suggest that the presence of G(z alpha) delays the development of morphine tolerance and represents a possible therapeutic target for improving the clinical use of morphine.
Clozapine reduces L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa)-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian patients. To test if the antidyskinetic effect of clozapine is related to antagonism at the dopamine D(4) receptor, we investigated the effect of 8-methyl-6-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-11H-pyrido[2,3-b][1, 4]benzodiazepine (JL-18), a structural analog of clozapine which is more selective for this receptor. Four 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-Dopa were used in this study. They were injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with L-Dopa methyl ester (125 mg per animal) plus benserazide (50 mg per animal; L-Dopa/benserazide) alone or in combination with JL-18 (at the doses of 0.1, 0.3, or 0.9 mg/kg, s.c.). Subcutaneous injection of sterile saline was used as control. L-Dopa/benserazide increased locomotion and improved parkinsonism but also induced dyskinesias. Co-administration of JL-18, at low doses (0.1, 0.3 mg/kg) with L-Dopa/benserazide, produced a dose-dependent reduction in L-Dopa-induced dyskinesias without a parallel return to parkinsonism. The present results suggest that novel selective dopamine D(4) receptor antagonists may represent a useful tool to reduce L-Dopa-induced dyskinesias.
The urinary excretion products of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) are 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) and 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL), and the ratio of 5HTOL to 5HIAA is normally very low (&lt; 0.01 ) in man. Intake of foods rich in 5HT (high amounts in banana, pineapple, and walnuts) induces a general increase in the output of 5HT metabolites, without affecting the 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio. In contrast, during metabolism of ethanol there is a shift in the catabolic pattern of 5HT, and the formation of 5HTOL increases appreciably at the expense of 5HIAA. Accordingly, the urinary 5HTOL/ 5HIAA ratio increases and does not recover to baseline levels until several hours after ethanol has been cleared from the body. When 10 healthy subjects ingested a moderate dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg), the urinary 5HTOL/SHIAA ratio was increased approximately 70-fold on average at 4 h after intake. When the same amount of ethanol was ingested together with 3 bananas (approximately 10 mg 5HT), this ratio was increased approximately 100-fold at 4 h and still significantly higher than baseline levels at 24 h. Starting at 3-4 h after the combined intake of ethanol and banana, 7 subjects experienced one or more unpleasant symptoms (diarrhea, headache, and fatigue) which are associated with the 5HT system. The events were transient but typically lasted for several hours, and the duration correlated with the time period during which 5HTOL levels were raised. Intake of ethanol and banana separately produced much lower increases in 5HTOL output and caused no corresponding effects. This observation indicate that dietary 5HT intake together with even a moderate dose of ethanol can provoke unpleasant physiological symptoms. The symptoms may be attributed to the high concentration of 5HTOL.
Many factors implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischaemia such as glutamate, tumour necrosis factor and interleukin-1 have also been shown to activate nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). In the present study we have investigated NF-kappaB activity at various times following permanent focal cerebral ischaemia in rats using immunohistochemistry, western blotting and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Three hours following middle cerebral artery occlusion nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB was detected using immunohistochemical and western blotting techniques. This was reflected in a trend towards increased NF-kappaB binding activity (EMSA) in the ischaemic cortex compared to histologically normal tissue. In contrast however, from 6 to 48 h post-occlusion nuclear translocation and NF-kappaB binding activity was decreased in the ischaemic cortex. Decreased NF-kappaB binding activity detected in degenerating neurones, suggests that decreased NF-kappaB activity may exacerbate ischaemia induced neuronal cell death.
This paper explores the implications of certain new developments in cell biology upon neuroscience. Until recently it was thought that neurotransmitters and neuromodulators had only one function, which was to stimulate their specific receptors at the cell surface. From here on, all activity was supposed to be effected by postsynaptic cascades. The discovery that membrane components, particularly G-protein-linked receptors, are not static but are subject to a massive and complex process of continual endocytosis, processing in the endosome system and recycling back to the external membrane, raises the question of its functional significance. In addition, it has been found that many neuromodulators such as polypeptides have their main locus of action inside the postsynaptic neuron. This review covers the role of the endocytic mechanism on receptor desensitization and resensitization, synaptic reorganization and plasticity synaptic scaling and the possible repair of oxidative damage. The possible involvement of this system in Alzheimer's disease is discussed.

We report here the isolation and characterization of cDNA clones for a novel isoform of CDCrel-1 septin, termed CDCrel-1A, with a different 5' end sequence from the transcripts encoding the known CDCrel-1 (designated as CDCrel-1F) in the developing rat neocortex. Alternative polyadenylation site selections resulted in various transcripts for CDCrel-1A including the fusion forms with another gene, platelet glycoprotein Ibbeta (GPIbbeta). Expression of the distinct transcripts encoding CDCrel-1A and CDCrel-1F increased and decreased, respectively, from the infant to adult period. Therefore CDCrel-1A might be a major form of the CDCrel-1 septin in the adult neocortex of mammals.
Various kinds of acute pathological events in the central nervous system, such as ischemia, hemorrhage, and trauma, often cause brain edema. The edema may advance for days or weeks while inducing extensive damage in neural function, regardless of the extent of the original damage, and often results in death. Delayed edema is thought to be vasogenic; however, the mechanism underlying edema induction remains unknown. We found delayed vascular cell proliferation with a blood-brain barrier breakdown in and around the gerbil CA1 hippocampus, a region known to be involved in delayed apoptotic neuronal death 2-6 days after transient ischemia. Vascular cell proliferation, assessed by (3)H-thymidine incorporation, was most prominent 4-6 days after ischemia, and extravasation of exogenously applied dye or endogenous serum albumin from blood vessels was observed concomitantly. We propose neovascularization in delayed neuronal death as a cause of brain edema advancing days after neurological events.
Cortical neurons are sensitive to the timing of their synaptic inputs. They can synchronize their firing on a millisecond time scale and follow rapid stimulus fluctuations with high temporal precision. These findings suggest that cortical neurons have an enhanced sensitivity to synchronous synaptic inputs that lead to rapid rates of depolarization. The voltage-gated currents underlying action potential generation may provide one mechanism to amplify rapid depolarizations. We have tested this hypothesis by analyzing the relations between membrane potential fluctuations and spike threshold in cat visual cortical neurons recorded intracellularly in vivo. We find that visual stimuli evoke broad variations in spike threshold that are caused in large part by an inverse relation between spike threshold and the rate of membrane depolarization preceding a spike. We also find that spike threshold is inversely related to the rate of rise of the action potential upstroke, suggesting that increases in spike threshold result from a decrease in the availability of Na(+) channels. By using a simple neuronal model, we show that voltage-gated Na(+) and K(+) conductances endow cortical neurons with an enhanced sensitivity to rapid depolarizations that arise from synchronous excitatory synaptic inputs. Thus, the basic mechanism responsible for action potential generation also enhances the sensitivity of cortical neurons to coincident synaptic inputs.
Kinins are important mediators in cardiovascular homeostasis, inflammation, and nociception. Two kinin receptors have been described, B1 and B2. The B2 receptor is constitutively expressed, and its targeted disruption leads to salt-sensitive hypertension and altered nociception. The B1 receptor is a heptahelical receptor distinct from the B2 receptor in that it is highly inducible by inflammatory mediators such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide and interleukins. To clarify its physiological function, we have generated mice with a targeted deletion of the gene for the B1 receptor. B1 receptor-deficient animals are healthy, fertile, and normotensive. In these mice, bacterial lipopolysaccharide-induced hypotension is blunted, and there is a reduced accumulation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in inflamed tissue. Moreover, under normal noninflamed conditions, they are analgesic in behavioral tests of chemical and thermal nociception. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we show that the B1 receptor was not necessary for regulating the noxious heat sensitivity of isolated nociceptors. However, by using an in vitro preparation, we could show that functional B1 receptors are present in the spinal cord, and their activation can facilitate a nociceptive reflex. Furthermore, in B1 receptor-deficient mice, we observed a reduction in the activity-dependent facilitation (wind-up) of a nociceptive spinal reflex. Thus, the kinin B1 receptor plays an essential physiological role in the initiation of inflammatory responses and the modulation of spinal cord plasticity that underlies the central component of pain. The B1 receptor therefore represents a useful pharmacological target especially for the treatment of inflammatory disorders and pain.

alpha-latrotoxin, a component of black widow spider venom, binds to presynaptic nerve terminals and stimulates massive neurotransmitter release. Previous studies have demonstrated that alpha-latrotoxin first binds to two high-affinity receptors on nerve terminals, neurexins and CLs (CIRLs and latrophilins), and then executes a critical, second step of unknown nature that stimulates neurotransmitter release. We now demonstrate that incubation of alpha-latrotoxin with synaptosomes at 0 degrees C results in its peripheral membrane association. Incubation at 37 degrees C, however, converts the toxin into an operationally integral membrane protein, and induces generation of a protease-resistant fragment that consists of the entire N-terminal domain of alpha-latrotoxin and becomes protease sensitive after lysis of synaptosomes. Our data suggest that alpha-latrotoxin inserts into the presynaptic plasma membrane after receptor binding, resulting in an intracellular location of the N-terminal sequences. Membrane insertion of the N-terminal domain of alpha-latrotoxin occurs spontaneously, independently of membrane recycling or transmembrane ion gradients. We postulate that alpha-latrotoxin acts intracellularly in triggering release, and propose that non-selective cation channels induced by alpha-latrotoxin may be a by-product of membrane insertion.
This article reviews the extent to which recent studies substantiate the hypothesis that ATP functions as a peripheral pain mediator. The discovery of the P2X family of ion channels (for which ATP is a ligand) and, in particular, the highly selective distribution of the P2X(3) receptor within the rat nociceptive system has inspired a variety of approaches to elucidate the potential role of ATP as a pain mediator. ATP elicits excitatory inward currents in small diameter sensory ganglion cells. These currents resemble those elicited by ATP on recombinantly expressed heteromeric P2X(2/3) channels as well as homomultimers consisting of P2X(2) and P2X(3). In vivo behavioural models have characterised the algogenic properties of ATP in normal conditions and in models of peripheral sensitisation. In humans, iontophoresis of ATP induces modest pain. In rats and humans the response is dependent on capsaicin sensitive neurons and is augmented in the presence of inflammatory mediators. Since ATP can be released in the vicinity of peripheral nociceptive terminals under a variety of conditions, there exists a purinergic chain of biological processes linking tissue damage to pain perception. The challenge remains to prove a physiological role for endogenous ATP in activating this chain of events.
The beginning of the last decade heralded three important and sequential developments in our understanding of cell-to-cell signalling by extracellular ATP via its cell surface receptors, the P2 purinoceptors. One major development in ATP signalling culminated in a timely review in 1991, when it was established in the clearest of terms that ATP receptors exploited discrete signal transduction pathways (Dubyak, G.R., 1991. Signal transduction by P2-purinergic receptors for extracellular ATP. Am. J. Respir. Cell. Mol. Biol. 4, 295-300; and later in Dubyak, G.R., El-Moatassim, C., 1993. Signal transduction via P2-purinergic receptors for extracellular ATP and other nucleotides. Am. J. Physiol. 265, C577-C606). Henceforth, it was universally acknowledged that some P2 purinoceptors interacted with heterotrimeric G-proteins to activate intracellular signalling cascades (metabotropic ATP receptors), whereas others contained intrinsic ion-channels (ionotropic ATP receptors). A second key development can be traced to 1992, from the discovery that ATP receptors were involved in excitatory neurotransmission in the CNS and PNS (Edwards, F.A., Gibb, A.J., Colquhoun, D., 1992. ATP receptor-mediated synaptic currents in the central nervous system. Nature 359, 144-147; Evans, R.J., Derkach, V., Surprenant, A., 1992. ATP mediates fast synaptic transmission in mammalian neurons. Nature 357, 503-505; Silinsky, E.M., Gerzanich, V., Vanner, S.M., 1992. ATP mediates excitatory synaptic transmission in mammalian neurones. Br. J. Pharmacol., 106, 762-763). Thereafter, it was accepted that ATP could play a neurotransmitter and/or modulatory role throughout the entire nervous system. The third key development stemmed from the isolation of a cDNA, from chick brain, encoding a metabotropic ATP receptor (Webb, T.E., Simon, J., Krishek, B.J., Bateson, A.N., Smart, T.G., King, B.F., Burnstock, G., Barnard, E.A., 1993. Cloning and functional expression of a brain G-protein-coupled ATP receptor. FEBS Lett. 324, 219-225). The cloning of a membrane protein serving as an ATP receptor ignited a widespread international interest in purinergic signalling. Investigators at University College London (UCL) - colleagues and associates of Geoffrey Burnstock - were at the forefront of this rapid phase of discovery. In this review, we highlight the UCL experience when the fields of molecular biology, physiology and cell biology converged to help advance our understanding of ATP as an extracellular signalling molecule.
ATP-gated P2X ion-channel receptors are localised throughout the mammalian nervous system and have been identified on neurones which participate in conduction of nociceptive information from the periphery to, and within, the CNS. This article briefly reviews recently published research describing the role that ATP and P2X receptors may play in pain perception, highlighting the importance of the P2X(3) receptor in this process. The P2X(3) receptor subunit is almost exclusively expressed on a subset of small and medium diameter sensory neurones innervating cutaneous and visceral tissue. Activation of P2X receptors present on the peripheral terminals of primary afferents results in neuronal depolarisation and, in conscious animals, leads to the manifestation of acute nociceptive behaviour. Recent animal studies have also shown that P2X(3) receptor expression is increased in sensory ganglia following acute neuronal injury, hinting that similar plasticity in the expression of this receptor subtype could underlie the mechanisms involved in a range of conditions characterised by sensory hypersensitivity in man. It is apparent from the evidence available that functional antagonists at specific P2X receptor subtypes could represent an important class of novel analgesic agents.
Investigation of the multiple roles of extracellular nucleotides in the cochlea has developed from analysis of ATP-activated conductances in single sensory hair cells. Molecular probes such as radiolabelled ATP analogues and radiolabelled mRNA for ATP-gated ion channel subunits (P2X receptors) rapidly revealed the extensive nature of ATP signalling in this sensory organ. This has provided a foundation for physiological investigations which put extracellular nucleotides at the centre of homeostatic regulation of the driving force for sound transduction, modulation of mechanical tuning, control of cochlear blood flow and auditory neurotransmission. The purinergic signal transduction pathways associated with these processes have several novel features of significance to the broader field of purinergic neuroscience. In turn, these studies have benefited from the recent experimental advances in the field of purinergic signalling, a significant component of which is associated with the work of Professor Geoffrey Burnstock.
The effect of neurotrophic factors on neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression was studied in adult rat dispersed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cultures. Nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) or basic FGF was included in the culture medium during incubation for 72 h. In untreated cultures, around 18% of all neurones (visualized by antibodies to PGP 9.5) expressed NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI). In contrast, in vivo uninjured neurones do not contain detectable levels of NPY-LI. In the immunohistochemical analysis aFGF increased the percentage of NPY-immunoreactive (-IR) neurones 1.8-fold, while NGF, BDNF or bFGF had no significant effect on NPY expression. When the effect of these growth factors was monitored with non-radioactive in situ hybridization, both aFGF and bFGF caused a significant increase (2.25- and 1.8-fold, respectively), whereas, again, NGF and BDNF had no effect. The results also showed an effect of cell density on NPY expression, whereby fewer neurones expressed NPY in high than in low density cultures. This difference was seen in untreated as well as growth factor-treated cultures. The present results support the hypothesis that DRG neurones in culture are in an axotomized state, since they express NPY to about the same extent as axotomized DRG neurones in vivo. Surprisingly, two growth factors of the FGF family enhance NPY expression in DRG neurones, which is in apparent contrast to a published in vivo study [Ji, R.-R., Zhang, Q., Pettersson, R.F., Hkfelt, T., 1996. aFGF, bFGF and NGF differentially regulate neuropeptide expression in dorsal root ganglia after axotomy and induce autotomy. Reg. Pept. 66, 179-189.]. Finally, NPY expression was also influenced by cell density.
We have previously shown that myoendothelial gap junctions are more prevalent in distal than in proximal arteries of the rat mesentery. In the present study we have investigated the role of gap junctions in the mechanism of action of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in these same vessels following relaxation with acetylcholine. Arteries were pre-constricted with phenylephrine and concentration response curves to acetylcholine were constructed in the presence of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 10(-5) M) and indomethacin (10(-5) M) to prevent effects due to the release of nitric oxide and prostacyclins. Nitric oxide was found to have only a small role in the relaxation of the proximal vessels and was not involved in the relaxations of the distal vessels. 18 alpha-Glycyrrhetinic acid (10(-5) M), a putative gap junction uncoupler, significantly reduced acetylcholine-induced relaxations by 50% in both proximal and distal vessels. Potassium channel antagonists, tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA; 10(-3) M) and barium chloride (10(-4) M), together abolished the dilatory response in the proximal mesenteric arteries, but did not completely block responses in the distal arteries. The data suggest that gap junctions contribute significantly to the acetylcholine-induced relaxation in both proximal and distal arteries of the rat mesentery. We hypothesize that the absence of a correlation between the role of gap junctions and the incidence of myoendothelial gap junctions in these same vessels is due to significant effects of the inhibitors on gap junctions located in the smooth muscle layers of the larger vessels.
In this article, we provide a short review of the structure and synaptic organisation of the final motor neurons in the sympathetic ganglia of mammals. Combinations of pathway tracing, multiple-labelling immunofluorescence and intracellular dye injection have shown that neurons in different functional pathways differ not only in their patterns of neuropeptide expression, but also in the size of their cell bodies and dendritic fields. Thus, vasoconstrictor neurons consistently are smaller than any other major functional class of neurons. Serial section ultrastructural analysis of dye filled neurons, together with electron microscopic and confocal microscopic analysis of immunolabelled synaptic inputs to sympathetic final motor neurons indicate that synapses are rare and randomly distributed over the surface of the neurons. The total number of synapses is simply proportional to the total surface area of the neurons. Many terminal boutons of peptide-containing preganglionic neurons do not make conventional synapses with target neurons. Furthermore, there is a spatial mismatch in the distribution of peptide-containing terminals and neurons expressing receptors for the corresponding peptides. Together, these results suggest that there are likely to be significant differences in the ways that the final sympathetic motor neurons in distinct functional pathways integrate their synaptic inputs. In at least some pathways, heterosynaptic actions of neuropeptides probably contribute to subtle modulation of ganglionic transmission.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) can control gastrointestinal function independent of direct connections with the central nervous system. Enteric nerves perform this important function using multiple mechanisms of excitatory neurotransmission in enteric ganglia. Fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the autonomic nervous system (ANS) is largely mediated by acetylcholine (ACh) acting at nicotinic cholinergic receptors but in the ENS there are noncholinergic fast excitatory neurotransmitters. There are two broad types of neurons in the ENS: S neurons and AH neurons. S neurons are interneurons and motoneurons while AH neurons are sensory neurons. Three subsets of S neurons in the myenteric plexus can be distinguished on the basis of the neurotransmitters producing fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in each subset. In one subset, fEPSPs are mediated solely by ACh acting at nicotinic cholinergic receptors. In a second subset of S neurons, ATP acting at P2X purine receptors and ACh contribute to the fEPSP while in a third subset, fEPSPs are mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) acting at 5-HT(3) receptors and ACh. Some AH neurons also receive fast excitatory synaptic input. The fEPSPs recorded from AH neurons are mediated ACh and also by glutamate acting at alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors. Multiple mechanisms of fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the ENS are likely to contribute to its capacity to regulate complex gastrointestinal functions.
Dendritic trees often are complex, three-dimensional structures. Comparative morphologic studies have not yet provided a reliable measure to analyze and compare the geometry of different dendritic trees. Therefore, it is important to develop quantitative methods for analyzing the three-dimensional geometry of these complex trees. The authors developed a comparison measure based on the Hausdorff distance for comparing quantitatively the three-dimensional structure of different neurons. This algorithm was implemented and incorporated into a new software package that the authors developed called NeuroComp. The authors tested this algorithm to study the variability in the three-dimensional structure of identified central neurons as well as measuring the structural differences between homologue neurons. They took advantage of the uniform dendritic morphology of identified interneurons of an insect, the giant interneurons of the cockroach. More specifically, after establishing a morphometric data base of these neurons, the authors found that the algorithm is a reliable tool for distinguishing between dendritic trees of different neurons, whereas conventional metric analysis often is inadequate. The authors propose to use this method as a quantitative tool for the investigation of the effects of various experimental paradigms on three-dimensional dendritic architecture.
Past dogma asserted that extensive loss of cortical neurons accompanies normal aging. However, recent stereologic studies in humans, monkeys, and rodents have found little evidence of age-related neuronal loss in several cortical regions, including the neocortex and hippocampus. Yet to date, a complete investigation of age-related neuronal loss or size change has not been undertaken in the entorhinal cortex, a retrohippocampal structure essential for learning and memory. The aged rhesus macaque monkey (Macaca mulatta), a species that develops beta-amyloid plaques and exhibits cognitive deficits with age, is considered the best commonly available model of aging in humans. In the present study, we examined changes in total neuron number and size in layers II, III, and V/VI of the intermediate division of the entorhinal cortex in aged vs. nonaged rhesus monkeys by using unbiased stereologic methods. Total neuron number was conserved in aged primates when compared with nonaged adults in entorhinal cortex layer II (aged = 56,500 +/- 12,100, nonaged adult = 48,500 +/- 10,900; P = 0.37), layer III (aged = 205, 600 +/- 50,700, nonaged adult = 187,600 +/- 60,300; P = 0.66), and layers V/VI (aged = 246,400 +/- 76,700, nonaged adult = 236,800 +/- 69,600; P = 0.87). In each of the layers examined, neuronal area and volume were also conserved with aging. This lack of morphologically evident neurodegeneration in primate entorhinal cortex with aging further supports the concept that fundamental differences exist between the processes of normal &quot;healthy&quot; aging and pathologic age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.

Osteopontin (OPN) is a bone matrix protein expressed my macrophages and related to the process of tissue calcification, and is also known to protect ischemic cells. To understand how OPN is involved in the process of ischemic axonal death in periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), we examined the immunoreactivity of OPN and ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1; microglia/macrophage marker) at various stages of PVL. OPN immunoreactivity paralleled the number of Iba1-positive foam cells; a finding which suggests the production of OPN protein by foam cells. OPN immunoreactivity was not found in either normal white matter or acute PVL lesions, but was detected at the subacute and chronic stages in swollen and calcified axons bordering the ischemic zone. These findings suggest that OPN is closely associated with death of swollen axons at the periphery of the ischemic zone, regulating the presence or absence of calcification.
The apolipoprotein Eepsilon4 allele (ApoEepsilon4) is associated with a selective increase in deposition of the 40-amino acid form of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta40) in endstage Alzheimer's disease. To determine how apoE genotype affects the early events in beta-amyloid pathogenesis, we analyzed the medial temporal lobes of 244 elderly persons who were not clinically demented using antibodies selective for the C termini of Abeta40 and Abeta42. We found that: (1) the number of both Abeta42- and Abeta40-positive senile plaques increase with age; (2) Abeta42 appears at younger ages, and in more amyloid deposits, than does Abeta40 in all ApoE groups; (3) when compared at similar ages, older persons with ApoEepsilon4 are more likely to have Abeta42- and Abeta40-immunoreactive deposits than are persons without ApoEepsilon4; (4) Abeta40-containing plaques arise at least a decade later than do Abeta42 plaques, and are seldom found in the medial temporal lobe of older persons lacking ApoEepsilon4; and (5) in the absence of overt Alzheimer's disease, cerebral amyloid angiopathy is rare in the elderly, but in our sample was significantly augmented in ApoEepsilon4 homozygotes. We conclude that ApoEepsilon4 hastens the onset of Abeta42 deposition in the senescent brain, which in turn fosters the earlier evolution of fibrillar, Abeta40-positive plaques, thereby increasing the risk of Alzheimer's disease.
Neurofibrillary pathology as found in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is also found in the normal elderly, suggesting that these changes may be part of the aging process. In this study, we assessed the densities and distribution of structures recognized by the monoclonal antibody (mAb) to phosphorylated tau (AT8) in the hippocampal formation and medial temporal isocortex of 19 centenarians. Of these, 4 cases were demented and 15 non-demented. AT8 immunoreactivity correlated with the global deterioration scale (GDS). The density of both intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles (I-NFTs) and neuritic clusters (NCs) significantly correlated with the GDS in the layer II of the entorhinal cortex (r = 0.66, P = 0.005 and r= 0.611, P = 0.01, respectively). Density of I-NFTs in the subiculum (r = 0.491; P = 0.034) also correlated significantly. No other area was found to be statistically significant. Importantly, no correlation was found when demented and non-demented centenarian cases were analyzed separately, suggesting that the difference marks a fundamental shift between AD and non-demented individuals. This assertion is supported by the significantly higher densities of I-NFTs and NCs in the transentorhinal (P = 0.043 and P = 0.011, respectively) and layer II of the entorhinal cortex (P = 0.02 and P = 0.007, respectively), and I-NFTs in the subiculum (P &lt; 0.001) and CAI (P = 0.011) in the demented group when compared with the non-demented cases. Granular diffuse deposits, an early stage parameter of the neurofibrillary pathology involving accumulation of non-fibrillar abnormally phosphorylated tau protein did not correlate with the GDS or between the two groups studied. This study, combining morphometric and confocal analyses, not only provides further evidence that, in the brains of patients with AD, the perforant pathway is highly sensitive to tau pathology but also that involvement is distinct from the changes of normal aging, even of the oldest old.

Abstract Psychostimulant addiction results in the emergence of undesirable behaviors such as drug craving and paranoia. Using animal models of addiction the neurobiological substrates mediating these behaviors have been examined. Studies have focused on cellular adaptations within the motive circuit that contains the nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area, ventral pallidum and prefrontal cortex. While long-term alterations in dopamine transmission have been clearly characterized, more recent studies reveal that important neuroadaptations are also produced in glutamate transmission.This short review provides a description of these neuroadaptations and a discussion of how these psychostimulant-induced changes may synergize to elicit addiction-related behaviors.
Some earlier studies have suggested that platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO)-B activity should be determined at time points other than early in the abstinence phase. However, the optimal times for blood sampling have not been precisely defined. We therefore assessed platelet MAO-B activity repeatedly in 13 male alcohol-dependent patients over the 2 months after the end of a period of heavy alcohol intake. Twelve healthy men were used as controls. In the alcohol-dependent patients, platelet MAO-B activity was transiently increased from 2 to 6 weeks after the end of alcohol intake and the values during this time period were not different from those of controls. Platelet MAO-B activity was, however, significantly lower in the alcohol-dependent patients at 1 week and at 2 months after the end of alcohol intake, in comparison to controls. It is concluded that the transient increase in platelet MAO-B activity after the end of alcohol intake in alcohol-dependent patients may conceal a difference from a control group. Therefore, it is suggested that when platelet MAO-B activity is determined, the preferential time point for obtaining those values in alcohol-dependent patients is after 2 months of abstinence.


To analyze the relationship between the deposition of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) and neuronal loss in transgenic models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined the frontal neocortex (Fc) and CA1 portion of hippocampus (CA1) in PSAPP mice doubly expressing AD-associated mutant presenilin 1 (PS1) and Swedish-type mutant beta amyloid precursor protein (APPsw) by morphometry of Abeta burden and neuronal counts. Deposition of Abeta was detected as early as 3 months of age in the Fc and CA1 of PSAPP mice and progressed to cover 28.3% of the superior frontal cortex and 18.4% of CA1 at 12 months: approximately 20- (Fc) and approximately 40- (CA1) fold greater deposition than in APPsw mice. There was no significant difference in neuronal counts in either CA1 or the frontal cortex between nontransgenic (non-tg), PS1 transgenic, APPsw, and PSAPP mice at 3 to 12 months of age. In the PSAPP mice, there was disorganization of the neuronal architecture by compact amyloid plaques, and the average number of neurons was 8 to 10% fewer than the other groups (NS, P &gt; 0.10) in CA1 and 2 to 20% fewer in frontal cortex (NS, P = 0.31). There was no loss of total synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the Fc or dentate gyrus molecular layer of the 12-month-old PSAPP mice. Thus, although co-expression of mutant PS1 with Swedish mutant betaAPP leads to marked cortical and limbic Abeta deposition in an age-dependent manner, it does not result in the dramatic neuronal loss in hippocampus and association cortex characteristic of AD.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether isometric handgrip (IHG) training reduces arterial pressure and whether reductions in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) mediate this drop in arterial pressure. Normotensive subjects were assigned to training (n = 9), sham training (n = 7), or control (n = 8) groups. The training protocol consisted of four 3-min bouts of IHG exercise at 30% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) separated by 5-min rest periods. Training was performed four times per week for 5 wk. Subjects' resting arterial pressure and heart rate were measured three times on 3 consecutive days before and after training, with resting MSNA (peroneal nerve) recorded on the third day. Additionally, subjects performed IHG exercise at 30% of MVC to fatigue followed by muscle ischemia. In the trained group, resting diastolic (67 +/- 1 to 62 +/- 1 mmHg) and mean arterial pressure (86 +/- 1 to 82 +/- 1 mmHg) significantly decreased, whereas systolic arterial pressure (116 +/- 3 to 113 +/- 2 mmHg), heart rate (67 +/- 4 to 66 +/- 4 beats/min), and MSNA (14 +/- 2 to 15 +/- 2 bursts/min) did not significantly change following training. MSNA and cardiovascular responses to exercise and postexercise muscle ischemia were unchanged by training. There were no significant changes in any variables for the sham training and control groups. The results indicate that IHG training is an effective nonpharmacological intervention in lowering arterial pressure.
In anesthetized cats, we 1) compared the effects of antihypertensive agents (nifedipine, clonidine, phentolamine, propranolol, and nitroprusside) on the parasympathetic vasodilations elicited by lingual nerve (LN) stimulation in the lower lip and tongue and 2) investigated the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effect of nifedipine on parasympathetic lower lip vasodilation. At the doses used, each antihypertensive agent reduced systemic arterial blood pressure by approximately 20 mmHg; however, the parasympathetic vasodilation elicited by LN stimulation was significantly reduced only by nifedipine. This inhibitory effect of nifedipine was not seen when LN was stimulated during ongoing repetitive stimulation of the superior cervical sympathetic trunk at 1-Hz frequency. This suggests that the ability of lip and tongue blood vessels to relax to parasympathetic stimulation is not directly impaired by this calcium channel blocker and that the inhibitory effects of nifedipine seen here probably resulted from an action on postsynaptic sites in vascular smooth muscle that caused a reduction in preexisting sympathetic vasoconstrictor tone (by inhibiting calcium influx into the vascular smooth muscle cell).
Rats with chronic nucleus of the solitary tract lesions (NTS-X) drink water and release vasopressin (VP) in response to reduced blood volume despite an absence of neural signals from cardiac and arterial baroreceptors. The present study determined whether rats with NTS-X have a greater sensitivity to circulating ANG II, which may contribute to the drinking and VP responses to hypovolemia. In conscious control rats and rats with NTS-X, ANG II was infused intravenously for 1 h at 10, 100, or 250 ng. kg(-1). min(-1). At the two higher doses, ANG II stimulated more water intake with a shorter latency to drink in rats with NTS-X than in control rats. In contrast, infusion of ANG II produced comparable increases in plasma VP in the two groups. At the two higher doses, ANG II produced an enhanced increase in arterial pressure (AP) in rats with NTS-X, and the bradycardia seen in control rats was reversed to a tachycardia. Infusion of hypertonic saline, which did not alter AP or heart rate, produced comparable drinking and VP release in the two groups. These results demonstrate that chronic NTS-X increases the dipsogenic response of rats to systemic ANG II but has no effect on ANG II-induced VP release or the osmotic stimulation of these responses.
Previous studies demonstrated that responses of a particular sympathetic nerve to vestibular stimulation depend on the type of tissue the nerve innervates as well as its anatomic location. In the present study, we sought to determine whether such precise patterning of vestibulosympathetic reflexes could lead to specific hemodynamic alterations in response to vestibular afferent activation. We simultaneously measured changes in systemic blood pressure and blood flow (with the use of Doppler flowmetry) to the hindlimb (femoral artery), forelimb (brachial artery), and kidney (renal artery) in chloralose-urethane-anesthetized, baroreceptor-denervated cats. Electrical vestibular stimulation led to depressor responses, 8 +/- 2 mmHg (mean +/- SE) in magnitude, that were accompanied by decreases in femoral vasoconstriction (23 +/- 4% decrease in vascular resistance or 36 +/- 7% increase in vascular conductance) and increases in brachial vascular tone (resistance increase of 10 +/- 6% and conductance decrease of 11 +/- 4%). Relatively small changes (&lt;5%) in renal vascular tone were observed. In contrast, electrical stimulation of muscle and cutaneous afferents produced pressor responses (20 +/- 6 mmHg) that were accompanied by vasoconstriction in all three beds. These data suggest that vestibular inputs lead to a complex pattern of cardiovascular changes that is distinct from that which occurs in response to activation of other types of somatic afferents.
To investigate the possibility that expression of vestibulosympathetic reflexes (VSR) is related to a nerve's anatomic location rather than its target organ, we compared VSR recorded from the same type of postganglionic fiber [muscle vasoconstrictor (MVC)] located at three different rostrocaudal levels: hindlimb, forelimb, and face. Experiments were performed on chloralose-anesthetized cats, and vestibular afferents were stimulated electrically. Single MVC unit activity was extracted by spike shape analysis of few-fiber recordings, and unit discrimination was confirmed by autocorrelation. Poststimulus time histogram analysis revealed that about half of the neurons were initially inhibited by vestibular stimulation (type 1 response), whereas the other MVC fibers were initially strongly excited (type 2 response). MVC units with types 1 and 2 responses were present in the same nerve fascicle. Barosensitivity was equivalent in the two groups, but fibers showing type 1 responses fired significantly faster than those giving type 2 responses (0.29 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.20 +/- 0.02 Hz). Nerve fibers with type 1 responses were most common in the hindlimb (21 of 29 units) and least common in the face (2 of 11 units), the difference in relative proportion being significant (P &lt; 0.05, chi(2) test). These results support the hypothesis that VSR are anatomically patterned.
Insoluble aggregates of the amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) are a major constituent of senile plaques found in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The beta-amyloid fragment A beta(1-40) is toxic to rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells, leading to a concentration-dependent decrease in the reduction of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). The detrimental effects of A beta(1-40) are enhanced in the presence of 1 mM zinc, whereas 50 microM zinc exerts a protective effect against A beta(1-40)-induced toxicity. Exposure of PC12 cells to low zinc concentrations (50 microM) affords a decrease (1.4-fold) in the extent of lipid peroxidation, a decrement in protein oxidation (1.1-fold), and an increase in ATP levels (1.2-fold), although the differences were not statistically significant. However, treatment of cells with high concentrations of zinc (1 mM) led to significant increases in lipid peroxidation (3.7-fold) and protein oxidation (1.5-fold) and to depletion of the ATP pool (21-fold). These data suggest that zinc has a concentration-dependent dual effect, protective and toxic, thus playing an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.





Spatial tasks are used widely in neurobiological studies because it is thought that they provide an unbiased assessment of the integrity of neural structures that mediate spatial learning. For example, in the Morris swimming pool place task, animals are required to locate a hidden platform in a swimming pool in relation to environmental cues. Treatments that result in an animal's failure to find the platform are assumed to reflect defects in the function of neural systems involved in spatial learning. The present study demonstrates, however, that an animal's reinforcement history can contribute to its spatial performance. Animals were trained in the Morris place task with the platform present on 100, 75 or 50% of trials. Relative to the 100% group, the 75% group was impaired in place acquisition, and the 50% group failed to learn. Even placing the 50% group animals onto the platform at the completion of an unsuccessful trial failed to improve acquisition. Animals trained to search for food on an identical dry maze problem were not affected by similar reinforcement schedules. The present findings demonstrate that the Morris swimming pool place task does not provide an unbiased assessment of spatial learning: A treatment effect may be confounded with reinforcement history. The results are discussed in relation to widespread applications of the Morris place task to neurobiological problems.
Assessments of cortisol levels in saliva have been widely used by both researchers and clinicians as an index of adrenal functioning. Quarterly measurements of morning and evening cortisol levels were determined in a longitudinal study of 147 participants (72 women and 75 men) followed for 1 year each. The analysis of salivary cortisol revealed no significant gender or age differences in the sample. There was a sequence effect in quarterly cortisol values with a progressive decrease in serial measurements, especially notable in the morning values; as well as a seasonal variation in cortisol levels with significantly higher levels found in winter and fall, compared with spring and summer. The findings in this study suggest that repeated saliva sampling and seasonal variation in cortisol levels may independently affect adrenal response and, therefore, need to be accounted for in longitudinal studies.
The naturally occurring dipeptide carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine) has been found to exert an anti-senescence effect when used as a dietary supplement. Carnosine clearly improved the external appearance of experimental animals and provided beneficial physiological effects, thus maintaining the animals in better condition than control animals receiving no carnosine or a mixture of beta-alanine and L-histidine.

Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized by NO synthases (NOS) from L-arginine in a variety of tissues, including rat uterus. Progesterone was shown to be required for maintaining elevated NOS II expression in pregnant rat uterus. However, effects of estrogens on uterine NOS II expression remains unclear. In the present study, we examined whether 17beta-estradiol regulates NO production and NOS II expression in the rat uterus during pregnancy and in nonpregnant rats treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Rats on Day 18 of pregnancy received 17beta-estradiol (0.5 or 5 microgram/rat). Groups of ovariectomized (ovx) rats received 17beta-estradiol (5 microgram/rat) or LPS (1 mg/rat) or a combination of the two or received vehicle only. All rats were sacrificed 24 h after treatments. Nitrite concentrations in uterine cultures were measured by Greiss reaction. Uterine NOS II and NOS III proteins and mRNA levels were determined by Western blotting and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, respectively. In the pregnant rat, estradiol administration caused inhibition in total NO production, suppression of both mRNA and protein levels of NOS II enzyme, and increase in NOS III mRNA and protein levels in the uterus in a dose-dependent manner. The data indicate that estradiol inhibits NOS II and total NO generation and stimulates NOS III expression. In ovx rats, LPS stimulated NOS II mRNA and NO production by the uterus. Coadministration of 5 microgram estradiol profoundly suppressed NOS II mRNA and NO generation but elevated NOS III mRNA. Thus, estradiol inhibited LPS-induced increases in NOS II mRNA. Estradiol inhibits NO production by NOS II through the inhibition of NOS II expression in the rat uterus. This inhibition of NOS II expression occurs whether NOS II expression is constitutive (pregnancy) or induced (LPS-treated nonpregnant). Estradiol inhibition of NOS II expression occurs in the presence (pregnancy) or absence (ovx) of progesterone. Estradiol may play a role in regulating NOS II expression and NO production and uterine contractility during pregnancy and labor.
The secreted phosphoprotein osteopontin (OPN) is strongly associated with the process of neoplastic transformation, based both on its pattern of expression in vivo and in vitro and on functional analyses. We have used 3T3 cells derived from wildtype and OPN-deficient mice and transformed by transfection with oncogenic ras to assess the role of OPN in transformation in vitro and in tumorigenesis in vivo. There was no effect of an absence of OPN on the ability of the cells to undergo immortalization or to form morphologically transformed foci following ras transfection. Wildtype and OPN-deficient cell lines were established from such foci, and lines with similar ras mRNA levels selected for further analysis. Ras-transformed cell lines from both wildtype and OPN-deficient mice could form colonies in soft agar indicating that this process can occur in the absence of OPN. However, the ability of the OPN-deficient cell lines to form colonies was reduced as compared to wildtype cell lines. Tumorigenesis in syngeneic and nude mice was assessed for a subset of cell lines that formed colonies efficiently in soft agar. Cell lines unable to make OPN formed tumors in these mice much more slowly than wildtype cells, despite similar growth of the cells on plastic and in soft agar. Taken together, these results indicate that maximal transformation by ras requires OPN expression, and implicate increased OPN expression as an important effector of the transforming activity of the ras oncogene.
1. We have compared the antagonist activity of trinitrophenyl-ATP (TNP-ATP) and diinosine pentaphosphate (Ip(5)I) on recombinant P2X receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes with their actions at native P2X receptors in sensory neurones from dorsal root and nodose ganglia. 2. Slowly-desensitizing responses to alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP) recorded from oocytes expressing P2X(2/3) receptors were inhibited by TNP-ATP at sub-micromolar concentrations. However, Ip(5)I at concentrations up to 30 microM was without effect. 3. Nodose ganglion neurones responded to alpha,beta-meATP with slowly-desensitizing inward currents. These were inhibited by TNP-ATP (IC(50), 20 nM), but not by Ip(5)I at concentrations up to 30 microM. 4. In DRG neurones that responded to ATP with a rapidly-desensitizing inward current, the response was inhibited by TNP-ATP with an IC(50) of 0.8 nM. These responses were also inhibited by Ip(5)I with an IC(50) of 0.1 microM. Both antagonists are known to inhibit homomeric P2X(3) receptors. 5. Some DRG neurones responded to alpha,beta-meATP with a biphasic inward current, consisting of transient and sustained components. While the transient current was abolished by 1 microM Ip(5)I, the sustained component remained unaffected. 6. In conclusion, Ip(5)I is a potent antagonist at homomeric P2X(3) receptors but not at heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptors, and therefore should be a useful tool for elucidating the subunit composition of native P2X receptors.
1. The systemic administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (2.5 - 7.5 mg kg(-1)) reduced hippocampal extracellular acetylcholine concentration and impaired working memory in rats. 2. Both effects were antagonized not only by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A (0.5 mg kg(-1), i.p.) but also unexpectedly by the D(2) dopamine receptor antagonist S(-)-sulpiride (5, 10 and 25 mg kg(-1), i.p.). Conversely, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol-induced memory impairment and inhibition of hippocampal extracellular acetylcholine concentration were potentiated by the subcutaneous administration of the D(2) dopamine receptor agonist (-)-quinpirole (25 and 500 microg kg(-1)). The inhibition of hippocampal extracellular acetylcholine concentration and working memory produced by the combination of (-)-quinpirole and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol was suppressed by either SR141716A or S(-)-sulpiride. 3. Our findings suggest that impairment of working memory and inhibition of hippocampal extracellular acetylcholine concentration are mediated by the concomitant activation of D(2) dopamine and CB(1) cannabinoid receptors, and that D(2) dopamine receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of the cognitive deficits induced by marijuana.
1. It has been reported that radiolabelled agonist : antagonist binding affinity ratios can predict functional efficacy at several different receptors. This study investigates whether this prediction is true for recombinant and native tissue 5-HT(1A) receptors. 2. Saturation studies using [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT and [(3)H]-MPPF revealed a single, high affinity site (K(D)approximately 1 nM) in HEK293 cells expressing human 5-HT(1A) receptors and rat cortex. In recombinant cells, [(3)H]-MPPF labelled 3 - 4 fold more sites than [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT suggesting the presence of more than one affinity state of the receptor. [(3)H]-Spiperone labelled a single, lower affinity site in HEK293 cells expressing h5-HT(1A) receptors but did not bind to native tissue 5-HT(1A) receptors. These data suggest that, in transfected HEK293 cells, human 5-HT(1A) receptors exist in different affinity states but in native rat cortical tissue the majority of receptors appear to exist in the high agonist affinity state. 3. Receptor agonists inhibited [(3)H]-MPPF binding from recombinant 5-HT(1A) receptors in a biphasic manner, whereas antagonists and partial agonists gave monophasic inhibition curves. All compounds displaced [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT and [(3)H]-spiperone binding in a monophasic manner. In rat cortex, all compounds displaced [(3)H]-MPPF and [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT in a monophasic manner. 4. Functional evaluation of compounds, using [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding, produced a range of intrinsic activities from full agonism, displayed by 5-HT and 5-CT to inverse agonism displayed by spiperone. 5. [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT : [(3)H]-MPPF pK(i) difference correlated well with functional intrinsic activity (r=0.86) as did [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT : [(3)H]-spiperone pK(i) difference with functional intrinsic activity (r=0.96). 6. Thus agonist : antagonist binding affinity differences may be used to predict functional efficacy at human 5-HT(1A) receptors expressed in HEK293 cells where both high and low agonist affinity states are present but not at native rat cortical 5-HT(1A) receptors in which only the high agonist affinity state was detectable.
Differences in cerebral activation between control subjects and post-lingually deaf rehabilitated cochlear implant patients were identified with PET under various speech conditions of different linguistic complexity. Despite almost similar performance in patients and controls, different brain activation patterns were elicited. In patients, an attentional network including prefrontal and parietal modality-aspecific attentional regions and subcortical auditory regions was over-activated irrespective of the nature of the speech stimuli and during expectancy of speech stimuli. A left temporoparietal semantic region was responsive to meaningless stimuli (vowels). In response to meaningful stimuli (words, sentences, story), left middle and inferior temporal semantic regions and posterior superior temporal phonological regions were under-activated in patients, whereas anterior superior temporal phonological regions were over-activated. These differences in the recruitment of the speech comprehension system reflect the alternative neural strategies that permit speech comprehension after cochlear implantation.
The surgical disconnection of the cerebral hemispheres creates an extraordinary opportunity to study basic neurological mechanisms: the organization of the sensory and motors systems, the cortical representation of the perceptual and cognitive processes, the lateralization of function, and, perhaps most importantly, how the divided brain yields clues to the nature of conscious experience. Studies of split-brain patients over the last 40 years have resulted in numerous insights into the processes of perception, attention, memory, language and reasoning abilities. When the constellation of findings is considered as a whole, one sees the cortical arena as a patchwork of specialized processes. When this is considered in the light of new studies on the lateralization of functions, it becomes reasonable to suppose that the corpus callosum has enabled the development of the many specialized systems by allowing the reworking of existing cortical areas while preserving existing functions. Thus, while language emerged in the left hemisphere at the cost of pre-existing perceptual systems, the critical features of the bilaterally present perceptual system were spared in the opposite half-brain. By having the callosum serve as the great communication link between redundant systems, a pre-existing system could be jettisoned as new functions developed in one hemisphere, while the other hemisphere could continue to perform the previous functions for both half-brains. Split-brain studies have also revealed the complex mosaic of mental processes that participate in human cognition. And yet, even though each cerebral hemisphere has its own set of capacities, with the left hemisphere specialized for language and speech and major problem-solving capacities and the right hemisphere specialized for tasks such as facial recognition and attentional monitoring, we all have the subjective experience of feeling totally integrated. Indeed, even though many of these functions have an automatic quality to them and are carried out by the brain prior to our conscious awareness of them, our subjective belief and feeling is that we are in charge of our actions. These phenomena appear to be related to our left hemisphere's interpreter, a device that allows us to construct theories about the relationship between perceived events, actions and feelings.

A growing body of evidence indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction may play an important role in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative disorders. Because mitochondrial metabolism is not only the principal source of high energy intermediates, but also of free radicals, it has been suggested that inherited or acquired mitochondrial defects could be the cause of neuronal degeneration as a consequence of energy defects and oxidative damage. Mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction has been reported in association with primary mitochondrial DNA abnormalities, and also as a consequence of mutations in nuclear genes directly involved in mitochondrial functions, such as SURF1, frataxin, and paraplegin. Defects of oxidative phosphorylation and increased free radical production have also been observed in diseases that are not due to primary mitochondrial abnormalities. In these cases, the mitochondrial dysfunction is likely to be an epiphenomenon, which, nevertheless, could be of importance in precipitating a cascade of events leading to cell death. In either case, understanding the role of mitochondria in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases could be important for the development of therapeutic strategies in these disorders.
The focus of this paper was to describe a method combining the neuroanatomical technique of retrograde transport of cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) with the technique of Fos functional labeling. This method allowed us to evaluate whether neurons identified by retrograde tracing were activated following chemical stimulation of another brain area. We have used this method at the light microscopic level to determine whether the stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla activated retrogradely labeled adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. CTB-containing neurons, Fos immunoreactive neurons and double labeled neurons were observed in spinal autonomic areas. These results suggest that the rostral ventrolateral medulla exerts a descending activation upon identified adrenal preganglionic neurons. The method described in this protocol can be applied for other brain areas in order to establish if a given structure can activate an identified population of neurons linked with a particular target of central or peripheral nervous system.
In this protocol the effect of both an acute and chronic tryptophan (TRP)-free diet on brain serotonin (5-HT) release was studied in rats. Extracellular levels of cortical 5-HT, assessed by in vivo microdialysis, revealed a decrease in the release of this monoamine. Indeed, 120 min after the acute administration of a TRP-free diet, cortical 5-HT release decreased significantly by about 40% with respect to a balanced diet and the decrease persisted for more than 6 h. The chronic intake of a TRP-free diet induced a gradual reduction in 5-HT release. Five days after the diet consumption, our HPLC system detected no 5-HT in cortical dialysate. On the contrary, the acute or chronic administration of the TRP-free diet made no significant change in extracellular noradrenaline content in the frontal cortex, suggesting a specific action of the diet on the serotonergic system. Therefore, the administration of a TRP-free amino acid diet offers a non-pharmacological means for effectively decreasing brain 5-HT release. This diet can be used to study the physiological and behavioral effects of reduced brain 5-HT function.
The type I insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-IR) is important for mitogenesis, transformation, and survival of tumor cells. The current study examines the effect of IGF-IR expression and activation on apoptosis in SHEP human neuroblastoma cells. SHEP cells undergo apoptosis which is prevented by IGF-I addition or overexpression of the IGF-IR (SHEP/IGF-IR cells). High mannitol treatment activates caspase-3 by 1 h in SHEP cells while caspase-3 activation is delayed by 3 h in SHEP/IGF-IR cells. Transfection with Bcl-2 (SHEP/Bcl-2 cells) prevents serum withdrawal and mannitol induced apoptosis and caspase-3 activation. Mannitol induces mitochondrial membrane depolarization in both SHEP and SHEP/IGF-IR cells. IGF-IR activation or overexpression of Bcl-2 in SHEP cells prevents mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Collectively, these results suggest that IGF-IR or Bcl-2 overexpression in neuroblastoma cells promotes cell survival by preventing mitochondrial membrane depolarization and caspase-3 activation, ultimately leading to increased tumor growth.
Neurofilaments (NFs) are composed of a heteropolymer of three related subunits in mammalian neurons, where they are a major component of the cytoskeleton in large neurons and are thought to regulate axonal diameter. NFs in the lamprey, while ultrastructurally and functionally indistinguishable from mammalian NFs, are polymers of a single subunit protein, NF180. In this study, we use the simplicity of lamprey NFs and the accessibility of the lamprey central nervous system (CNS) to examine the effects of overproducing NFs in an identified giant neuron in vivo, and thus to elucidate the role of NFs in regulating neuronal size and axonal caliber in the vertebrate CNS. We show that overexpression of NF180 tagged with a variant of Green Fluorescent Protein (EYFP) in identified lamprey neurons (ABCs) and in human neuroblastoma (NB2a) cells results in the assembly of exogenous NF180 into ultrastructurally normal NFs that are tightly packed and unphosphorylated. These accumulate in the somata of NB2a cells and produce somatic swelling by 3 days post-transfection. NF180 overexpression in lamprey ABCs in vivo causes exogenous NFs to accumulate in ABC axons, somata, and dendrites, and induces a significant increase in axonal diameter without increasing axonal NF packing density. Overexpression of EYFP alone has none of these effects. We conclude that NF180 normally plays a critical role in determining axonal caliber in ABCs and may influence neuronal size in situations where NFs accumulate in the soma, such as after axonal injury.
Apoptosis is a form of programmed cell death that occurs in neurons during development of the nervous system and may also be a prominent form of neuronal death in chronic neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recent findings also implicate apoptosis in neuronal degeneration after ischemic brain injury in animal models of stroke. Activation of both apoptotic and antiapoptotic signaling cascades occurs in neurons in animal and cell culture models of stroke. Apoptotic cascades involve: increased levels of intracellular oxyradicals and calcium; induction of expression of proteins such as Par-4 (prostate apoptosis response-4), which act by promoting mitochondrial dysfunction and suppressing antiapoptotic mechanisms; mitochondrial membrane depolarization, calcium uptake, and release of factors (e.g., cytochrome c) that ultimately induce nuclear DNA condensation and fragmentation; activation of cysteine proteases of the caspase family; activation of transcription factors such as AP-1 that may induce expression of &quot;killer genes.&quot; Antiapoptotic signaling pathways are activated by neurotrophic factors, certain cytokines, and increases in oxidative and metabolic stress. Such protective pathways include: activation of the transcription factors (e.g., nuclear factor-kappa B, NF-kappa B) that induce expression of stress proteins, antioxidant enzymes, and calcium-regulating proteins; phosphorylation-mediated modulation of ion channels and membrane transporters; cytoskeletal alterations that modulate calcium homeostasis; and modulation of proteins that stabilize mitochondrial function (e.g., Bcl-2). Intervention studies in experimental stroke models have identified a battery of approaches of potential benefit in reducing neuronal death in stroke patients, including administration of antioxidants, calcium-stabilizing agents, caspase inhibitors, and agents that activate NF-kappa B. Interestingly, recent studies suggest novel dietary approaches (e.g., food restriction and supplementation with antioxidants) that may reduce brain damage following stroke.
Using the mdx mouse model for human Duchenne muscular dystrophy we have shown that a cell population residing in the dermis of C57B1/10ScSn mouse skin is capable of converting to a myogenic lineage when implanted into the mdx muscle environment. It was important to determine the characteristics of the converting cell. A previous in vitro study indicated that 10% of cells underwent conversion but only when the cells were grown in medium previously harvested from a myogenic culture. In the present study we cloned cells derived from the dermis to identify the converting cells. Clones grown in normal growth medium showed no conversion, but when grown in medium conditioned by muscle cells around 40% conversion was achieved in several individual clones. We investigated whether the protein beta-galactoside binding protein (betaGBP), which is secreted by myoblasts and acts as a cell growth regulator of fibroblasts. could be a candidate factor responsible for conversion. Medium harvested from COS-1 cells infected with a construct containing betaGBP has been used for this investigation. Growth of dermal fibroblasts in medium enriched with this factor showed a high rate of conversion to cells expressing muscle-specific factors.
Transient cortical depolarization is implicated in the pathology of migraine. SB-220453 is a potent anti-convulsant which inhibits neurogenic inflammation and cortical spreading depression (SD)-evoked nitric oxide release via a novel but unknown mechanism. This study further investigates the effects of SB-220453 on generation and propagation of repetitive SD in the anaesthetized cat. Vehicle or SB-220453 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg was administered intraperitoneally 90 min prior to induction of SD in the suprasylvian gyrus (SG). Changes in d.c. potential were recorded in the SG and the adjacent marginal gyrus (MG). In vehicle-treated animals (n = 7), a brief exposure (6 min) to KCl induced a median (25-75% range) number of five (four to six) and three (two to four) depolarizations over a duration of 55 min (32-59 min) and 51 min (34-58 min) in the SG and MG, respectively. SB-220453 produced dose-related inhibition of the number of events and period of repetitive SD activity. SB-220453 also reduced SD-induced repetitive pial vasodilatation but had no effect on resting haemodynamics. However, when SD events were observed in the presence of SB-220453, it had no effect on metabolic coupling. These results show that SB-220453 produces marked inhibition of repetitive SD in the anaesthetized cat. SB-220453 may therefore have therapeutic potential in treatment of SD-like activity in migraine.
The processing of single words that varied in their semantic (concrete/abstract word) and syntactic (content/function word) status was investigated under different task demands (semantic/ syntactic task) in an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment. Task demands to a large degree determined which subparts of the neuronal network supporting word processing were activated. Semantic task demands selectively activated the left pars triangularis of the inferior frontal gyrus (BA 45) and the posterior part of the left middle/superior temporal gyrus (BA 21/22/37). In contrast, syntactic processing requirements led to an increased activation in the inferior tip of the left frontal operculum (BA 44) and the cortex lining the junction of the inferior frontal and inferior precentral sulcus (BA 44/6). Moreover, for these latter areas a word class by concreteness interaction was observed when a syntactic judgement was required. This interaction can be interpreted as a prototypicality effect: non-prototypical members of a word class, i.e. concrete function words and abstract content words, showed a larger activation than prototypical members, i.e. abstract function words and concrete content words. The combined data suggest that the activation pattern underlying word processing is predicted neither by syntactic class nor semantic concreteness but, rather, by task demands focusing either on semantic or syntactic aspects. Thus, our findings that semantic and syntactic aspects of processing are both functionally distinct and involve different subparts of the neuronal network underlying word processing support a domain-specific organization of the language system.
As cognitive neuroscience and developmental neurobiology advance, it is important that these advances be applied to the study of children and childhood disorders. Basic and pathophysiologic studies of the many forms of ADHD and possible causes, and studies of genes and gene environment interactions, are critical for an adequate understanding of this heterogeneous disorder. To date, most studies seem to have implicitly assumed that ADHD was immutable and all inborn, perhaps in part because of the high heritabilities. It is hoped that the next generation of research and researchers will tackle these formidable challenges, undertake the necessary longitudinal studies of early attention development and regulation, and link these studies to basic neuroscience research in animal models using the new tools available through molecular genetics and neuroimaging.
Mexiletine is an antiarrhythmic drug that has been reported to exert antidystonic properties. We performed an open-label study to collect further evidence of the antidystonic effect of mexiletine in spasmodic torticollis (ST) and to evaluate its possible use in generalized dystonia. We administered mexiletine to six patients with dystonia (three with generalized dystonia and three with ST) who had failed to respond to previous pharmacotherapy. The drug was started at a dose of 200 mg/d by mouth and increased up to a maximum dose of 800 mg/d. Patients were evaluated at regular intervals over a 6-week period with use of the Fahn &amp; Marsden Dystonia Scale and the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS) and videotaped. At the end of the trial, the videotapes were reviewed and scored by a blind observer. Patients were then followed for at least 1 year and evaluated every 3 months at the dose reached during the study period. No adverse effects were reported in five patients; in one patient, dizziness developed at the dosage of 800 mg/d, requiring a reduction of the dose. At the end of a 6-week period, a significant improvement in the rating scale for dystonia and in videotape ratings was observed after mexiletine treatment (p &lt; 0.01). Our data indicate that mexiletine is a useful drug in dystonia treatment.


The functional IL-5 receptor is a heteromeric complex consisting of an alpha and beta subunit. The cloning, sequencing and expression of guinea-pig IL-5Ralpha and beta subunits is described. The guinea-pig IL-5Ralpha subunit cDNA encodes a protein of M(r)47 kDa, which is 72 and 66% homologous to the human and murine orthologs, respectively. Three guinea-pig IL-5Rbeta subunit cDNA clones were isolated, which differ in the N-terminus and are 56-64% homologous to the human and murine IL-5Rbeta subunits. Expressing human IL-5Ralphabeta and guinea-pig IL-5Ralphabeta(1)in the baculovirus-insect cell system resulted in recombinant receptors which bound hIL-5 with high affinity (K(d)=0.19 and 0.11 nM, respectively). Expressing just gpIL-5Ralpha was not sufficient to demonstrate binding. This contrasts with the human receptor, where hIL-5Ralpha alone can bind hIL-5 with high affinity. gpIL-5Ralphabeta(1)bound both hIL-5 and mIL-5 with comparable affinity (K(i)=0.10 and 0.06 nM), similar to that seen with hIL-5Ralphabeta. Thus, both the heteromeric hIL-5R and gpIL-5Ralphabeta(1)can bind multiple IL-5 orthologs with high affinity whereas the murine IL-5R is selective for the murine ligand.
Children with developmental language impairment (LI) are defined partly by the absence of other identifiable neurological diagnoses. Such children are generally considered to be neurologically normal, but no systematic studies of neurological function have been reported. We obtained detailed medical histories and conducted neurological examinations for 72 children aged 5 to 14 years with LI and 82 typically developing age-matched control children. All the children took a standardized test of language, and those who were at least 8 years old and were willing to have brain MRI scans (35 children with LI and 27 control children) had scans. Analysis of developmental milestones from the medical histories revealed that children with LI were not only significantly later in speaking, but also mildly but significantly delayed in motor milestones, particularly walking. On neurological examination, abnormalities were found in 70% of the children with LI and only 22% of the control children. The most common abnormalities in the LI group included obligatory synkinesis, fine motor impairments, and hyperreflexia. The children with LI with the most abnormal neurological findings had the lowest language scores. Finally, 12 of 35 children with LI had abnormalities on their MRI scan, while none of the 27 control children had abnormal scans. Abnormal findings included ventricular enlargement (in five), central volume loss (in three), and white matter abnormalities (in four). These findings suggest that developmental LI is not an isolated finding but is indicative of more widespread nervous system dysfunction. Children with LI may need more comprehensive intervention programs than language therapy alone, depending on their other areas of dysfunction. Early identification of such problems may allow for more successful remediation.
Developmental Psychobiology publishes papers from the disciplines of psychology, biology, neuroscience, and medicine that contribute to an understanding of behavioral development. Research focuses on development in the embryo/fetus, neonate, juvenile, and adult as well as multidisciplinary research that relates behavioral development to anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, genetics, and evolution. The journal represents a broad phylogenetic perspective on behavioral development by including studies on invertebrates, fish, birds, non-human primates, and humans. This paper presents an analysis of empirical articles published since its first issue in 1968. This analysis covers number of authors, sex of first author; evidence of grant support, and participation of investigators from outside the US. Additionally, the analysis includes the topic of research, level of analysis, and subject of experimental study. Over its 32-year history, Developmental Psychobiology has published papers on a wide range of topics representing a broad phylogenetic perspective with a continued focus on behavioral investigation. This analysis revealed trends such as an increase in the number of studies at a physiology/anatomy level, an increase in studies with human subjects, and increases in contributions from investigators outside of the United States as well as women.
We examined the role of Delta signaling in specification of two derivatives in zebrafish neural plate: Rohon-Beard spinal sensory neurons and neural crest. deltaA-expressing Rohon-Beard neurons are intermingled with premigratory neural crest cells in the trunk lateral neural plate. Embryos homozygous for a point mutation in deltaA, or with experimentally reduced delta signalling, have supernumerary Rohon-Beard neurons, reduced trunk-level expression of neural crest markers and lack trunk neural crest derivatives. Fin mesenchyme, a putative trunk neural crest derivative, is present in deltaA mutants, suggesting it segregates from other neural crest derivatives as early as the neural plate stage. Cranial neural crest derivatives are also present in deltaA mutants, revealing a genetic difference in regulation of trunk and cranial neural crest development.
Avian trunk neural crest cells give rise to a variety of cell types including neurons and satellite glial cells in peripheral ganglia. It is widely assumed that crest cell fate is regulated by environmental cues from surrounding embryonic tissues. However, it is not clear how such environmental cues could cause both neurons and glial cells to differentiate from crest-derived precursors in the same ganglionic locations. To elucidate this issue, we have examined expression and function of components of the NOTCH signaling pathway in early crest cells and in avian dorsal root ganglia. We have found that Delta1, which encodes a NOTCH ligand, is expressed in early crest-derived neuronal cells, and that NOTCH1 activation in crest cells prevents neuronal differentiation and permits glial differentiation in vitro. We also found that NUMB, a NOTCH antagonist, is asymmetrically segregated when some undifferentiated crest-derived cells in nascent dorsal root ganglia undergo mitosis. We conclude that neuron-glia fate determination of crest cells is regulated, at least in part, by NOTCH-mediated lateral inhibition among crest-derived cells, and by asymmetric cell division.
Relevant papers published in peer reviewed journals in the past 2 decades were identified and screened to abstract pertinent information. Substance dependence/addiction, involving both a common brain reward mechanism and longer-lasting molecular and cellular changes, is a preventable chronic, relapsing brain disease and as such a public health problem. Physical and psychological dependence, characterized by withdrawal syndrome, are now given less weight compared with compulsive behaviour and uncontrolled use of drugs in the comprehension of addiction. The challenging components of drug addictions, including counteradaptation, sensitization, abstinence, craving and relapse need further neurobiological and non-neurobiological exploration and understanding, which may be possible through the use of advanced imaging and genetic techniques and animal models of drug addiction together with relevant human studies.
Binge drinking at weekends is considered to be a predominant feature of alcohol consumption in the Nordic countries. Neurological diseases, such as seizures and stroke, have been reported to occur in temporal relation to alcohol intoxication and withdrawal. We wanted to investigate weekday variances in alcohol consumption in relation to the onset of neurological symptoms in these disorders. Consecutive patients admitted for epileptic seizures (n = 142) and ischemic strokes (n = 91) were included in the study. Control groups were consecutively hospitalized sciatica patients (n = 181), outpatients with epilepsy (n = 91), and healthy subjects (n = 254). The day-by-day alcohol intake during the 8 days prior to hospital admission was recorded. Seizures occurring in subjects with hazardous alcohol consumption, operationally defined by a score &gt; or =8 in the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT-positive) were considered to be related to alcohol use. Binge drinkers were identified by an alcohol intake, on at least 1 of the last 3 days, of &gt; or =6 standard units in men, or &gt; or =4 standard units in women. Thirty-five percent of seizure patients were AUDIT-positive, in contrast to 18% and 16% of stroke and sciatica patients, and 12% and 13% of epilepsy outpatients and healthy controls. Twenty-three percent of seizure patients were binge drinkers whereas in the other groups, this proportion did not exceed 10%. In all groups, alcohol consumption peaked on Saturdays. More seizures occurred on Mondays compared to Saturdays, with a diminishing trend through the week. However, AUDIT-negative seizure patients, of which binge drinking occurred in only 5%, caused this difference. AUDIT-positive seizure patients had a higher and more evenly distributed alcohol intake through the week, and the occurrence of seizures in this group did not differ significantly between days of the week. Alcohol consumption peaked 2 days prior to the onset of withdrawal seizures. The weekend drinking pattern was confirmed for all the study groups. Hazardous alcohol consumption preceded every third acute seizure, but was found in only one of eight outpatients with epilepsy. AUDIT-negative patients caused a peak of seizure admissions on Mondays, compared to Saturdays, with a diminishing trend through the week.
Limbic status epilepticus was induced in rats by unilateral 60-min electrical stimulation of the CA3 region of the ventral hippocampus. As assessed by RT-PCR followed by Southern blot analysis, transcripts of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist and inducible nitric oxide synthase were significantly increased 2 h after status epilepticus in the stimulated hippocampus. Induction was maximal at 6 h for interleukin-1beta (445%), interleukin-6 (405%) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (264%) and at 24 h for interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (494%) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (432%). In rats with spontaneous seizures (60 days after status epilepticus), interleukin-1beta mRNA was still higher than controls (241%). Immunocytochemical staining of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha was enhanced in glia with a time-course similar to that of the respective transcripts. Sixty days after status epilepticus, interleukin-1beta immunoreactivity was increased exclusively in neurons in one third of the animals. Multiple intracerebroventricular injections of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (0.5 microg/3 microL) significantly decreased the severity of behavioural convulsions during electrical stimulation and selectively reduced tumour necrosis factor-alpha content in the hippocampus measured 18 h after status epilepticus. Thus, the induction of spontaneously recurring seizures in rats involves the activation of inflammatory cytokines and related pro- and anti-inflammatory genes in the hippocampus. These changes may play an active role in hyperexcitability of the epileptic tissue.
This paper studies gamma-band responses from two implanted epileptic patients during a simple visual discrimination task. Our main aim was to ascertain, in a reliable manner, whether evoked (stimulus-locked) and induced (triggered by, but not locked to, stimuli) responses are present in intracranial recordings. For this purpose, we introduce new methods adapted to detect the presence of gamma responses at this level of recording, intermediary between EEG-scalp and unicellular responses. The analysis relies on a trial-by-trial time-frequency analysis and on the use of surrogate data for statistical testing. We report that visual stimulation reliably elicits evoked and induced responses in human intracranial recordings. Induced intracranial gamma activity is significantly present in short oscillatory bursts (a few cycles) following visual stimulation. These responses are highly variable from trial to trial, beginning after 200 ms and lasting up to 500 ms. In contrast, intracranial-evoked gamma responses concentrate around 100 ms latencies corresponding to evoked responses observed on the scalp. We discuss our results in relation to scalp gamma response in a similar protocol [Tallon-Baudry et al. (1996) J. Neurosci., 16, 4240-4249] and draw some conclusions for bridging the gap between gamma oscillations observed on the scalp surface and their possible cortical sources.
This study was aimed at determining (i) whether or not bilateral subtotal lesions of the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATH) in rodents produced memory deficits for spatial and/or non-spatial information and of auditory fear conditioning, and (ii) if these eventual deficits resemble those produced by chronic alcohol consumption (CAC). Working memory was assessed using both spatial (spontaneous alternation) and non-spatial (temporal alternation) delayed response tasks. Results showed that ATH lesions induced delay-dependent memory impairments in both spatial and non-spatial alternation tasks, as well as a decreased level of auditory and background contextual fear conditioning compared with respective controls. CAC did not induce accelerated rate of forgetting in the spatial and non-spatial tasks, but increased the vulnerability to interference in the spatial task. CAC impaired only background contextual fear conditioning. We conclude that ATH nuclei are involved in the maintenance of information over time, regardless of the nature (spatial vs. non-spatial) of the information, and play a role in associative processes for both unimodal (the tone) and polymodal (contextual) information. In contrast, ATH dysfunction does not account for the memory disorders induced by the CAC treatment. Our results contribute to showing that the functional overlap between the structures comprising the hippocampo-mamillo-thalamic pathway is only partial.
In recent years, the links between neural activity and perception have been an area of interest in cognitive neuroscience. Combined psychophysiological and psychophysical experiments provide a new powerful tool for establishing the relationship between neural activity and perceptual performance. In animals, intracellular recordings combined with psychophysical detection indices have revealed that a particular neuron or set of neurons can play a critical role in the generation of a perceptual event, showing detection functions (referred to as neurometric functions) which are remarkably similar to psychophysical detection functions, or psychometric functions (Parker &amp; Newsome, (1998) Annu. Rev. Neurosci. , 21, 227-277). As noninvasive techniques for recording neural activity are now available, studies combining neuroelectric and psychophysical measures in humans are sparse. In the present study, the accuracy of the human brain in detecting differences in sound duration and the subject's ability to perceive the same differences were tested by means of mismatch negativity (MMN) and the distance between the distributions of false alarms and hits (sensitivity index d'), respectively. It was found that the accuracy of the human auditory system to represent sound duration information is related to the duration context in which the sounds are heard, and that these contextual representations determine the accuracy of perception at the behavioural level.
This work aimed to study the responses of cuneothalamic and thalamocortical cells to electrical stimulation of the body surface in alpha-chloralose-anaesthetized cats. It was found that both classes of cells had a central excitatory receptive field, an edge overlapping the field centre whose stimulation elicited inhibitory-excitatory (cuneothalamic cells) and excitatory-inhibitory (thalamocortical cells) sequences, and a surrounding or peripheral area usually being inhibitory. Manipulating the descending corticofugal activity by removing the fronto-parietal cortex, electrical stimulation, or by placing picrotoxin or muscimol over the sensorimotor cortex demonstrated that the cortical feedback potentiated effects driven from the field centre and the surround. In particular this potentiated centre-driven excitation and surround-driven inhibition, but some of the data points to more complex patterns. The inhibition elicited in cuneothalamic cells from the edge and the surround of the field was faster than the excitation induced from the field centre. Effects at the edge of the field centre included late excitatory responses relayed via the cerebral cortex. There were also direct corticofugal excitatory inputs to the field centre. Excitatory surrounds were occasionally observed, the assumption being that in most cases these were suppressed by the enhanced inhibition driven from the cortex. The data indicate that the cortico-subcortical feedback contributes not only to enhance the surround antagonism of a centre response but also to increase the time resolution of thalamic and cuneate relay somesthetic neurons.
This report characterizes an in vivo intracerebral long-distance diffusion model using dual-probe microdialysis. Two probes 1 mm apart were implanted into the striatum of control and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned halothane-anaesthetized male rats. Either tritiated dopamine (500 nM 3H-DA) or mannitol (1.5 microM 3H-mannitol) was infused continuously for 5 h, while samples were collected from the other probe. Samples (10 microl) were counted by liquid scintillation. For the DA-infused rats, another 10 microL was separated with high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)-electrochemical detection into individual fractions containing 3,4-dihydroxy phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillinic acid (HVA), and counted for beta-decay. The total transfer of 3H-labelled compounds described the overall effect of cellular uptake, metabolism and clearance into the microcirculation, and was compared with that of an extracellular marker, 3H-mannitol. The migration reached steady-state levels, generating an equilibrium between delivery and removal from the extracellular space. The half-time of the steady-state values, t50%, was in all cases lower in 6-OHDA-treated rats compared with control. In addition, the t50% values of 3H-mannitol were lower than those following the 3H-dopamine infusion in both control or 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. However, it was not possible to detect any unmetabolized 3H-dopamine at the 1 mm distance. In conclusion, the dual-probe microdialysis approach proved to be a valid method to study in vivo diffusion and migration in the brain, and the intracerebral spread of compounds highly depends on the nature of the compound infused.
In order to determine the embryonic age at which the hodological phenotype developed by neocortical cells is specified, we have examined the spinal or tectal projections developed by embryonic (E) grafts of presumptive frontal or occipital neocortex placed into the frontal or occipital neocortex of newborn host rats. Grafts of E13, E14 and E16 cells of the frontal cortex transplanted into the occipital cortex of newborns are capable of developing and maintaining in adulthood a spinal cord axon. Grafts of E12 cells do not project to the spinal cord but send fibres to the superficial layers of the tectum. In addition, following transplantation into the frontal cortex, early embryonic (E12) cells from the presumptive occipital cortex are capable of differentiating into neurons with spinal cord projection but are practically incapable of developing a tectal projection. When grafted at E14 into the frontal cortex, occipital cells lose the capacity to project to the spinal cord but become able to send fibres to the tectum. Taken together, these findings indicate that young (E12) embryonic frontal and occipital cortical cells are competent to subsequently differentiate into neurons projecting to the spinal cord or tectum according to instructive signals available in the cortical territory where they complete their development. By E13/E14, some cortical cells are specified and their capacity to contact targets that are not appropriate to their embryonic origin is much reduced. These findings are consistent with the notion that cortical specification involves progressive restriction in cell multipotentiality and fate specification toward region-specific phenotypes.
Four related genes encoding a family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have been isolated from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The coding regions of this family of receptors share 97-99% sequence similarity at both the protein and nucleotide level, and they also share high sequence identity with vertebrate galanin and orphanin-FQ/nociceptin GPCR families. Analysis of the promoter regions reveals shared domains, some of which encode highly conserved repeating units. One 27-bp repeating unit, which encodes a c-AMP response element (CRE) and binds CREB protein, is repeated 14 times in one promoter. In situ hybridization showed expression of these receptors in identified neurons of several behaviourly important networks including those involved in feeding and ion and water regulation. These Lymnaea receptors are likely to represent members of a novel family of invertebrate neuropeptide receptors extensively regulated in response to intracellular signalling cascades.
Neuropathic pain is a disabling feature of peripheral nerve injury. Following injury, local inflammation and the release of mediators may contribute to ectopic mechanosensitivity of the nerve-trunk and pain hypersensitivity. In the present study we investigated whether nitric oxide (NO) action and local nitric oxide synthase (NOS) expression play a role in pain hypersensitivity and A fibre-mediated ectopic hyperexcitability following a chronic constriction injury to a rat sciatic nerve. Using immunohistochemical methods we provide evidence for a unique endothelial constitutive nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) immunoreactivity localized in early axonal endbulb-like structures of injured peripheral nerve axons. Moreover, we show that following nerve injury there is increased ecNOS-mRNA expression within the lumbar sympathetic ganglia, and that axoplasmic transport in sympathetic and other axons rather than local non-neural synthesis accounts for its accumulation in nerve fibres. We also demonstrate here that local inhibition of NOS action with the broad-spectrum inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME), but not more specific inhibitors of other NOS isoforms, has stereospecific, dose- and time-dependent analgesic effects that were reversed by local administration of L-arginine, the natural precursor of NO. In further work, using a teased fibre preparation, we show that administration of L-NAME, but not D-NAME, to the injury site also blocks ectopic mechanosensitivity of injured A-fibres. Our results indicate that an early and transient local ecNOS expression within early axonal endbulb-like structures, some arising from sympathetic axons, plays a critical role in the development of neuropathic pain.
This study shows that unilateral transection of the infraorbital nerve (ION) in newborn (P0) rats induces apoptosis in the contralateral ventrobasal thalamic (VB) complex, as evidenced by terminal transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labelling (TUNEL) and electron miscroscopy. Double-labelling experiments using retrograde transport of labelled microspheres injected into the barrel cortex, followed by TUNEL staining, show that TUNEL-positive cells are thalamocortical neurons. The number of TUNEL-positive cells had begun to increase by 24 h postlesion, increased further 48 h after nerve section, and decreased to control levels after 120 h. Lesion-induced apoptosis in the VB complex is less pronounced if ION section is performed at P4, and disappears if the lesion is performed at P7. This time course closely matches the critical period of lesion-induced plasticity in the barrel cortex. Nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), applied on the ION stump alone or in combination, are able to partially rescue thalamic neurons from apoptosis. Total cell counts in the VB complex of P7 animals that underwent ION section at P0 confirm the rescuing effect of BDNF and NGF. Blockade of axonal transport in the ION mimics the effect of ION section. These data suggest that survival-promoting signals from the periphery, maybe neurotrophins, are required for the survival of higher-order neurons in the somatosensory system during the period of fine-tuning of neuronal connections. We also propose that anterograde transneuronal degeneration in the neonatal rat trigeminal system may represent a new animal model for studying the pathways of programmed cell death in vivo.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a member of the vasointestinal polypeptide gene family for which neurotrophic activity has been postulated. PACAP mRNA is expressed in the developing and adult hippocampus, which is the principal target region of septal cholinergic neurons. We therefore studied the effects of PACAP on septal cholinergic neurons. In primary cultures from septum of embryonic and postnatal rats, PACAP increased the number of neurons immunohistochemically stained for the low-affinity nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor p75 and for the enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). PACAP also caused a corresponding increase in ChAT activity. In comparison, NGF had a greater effect than PACAP on the number of p75- and ChAT-positive neurons in these cultures. In vivo, following fimbria fornix transection, the number of immunohistochemically stained septal cholinergic neurons fell significantly to 18% in rats given continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of vehicle, whereas in rats given NGF the number of these neurons did not differ significantly from unoperated controls. In PACAP-treated rats the number was 48% of unoperated values, which represented a significant increase compared with vehicle-treated rats and a significant decrease compared with NGF-treated rats or unoperated controls. Double-staining experiments revealed that most ChAT-positive neurons in rat medial septum also express PACAP receptor 1. Together the results show that PACAP promotes the survival of septal cholinergic neurons in vitro, and after injury in vivo, suggesting that PACAP acts as a neurotrophic factor influencing the development and maintenance of these neurons.
Dopamine transporter imaging is a valuable tool to investigate the integrity of the dopaminergic neurons. To date, several reports have shown an age-associated decline in dopamine transporters in healthy volunteers. Although animal studies suggest an effect of gender on dopamine transporter density, this gender effect has not yet been confirmed in human studies. To study the influence of age and gender on dopamine transporter imaging in healthy volunteers, we performed single-photon emission tomography imaging with [123I]FP-CIT to quantify dopamine transporters. Forty-five healthy volunteers (23 males and 22 females) were included, ranging in age from 18 to 83 years. SPET imaging was performed 3 h after injection of +/-110 MBq [123I]FP-CIT. An operator-independent volume of interest analysis was used for quantification of [123I]FP-CIT binding in the striatum. The ratio of specific striatal to non-specific [123I]FP-CIT binding was found to decrease significantly with age. Moreover, we found a high variance in [123I]FP-CIT binding in young adults. Finally, females were found to have significantly higher [123I]FP-CIT binding ratios than males. This effect of gender on [123I]FP-CIT binding ratios was not related to age. The results of this study are consistent with findings from previous studies, which showed that dopamine transporter density declines with age. The intriguing finding of a higher dopamine transporter density in females than in males is in line with findings from animal studies.
We report an event-related functional magnetic-resonance-imaging (fMRI) experiment that investigates the relationship of transient visual object memory, visuospatial orienting, and object recognition. Delayed object matching and visuospatial orienting involved a highly overlapping network of brain areas. Common areas were the frontal eye fields (FEF), the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA)/SMA complex, the precentral gyri, and the horizontal and descending branches of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Selective delay activation was observed anterior to the FEF and in the ascending part of the IPS. Right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was involved in goal-directed visual search, but showed no delay activity.
Working memory refers to the short-term retention of information that is no longer accessible in the environment, and the manipulation of this information, for subsequent use in guiding behavior. In this review, we will present data from a series of event-related functional magnetic-resonance-imaging (fMRI) studies of delayed-response tasks that were designed to investigate the role of different regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during different working-memory component processes. From these data, we conclude that: (1) lateral PFC is anatomically organized according to the types of cognitive operations that one performs when attempting to temporarily maintain and manipulate information; and (2) consistent with the picture that has emerged from the monkey electrophysiological literature, human lateral PFC is involved in several encoding- and response-related processes as well as mnemonic and nonmnemonic processes that are engaged during the temporary maintenance of information. Thus, lateral PFC activity cannot be ascribed to the function of a single, unitary cognitive operation.
The molecular, biochemical and cellular events that result in synaptic dysfunction and neuronal degeneration in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are becoming known. Age-related increases in cellular oxidative stress, and impairment of energy metabolism, result in disruption of neuronal calcium homeostasis and increased vulnerability of neurons to excitotoxicity and apoptosis. Inherited forms of AD that result from mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins accelerate the neurodegenerative cascade by increasing production and deposition of neurotoxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide and by perturbing calcium homeostasis. Dietary restriction (DR; reduced calorie intake with maintained nutrition) extends life span of rodents and (probably) humans. DR increases resistance of neurons to dysfunction and degeneration, and improves behavioral outcome, in experimental models of AD and other age-related neurodegenerative disorders by a mechanism involving a mild stress response. Telomerase, a specialized reverse transcriptase, has been proposed to possess anti-aging properties. The catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) is expressed in neurons throughout the brain during development, but is absent from neurons in the adult brain. TERT exhibits neuroprotective properties in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders suggesting that manipulations that induce telomerase in neurons may protect against age-related neurodegeneration. Finally, the exciting and exploding field of stem cell research suggests methods for replacing damaged or lost brain cells in an array of neurological disorders.
Long-term attached cultures, prepared from mouse embryonic days 15-17 lateral ganglionic eminence, were grown in a medium including epidermal growth factor and serum, and the survival, differentiation, and migration of cells from either early or late passages were analyzed following transplantation. The cultured cells had the morphology of type I astroglial cells, with the vast majority of the cells immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (around 90%), the intermediate filament marker nestin, and also the mouse-specific neural markers M2 and M6. The cultures were kept over 25 passages (7 months). During the first 8 passages, the growth rate gradually declined, but it increased again after passage 9 and thereafter stabilized at values similar to those observed during the initial culture period. After passages 4-6 and 18, cell suspensions were implanted cross-species into the intact or lesioned striatum of adult (passages 4-5 only) or intact striatum of neonatal rats (passages 4-6 or 18). Both early and late passage cells formed M2 (and M6)-positive transplants. In the neonatal recipients, widespread migration was seen from the needle tract throughout most of the striatum, along the internal capsule, and into the globus pallidus. In the adult striatum, the cells remained mostly around the injection tract, or within 0.4-0.6 mm from the graft core. These long-term attached cultures are interesting to compare to nonattached neurosphere cultures, and might also offer a means of propagating relatively pure populations of astroglia-like cells for basic transplantation studies or for use in experimental trials with ex vivo gene transfer.
Grafting of ventral mesencephalic tissue in Parkinson's disease results in a partial dopaminergic reinnervation of host brain and dopamine agonist-induced rotational behavior is not completely reversed. To study a possible malfunction of the grafts, extracellular recordings with local applications of quinpirole were utilized and the neurophysiological results showed that a normalization of the upregulated dopamine D2 receptor supersensitivity occurred in reinnervated areas of the host striatum as well as in noninnervated areas remote from the graft innervation. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects on striatal nerve cell firing rate by the D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297 were not different in noninnervated or reinnervated areas of the striatum compared to the control side as seen from the dose-response curves. However, spontaneous striatal neuronal firing was significantly upregulated in noninnervated areas, while it was normalized in areas reached by graft-derived nerve fibers. Dual-probe microdialysis studying potassium-evoked glutamate release revealed that there was no difference in extracellular glutamate levels measured within or lateral to graft dopamine reinnervation. Thus, the upregulated spontaneous activity was not due to a difference in extracellular glutamate levels. The remaining rotational behavior seen after grafting was studied and recordings were performed in the striatum following systemic injection of the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine. The results revealed that apomorphine at the dose used to elicit turning behavior (0.05 mg/kg) still affected striatal neurons in noninnervated areas, while no effect was detected in reinnervated areas and in the intact side. However, a lower dose of apomorphine (0.005 mg/kg) showed no effects on striatal firing in graft reinnervated striata but only after dopamine depletion. In conclusion, the D2 supersensitivity is downregulated in graft-reinnervated striatum as well as in striatal areas lateral to the reinnervation when using selective D2 agonists, but the downregulation is not completely normalized when studying combined effects of D1/D2 agonists. Furthermore, the striatal neurons were firing significantly faster in noninnervated areas compared to reinnervated areas of graft-reinnervated striatum, which was most likely not due to changes in the glutamatergic input.
One of the drawbacks with fetal ventral mesencephalic (VM) grafts in Parkinson's disease is the limited outgrowth into the host striatum. In order to enhance graft outgrowth, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) were administered by implantation of bioactive rods to the lateral part of the striatum to support grafted fetal VM implanted to the medial portion of the striatum. The polymer-based bioactive rods allow for a local secretion of neurotrophic factors over a time period of approximately 2 weeks. Moreover, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1) were administered using the same technique. Concomitant administration of GDNF and TGFbeta1 was achieved by insertion of one GDNF and one TGFbeta1 rod. This was performed to investigate possible additive effects between GDNF and TGFbeta1. Rotational behavior, outgrowth from and nerve fiber density within the VM graft, and the number of TH-positive cells were studied. Functional compensation by reduction of rotational behavior was significantly enhanced in animals carrying bFGF and GDNF rods in comparison with animals carrying only VM graft. EGF and bFGF significantly increased the innervation density. Moreover, the nerve fiber density within the grafts was significantly enhanced by bFGF. Cell counts showed that a significantly higher number of TH-positive neurons was found in grafts treated with bFGF than that found in GDNF-treated grafts. An additive effect of TGFbeta1 and GDNF was not detectable. These results suggest that bioactive rods is a useful tool to deliver neurotrophic factors into the brain, and since bFGF was a potent factor concerning both functional, immunohistochemical and cell survival results, it might be of interest to use bFGF-secreting rods for enhancing the overall outcome of VM grafts into patients suffering from Parkinson's disease.
Major practical constraints on neural grafting in Parkinson's disease are the shortage of human donor tissue and the great loss of dopamine neurons during the grafting procedure. The vast majority of implanted embryonic dopamine neurons are believed to die within a few days of transplantation surgery, at least in part through apoptosis. We have previously found that survival of nigral grafts in rodents can be significantly augmented by pretreatment with the caspase inhibitor Ac-YVAD-cmk or by lazaroids (lipid peroxidation inhibitors). We now report that pretreatment with the caspase inhibitor Ac-DEVD-cmk, but not z-VAD-fmk, results in a significantly improved survival of transplanted dopamine neurons of similar magnitude to that achieved in this study using Ac-YVAD-cmk (both 220-230% of control). In addition, we found that treatment of the graft tissue with tirilazad mesylate (a lazaroid allowed for clinical use) almost doubled the survival of grafted dopamine neurons. When Ac-YVAD-cmk and tirilazad mesylate treatments were combined, the number of surviving dopamine neurons increased significantly further to 280% of control. Importantly, the same combination of neuroprotectants enhanced the survival of human dopamine neurons xenotransplanted to immunosuppressed rats (to 240% of control). In conclusion, these results suggest that combining treatments that counteract oxidative stress and caspase activation is a valuable strategy to enhance nigral graft survival that should be considered for clinical application.
We examined the effects of the immunophilin ligands and calcineurin inhibitors FK506 and cyclosporin A on the survival of rat embryonic dopamine (tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive) neurons. The protective effects of FK506 and cyclosporin A were first studied in dissociated mesencephalic cell cultures subjected to serum deprivation. Significant increases in both the total number of surviving mesencephalic cells and the number of surviving TH-immunoreactive neurons were observed when FK506 or cyclosporin A was present following withdrawal of serum from the culture medium. In a second series of experiments, FK506 increased the survival of dopamine neurons when added only to a hibernation medium in which donor tissue pieces were stored for 7 days prior to preparation of the cultures. In a third set of experiments, we investigated the effects of FK506 and cyclosporin A on the survival of grafted rat embryonic dopamine neurons. When FK506 or cyclosporin A was present during tissue preparation and in the final mesencephalic cell suspension used for grafting, the survival of TH-immunoreactive neurons implanted in the striatum increased to around 185% of control values. In contrast, treatment of graft recipient rats, but not the graft suspension itself, with immunosuppressive doses of FK506 or cyclosporin A did not augment the survival of grafted TH-immunoreactive neurons. We conclude that administration of FK506 during storage of embryonic mesencephalic tissue and FK506 or cyclosporin A during preparation of nigral cell suspensions used for grafting can increase the survival of grafted embryonic dopamine neurons.
Neurotrophic effects of immunophilin ligands have been shown in animal models of peripheral and central nervous system insult. To investigate the specific growth-promoting effects of these compounds, we examined the effects of various immunophilin ligands on primary dopamine (DA) neurons in culture and compared these with a well-known DA trophic factor, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). In neuronal cultures from Embryonic Day 14 ventral mesencephalon, enhanced elongation of DA neurites was observed with immunophilin ligands, which inhibited the phosphatase activity of calcineurin (FK506 and cyclosporin A) when compared to vehicle-treated cultures. This elongation was also observed with GDNF, known to exert its trophic effects through phosphorylation-dependent pathways. In contrast, immunophilin ligands that do not inhibit calcineurin (rapamycin and V-10,367) increased branching of DA neurites, suggesting that elongation is dependent upon maintained phosphorylation while branching is not. In addition, both V-10,367 and rapamycin antagonized the elongation effects of FK506 and induced branching. The antagonism of elongation (and reappearance of branching) illustrates the intrinsic abilities of developing DA neurons to either elongate or branch, but not both. We show that the immunophilin FKBP12 (12-kDa FK506-binding protein) is expressed in ventral mesencephalic neuronal cultures and colocalizes with DA neurons. This work elucidates the specific growth-promoting effects by which GDNF and immunophilin ligands modify developmental growth processes of DA neurons, via their interactions with intracellular targets.
Following injury to central nervous tissues, damaged neurons are unable to regenerate their axons spontaneously. Implantation of peripheral nerves into the CNS, however, does result in axonal regeneration into these transplants and is one of the most powerful strategies to promote CNS regeneration. In the present study implantation of peripheral nerve bridges following dorsal hemisection is combined with ex vivo gene transfer with adenoviral vectors encoding neurotrophin-3 (Ad-NT-3) to examine whether this would stimulate regeneration of one of the long descending tracts of the spinal cord, the corticospinal tract (CST), into and beyond the peripheral nerve implant. We chose to use an adenoviral vector encoding NT-3 because CST axons are sensitive to this neurotrophin and Schwann cells in peripheral nerve implants do not express this neurotrophin. At 16 weeks postimplantation of Ad-NT-3-transduced intercostal nerves, approximately three- to fourfold more of the anterogradely traced corticospinal tract fibers had regrown their axons through gray matter below the lesion site when compared to control animals. Regrowth of CST fibers occurred over more than 8 mm distal to the lesion site. No regenerating CST fibers were, however, observed into the transduced peripheral implant. Animals with a peripheral nerve transduced with Ad-NT-3 also exhibited improved function of the hindlimbs when compared to control animals treated with an adenoviral vector encoding LacZ. Thus, transient overexpression of NT-3 in peripheral nerve tissue bridges is apparently sufficient to stimulate regrowth of CST fibers and to promote recovery of hindlimb function, but does not result in regeneration of CST fibers into such transplants. Taken together, combining an established neurotransplantation approach with viral vector-gene transfer promotes the regrowth of injured CST fibers through gray matter and improves the recovery of hindlimb function.
The receptor responsible for CGRP-induced ion transport and permeability was examined in tissues from animals treated 7 days previously with trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid to induce colitis or in controls. CGRP caused a concentration-dependent increase in short circuit current (I(sc), EC(50) 21 nM), which was abolished in chloride-free buffer but was not blocked by CGRP(8-37) or tetrodotoxin (TTX). Amylin and adrenomedullin caused only a modest increase in I(sc). The responses to the linear CGRP(2) receptor agonists [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha and [Cys(Acm)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha were considerably smaller than the response to CGRP. These responses were abolished in chloride-free buffer and were TTX sensitive. Atropine, doxantrazole, and indomethacin did not block the effects of CGRP or the CGRP(2) agonists. The response to [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha was not affected by prior desensitization of the CGRP receptor and vice versa. Inflamed rats had a similar secretory response to CGRP (I(sc), EC(50) 15 nM) and [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha as control tissues, while being hyporesponsive to carbachol. CGRP application increased electrical conductance of inflamed preparations. Taken together, these data suggest that CGRP may play an important role in the maintenance of host defense in colitis through an apparently novel CGRP receptor located on the colonic enterocyte.
Mechanisms accounting for the cellular entry of calcium that mediates cellular proliferation and apoptosis have been obscure. Previously we reported selective augmentation of type 3 inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)R3) in lymphocytes undergoing programmed cell death, which was prevented by antisense constructs to IP(3)R3. We now report increases in mRNA and protein levels for IP(3)R3 associated with cell death in several apoptotic paradigms in diverse tissues. Elevations of IP(3)R3 occur during developmental apoptosis in early postnatal cerebellar granule cells, dorsal root ganglia, embryonic hair follicles, and intestinal villi. Neurotoxic damage elicited by the glutamate agonist kainate is also associated with IP(3)R3 augmentation. In chick dorsal root ganglia neurons undergoing apoptosis due to deprivation of nerve growth factor, levels of IP(3)R3 are selectively increased and cell death is selectively prevented by antisense oligonucleotides to IP(3)R3. Thus, IP(3)R3 appears to participate actively in cell death in a diversity of tissues.
In cognitive neuroscience different methods are used to study central nervous information processing. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive, well tolerated technique to interfere with cortical neuronal activity with high temporal and fair spatial resolution. In the past 10 years the use of TMS expanded from its application as a diagnostic routine procedure in neurology to the study of various cognitive functions. In this paper the physical and technical aspects of TMS and studies on the effects of single pulse versus repetitive TMS in the motor cortex are reviewed. Then, research on visual perception and attention is presented and studies on higher cognitive functions, such as speech, memory, and emotions are discussed.

Recombinant adenovirus vectors have provided a major advance in gene delivery systems for post-mitotic neurons. However, the use of these first generation vectors has been limited due to the onset of virally mediated effects on cellular function and viability. In the present study we have used primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons to examine the efficacy and cytotoxic effects of a helper-dependent adenovirus vector (hdAd) in comparison with a first generation vector. Our results demonstrate that the hdAd system provides equally efficient infectivity with significantly reduced toxicity in comparison to first generation vectors. Neurons transduced with a high titre of a first generation vector exhibited a time-dependent shut down in global protein synthesis and impaired physiological function as demonstrated by a loss of glutamate receptor responsiveness. This was followed by an increase in the fraction of TUNEL-positive cells and a loss of neuronal survival. In contrast, hdAds could be used at titres that transduce &gt;85% of neurons with little cytotoxic effect: cellular glutamate receptor responses and rates of protein synthesis were indistinguishable from uninfected controls. Furthermore, cell viability was not significantly affected for at least 7 days after infection. At excessive viral titres, however, infection with hdAd did cause moderate but significant changes in cell function and viability in primary neuronal cultures. Thus, while these vectors are remarkably improved over first generation vectors, these also have limitations with respect to viral effects on cellular function and viability. Gene Therapy (2000) 7, 1200-1209.
The peripheral delivery of drugs in patients affected by central nervous system (CNS)-confined diseases is therapeutically ineffective due to the presence of the blood-brain barrier which forms an inaccessible wall to the majority of CNS targeting molecules. When molecules with an anti-inflammatory profile have been systemically administered to patients affected by a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), results have been disappointing. A successful therapeutic approach in MS should therefore consider the delivery of anti-inflammatory molecules directly into the CNS in order to inhibit blood-borne CNS-confined mononuclear cells which act as ultimate effector cells directly destroying oligodendrocytes and/or releasing myelinotoxic substances. Biological and physical vectors engineered with heterologous genes coding for immunomodulatory cytokines with an anti-inflammatory profile might represent the appropriate tool to deliver therapeutic genes into the CNS of patients with MS. So far, cytokine gene therapy has never been attempted in MS, but encouraging results have been obtained in the animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), using viral vectors or plasmids engineered with cytokine genes and then injected systemically, either in the blood stream or circulating encephalitogenic T cells, or into the CNS. Here, we critically discuss the various attempts made in EAE using gene therapy protocols based on the delivery of immunomodulatory cytokine genes. Special emphasis is put on the use of non-replicative herpes simplex type-1 (HSV)-derived vectors engineered with the gene of the immunomodulatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-4.
Using homology searching of public databases with a metabotropic glutamate receptor sequence from Caenorhabditis elegans, two novel protein sequences (named RAIG-2 (HGMW-approved symbol GPRC5B) and RAIG-3 (HGMW-approved symbol GPRC5C) were identified containing seven putative transmembrane domains characteristic of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). RAIG-2 and RAIG-3 encode open reading frames of 403 and 442 amino acid polypeptides, respectively, and show 58% similarity to the recently identified retinoic acid-inducible gene-1 (RAIG-1, HGMW-approved symbol RAI3). Analysis of the three protein sequences places them within the type 3 GPCR family, which includes metabotropic glutamate receptors, GABA(B) receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, and pheromone receptors. However, in contrast to other type 3 GPCRs, RAIG-1, RAIG-2, and RAIG-3 have only short N-terminal domains. RAIG-2 and RAIG-3 cDNA sequences were cloned into the mammalian expression vector pcDNA3 with c-myc or HA epitope tags inserted at their N-termini, respectively. Transient transfection experiments in HEK239T cells using these constructs demonstrated RAIG-2 and RAIG-3 expression at the cell surface. Distribution profiles of mRNA expression obtained by semiquantitative Taq-Man PCR analysis showed RAIG-2 to be predominantly expressed in human brain areas and RAIG-3 to be predominantly expressed in peripheral tissues. In addition, expression of RAIG-2 and RAIG-3 mRNA was increased following treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid in a manner similar to that previously described for RAIG-1. Finally, RAIG-2 was mapped to chromosome 16p12 (D16S405-D16S3045) and RAIG-3 to chromosome 17q25 (D17S1352-D17S785). These results suggest that RAIG-1, RAIG-2, and RAIG-3 represent a novel family of retinoic acid-inducible receptors, most closely related to the type 3 GPCR subfamily, and provide further evidence for a linkage between retinoic acid and G-protein-coupled receptor signal transduction pathways.

The vulnerability of the mammalian cochlear amplifier to surgical trauma hinders observations of its behaviour in vivo. This produces a greater need for realistic models to aid the interpretation of the experimental observations. The emphasis in most modelling studies has been to simulate the gain of the response of the basilar membrane. This paper argues that matching the phase behaviour of the response should be given at least equal importance. When it is, many of the models used to justify hypotheses regarding the operation of the cochlear amplifier cannot simulate the response even of the dead cochlea. This discrepancy is due to oversimplification of the mechanics of the cochlear fluids. It is argued that three-dimensional fluid behaviour should be regarded as a bare minimum in any quantitative description of cochlear mechanics. Furthermore, it is shown that a three-dimensional model is consistent with experimental data from a healthy cochlea only when the main effect of the cochlear amplifier is to inject mechanical energy into the basilar membrane. The injection of mechanical energy is fundamentally different to modifying the stiffness of the basilar membrane. This means that existing models which possess cochlear amplifiers that effect large changes on the stiffness of the basilar membrane may not be accurate representations of the real organ.
Kinocilium height is a critical determinant of any hair cell's response to head movement, but accurate measurements of kinocilia heights have been difficult to achieve. We have developed a method for measuring kinocilia heights that combines immunochemical staining with three-dimensional morphometry, and we have used this method to measure kinocilia in the utricle of a turtle, Pseudemys scripta. Our results suggest that kinocilium height varies with position on the utricular epithelium and that kinocilia in the striola are significantly shorter than kinocilia in other regions of the utricle.
Tinnitus is a debilitating condition from which some 0.5-1% of the population of the Western world suffer sufficiently badly as to interfere with their normal working and leisure life. There is no satisfactory treatment at the present time and the uncertainty surrounding the mechanism of its generation makes it difficult to devise an effective cure. After much debate, the consensus of opinion amongst researchers regarding its site of origin is that it is primarily a central nervous system pathology although there certainly exists a class of patients whose tinnitus is peripherally based. In this paper, we provide some speculative ideas on how an initial auditory insult can be translated into central neurological substrates that represent tinnitus. Plastic changes arising from sensory deprivation trigger a change in synaptology and neurotransmission with a consequent change in receptor configuration. From neuroanatomical considerations and analogies with other clinical conditions, we postulate the involvement of serotonin (5-HT) in these plastic changes and consider the evidence available from the use of serotonergic drugs in different conditions. A possible relationship between 5-HT and lidocaine is also discussed.
Previous studies have shown that the effect of contralateral acoustic stimulation (CAS) on ipsilateral evoked otoacoustic emissions (EOAE) depends somewhat upon the spectrum of the eliciting stimulus. The latency of the EOAE, however, is itself frequency-dependent. Consequently, two general ways of analyzing the effects of CAS may be considered: by frequency band or by temporal segment. In this study, we analyzed the effects of CAS both ways in the same subjects, essentially simultaneously. The frequency analysis of the EOAE derived from the wavelet transform (WT). The WT is known to provide a robust approach to the analysis of non-stationary signals and was anticipated to avoid possible time-frequency confounds of the cochlear mechanical system. For comparison, a more basic analysis - using a temporal moving window - was employed. The results largely support earlier findings and confirm that in humans the greatest suppression of EOAEs by CAS is obtained for lower frequency and/or longer latency EOAE components. Despite expectations for the WT analysis, the more basic, temporal, analysis tended to yield the clearer results.
The neuropathological and biochemical features of 33 cases of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) diagnosed up to the end of 1998 are analysed in relation to the 646 cases of suspected CJD referred to the CJD Surveillance Unit laboratory from 1990 to 1998. Morphological studies of the central nervous system, lymphoid tissues and other organs were accompanied by immunocytochemistry; Western blot analysis of PrPRES was performed on frozen brain tissue. The findings were analysed in relation to clinical and genetic data. The pathology of vCJD showed morphological and immunocytochemical characteristics distinct from other cases of CJD. PrP accumulation was widespread in lymphoid tissues in vCJD, but was not identified in other non-neural tissues. PrPRES accumulation in vCJD brain tissue showed a uniform glycotype pattern distinct from sporadic CJD. All analysed cases of vCJD were methionine homozygotes at codon 129 of the PrP gene. No evidence currently exists to suggest that cases of CJD diagnosed in individuals who are MV or VV at codon 129 of the PrP gene represent 'human bovine spongiform encaphalopathy (BSE)'. Continued surveillance is required to further investigate this possibility, with the need to investigate autopsy tissues from suspected cases by histological and biochemical techniques.
We have cross-bred twitcher mice (galactosylceramidase deficiency) and acid beta-galactosidase knockout mice (G(M1) gangliosidosis) and found that the acid beta-galactosidase gene dosage exerts an unexpected and paradoxical influence on the twitcher phenotype. Twitcher mice with an additional complete deficiency of acid beta-galactosidase have the mildest phenotype with the longest lifespan and nearly rescued CNS pathology. In contrast, twitcher mice with a single functional acid beta-galactosidase gene have the most severe disease with the shortest lifespan, despite the fact that G(M1) gangliosidosis carrier mice with an otherwise normal genetic background are phenotypically normal. A significant proportion of these galc(-/-), bgal(+/-) mice clinically develop additional extreme hyper-reactivity and generalized seizures not seen in any other genotypes. Consistent with the clinical seizures, widespread neuronal degeneration is present in the galc(-/-), bgal(+/-) mice, most prominently in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. The double knockout mice show a massive accumulation of lactosylceramide in all tissues. The brain inexplicably contains only a half-normal amount of galactosylceramide, which may account for the mild clinical and pathological phenotype. On the other hand, brain psychosine level is increased in all twitcher mice, but galc(-/-), bgal(+/-) mice show a significantly higher level than other genotypes. The reduced galactosylceramide in the brain of the double knockout mice and the significantly higher psychosine in the brain of the galc(-/-), bgal(+/-) mice cannot readily be explained from the genotypes of these mice. These observations are contrary to the expected outcome of Mendelian autosomal recessive single gene disorders and may also be interpreted as that the acid beta-galactosidase gene functions as a modifier gene for the phenotypic expression of genetic galactosylceramidase deficiency.

The neurochemistry of feeding was a highlight of this meeting. A number of peptides are now known to participate in the control of nutrient balance, and many of them featured in the meeting, including the feeding suppressors alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, leptin and corticotrophin releasing hormone, and the orexigenic agents, melanin-concentrating hormone, Agouti-related peptide, orexin A and neuropeptide Y. Other substances that play a role in feeding are amylin and its antagonist, AC-187, histamine, dopamine, serotonin, opiates, galanin and CART peptides. The hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic localization of these feedingrelated substances and their interactions with one another, and other brain regions, are beginning to be understood. Another symposium focused on sigma receptor ligands, such as (+)-pentazocine, PRE-084, the neurosteroid pregnanolone sulfate, NE-100, igmesine (JO-1784) and BD-1008 and related compounds. Results showed that sigma ligands may affect Ca(2+) signaling via two modes of action, one being at the endoplasmic reticulum and the other at the plasma membrane. Sigma receptors have been implicated in learning and memory, and may play a role in anxiety and depression.
The main thrust of the meeting was, as always, basic research in behavioral neuroscience defined in a broad sense. Learning and memory, feeding and drinking, reward mechanisms, development of the CNS, anxiety and stress were the main topics covered. In a public lecture associated with the meeting, Larry Reid (Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, USA) reviewed the quite compelling evidence in favor of the effectiveness of naltrexone for preventing relapse in former alcoholics. He also presented preclinical data demonstrating the remarkable effects of naltrexone given together with isradipine (Novartis AG) in blocking the rewarding effects of cocaethylene. This combination of drugs could thereby constitute a treatment for alcoholism complicated by cocaine abuse. Of potential therapeutic interest was also the description of the preclinical pharmacology and a phase II trial of a new cholinesterase inhibitor, methanesulfonyl fluoride (University of Texas). The possible physiological functions of sigma opioid receptors and the pharmacological properties of sigma receptor ligands were discussed at one of the symposia. Among the subjects covered were the potential use of sigma1 antagonists in the treatment of cocaine addiction and the efficiency of sigma1 agonists for preventing the decline in cognitive functions associated with old age.
Twin studies are a powerful tool to assess genetic and nongenetic factors in multifactorial, immune-mediated diseases. Here, Marco Salvetti and colleagues review important results from such studies and highlight their potential value. Future developments that should help to realize the potential of twin studies are discussed.
Advances in understanding the mechanisms of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 entry have revealed that the cell surface CD4 expression alone is insufficient and needs an additional molecule on its surface for the viral entry. These are G-protein coupled seven transmembrane (7-TM) family molecules (chemokine receptor) and amongst them one is CXCR4. Feline homologue of CXCR4 acting as a co-receptor for feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) entry is already reported for the Crandle feline kidney cells strain (CrFK) of FIV. An experiment was carried out to search the expression of CXCR4 retrospectively in FIV (CrFK) infected cat brain tissues using immunohistochemically in the formalin fixed paraffin sections against 12G5, a mouse monoclonal antibody to CXCR4. We observed the expression of this receptor in feline neurons, astrocytes and in some vascular endothelial cells. The study of expression of CXCR4 in the brain, which is one of the many chemokine receptors in the central nervous system, may provide further insight into the interactions between brain cells, pathogens, and the immune system, and help understand the pathogenesis of HIV dementia.
In a double-blind, prospective study, 40 patients diagnosed with DSM-IV generalized anxiety disorder and stabilized on alprazolam therapy were randomized to receive the same dose of either conventional or sustained-released alprazolam for two weeks, followed by the other formulation of alprazolam in an identical dose for a further two weeks. Conventional alprazolam was administered thrice daily while the sustained-release formulation was administered once-daily, in the morning. Thirty four patients completed the study. Recruitment into the study was associated with a significant decrease in all measures of illness severity; however, no efficacy differences between the two forms of alprazolam were observed. Adverse effects, specifically insomnia, were reported more with the sustained-release formulation. It is concluded that once-daily sustained-release alprazolam is as effective as the conventional form of the drug, and may be preferable because of a wide range of advantages; in this study, the higher incidence of adverse effects with the sustained-release drug was probably an artefact of the experimental design, which fostered a (nighttime) state of partial drug withdrawal.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy an ethanolic extract of Aswagandha (Withania somnifera), in patients with ICD-10 anxiety disorders. The sample comprised 39 subjects, of whom 20 received the drug and 19 received placebo. The two groups were sociodemographically and clinically similar at baseline. At 2 and 6 weeks follow-up, data from approximately 85% of patients in each group were available for analysis. Statistical trends favouring the drug were observed at both time points. At 6 weeks, significantly more patients met a priori response criteria in the drug group (88.2%) as compared with the placebo group (50%). The drug was well-tolerated and did not occasion more adverse effects than did placebo. It is concluded that this ethanolic extract of Withania somnifera has useful anxiolytic potential and merits further investigation.
Several case reports have engendered concern about the safety of coadministering lithium and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants and there are theoretical reasons to suppose that lithium and serotonergic antidepressants may be associated with dangerous interactions. Systematic reports regarding combination therapy with lithium and SSRI antidepressants were assimilated for the purpose of this review. Although there are many publications, few are directly informative as to safety and tolerability. A total of 503 patients are considered in systematic reports and, among these, no serious or life-threatening adverse events can be identified. Such data as there are demonstrate little potential for toxic interactions between lithium and SSRIs, although new, non-serious, adverse events do frequently arise. The evidence for the efficacy of addition of lithium to SSRIs in treatment refractory depression is only provisional.
Prion encephalopathies include fatal diseases of the central nervous system of men and animals characterized by nerve cell loss, glial proliferation and deposition of amyloid fibrils into the brain. During these diseases a cellular glycoprotein (the prion protein, PrP(C)) is converted, through a not yet completely clear mechanism, in an altered isoform (the prion scrapie, PrP(Sc)) that accumulates within the brain tissue by virtue of its resistance to the intracellular catabolism. PrP(Sc) is believed to be responsible for the neuronal loss that is observed in the prion disease. The PrP 106-126, a synthetic peptide that has been obtained from the amyloidogenic portion of the prion protein, represents a suitable model for studying the pathogenic role of the PrP(Sc), retaining, in vitro, some characteristics of the entire protein, such as the capability to aggregate in fibrils, and the neurotoxicity. In this work we present the results we have recently obtained regarding the action of the PrP 106-126 in different cellular models. We report that the PrP 106-126 induces proliferation of cortical astrocytes, as well as degeneration of primary cultures of cortical neurons or of neuroectodermal stable cell lines (GH(3) cells). In particular, these two opposite effects are mediated by the same attitude of the peptide to interact with the L-type calcium channels: in the astrocytes, the activity of these channels seems to be activated by PrP 106-126, while, in the cortical neurons and in the GH(3) cells, the same treatment causes a blockade of these channels causing a toxic effect.
Linoleic and alpha-linolenic acid are essential for normal cellular function, and act as precursors for the synthesis of longer chained polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) such as arachidonic (AA), eicosapentaenoic (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acids (DHA), which have been shown to partake in numerous cellular functions affecting membrane fluidity, membrane enzyme activities and eicosanoid synthesis. The brain is particularly rich in PUFAs such as DHA, and changes in tissue membrane composition of these PUFAs reflect that of the dietary source. The decline in structural and functional integrity of this tissue appears to correlate with loss in membrane DHA concentrations. Arachidonic acid, also predominant in this tissue, is a major precursor for the synthesis of eicosanoids, that serve as intracellular or extracellular signals. With aging comes a likely increase in reactive oxygen species and hence a concomitant decline in membrane PUFA concentrations, and with it, cognitive impairment. Neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease also appear to exhibit membrane loss of PUFAs. Thus it may be that an optimal diet with a balance of n-6 and n-3 fatty acids may help to delay their onset or reduce the insult to brain functions which these diseases elicit.
Peripheral blood DNA from 12 subjects affected by familial obesity and from 35 subjects affected by type 2 diabetes were analysed for mutations in the coding sequence of the OB gene. Mutational analysis, conducted using the single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) technique, followed by direct sequencing did not reveal the presence of nucleotide variants in the coding region of the OB gene. The lack of mutations in the coding sequence is consistent with previous data suggesting that mutations in the coding sequence of the OB gene are not common in human familial obesity. In 2 samples displaying a non-informative pattern of SSCP and in 8 additional samples the nucleotide sequence of portion of the intron 2 bordering the coding sequence of exon 2 identified a G in the positions +14IVS and +18IVS, according to a sequence reported previously, but in contrast with some others. All samples were homozygous for these intron variants.
Male Wistar rats were trained in a two-session-per-day, non-matching-to-sample radial maze task. During the 2 hr interval between training sessions and testing sessions subjects were exposed for 60 min to either sham fields or to a low intensity (200 to 500 nT) electromagnetic (EM) complex pattern whose electrical (current) equivalent has been shown to elicit long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slices. This pattern was applied either immediately following the training sessions or immediately antecedent to the testing sessions. Exposures to the experimental field immediately following the training session were associated with an impairment in spatial memory as inferred by increased commissions of reference errors. Exposures immediately prior to the testing session were associated with decreased motivation as inferred by a reduction in speed of responding. These results suggest that the timing of the presentation of patterned magnetic fields may differentially affect the representations of habit strength and drive within the consolidating memory trace.
Male rats were exposed to a low-intensity (300-500 nT) electromagnetic (EM) field designed to simulate primed burst potentiation (PB) for 30 min preceding a one-trial olfactory learning task involving two brief encounters with a juvenile rat during a baseline (reference) and an experimental (EM) trial. The amount of time spent engaged in behaviors defining social investigation (i.e., sniffing, grooming) during the second encounter of the experimental trial was significantly elevated in adult rats receiving continuous EM stimulation prior to the initial encounter. These results support the hypothesis that LTP-like stimulation disrupts the acquisition of a learning task if the stimulus is delivered before training.

Historically, clinicians have utilized evoked potentials for evaluating sensory functions and neuropsychological tests for evaluating cognitive functions. However, the clinical implementation of event-related brain potentials (ERPs), an on-line index of cognitive processing, remains to be developed fully. We describe a new method for assessing language functions using neuropsychological tests that are formatted for computer presentation with simultaneous ERP recordings. From its inception, there have been two major objectives of this ERP language assessment research. Practically, we have sought to develop assessment techniques that would enable clinicians to evaluate the language functions of individuals with limited behavioral and communicative abilities. Conceptually, we have endeavored to increase the precision of neuropsychological testing through the development of measures that are sensitive to readily identifiable and objective neural responses. This article summarizes the issues central to the development of ERP assessment techniques, reviews recent normative studies with healthy individuals, and suggests some future avenues of research in this area.
Depth intracranial electrodes are used in medicine for the diagnosis and treatment of certain medically intractable disorders including epilepsy and parkinsonism. Electrophysiological studies including the recording of neuronal activity via depth electrodes during cognitive tasks allow the mapping of the functional significance of various brain regions for certain cognitive functions. Knowledge accumulated throughout the last several decades allows us to draw some theoretical inferences about neuronal mechanisms of human cognition. The present paper provides a selective review of studies of neuronal activity of the human brain in relation to language, verbal memory and error detection.

Two experiments investigated the influence of resolvability on the perceptual organization of sequential harmonic complexes differing in fundamental frequency (F0). Using a constant-stimuli method, streaming scores for ABA-... sequences of harmonic complexes were measured as a function of the F0 difference between the A and B tones. In the first experiment, streaming scores were measured for harmonic complexes having two different nominal F0s (88 and 250 Hz) and filtered in three frequency regions (a LOW, a MID, and a HIGH region with corner frequencies of 125-625 Hz, 1375-1875 Hz, and 3900-5400 Hz, respectively). Some streaming was observed in the HIGH region (in which the harmonics were always unresolved) but streaming scores remained generally lower than in the LOW and MID regions. The second experiment verified that the streaming observed in the HIGH region was not due to the use of distortion products. Overall, the results indicated that although streaming can occur in the absence of spectral cues, the degree of resolvability of the harmonics has a significant influence.
Noninvasive neurophysiological studies in humans support the existence of an orthogonal spatial representation of pure tone frequency and complex tone pitch in auditory cortex [Langner et al., J. Comp. Physiol. A 181, 665-676 (1997)]. However, since this topographic organization is based on neuromagnetic responses evoked by wideband harmonic complexes (HCs) of variable fundamental frequency (f0), and thus interharmonic frequency separation (deltaF), critical band filtering effects due to differential resolvability of harmonics may have contributed to shaping these responses. To test this hypothesis, the present study examined responses evoked by three-component HCs of variable f0 in primary auditory cortex (A1) of the awake monkey. The center frequency of the HCs was fixed at the best frequency (BF) of the cortical site. Auditory evoked potential (AEP), multiunit activity, and current source density techniques were used to evaluate A1 responses as a function of f0 (=deltaF). Generally, amplitudes of nearly all response components increased with f0, such that maximal responses were evoked by HCs comprised of low-order resolved harmonics. Statistically significant increases in response amplitude typically occurred at deltaFs between 10% and 20% of center frequency, suggestive of critical bandlike behavior. Complex tone response amplitudes also reflected nonlinear summation in that they could not be predicted by the pure tone frequency sensitivity curves of the cortical sites. A mechanism accounting for the observed results is proposed which involves mutual lateral inhibitory interactions between responses evoked by stimulus components lying within the same critical band. As intracortical AEP components likely to be propagated to the scalp were also strongly modulated by deltaF, these findings indicate that noninvasive recordings of responses to complex sounds may require a consideration of critical band effects in their interpretation.
Previous physiological studies [e.g., Bieser and Muller-Preuss, Exp. Brain Res. 108, 273-284 (1996); Schulze and Langner, J. Comp. Physiol. A 181, 651-663 (1997); Steinschneider et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 104, 2935-2955 (1998)] have suggested that neural activity in primary auditory cortex (A1) phase-locked to the waveform envelope of complex sounds with low (&lt;300 Hz) periodicities may represent a neural correlate of roughness perception. However, a correspondence between these temporal response patterns and human psychophysical boundaries of roughness has not yet been demonstrated. The present study examined whether the degree of synchronized phase-locked activity of neuronal ensembles in A1 of the awake monkey evoked by complex tones parallels human psychoacoustic data defining the existence region and frequency dependence of roughness. Stimuli consisted of three consecutive harmonics of fundamental frequencies (f(0)s) ranging from 25 to 4000 Hz. The center frequency of the complex tones was fixed at the best frequency (BF) of the cortical sites, which ranged from 0.3 to 10 kHz. Neural ensemble activity in the thalamorecipient zone (lower lamina III) and supragranular cortical laminae (upper lamina III and lamina II) was measured using multiunit activity and current source density techniques and the degree of phase-locking to the f0 was quantified by spectral analysis. In the thalamorecipient zone, the stimulus f0 at which phase-locking was maximal increased with BF and reached an upper limit between 75 and 150 Hz for BFs greater than about 3 kHz. Estimates of limiting phase-locking rates also increased with BF and approximated psychoacoustic values for the disappearance of roughness. These physiological relationships parallel human perceptual data and therefore support the relevance of phase-locked activity of neuronal ensembles in A1 for the physiological representation of roughness.
During the period 1996-1999, 18 licensed practical nurses (LPNs) received specialized training to become caregivers and mentors in the field of dementia care at the Silvia Home Foundation in Stockholm, Sweden. The aim of the study was to illuminate how the trainees utilized their practical training to learn about dementia care. The trainees gained practical training within three care models for elderly persons with dementia. The three forms of care and the context for practical training included the school's integrated day-care, a group dwelling and a nursing home. The findings show that the trainees made use of each training context in a similar fashion but there were differences between the contexts. A perspective of human dignity characterized the day-care. This was an opportunity for the nursing philosophy taught by the programme to be put to practical use, and for reflection and experiences pertaining to the individual patient to be developed. In the group dwelling, the trainees encountered patients with different forms of dementia and studied how the care-giving could be adapted to the individual patient's symptoms - the disease perspective. In the nursing home, the trainees chose a staff perspective in which they focused on organization, management and working conditions as well as staff attitudes and the effects of these factors on patient care.




Calcium-binding proteins show a heterogeneous distribution in the mammalian central nervous system and are useful markers for identifying neuronal populations. The distribution of the three major calcium-binding proteins - calbindin-D28k (calbindin), calretinin and parvalbumin - has been investigated in eight neurologically normal human thalami using standard immunohistochemical techniques. Most thalamic nuclei show immunoreactive cell bodies for at least two of the three calcium-binding proteins; the only nucleus showing immunoreactivity for one calcium-binding protein is the centre mdian nucleus (CM) which is parvalbumin-positive. Overall, the calcium-binding proteins show a complementary staining pattern in the human thalamus. In general terms, the highest density of parvalbumin staining is in the component nuclei of the ventral nuclear group (i.e. in the ventral anterior, ventral lateral and ventral posterior nuclear complexes) and in the medial and lateral geniculate nuclear groups. Moderate densities of parvalbumin staining are also present in regions of the mediodorsal nucleus (MD). By contrast, calbindin and calretinin immunoreactivity both show a similar distribution of dense staining in the thalamus which appears to complement the pattern of intense parvalbumin staining. That is, calbindin and calretinin staining is most dense in the rostral intralaminar nuclear group and in the patchy regions of the MD which show very low levels of parvalbumin staining. However, calbindin and calretinin also show low levels of staining in the ventral nuclear complex and in the medial and lateral geniculate bodies which overlaps with the intense parvalbumin staining in these regions. These results show that the calcium-binding proteins are heterogeneously distributed in a complementary fashion within the nuclei of the human thalamus. They provide further support for the concept recently proposed by Jones (Jones, E.G., 1998. Viewpoint: the core and matrix of thalamic organization. Neuroscience 85, 331-345) that the primate thalamus comprises of a matrix of calbindin immunoreactive cells and a superimposed core of parvalbumin immunoreactive cells which may have differential patterns of cortical projections.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) type cytokines show functional redundancy in the immune, hematopoietic, and nervous system, which is believed to result from sharing of the signal transducing receptor gp130. IL-6 type cytokines and their binding receptors have been localized in the adult cerebellum. However, the cellular localization and developmental regulation of gp130 in the cerebellum have not been determined. In the present study the expression pattern of gp130 in the developing and adult mouse cerebellum was investigated. At embryonic day (E)15 and E17, gp130 immunoreactivity is present primarily in fiber bundles that course from the brainstem to the cerebellum. At postnatal day (P)0, gp130 immunoreactivity first appears in the Purkinje cell layer, external granule cell layer, and cerebellar nuclei. As Purkinje cells differentiate, gp130 immunoreactivity progressively extends from the cell body along their developing dendritic arbor. All Purkinje cells show intense gp130 immunoreactivity in their cell bodies by P7. In contrast the gp130 immunoreactivity detected in fiber bundles at E15 and E17 is downregulated postnatally, and cannot be detected after P7. Granule cells show gp130 immunoreactivity at P0 in the external granule cell layer and subsequently in the internal granule cell layer. Astrocytes in the white matter express gp130 at P0, and show intense gp130 immunoreactivity between P7 and P14. As the cerebellum matures gp130 immunoreactivity in the white matter decreases. The present description of the differential spatial and temporal distribution of gp130 provides an initial step in defining specific cellular populations that are potential targets of IL-6 type cytokines during cerebellar ontogeny.
To investigate the safety (e.g., weight gain, liver function, extrapyramidal side effects, and seizures) and efficacy of the long-term use of risperidone in children and adolescents and to ascertain the effects of drug withdrawal in a semi-naturalistic prospective, subjects with autism or pervasive developmental disorders not otherwise specified (PDDNOS) were treated with risperidone for 6 months after which parents were given the option of continuing for a further 6 months (final assessment at 12 months). Behavioral rating included Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS), Child Psychiatric Rating Scale (CPRS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and Child-Global Assessment Scale (C-GAS). Risperidone significantly ameliorated behavioral symptoms of PDD in 10 out of 11 subjects, with the effects on core symptoms being of smaller amplitude and of slower onset. No loss of effectiveness was observed in patients who continued risperidone for 12 months, while a relapse of associated behavioral symptoms occurred in the others. Weight gain was common, although the rate of increase lessened over a period of time; after drug withdrawal, considerable weight loss was observed in the patient who had previously shown the most significant increase. After 6 months of therapy, two patients developed facial dystonia: this disappeared after reducing dosage in one case, after drug discontinuation in the other. Amenorrhea was also observed, but no changes in liver function, blood tests or EEG were reported. The data indicate that risperidone is an effective and relatively safe drug for long term treatment of behavioral disruption in autistic children and adolescents.
Epidemiological studies have yet to identify a single cause for the most common late-onset form of Alzheimer's disease. The common respiratory pathogen Chlamydia pneumoniae recently has been implicated as a risk factor for this form of Alzheimer's disease. Were this true, there would be a dramatic shift in current paradigms of Alzheimer's disease research and treatment. In the absence of published confirmation, we obtained postmortem brain tissue from late-onset Alzheimer's disease patients (n = 15) and representative controls (n = 5) and extracted DNA from up to six separate brain regions in each instance, including those areas particularly relevant to Alzheimer's disease neuropathology. Each sample of DNA (n = 101) was assayed five times or more for the presence of C. pneumoniae DNA using a nested-PCR protocol targeting a species-specific gene sequence coding for the major outer membrane protein of this organism. We were unable unequivocally to detect C. pneumoniae in any of the 101 samples tested by PCR and failed to culture the organism from tissue samples. We conclude that C. pneumoniae is neither strongly nor uniquely associated with the neuropathology seen in late-onset Alzheimer's disease.

Neuronal mechanisms underlying focal convulsions and secondary generalised convulsions have been extensively investigated at many different levels, from the biochemical, through the cellular to the intact brain. Numerous pathogenic processes relevant to epilepsy are now known. Experimental models suggest that alterations to the shape, connectivity and receptor-chemistry of individual neurons increase their excitability and the resultant increases in activity lead to changes of the local ionic environment that further causes enhanced excitability. As a consequence of the latter, neuronal firing rates increase and there is a shift from single-firing- to burst-firing-behaviours in populations of neurons and, possibly, also several changes in the way populations of neurons communicate, namely, from 'synaptic' to 'electric' and from orthodromic to antidromic. As a consequence, massive neuronal synchronisation occurs, the correlate of the focal or secondarily generalised attack. Because of experimental difficulties in studying the widespread and evolving neuronal activities in freely behaving animals, a precise correlation between states of neuronal activation and convulsive behaviour is still unclear.
Registered nurses working in nursing homes often care for stroke patients with impaired cognition and mood disorders. Understanding the behaviour of these patients often puts great demands on nurses. This study illuminates registered nurses' descriptions and experiences of stroke patients and the nursing care given in nursing homes, with a focus on cognition and mood. Registered nurses responsible for the care of stroke patients in nursing homes were asked to describe the individual patient's state of health and the nursing care given. Patients' cognition and mood have been selected for this article. A qualitative content analysis was used to group the text into categories. Registered nurses' descriptions showed great complexity and variation in patients' disabilities, as well as uncertainty about understanding these patients and the appropriate nursing care. Registered nurses described the need for further education in stroke care, and adequate resources for patient activity training, as well as meeting patients' psychosocial and communicative needs.

This experiment explored the effect of semantic expectancy on the processing of grammatical gender, and vice versa, in German using event-related-potentials (ERPs). Subjects were presented with correct sentences and sentences containing an article-noun gender agreement violation. The cloze probability of the nouns was either high or low. ERPs were measured on the nouns. The low-cloze nouns evoked a larger N400 than the high-cloze nouns. Gender violations elicited a left-anterior negativity (LAN, 300-600 msec) for all nouns. An additional P600 component was found only in high-cloze nouns. The N400 was independent of the gender mismatch variable; the LAN was independent of the semantic variable, whereas an interaction of the two variables was found in the P600. This finding indicates that syntactic and semantic processes are autonomous during an early processing stage, whereas these information types interact during a later processing phase.

There are at least four major forms of functional neuroplasticity that can be studied in humans: homologous area adaptation, cross-modal reassignment, map expansion, and compensatory masquerade. Homologous area adaptation is the assumption of a particular cognitive process by a homologous region in the opposite hemisphere. Cross-modal reassignment occurs when structures previously devoted to processing a particular kind of sensory input now accepts input from a new sensory method. Map expansion is the enlargement of a functional brain region on the basis of performance. Compensatory masquerade is a novel allocation of a particular cognitive process to perform a task. By focusing on these four forms of functional neuroplasticity, several fundamental questions about how functional cooperation between brain regions is achieved can be addressed.
Many bird species produce vocalizations which are accompanied by distinctive postural displays, but the neural mechanisms that allow such integrated production of vocal and postural motor patterns are not understood. In the crowing behavior of Japanese quail, a characteristic vocal pattern is accompanied by and coordinated with a postural display that consists of a sequence of rapid, patterned head movements. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of a midbrain vocal nucleus, the nucleus intercollicularis, in the production of the acoustic and postural components of crowing in quail. Brief electrical stimuli were applied to the nucleus intercollicularis during spontaneously emitted crows in quail with chronically implanted electrodes, to determine if perturbing neural activity in the nucleus intercollicularis resulted in a disruption of ongoing crowing behavior. The most common effect of such stimuli was a concurrent, premature termination of both the acoustic and head movement components of the crow. These results imply that the nucleus intercollicularis plays a role in the production of both the acoustic and postural components of crowing in quail.
Crawling in the medicinal leech has previously been thought to require sensory feedback because the intact behavior is strongly modulated by sensory feedback and because semi-intact preparations will only crawl if they can move freely. Here we show that an isolated leech nerve cord can produce a crawling motor pattern similar to the one seen in semi-intact preparations, which consists of an anterior-to-posterior wave of alternating excitatory circular and longitudinal motor neuron bursts in each segment. The isolated cord also reproduces the patterns of activity seen in semi-intact preparations for several other kinds of cells: the dorsal inhibitor cell 1, the ventral excitor cell 4, and the annulus erector motor neuron. Because this correspondence is so strong, there must be a central pattern generator in the isolated cord that can produce the basic motor pattern for crawling without sensory feedback. A quantitative analysis of the isolated motor pattern, however, reveals that isolated and semi-intact preparations have longer periods than the intact behavior and that there are deficiencies in the timing of motor neuron bursts in the isolated pattern. These results suggest that sensory feedback modulates the isolated central pattern generator to help produce the normal motor pattern.
Reduction of the morphological complexity of actual neurons into accurate, computationally efficient surrogate models is an important problem in computational neuroscience. The present work explores the use of two morphoelectrotonic transformations, somatofugal voltage attenuation (AT cables) and signal propagation delay (DL cables), as bases for construction of electrotonically equivalent cable models of neurons. In theory, the AT and DL cables should provide more accurate lumping of membrane regions that have the same transmembrane potential than the familiar equivalent cables that are based only on somatofugal electrotonic distance (LM cables). In practice, AT and DL cables indeed provided more accurate simulations of the somatic transient responses produced by fully branched neuron models than LM cables. This was the case in the presence of a somatic shunt as well as when membrane resistivity was uniform.

Gap junctions are intercellular channels formed by the serial, head to head arrangement of two hemichannels. Each hemichannel is an oligomer of six protein subunits, which in vertebrates are encoded by the connexin gene family. All intercellular channels formed by connexins are sensitive to the relative difference in the membrane potential between coupled cells, the transjunctional voltage (Vj), and gate by the separate action of their component hemichannels (Harris, A.L., D.C. Spray, and M.V. Bennett. 1981. J. Gen. Physiol. 77:95-117). We reported previously that the polarity of Vj dependence is opposite for hemichannels formed by two closely related connexins, Cx32 and Cx26, when they are paired to form intercellular channels (Verselis, V.K., C.S. Ginter, and T.A. Bargiello. 1994. Nature. 368:348-351). The opposite gating polarity is due to a difference in the charge of the second amino acid. Negative charge substitutions of the neutral asparagine residue present in wild-type Cx32 (Cx32N2E or Cx32N2D) reverse the gating polarity of Cx32 hemichannels from closure at negative Vj to closure at positive Vj. In this paper, we further examine the mechanism of polarity reversal by determining the gating polarity of a chimeric connexin, in which the first extracellular loop (E1) of Cx32 is replaced with that of Cx43 (Cx43E1). The resulting chimera, Cx32*Cx43E1, forms conductive hemichannels when expressed in single Xenopus oocytes and intercellular channels in pairs of oocytes (Pfahnl, A., X.W. Zhou, R. Werner, and G. Dahl. 1997. Pflgers Arch. 433:733-779). We demonstrate that the polarity of Vj dependence of Cx32*Cx43E1 hemichannels in intercellular pairings is the same as that of wild-type Cx32 hemichannels and is reversed by the N2E substitution. In records of single intercellular channels, Vj dependence is characterized by gating transitions between fully open and subconductance levels. Comparable transitions are observed in Cx32*Cx43E1 conductive hemichannels at negative membrane potentials and the polarity of these transitions is reversed by the N2E substitution. We conclude that the mechanism of Vj dependence of intercellular channels is conserved in conductive hemichannels and term the process Vj gating. Heteromeric conductive hemichannels comprised of Cx32*Cx43E1 and Cx32N2E*Cx43E1 subunits display bipolar Vj gating, closing to substates at both positive and negative membrane potentials. The number of bipolar hemichannels observed in cells expressing mixtures of the two connexin subunits coincides with the number of hemichannels that are expected to contain a single oppositely charged subunit. We conclude that the movement of the voltage sensor in a single connexin subunit is sufficient to initiate Vj gating. We further suggest that Vj gating results from conformational changes in individual connexin subunits rather than by a concerted change in the conformation of all six subunits.

The purpose of this paper is to report our recent investigations on the relationship between sympathetic tone and leg venous compliance, as well as on the baroreflex control of leg venous compliance after simulated microgravity exposure in healthy humans.
It is one of the key themata to investigate the circulatory, muscular, nervous and nutritional systems when humans stay for long time in the space environment in order to improve the safety and efficiency in manned space flight. It is well known that immobility and microgravity [correction of microgravidity] induce selective skeletal muscle atrophy. Previous experiments indicated red soleus muscle was selectively involved and the most striking finding was myofibrillar degeneration without necrosis or phagocytosis. This study is focused on the mitochondrial function in this degenerative process because red soleus muscle contains much mitochondria than white muscles, and mitochondrial changes may be closely associated with the core structure observed as the myofibrillar disorganization.
In aged people, decreases in stroke volume and cardiac output during orthostatic challenge are less. It is suggested that the stiffness of blood vessels is greater in the elderly, blunting leg venous pooling and drop in central blood volume in an upright position. Leg venous hemodynamics plays an important role in human cardiovascular homeostasis against gravitational stress. This study aimed to clarify how aging influences the leg venous hemodynamics and its contribution to cardiovascular homeostasis during lower body negative pressure (LBNP) in humans.
Decrease in muscle perfusion affects on cardiovascular response to exercise. Muscle hypoperfusion enhances the increase in blood pressure responses to exercise. Muscle perfusion depends not only on central blood pressure but also how fit the active muscle is above or below the heart level; muscle perfusion decreases as arm is elevated. Static exercise increases muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) innervating vessels in non-active muscles. The exercise-induced increase in MSNA is mainly mediated by stimulating chemosensitive muscle afferents in active muscles. However, the effect of arm elevation on MSNA during forearm exercise is not examined. On the other hand, space flight and simulated microgravity exposure causes reduction in muscle blood flow, suggesting chronic muscle hypoperfused condition during simulated microgravity. Therefore, there is a possibility that arm elevation after microgravity exposure alters MSNA responsiveness during exercise. However, arm elevation effect after exposure to simulated microgravity is not examined.
The purpose of the present study is to examine the changes in the arterial baroreflex control of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) after head-down bed rest (HDBR), in relation to orthostatic hypotension after HDBR. Therefore, we performed 60 degrees head-up tilt (HUT) tests before and after 14 days of HDBR, with monitoring MSNA, heart rate and blood pressure. We calculated the gain of the arterial baroreflex control of MSNA, and compared the gains between the subjects who did (defined as the fainters) and those who did not (defined as the nonfainters) become presyncopal in HUT tests after HDBR.
Exposure to microgravity or simulated microgravity is known to affect regulatory function in autonomic nervous system. With regard to thermoregulation, simulated microgravity impairs sweating and induces lower skin and higher internal temperatures during physical work. During supine rest after HDT bed rest, the internal temperatures were reported to be higher than those of pre-HDT bed rest in some studies but not in others. There is no report about the dynamic changes of skin blood flow during 14-day HDT bed rest. The process of HDT bed-rest deconditioning on the function of the thermoregulatory system is virtually unknown. The HDT induces an immediate cephalad fluid shift which would inhibit the sympathetic outflow through the arterial and cardiopulmonary baroreflexes, which may increase the skin blood flow. On the other hand, prolonged HDT bed rest induces dehydration, which will increase sympathetic outflow through cardiopulmonary baroreceptor modulation. Both sympathetic activation and dehydration itself will decrease skin blood flow. It seems probable that the general effect on skin blood flow may reverse along the HDT bed rest. However, the dynamic characters of skin blood flow and body temperature during the HDT bed rest have not been studied thoroughly. Therefore, the purpose of present study was to investigate the changes of skin blood flow and body temperature during 14 days HDT bed rest.
Intracerebral infection of susceptible mice with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus results in immune-mediated inflammatory demyelination in the white matter and consequent clinical symptoms. This system has been utilized as an important virus model for human multiple sclerosis. Although the potential involvement of virus-specific Th cells has been studied extensively, very little is known about the nature of T cells infiltrating the CNS during viral infection and their role in the development of demyelinating disease. In this study, the clonal nature of T cells in the spinal cord during the disease course was analyzed using size spectratyping and sequencing of the TCR beta-chain CDR3 region. These studies clearly indicate that T cells are clonally expanded in the CNS after viral infection, although the overall TCR repertoire appears to be diverse. The clonal expansion appears to be Ag-driven in that it includes Th cells specific for known viral epitopes. Interestingly, such restricted accumulation of T cells was not detectable in the infiltrates of mice with proteolipid protein peptide-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. The initial T cell repertoire (7-9 days postinfection) seems to be more diverse than that observed in the later stage (65 days) of virally induced demyelination, despite the more restricted utilization of Vbeta subfamilies. These results strongly suggest continuous stimulation and clonal expansion of virus-specific T cells in the CNS of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus-infected mice during the entire course of demyelinating disease.
The parasitic worm Ascaris suum contains the opiate alkaloid morphine as determined by HPLC coupled to electrochemical detection and by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The level of this material is 1168 +/- 278 ng/g worm wet weight. Furthermore, Ascaris maintained for 5 days contained a significant amount of morphine, as did their medium, demonstrating their ability to synthesize the opiate alkaloid. To determine whether the morphine was active, we exposed human monocytes to the material, and they immediately released nitric oxide in a naloxone-reversible manner. The anatomic distribution of morphine immunoreactivity reveals that the material is in the subcuticle layers and in the animals' nerve chords. Furthermore, as determined by RT-PCR, Ascaris does not express the transcript of the neuronal mu receptor. Failure to demonstrate the expression of this opioid receptor, as well as the morphine-like tissue localization in Ascaris, suggests that the endogenous morphine is intended for secretion into the microenvironment.

This article integrates the findings in the special issue with a comprehensive review of the evidence for seven central questions about the role of naming-speed deficits in developmental reading disabilities. Cross-sectional, longitudinal, and cross-linguistic research on naming-speed processes, timing processes, and reading is presented. An evolving model of visual naming illustrates areas of difference and areas of overlap between naming speed and phonology in their underlying requirements. Work in the cognitive neurosciences is used to explore two nonexclusive hypotheses about the putative links between naming speed and reading processes and about the sources of disruption that may cause subtypes of reading disabilities predicted by the double-deficit hypothesis. Finally, the implications of the work in this special issue for diagnosis and intervention are elaborated.
Neurotransmitter receptors are considered an important class of membrane proteins that are involved in plasticity-induced changes underlying learning and memory. Recent studies, which demonstrated that the mRNAs encoding for various receptor proteins are localized to specific dendritic domains, allude toward the possibility that these membrane bound molecules may be synthesized locally. However, direct evidence for the local axonal or dendritic synthesis and functional integration of receptor proteins in either vertebrates or invertebrates is still lacking. In this study, using an invertebrate model system we provide the first direct evidence that isolated axons (in the absence of the soma) can intrinsically synthesize and functionally integrate a membrane-bound receptor protein from an axonally injected mRNA. Surgically isolated axons from identified neurons were injected with mRNA encoding a G-protein-coupled conopressin receptor. Immunocytochemical and electrophysiological techniques were used to demonstrate functional integration of the receptor protein into the membrane of the isolated axon. Ultrastructural analysis of axonal compartments revealed polyribosomes, suggesting that some components of the protein synthesizing machinery are indeed present in these extrasomal compartments. Such axonal propensity to locally synthesize and functionally insert transmitter receptors may be instrumental in plasticity induced changes, for instance those that underlie learning and memory.
The requirement for trophic factors in neurite outgrowth is well established, though their role in synapse formation is yet to be determined. Moreover, the issue of whether the trophic factors mediating neurite outgrowth are also responsible for synapse specification has not yet been resolved. To test whether trophic factors mediating neurite outgrowth and synapse formation between identified neurons are conserved in two molluscan species and whether these developmental processes are differentially regulated by different trophic factors, we used soma-soma and neurite-neurite synapses between identified Lymnaea neurons. We demonstrate here that the trophic factors present in Aplysia hemolymph, although sufficient to induce neurite outgrowth from Lymnaea neurons, do not promote specific synapse formation between excitatory partners. Specifically, the identified presynaptic neuron visceral dorsal 4 (VD4) and postsynaptic neuron left pedal dorsal 1 (LPeD1) were either paired in a soma-soma configuration or plated individually to allow neuritic contacts. Cells were cultured in either Lymnaea brain-conditioned medium (CM) or on poly-L-lysine dishes that were pretreated with Aplysia hemolymph (ApHM), but contained only Lymnaea defined medium (DM; does not promote neurite outgrowth). In ApHM-coated dishes containing DM, Lymnaea neurons exhibited extensive neurite outgrowth, but appropriate excitatory synapses failed to develop between the cells. Instead, inappropriate reciprocal inhibitory synapses formed between VD4 and LPeD1. Similar inappropriate inhibitory synapses were observed in Aplysia hemolymph-pretreated dishes that contained dialyzed Aplysia hemolymph. These inhibitory synapses were novel and inappropriate, because they do not exist in vivo. A receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (Lavendustin A) blocked neurite outgrowth induced by both Lymnaea CM and ApHM. However, it did not affect inappropriate inhibitory synapse formation between the neurons. These data demonstrate that neurite outgrowth but not inappropriate inhibitory synapse formation involves receptor tyrosine kinases. Together, our data provide direct evidence that trophic factors required for neurite outgrowth are conserved among two different molluscan species, and that neurite extension and synapse specification between excitatory partners are likely mediated by different trophic factors.
Gangliosides, sialic acid-bearing glycosphingolipids, are highly enriched in the vertebrate nervous system. Anti-ganglioside antibodies are associated with various human neuropathies, although the pathogenicity of these antibodies remains unproven. Testing the pathogenic role of anti-ganglioside antibodies will be facilitated by developing high-affinity IgG-class complement-fixing monoclonal anti-bodies against major brain gangliosides, a goal that has been difficult to achieve. In this study, mice lacking complex gangliosides were used as immune-naive hosts to raise anti-ganglioside antibodies. Wild-type mice and knockout mice with a disrupted gene for GM2/GD2 synthase (UDP-N-acetyl-D-galactosamine : GM3/GD3 N-acetyl-D-glactosaminyltransferase) were immunized with GD1a conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin. The knockout mice produced a vigorous anti-GD1a IgG response, whereas wildtype littermates failed to do so. Fusion of spleen cells from an immunized knockout mouse with myeloma cells yielded numerous IgG anti-GD1a antibody-producing colonies. Ganglioside binding studies revealed two specificity classes; one colony representing each class was cloned and characterized. High-affinity monoclonal antibody was produced by each hybridoma : an IgG1 that bound nearly exclusively to GD1a and an IgG2b that bound GD1a, GT1b, and GT1aalpha. Both antibodies readily readily detected gangliosides via ELISA, TLC immune overlay, immunohistochemistry, and immunocytochemistry. In contrast to prior reports using anti-GD1a and anti-GT1b IgM class monoclonal antibodies, the new antibodies bound avidly to granule neurons in brain tissue sections and cell cultures. Mice lacking complex gangliosides are improved hosts for raising high-affinity, high-titer anti-ganglioside IgG antibodies for probing for the distribution and physiology of gangliosides and the pathophysiology of anti-ganglioside antibodies.
Neurofilament-L (NF-L), one subunit of the neuronal intermediate filaments, is a major element of neuronal cytoskeletons. The dynamics of NF-L are regulated by phosphorylation of its head domain. The phosphorylation sites of the NF-L head domain by protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and Rho-associated kinase have been previously identified, and those by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) were identified in this study. A series of site- and phosphorylation state-specific antibodies against NF-L was prepared to investigate NF-L phosphorylation in neuronal systems. Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a cellular model of neuronal plasticity that is thought to involve the phosphorylation of various proteins. NF-L is considered a possible substrate for phosphorylation. During LTP stimulation of mouse hippocampal slices, the series of antibodies demonstrated the increase in the phosphorylation level of Ser(57) in NF-L and the visualization of the localized distribution of Ser(57) phosphorylation in a subpopulation of apical dendrites of the pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, Ser(57) phosphorylation during LTP is suggested to be mediated by CaMKII. Here we show that NF-L is phosphorylated by CaMKII in a subpopulation of apical dendrites during LTP, indicating that Ser(57) is a novel phosphorylation site of NF-L in vivo related to the neuronal signal transduction.
The hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate is regulated by light in retinal rod outer segment (ROS) membranes. We recently reported that the activities of phosphatidylinositol synthetase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase are also higher in bleached (light-exposed) ROS (B-ROS). In this study, we investigated the effect of bleaching on diacylglycerol (DAG) kinase (DAG-kinase) activity in bovine and rat ROS membranes prepared from dark-adapted (D-ROS) or bleached (B-ROS) retinas. In bovine ROS, DAG-kinase activity toward endogenous DAG substrate was higher in B-ROS than in D-ROS. Quantification of DAG in both sets of membranes showed that the levels were the same, eliminating the possibility that the greater DAG-kinase activity was due to higher levels of endogenous substrate in B-ROS. DAG-kinase activity was also higher in B-ROS against an exogenous, water-soluable substrate (1, 2-didecanoyl-rac-glycerol), which competed with endogenous DAG substrate and saturated at approximately 2 mM. Immunoblot analysis with an anti-DAG-kinase gamma polyclonal antibody demonstrated that the gamma isoform was present in isolated bovine ROS. Immunocytochemistry of frozen bovine retinal sections confirmed the presence of DAG-kinase gamma immunoreactivity in ROS, as well as other retinal cells. Quantification of the immunoreactive products on western blots showed that more DAG-kinase gamma was present in B-ROS than in D-ROS. In an in vivo experiment, ROS prepared from rats exposed to 30 min of room light had greater DAG-kinase activity than ROS prepared from dark-adapted animals. Taken together, these data suggest that light exposure leads to the translocation of DAG-kinase from the cytosol to ROS membranes and that the greater DAG-kinase activity in B-ROS is due to the presence of more protein associated with ROS membranes.
The NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor is physically associated with the postsynaptic density protein PSD-95 at glutamatergic synapses. The channel activity of NMDA receptors is regulated by different signaling molecules, including protein tyrosine kinases. Because previous results have suggested a role for protein kinase C (PKC) in insulin potentiation of NMDA currents in oocytes, the effects of coexpression of PSD-95 on insulin and PKC potentiation of NMDA currents from these receptors were compared. Another primary objective was to determine if PSD-95 could enable Src to potentiate currents from NR2A/NR1 and NR2B/NR1 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The results show opposite effects of PSD-95 coexpression on Src and insulin modulation of NR2A/NR1 receptor currents. Src potentiation of mouse NR2A/NR1 currents required PSD-95 coexpression. In contrast, PSD-95 coexpression eliminated insulin-mediated potentiation of NR2A/NR1 receptor currents. PSD-95 coexpression also eliminated PKC potentiation of NR2A/NR1 receptor currents. PSD-95 may therefore play a key role in controlling kinase modulation of NR2A/NR1 receptor currents at glutamatergic synapses.
The behavioral effects of cocaine are enhanced following constitutive deletion of the serotonin(1B) receptor. The neural substrates mediating the enhanced response to cocaine are unknown. The present studies determined whether basal dopamine dynamics or cocaine-evoked dopamine levels are altered in projection areas of mesostriatal or mesoaccumbens dopamine neurons following serotonin(1B) receptor deletion. Male wild-type and serotonin(1B) knockout mice were implanted with microdialysis guide cannulas aimed at the dorsal striatum or nucleus accumbens. The zero net flux method of quantitative microdialysis was used to quantify basal extracellular dopamine concentrations (DA(ext)) and the extraction fraction of dopamine (E(d)), which provides an index of dopamine uptake. Conventional microdialysis techniques were used to quantify cocaine (0, 5.0, and 20.0 mg/kg)-evoked dopamine overflow. Basal DA(ext) and E(d) did not differ in striatum of wild-type and knockout mice. Similarly, cocaine-stimulated dopamine overflow did not differ between genotype. The basal E(d) did not differ in the nucleus accumbens of wild-type and knockout mice. However, DA(ext) was significantly elevated in the nucleus accumbens of knockout mice. Cocaine-evoked dopamine overflow (nM) was also enhanced in the nucleus accumbens of knockout mice. However, the cocaine-induced increase in dopamine levels, relative to basal values, did not differ between genotype. These data demonstrate that deletion of the serotonin(1B) receptor is associated with increases in basal DA(ext) in the nucleus accumbens. This increase is not associated with an alteration in E(d), suggesting increased basal dopamine release in these animals. It is hypothesized that these alterations in presynaptic neuronal activity are a compensatory response to constitutive deletion of the serotonin(1B) receptor and may contribute to the enhanced behavioral effects of psychostimulants observed in knockout mice.
The role of the dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32,000 (DARPP-32) in dopaminergic regulation of gene transcription in striatum and globus pallidus was examined. Mice with targeted disruption of the gene encoding DARPP-32, its homologue, inhibitor-1, or both, were used. Pharmacological characterization showed that mutant mice had normal basal levels of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors and adenosine A(2A) receptors. Basal expression levels of the striatonigral-specific neuropeptides substance P and prodynorphin and the immediate early genes c-fos and NGFI-A were also unaltered in mutant mice. A full D(1) receptor agonist, SKF 82958, up-regulated the expression of these neuropeptides and immediate early genes significantly more in wild-type mice than in mice lacking DARPP-32. Moreover, the additive stimulation of SKF 82958 and quinelorane, a D(2) receptor agonist, on c-fos mRNA in globus pallidus was significantly decreased in DARPP-32 and DARPP-32/I-1 knockout mice. No changes in dopamine receptor-induced gene expression were found in I-1 knockout mice. These results demonstrate an important involvement of DARPP-32 in dopamine receptor-mediated regulation of gene expression both in striatal neurons, which are enriched in DARPP-32, and in pallidal neurons, which do not contain DARPP-32.
In the present study, we investigated the involvement of betagamma subunits of G(q/11) in the muscarinic M(1) receptor-induced potentiation of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in membranes of rat frontal cortex. Tissue exposure to either one of two betagamma scavengers, the QEHA fragment type II adenylyl cyclase and the GDP-bound form of the alpha subunit of transducin, inhibited the muscarinic M(1) facilitatory effect. Moreover, like acetylcholine (ACh), exogenously added betagamma subunits of transducin potentiated the CRH-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity, and this effect was not additive with that elicited by ACh. Western blot analysis indicated the expression in frontal cortex of both type II and type IV adenylyl cyclases, two isoforms stimulated by betagamma subunits in synergism with activated G(s). The M(1) receptor-induced enhancement of the adenylyl cyclase response to CRH was counteracted by the G(q/11) antagonist GpAnt-2A but not by GpAnt-2, a preferential G(i/o) antagonist. In addition, the muscarinic facilitatory effect was inhibited by membrane preincubation with antiserum directed against the C terminus of the alpha subunit of G(q/11), whereas the same treatment with antiserum against either G(i1/2) or G(o) was without effect. These data indicate that in membranes of rat frontal cortex, activation of muscarinic M(1) receptors potentiates CRH-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity through betagamma subunits of G(q/11).
Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle increases (32)P incorporation into striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) at Ser (19), Ser(31), and Ser(40). In the present studies, the effects of acute haloperidol and related drugs on sitespecific TH phosphorylation stoichiometry (PS) in the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems were determined by quantitative blot immunolabeling using phosphorylation statespecific antibodies. The striatum (Str), substantia nigra (SN), nucleus accumbens (NAc), and ventral tegmental area (VTA) from Sprague-Dawley rats were harvested 30-40 min after a single injection of either vehicle, haloperidol (2 mg/kg), raclopride (2 mg/kg), clozapine (30 mg/kg), or SCH23390 (0.5 mg/kg). In vehicle-injected control rats, Ser(19) PS was 1.5- to 2. 5-fold lower in Str and NAc than in SN and VTA, Ser(31) PS was two-to fourfold higher in Str and NAc than in SN and VTA, and Ser(40) PS was similar between the terminal field and cell body regions. After haloperidol, Ser(40) PS increased twofold in Str and NAc, whereas a smaller increase in SN and VTA was observed. The effects of haloperidol on Ser(19) PS were similar to those on Ser(40) in each region; however, haloperidol treatment increased Ser(31) PS at least 1.6-fold in all regions. The effects of raclopride on TH PS were comparable to those of haloperidol, whereas clozapine treatment increased TH PS at all sites in all regions. By contrast, the effects of SCH23390 on TH PS were relatively small and restricted to the NAc. The stoichiometries of site-specific TH phosphorylation in vivo are presented for the first time. The nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems have common features of TH PS, distinguished by differences in TH PS between the terminal field and cell body regions and by dissimilar increases in TH PS in the terminal field and cell body regions after acute haloperidol.
Differential assembly of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits determines their functional characteristics. Using in situ hybridization, we found a selective increase of the subunits NR1 and NR2A mRNA at 24 h in ventral motor neurons (VMN) caudal to a standardized spinal cord contusion injury (SCI). Other neuronal cell populations and VMN rostral to the injury site appeared unaffected. Significant up-regulation of NR2A mRNA also was seen 1 month after SCI in thoracic and lumbar VMN. The selective effects on VMN caudal to the injury site suggest that the loss of descending innervation leads to increased NMDA receptor subunit expression in these cells after SCI, which may alter their responses to glutamate. In contrast, protein levels determined by western blot analysis show decreased levels of NR2A 1 month after SCI in whole thoracic segments of spinal cord that included the injury sites. No effects of injury were seen on subunit levels in cervical or lumbar segments. Taken together with our previous study showing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor subunit down-regulation after injury, our data suggest that glutamate receptor composition is significantly altered after SCI. These changes need to be taken into account to properly understand the function of, and potential pharmacotherapy for, the chronically injured spinal cord.
The catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) is a specialized reverse transcriptase that has been associated with cell immortalization and cancer. It was reported recently that TERT is expressed in neurons throughout the brain in embryonic and early postnatal development, but is absent from neurons in the adult brain. We now report that suppression of TERT levels and function in embryonic mouse hippocampal neurons in culture using antisense technology and the telomerase inhibitor 3' -azido-2' 3' -dideoxythymidine significantly increases their vulnerability to cell death induced by amyloid beta-peptide, a neurotoxic protein believed to promote neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Neurons in which TERT levels were reduced exhibited increased levels of oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction following exposure to amyloid beta-peptide. Overexpression of TERT in pheochromocytoma cells resulted in decreased vulnerability to amyloid beta-peptide-induced apoptosis. Our findings demonstrate a neuroprotective function of TERT in an experimental model relevant to Alzheimer's disease, and suggest the possibility that restoration of TERT expression in neurons in the adult brain may protect against age-related neurodegeneration.
The transcription factor E2F1 is known to mediate apoptosis in isolated quiescent and postmitotic cardiac myocytes, and its absence decreases the size of brain infarction following cerebral ischemia. To demonstrate directly that E2F1 modulates neuronal apoptosis, we used cultured cortical neurons to show a temporal association of the transcription and expression of E2F1 in neurons with increased neuronal apoptosis. Cortical neurons lacking E2F1 expression (derived from E2F1 -/- mice) were resistant to staurosporine-induced apoptosis as evidenced by the significantly lower caspase 3-like activity and a lesser number of cells with apoptotic morphology in comparison with cortical cultures derived from wild-type mice. Furthermore, overexpressing E2F1 alone using replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus was sufficient to cause neuronal cell death by apoptosis, as evidenced by the appearance of hallmarks of apoptosis, such as the threefold increase in caspase 3-like activity and increased laddered DNA fragmentation, in situ endlabeled DNA fragmentation, and numbers of neuronal cells with punctate nuclei. Taken together, we conclude that E2F1 plays a key role in modulating neuronal apoptosis.
In recent years, the antioxidant and other pharmacological properties of resveratrol, a natural product present in grapes and wine, have attracted considerable interest from the biomedical research community. In an examination of the potential neuroprotective properties of the compound, we have investigated the ability of resveratrol to protect rat embryonic mesencephalic tissue, rich in dopaminergic neurones, from the prooxidant tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Using the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin-trapping technique, the main radicals detected in cell suspensions were the tert-butoxyl radical and the methyl radical, indicating the one-electron reduction of the peroxide followed by a beta-scission reaction. The appearance of EPR signals from the trapped radicals preceded the onset of cytotoxicity, which was almost exclusively necrotic in nature. The inclusion of resveratrol in incubations resulted in the marked protection of cells from tert-butyl hydroperoxide. In parallel spin-trapping experiments, we were able to demonstrate the scavenging of radicals by resveratrol, which involved direct competition between resveratrol and the spin trap for reaction with the radicals. To our knowledge, this is the first example in which cytoprotection by resveratrol has been demonstrated by EPR spin-trapping competition kinetics to be due to its scavenging of the radicals responsible for the toxicity of a prooxidant.
Unilateral hypoglossal nerve axotomy was used as a model to analyse immunohistochemically the expression of the GluR1, GluR2, GluR3, and GluR4 glutamate receptor subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) subtype and the NR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype in the different morphofunctional hypoglossal pools from 1 to 45 days postaxotomy. Following hypoglossal nerve axotomy, the percentage of motoneurons that were GluR1-immunopositive and the labeling intensity for this subunit was increased in some hypoglossal pools. Immunolabeling for the GluR2 subunit was undetectable. These results contrast with the unchanged pattern for these two subunits after sciatic nerve axotomy previously described. Image analysis showed a significant decrease in the intensity of immunohistochemical labeling for the GluR2/3 and GluR4 subunits in motoneurons, although most motoneurons were still immunopositive for these 2 subunits after axotomy. The intensity of immunolabeling for the NR1 subunit was slightly decreased postlesion, whereas the percentage of NR1-immunopositive motoneurons increased. Immunoreactivity returned to basal levels 45 days postlesion. These findings show that in axotomized hypoglossal motoneurons, i) AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits are still expressed, ii) the composition of the ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit pool is subjected to continuous changes during the regeneration process, iii) AMPA receptors, if functional, would have physiological properties different to those in intact motoneurons, and iv) the various AMPA receptor subunits are differentially regulated. The present results also suggest a faster recovery of basal levels of immunoreactivity for caudally localised groups of motoneurons which could reflect a caudo-rostral sequential functional recovery in the hypoglossal nucleus.
In mammals, the synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa, SNAP-25, is generally thought to play a role in synaptic exocytosis of neuronal messengers. Using a polyclonal antiserum against rat SNAP-25, we have shown the presence of a SNAP-25-like protein in the brain of the South-African clawed toad Xenopus laevis by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry. Xenopus SNAP-25 is ubiquitously present throughout the brain, where its distribution in various identified neuronal perikarya and axon tracts is described. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry also demonstrated the presence of SNAP-25 in the neural, intermediate and distal lobes of the pituitary gland. Intensity line plots of confocal laser scanning microscope images of isolated melanotropes indicated that SNAP-25 is produced and processed in the rough endoplasmatic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, and is associated with the plasma membrane. Immunoelectron microscopy substantiated the idea that SNAP-25 is present in the plasma membrane but also showed a close association of SNAP-25 with the bounding membrane of peptide-containing secretory granules in both the neurohemal axon terminals in the neural lobe and the endocrine melanotropes in the intermediate lobe. Quantitative Western blotting revealed that adapting Xenopus to a dark background has a clear stimulatory effect on the expression of SNAP-25 in the neural lobe and in the melanotrope cells. This background light intensity-dependent stimulation of SNAP-25 expression was confirmed by the demonstration of increased immunofluorescence recorded by confocal laser scanning microscopy of individual melanotropes of black background-adapted toads. On the basis of this study on Xenopus laevis, we conclude that SNAP-25 (i) plays a substantial role in the secretion of a wide variety of neuronal messengers; (ii) functions in the central nervous system but also in neurohormonal and endocrine systems; (iii) acts at the plasma membrane but possibly also at the membrane of synaptic vesicles and peptide-containing secretory granules; (iv) acts not only locally (as in synapses), but at various sites of the plasma membrane (as in the endocrine melanotrope cell); and (v) can be upregulated in its expression by physiological stimuli that increase the extent of the molecular machinery involved in exocytosis.
Biosynthesis of the vasopressin (VP) prohormone in magnocellular neurones of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system comprises endoplasmic reticulum (ER) transit, sorting into the regulated secretory pathway and subsequent processing in the individual proteins VP, neurophysin and a glycoprotein. These processes are severely disrupted in the homozygous diabetes insipidus (di/di) Brattleboro rat, which expresses a mutant VP precursor due to a single nucleotide deletion in the neurophysin region of the VP gene resulting in VP deficiency. Previous studies have shown the presence of additional frameshift mutations in VP transcripts, in solitary magnocellular neurones of the di/di rat due to a GA dinucleotide deletion resulting in two different mutant VP precursors with partly restored reading frame. Frameshifted VP precursors are also expressed in several magnocellular neurones in wild-type rats. In this study, we determined if the +1 frameshifted precursors from di/di and wild-type rats can lead to biosynthesis of the hormone VP. Therefore, eukaryotic expression plasmids containing the frameshifted VP cDNAs were transiently expressed in peptidergic tumour cell lines, and cells were analysed by reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography and specific radioimmunoassays, and by immunofluoresence. Neuro2A neuroblastoma cells expressing the +1 frameshifted precursors of di/di rats retained products in the cell body. Only precursor or insignificant quantities of neurophysin-immunoreactive products were detected. In contrast, in AtT20 cells, frameshifted VP precursors were at least partly processed to yield the VP peptide, indicating that they have access to the regulated secretory pathway. Comparison between the two cell lines showed a very slow ER transit of the wild-type prohormone combined with inefficient processing in Neuro2A cells. The results show that mutant precursors can reach the regulated secretory pathway if ER transport is sufficiently rapid as in the case of AtT20 cells. This suggests that the di/di rat may regain the capacity to biosynthesize authentic VP through these +1 frameshifted precursors in magnocellular neurones.
Recent studies have suggested that autoimmune inflammation elicited in the central nervous system (CNS) is subsided by apoptotic cell death of inflammatory cells. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of apoptosis of infiltrating T and other cells occurring in the CNS during autoimmune encephalomyelitis, we determined the type of apoptotic cells and the localization of apoptosis-related molecules (Fas, FasL, Bax, Bcl-2 and active caspase 3) by immunohistochemistry. Double labeling with the TUNEL method and cell-type markers showed that infiltrating T cells and microglia/macrophages underwent apoptosis, while astrocytes and neurons did not. Staining for apoptosis-related molecules revealed that infiltrating T cells and microglia/macrophages, but not astrocytes and neurons, expressed both Fas-FasL and Bax. The distribution and cell type of active caspase 3-positive cells were essentially the same as those of TUNEL-positive cells. These findings suggest that coexpression of Fas/FasL and Bax is closely associated with apoptotic cell death of infiltrating T cells and microglia in the CNS. Furthermore, astrocytes which express Fas and FasL, but not Bax, may play an important role in regulating inflammation in the CNS by inducing apoptotic cell death of infiltrating T cells and microglia, both of which have an inflammation-promoting nature.
We have recently found that soluble biglycan purified from rat thymic myoid cells had haemopoietic activity capable of inducing preferential growth and differentiation of monocytic lineage cells from various haemopoietic sources, including brain microglial cells. In the present study, to understand developmental mechanisms of microglial/monocytic cells in the brain, we have attempted to identify haemopoietic activity of the brain biglycan. The mRNA and the immunological epitope of biglycan were detected in the rat brain homogenates and several rat glial cell lines. Immunohistochemical study showed that several different types of brain cells produced biglycan. During development biglycan synthesis in the brain appeared to be increased. The brain haemopoietic biglycan was easily separated by DEAE-Sepharose chromatography from the macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) which was concomitantly produced from the brain cells. The brain haemopoietic biglycan, purified through immunoaffinity column, indeed stimulated growth of primarily cultured microglial cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the haemopoietic biglycan plays an important role in generating brain-specific circumstances for development of microglial/monocytic cells.



We investigated by immunohistochemistry the deposition of alpha-synuclein in the brains of deceased patients with the parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) of Guam. Five of 13 PDC brains showed numerous alpha-synuclein positive neuronal inclusions and abnormal neurites, chiefly in the amygdala. Similar alpha-synuclein positive lesions were observed, although to a lesser extent, in the entorhinal cortex and the dorsal vagal nucleus. No alpha-synuclein positive inclusions were observed in motor cortex or locus coeruleus, and only a small number of positive inclusions were found in the Sommer's sector, temporal cortex, or substantia nigra. Some of the alpha-synuclein positive inclusions were reminiscent of cortical Lewy bodies (LB), but many of those in the amygdala coexisted with tau-positive pretangles and/or neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) within the same neurons. In these neurons, tau-positive shells encapsulated alpha-synuclein positive central cores or irregularly shaped alpha-synuclein-positive deposition intermingled with pretangles/NFT. Thus, the present study suggests that a common mechanism may govern aggregation of alpha-synuclein and tau in the amygdala, and that aggregation of alpha-synuclein may play some role in the neurodegenerative process of a tauopathy (i.e. PDC) in which Abeta deposition is virtually absent.
Simultaneous single neuron and local field potential (LFP) recordings were made in arm-related areas of the cerebellar nuclei (CN) and primary motor cortex (M1) of two monkeys during a reaching and button pressing task. Microstimulation of focal sites in CN caused short latency (median = 3.0 ms) increases in discharge in 25% of 210 M1 neurons. Suppressive effects were less common (13%) and observed at longer latencies (median = 9.9 ms). Stimulation in CN also caused reciprocal facilitation and suppression in averages of antagonist muscle electromyograms (EMGs). The latency of these effects was approximately 8-11 ms. In contrast to the selectivity of unit and EMG effects, stimulation-evoked changes in LFP occurred over a broad range of sites. There were no significant short-latency effects detected in cross-correlation histograms between single neurons in CN and M1. However, CN spike-triggered averages of M1 LFPs were observed in a few cases (10% of 126 cases). In one-half of these, there were effects both before and after the CN spikes, which may reflect causal effects from M1 to CN, as well as from CN to M1. Overall, these results demonstrate a spatially specific, short latency, primarily excitatory pathway from CN to M1. The relatively rare effects at the single neuron level may have resulted from the difficulty in achieving optimal alignment between cerebellar and cerebral sites because of the specificity of these connections.
Vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) transduce odor stimuli into electrical signals by means of an adenylyl cyclase/cAMP second messenger cascade, but it remains widely debated whether this cAMP cascade mediates transduction for all odorants or only certain odor classes. To address this problem, we have analyzed the generator currents induced by odors that failed to produce cAMP in previous biochemical assays but instead produced IP(3) (&quot;IP(3)-odors&quot;). We show that in single salamander ORNs, sensory responses to &quot;cAMP-odors&quot; and IP(3)-odors are not mutually exclusive but coexist in the same cells. The currents induced by IP(3)-odors exhibit identical biophysical properties as those induced by cAMP odors or direct activation of the cAMP cascade. By disrupting adenylyl cyclase to block cAMP formation using two potent antagonists of adenylyl cyclase, SQ22536 and MDL12330A, we show that this molecular step is necessary for the transduction of both odor classes. To assess whether these results are also applicable to mammals, we examine the electrophysiological responses to IP(3)-odors in intact mouse main olfactory epithelium (MOE) by recording field potentials. The results show that inhibition of adenylyl cyclase prevents EOG responses to both odor classes in mouse MOE, even when &quot;hot spots&quot; with heightened sensitivity to IP(3)-odors are examined.
Real-world behavior is typically more complicated than a one-to-one mapping between a stimulus and response; the same stimulus can lead to different behaviors depending on the situation, or the same behavior may be cued by different stimuli. In such cases, knowledge of the formal demands of the task at hand is required. We found that in monkeys trained to alternate between three tasks, the activity of many neurons in the prefrontal cortex was task dependent. This included changes in overall firing rate, in firing-rate profiles (shape of responses over time), and in stimulus and response selectivity. These findings support the hypothesis that a major prefrontal function is the acquisition and implementation of task context and the &quot;rules&quot; used to guide behavior.
Simultaneous recording from large numbers of neurons is a prerequisite for understanding their cooperative behavior. Various recording techniques and spike separation methods are being used toward this goal. However, the error rates involved in spike separation have not yet been quantified. We studied the separation reliability of &quot;tetrode&quot; (4-wire electrode)-recorded spikes by monitoring simultaneously from the same cell intracellularly with a glass pipette and extracellularly with a tetrode. With manual spike sorting, we found a trade-off between Type I and Type II errors, with errors typically ranging from 0 to 30% depending on the amplitude and firing pattern of the cell, the similarity of the waveshapes of neighboring neurons, and the experience of the operator. Performance using only a single wire was markedly lower, indicating the advantages of multiple-site monitoring techniques over single-wire recordings. For tetrode recordings, error rates were increased by burst activity and during periods of cellular synchrony. The lowest possible separation error rates were estimated by a search for the best ellipsoidal cluster shape. Human operator performance was significantly below the estimated optimum. Investigation of error distributions indicated that suboptimal performance was caused by inability of the operators to mark cluster boundaries accurately in a high-dimensional feature space. We therefore hypothesized that automatic spike-sorting algorithms have the potential to significantly lower error rates. Implementation of a semi-automatic classification system confirms this suggestion, reducing errors close to the estimated optimum, in the range 0-8%.
Multichannel tetrode array recording in awake behaving animals provides a powerful method to record the activity of large numbers of neurons. The power of this method could be extended if further information concerning the intracellular state of the neurons could be extracted from the extracellularly recorded signals. Toward this end, we have simultaneously recorded intracellular and extracellular signals from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons in the anesthetized rat. We found that several intracellular parameters can be deduced from extracellular spike waveforms. The width of the intracellular action potential is defined precisely by distinct points on the extracellular spike. Amplitude changes of the intracellular action potential are reflected by changes in the amplitude of the initial negative phase of the extracellular spike, and these amplitude changes are dependent on the state of the network. In addition, intracellular recordings from dendrites with simultaneous extracellular recordings from the soma indicate that, on average, action potentials are initiated in the perisomatic region and propagate to the dendrites at 1.68 m/s. Finally we determined that a tetrode in hippocampal area CA1 theoretically should be able to record electrical signals from approximately 1, 000 neurons. Of these, 60-100 neurons should generate spikes of sufficient amplitude to be detectable from the noise and to allow for their separation using current spatial clustering methods. This theoretical maximum is in contrast to the approximately six units that are usually detected per tetrode. From this, we conclude that a large percentage of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells are silent in any given behavioral condition.
How the motor-related cortical areas modulate the activity of the output nuclei of the basal ganglia is an important issue for understanding the mechanisms of motor control by the basal ganglia. In the present study, by using awake monkeys, the polysynaptic effects of electrical stimulation in the forelimb regions of the primary motor and primary somatosensory cortices on the activity of globus pallidus (GP) neurons, especially mediated by the subthalamic nucleus (STN), have been characterized. Cortical stimulation induced an early, short-latency excitation followed by an inhibition and a late excitation in neurons of both the external and internal segments of the GP. It also induced an early, short-latency excitation followed by a late excitation and an inhibition in STN neurons. The early excitation in STN neurons preceded that in GP neurons. Blockade of STN neuronal activity by muscimol (GABA(A) receptor agonist) injection resulted in abolishment of both the early and late excitations evoked in GP neurons by cortical stimulation. At the same time, the spontaneous discharge rate of GP neurons decreased, pauses between the groups of spikes of GP neurons became prominent, and the firing pattern became regular. Injection of (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) [N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist], but not 1,2,3, 4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium [NBQX (non-NMDA receptor antagonist)], into the STN attenuated the early and late excitations in GP neurons, suggesting that cortico-subthalamic transmission is mediated mainly by NMDA receptors. Interference with the pallido-subthalamic transmission by bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist) injection into the STN made the inhibition distinct without affecting the early excitation. The present results indicate that the cortico-subthalamo-pallidal pathway conveys powerful excitatory effects from the motor-related cortical areas to the GP with shorter conduction time than the effects conveyed through the striatum.
This study examined the effect of chronic exposure to ethanol on gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A (GABA(A)) receptor-mediated responses of layer II pyramidal neurons of the piriform cortex. Slices containing the piriform cortex were derived from pair-fed adult rats maintained on ethanol-supplemented or control liquid diet for 30 days. Responses of identified layer II pyramidal neurons to exogenously applied GABA were monitored by whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Chronic exposure to ethanol resulted in a rightward shift in the EC(50) of GABA and a decrease in the amplitude of maximal GABA response. GABA-induced responses were modulated by acutely applied ethanol (10-100 mM) in both chronic ethanol-treated and control groups. No significant difference was found in the average change in GABA response, suggesting that tolerance to acute ethanol exposure did not develop. When the modulatory responses of individual cells were classified and grouped as either being attenuating, potentiating, or having no effect, the incidence of potentiation in the ethanol-treated group was significantly higher. Consistent with the absence of tolerance to acute ethanol, cross-tolerance to diazepam was not observed following 30 days of treatment with ethanol. These results are discussed in light of regionally specific effects of chronic ethanol treatment on GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses of layer II piriform cortical neurons.
We used apparent motion targets to explore how degraded visual motion alters smooth pursuit eye movements. Apparent motion targets consisted of brief stationary flashes with a spatial separation (Deltax), temporal separation (Deltat), and apparent target velocity equal to Deltax/Deltat. Changes in pursuit initiation were readily observed when holding target velocity constant and increasing the flash separation. As flash separation increased, the first deficit observed was an increase in the latency to peak eye acceleration. Also seen was a paradoxical increase in initial eye acceleration. Further increases in the flash separation produced larger increases in latency and resulted in decreased eye acceleration. By varying target velocity, we were able to discern that the visual inputs driving pursuit initiation show both temporal and spatial limits. For target velocities above 4-8 degrees /s, deficits in the initiation of pursuit were seen when Deltax exceeded 0.2-0.5 degrees, even when Deltat was small. For target velocities below 4-8 degrees /s, deficits appeared when Deltat exceeded 32-64 ms, even when Deltax was small. Further experiments were designed to determine whether the spatial limit varied as retinal and extra-retinal factors changed. Varying the initial retinal position of the target for motion at 18 degrees /s revealed that the spatial limit increased as a function of retinal eccentricity. We then employed targets that increased velocity twice, once from fixation and again during pursuit. These experiments revealed that, as expected, the spatial limit is expressed in terms of the flash separation on the retina. The spatial limit is uninfluenced by either eye velocity or the absolute velocity of the target. These experiments also demonstrate that &quot;initiation&quot; deficits can be observed during ongoing pursuit, and are thus not deficits in initiation per se. We conclude that such deficits result from degradation of the retino-centric motion signals that drive pursuit eye acceleration. For large flash separations, we also observed deficits in the maintenance of pursuit: sustained eye velocity failed to match the constant apparent target velocity. Deficits in the maintenance of pursuit depended on both target velocity and Deltat and did not result simply from a failure of degraded image motion signals to drive eye acceleration. We argue that such deficits result from a low gain in the eye velocity memory that normally supports the maintenance of pursuit. This low gain may appear because visual inputs are so degraded that the transition from fixation to tracking is incomplete.
Mammalian vestibular organs have two types of hair cell, type I and type II, which differ morphologically and electrophysiologically. Type I hair cells alone express an outwardly rectifying current, I(K, L), which activates at relatively negative voltages. We used whole cell and patch configurations to study I(K,L) in hair cells isolated from the sensory epithelia of rat semicircular canals. I(K,L) was potassium selective, blocked by 4-aminopyridine, and permeable to internal cesium. It activated with sigmoidal kinetics and was half-maximally activated at -74.5 +/- 1.6 mV (n = 35; range -91 to -50 mV). It was a very large conductance (91 +/- 8 nS at -37 mV; 35 nS/pF for a cell of average size). Patch recordings from type I cells revealed a candidate ion channel with a conductance of 20-30 pS. Because I(K,L) was activated at the resting potential, the cells had low input resistances (R(m)): median 25 MOmega at -67 mV versus 1.3 GOmega for type II cells. Consequently, injected currents comparable to large transduction currents (300 pA) evoked small (&lt;/=10 mV) voltage responses. The cells' small voltage responses and negative resting potentials (V(R) = -81.3 +/- 0.2 mV, n = 144) pose a problem for afferent neurotransmission: how does the receptor potential depolarize the cell into the activation range of Ca(2+) channels (positive to -60 mV) that mediate transmitter release? One possibility, suggested by spontaneous positive shifts in the activation range of I(K,L) during whole cell recording, is that the activation range might be modulated in vivo. Any factor that reduces the number of I(K,L) channels open at V(R) will increase R(m) and depolarize V(R). Nitric oxide (NO) is an ion channel modulator that is present in vestibular epithelia. Four different NO donors, applied externally, inhibited the I(K,L) conductance at -67 mV, with mean effects ranging from 33 to 76%. The NO donor sodium nitroprusside inhibited channel activity in patches when they were cell-attached but not excised, suggesting an intracellular cascade. Consistent with an NO-cGMP cascade, 8-bromo-cGMP also inhibited whole cell I(K,L). Ca(2+)-dependent NO synthase is reported to be in hair cells and nerve terminals in the vestibular epithelium. Excitatory input to vestibular organs may lead, through Ca(2+) influx, to NO production and inhibition of I(K,L). The resulting increase in R(m) would augment the receptor potential, a form of positive feedback.
The inferior temporal cortex (IT) of the monkey, a final stage in the ventral visual pathway, has been known to process information on two-dimensional (2-D) shape, color, and texture. On the other hand, the dorsal visual pathway leading to the posterior parietal cortex has been known to process information on location in space. Likewise, neurons selective for binocular disparity, which convey information on depth, have been found mainly in areas along the dorsal visual pathway. Here, we report that many neurons in the IT are also selective for binocular disparity. We recorded extracellular activity from IT neurons and found that more than half of the neurons changed their response depending on the disparity added. The change was not attributed to monocular responses or eye movements. Most neurons selective for disparity were &quot;near&quot; or &quot;far&quot; cells; they preferred either crossed or uncrossed disparity, and only a small population was tuned to zero disparity. Disparity-selective neurons were also selective for shape. Most preferred the same type of disparity irrespective of the shape presented. Disparity preference was also invariant for the fronto-parallel translation of the stimuli in most of the neurons. Finally, nearby neurons exhibited similar disparity selectivity, suggesting the existence of a functional module for processing of binocular disparity in the IT. From the above and our recent findings, we suggest that the IT integrates shape and binocular disparity information, and plays an important role in the reconstruction of three-dimensional (3-D) surfaces.
The output of the olfactory bulb is governed by the interaction of synaptic potentials with the intrinsic conductances of mitral cells. While mitral cells often are considered as simple relay neurons, conveying activity in olfactory receptor cells to the piriform cortex, there is strong physiological and behavioral evidence that local synaptic interactions within the olfactory bulb modulate mitral cell discharges and facilitate odorant discrimination. Understanding the circuitry of the olfactory bulb is complicated by the fact that most dendrites in this region are both pre- and postsynaptic. Feedback inhibition is mediated through reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between the secondary dendrites of mitral cells and GABAergic granule cells. Here we show that glutamate released from mitral cell dendrites also activates local N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) autoreceptors, generating an inward tail current following depolarizing voltage steps. Autoreceptor-mediated self-excitation is calcium dependent, can be evoked by single action potentials in the presence of magnesium, and is graded with the number of spikes in a train. We find that dendrodendritic inhibition also is evoked by single action potentials but saturates rapidly during repetitive discharges. Self-excitation also underlies the prolonged afterdischarges apparent in mitral cells following potassium channel blockade. Both afterdischarges and autoreceptor-mediated tail currents persist in TTX, suggesting that they are produced by local rather than polysynaptic actions of glutamate. Blockade of NMDA autoreceptors with 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) reduces the firing frequency within action potential cluster. The rapid kinetics of self-excitation suggests a functional role of NMDA autoreceptors in prolonging periods of phasic firing in mitral cells.
Sensitization or &quot;kindling-like&quot; phenomena have been implicated in the pathophysiology of a number of psychiatric illnesses. A basic understanding of the prototypical sensitization phenomenon, the kindling model of epilepsy, is thus of increasing significance for the psychiatrist. This article presents a summary of the kindling model, with particular emphasis on glutamatergic mechanisms in general and plasticity of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in specific. Findings from the kindling model are then discussed in light of their potential relevance to psychiatric illness. Finally, a speculative model is proposed in which opposing molecular processes lead to NMDA receptor hyperfunction in kindling and hypofunction in schizophrenia.
Biological rhythms such as cardiac and circadian rhythms arise from activity of multiple oscillators with dispersed intrinsic frequencies. It has been proposed that a stable population rhythm, fundamental to normal physiological processes, can be achieved in these systems by synchronization, through mutual entrainment, of individual oscillators. Mutual entrainment, however, is unlikely to be the mechanism underlying the generation of a stable rhythm in a population of multiple weakly coupled or uncoupled oscillators. We have recently identified such a population that is involved in the sympathetic regulation of vascular tone in a thermoregulatory circulation. In this paper, we investigate the stability of the output rhythm of these sympathetic oscillators by subjecting the system to a periodic driving force (the lung inflation cycle-related activity). We show that a population rhythm coupled to the drive can remain stable over a much wider driving frequency range compared with that of any one of its constituent oscillators. This population rhythmicity still exists despite the fact that the dominant frequencies of individual oscillators are not necessarily 1:1 frequency-locked to the drive. We provide evidence to show that this population metastability is achieved through linear and nonlinear dynamic interactions between the driving force and single sympathetic oscillators. Our study suggests that the generation of a stable population rhythm can exist even in the absence of mutual entrainment of its constituents, and this allows the population to generate a stable and flexible patterned response.
Recurrent inhibition in olfactory bulb mitral cells is mediated via reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses with granule cells. Although GABAergic granule cells express both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors, dendrodendritic inhibition (DDI) relies on the activation of NMDA receptors. Using whole-cell recordings from rat olfactory bulb slices, we now show that olfactory NMDA receptors have a dual role; they depolarize granule cell spines, and they provide a source of calcium that can evoke GABA exocytosis. We demonstrate that exogenous NMDA can trigger GABA release after blockade of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) with Cd. We also find that postsynaptic depolarization alone can evoke GABA release via a separate mechanism that relies on calcium influx through Cd-sensitive VDCCs. By selectively manipulating postsynaptic responses in granule cells with high-K or low-Na extracellular solutions, we show that endogenous glutamate can elicit GABA release via both NMDA receptor- and VDCC-dependent pathways. Finally, we find that blockade of Na channels in granule cells with tetrodotoxin enhances DDI, presumably by reducing the depolarization of granule cells during DDI and thereby increasing the driving force for Ca entry through NMDA receptors. These results provide evidence of a novel mechanism for evoked transmitter release that depends on Ca influx through ionotropic receptors and provides a new potential site for synaptic plasticity in the olfactory bulb.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant progressive and fatal neurodegenerative brain disorder caused by an expanded CAG/polyglutamine repeat in the coding region of the gene. Presymptomatic Huntington's disease patients often exhibit cognitive deficits before the onset of classical symptoms. To investigate the possibility that changes in synaptic plasticity might underlie cognitive impairment in HD, we examined hippocampal synaptic plasticity and spatial cognition in a transgenic mouse (R6/2 line) expressing exon 1 of the human Huntington's disease gene containing an expanded CAG repeat. This mouse exhibits a progressive and fatal neurological phenotype that resembles Huntington's disease. We report that R6/2 mice show marked alterations in synaptic plasticity at both CA1 and dentate granule cell synapses, and impaired spatial cognitive performance in the Morris water maze. The changes in hippocampal plasticity were age dependent, appearing at CA1 synapses several weeks before they were observed in the dentate gyrus. Deficits in synaptic plasticity at CA1 synapses occurred before an overt phenotype. This suggests that altered synaptic plasticity contributes to the pre-symptomatic changes in cognition reported in human carriers of the Huntington' disease gene. The temporal and regional changes in synaptic plasticity within the hippocampus mirror the appearance of neuronal intranuclear inclusions, suggesting a relationship between polyglutamine aggregation and dysfunction.
p38 is a member of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily and mediates intracellular signal transduction. Recent studies suggest that p38 is involved in apoptotic signaling in several cell types, including neurons. In the mammalian retina, approximately 50% of the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) die by apoptosis during development. Additionally, transection of the optic nerve close to the eye bulb causes apoptotic cell death of RGCs in adulthood. We investigated the role of p38 in axotomy-induced apoptosis of RGCs. One day after axotomy, activated (phosphorylated) p38 was visualized by immunocytochemistry in the nuclei of RGCs, but not in control retinas. Phosphorylated p38 was first detected on immunoblots 12 hr after axotomy, reached a maximum at 1 d, and then decreased. To investigate possible roles of p38 in RGC death, a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, SB203580, was administered intravitreally at the time of axotomy and repeated at 5 and 10 d. Assayed 14 d after axotomy, SB203580 increased the number of surviving RGCs in a dose-dependent manner (the minimum effective concentration was 1.6 micrometer). Furthermore, MK801, a selective inhibitor of NMDA receptors, not only showed protective effects against RGC apoptosis but also attenuated p38 MAP kinase activation in a dose-dependent manner. Our findings imply that p38 is in the signaling pathway to RGC apoptosis mediated by glutamate neurotoxicity through NMDA receptors after damage to the optic nerve. p38 inhibitors could be potentially useful for the treatment of optic nerve trauma and neurodegenerative diseases that affect RGCs, such as glaucoma.
Because of discrepancies in previous reports regarding the role of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in motoneuron (MN) development and survival, we have reexamined MNs in GDNF-deficient mice and in mice exposed to increased GDNF after in utero treatment or in transgenic animals overexpressing GDNF under the control of the muscle-specific promoter myogenin (myo-GDNF). With the exception of oculomotor and abducens MNs, the survival of all other populations of spinal and cranial MNs were reduced in GDNF-deficient embryos and increased in myo-GDNF and in utero treated animals. By contrast, the survival of spinal sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion and spinal interneurons were not affected by any of the perturbations of GDNF availability. In wild-type control embryos, all brachial and lumbar MNs appear to express the GDNF receptors c-ret and GFRalpha1 and the MN markers ChAT, islet-1, and islet-2, whereas only a small subset express GFRalpha2. GDNF-dependent MNs that are lost in GDNF-deficient animals express ret/GFRalpha1/islet-1, whereas many surviving GDNF-independent MNs express ret/GFRalpha1/GFRalpha2 and islet-1/islet-2. This indicates that many GDNF-independent MNs are characterized by the presence of GFRalpha2/islet-2. It seems likely that the GDNF-independent population represent MNs that require other GDNF family members (neurturin, persephin, artemin) for their survival. GDNF-dependent and -independent MNs may reflect subtypes with distinct synaptic targets and afferent inputs.
We set out to isolate inhibitory guidance cues that affect retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons in vitro and that could potentially be involved in RGC pathfinding decisions. Here we describe the biochemical purification of an RGC growth cone collapsing factor from bovine brain membranes and its identification as Slit2. Recombinant human Slit2 collapses and repels RGC growth cones from all quadrants of the chick retina. In the developing mouse visual system, slit2 is expressed in the eye, in the optic stalk, and in the ventral diencephalon. Slit2 expression is strong in anterior ventral diencephalic structures but is absent from the ventral midline where the optic chiasm forms. The putative receptors for Slits, robo1 and robo2, are expressed in the inner retinal layer in which RGCs are located. A comparison of the expression patterns of Slit2 and retinal axon trajectories suggests that slit2 acts as a short range repellent for retinal ganglion cell axons.
Transcripts for P2X(2) and P2X(6) subunits are present in rat CNS and frequently colocalize in the same brainstem nuclei. When rat P2X(2) (rP2X(2)) and rat P2X(6) (rP2X(6)) receptors were expressed individually in Xenopus oocytes and studied under voltage-clamp conditions, only homomeric rP2X(2) receptors were fully functional and gave rise to large inward currents (2-3 microA) to extracellular ATP. Coexpression of rP2X(2) and rP2X(6) subunits in Xenopus oocytes resulted in a heteromeric rP2X(2/6) receptor, which showed a significantly different phenotype from the wild-type rP2X(2) receptor. Differences included reduction in agonist potencies and, in some cases (e.g., Ap(4)A), significant loss of agonist activity. ATP-evoked inward currents were biphasic at the heteromeric rP2X(2/6) receptor, particularly when Zn(2+) ions were present or extracellular pH was lowered. The pH range was narrower for H(+) enhancement of ATP responses at the heteromeric rP2X(2/6) receptor. Also, H(+) ions inhibited ATP responses at low pH levels (&lt;pH 6.3). The pH-dependent blocking activity of suramin was changed at this heteromeric receptor, although the potentiating effect of Zn(2+) on ATP responses was unchanged. Thus, the rP2X(2/6) receptor is a functionally modified P2X(2)-like receptor with a distinct pattern of pH modulation of ATP activation and suramin blockade. Although homomeric P2X(6) receptors function poorly, the P2X(6) subunit can contribute to functional heteromeric P2X channels and may influence the phenotype of native P2X receptors in those cells in which it is expressed.
AMPA receptors expressed at auditory nerve synapses in the mammalian and avian cochlear nuclei display exceptionally rapid channel gating, an adaptation well suited for acoustic processing. We examined whether cellular interactions during development might determine the subunit composition of these receptors. After synapse formation in the avian nucleus magnocellularis (nMag) in vivo, the rate of receptor desensitization increased threefold, sensitivity to channel block by polyamines increased, and sensitivity to cyclothiazide, an inhibitor of desensitization, increased, indicating a reduction in glutamate receptor subunit 2 and of flip splice variants. This phenotypic switch was prevented, but not reversed, by isolating nMag neurons in a cell-culture environment. We propose that the switch in receptor kinetics is an outcome of cellular interactions during a critical period that result in the long-term determination of receptor phenotype.
The properties and functional roles of the hyperpolarization-activated inward current (I(H)) in magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) were investigated during sharp microelectrode recordings from supraoptic neurons in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Under current clamp, voltage responses to hyperpolarizing current pulses featured depolarizing sags that were abolished by the I(H) blocker ZD 7288. Under voltage clamp, subtraction of current responses to hyperpolarizing steps recorded in the absence and presence of ZD 7288 was used to investigate the properties of I(H). Current-voltage analysis revealed that steady-state I(H) amplitude increases with hyperpolarization, with half-maximal activation of the underlying conductance occurring at -78 mV. The time course of activation of I(H) during hyperpolarizing steps was monoexponential with time constants (100-800 msec) decreasing with hyperpolarization. The effects of ZD 7288 on I(H) were slow (tau, approximately 15 min), irreversible, and half-maximal at 1.8 micrometer. When tested on continuously active MNCs, application of 30-60 micrometer ZD 7288 caused a significant reduction in firing rate. In phasically active MNCs, the drug decreased burst duration and intraburst firing frequency and caused an increase in the duration of interburst intervals. These effects were accompanied with a small hyperpolarization of the membrane potential. In contrast, ZD 7288 had no effect on spike duration, on the amplitude of calcium-dependent afterpotentials, or on the frequencies and amplitudes of spontaneous synaptic potentials. These results confirm the presence of I(H) in MNCs of the rat supraoptic nucleus and suggest that the presence of this conductance provides an excitatory drive that contributes to phasic and tonic firing.
Nitration of protein tyrosine residues by nitric oxide (NO)-derived reactive species results in the production of stable nitrotyrosine (NT) moieties that are immunochemically detectable in many regions of normal brain and enriched in those areas containing constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS). These include the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) and the globus pallidus, which receives major inhibitory input from the CPN. To determine the functional sites for NT production in these critical motor nuclei, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of NT and cNOS in rat brain. In the CPN, NT was localized to the somata and dendrites of cNOS-containing interneurons and spiny neurons, some of which received input from cNOS-labeled terminals. The NT immunoreactivity was most prevalent on outer mitochondrial membranes and nearby segments of the plasma membranes in dendrites and within asymmetric synapses on dendritic spines. In the CPN and globus pallidus, there was also a prominent labeling of NT in astrocytic processes, small axons, and tubulovesicles and/or synaptic vesicles in axon terminals. These terminals formed mainly asymmetric synapses in the CPN and inhibitory-type synapses in the globus pallidus where they often apposed cNOS-containing terminals that also formed asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses. Our results suggest that NT is generated by mechanisms requiring the dual actions of excitatory transmitters and NO derived either from interneurons in the CPN or from excitatory afferents in the globus pallidus. The findings also implicate NT in the physiological actions of NO within the striatal circuitry and, particularly, in striatopallidal neurons severely affected in Huntington's disease.
The molecular heterogeneity of voltage-gated calcium channels is mirrored by extensive biophysical diversity. Subtype-selective antagonists have been used to place different kinds of calcium channels in functional categories. Dihydropyridine (DHP) antagonists have been used, for example, to implicate L-type calcium channels in the induction of NMDA receptor-independent forms of synaptic plasticity. DHPs, however, do not discriminate between the recently identified Lp and Ls subtypes of L-type calcium channel. The different properties of the two kinds of L-type channels suggest that they may have different functional roles. Ls channels are comparable with cardiac L-type channels, whereas Lp channels show low-threshold voltage-dependent potentiation. To clarify the potential roles of Lp and Ls channels in the induction of synaptic plasticity, we studied the responses of these channels to trains of action potentials. The frequency and duration of the trains were chosen to mimic the stimuli used to induce changes in synaptic strength. Cell-attached single-channel recordings from cultured hippocampal neurons revealed that both Lp and Ls channels responded to these trains, but only Lp channels showed persistent activation that outlasted the train. The magnitude of Lp channel activity increased with increasing action potential frequency and train duration. Stimuli that reproduced the postsynaptic response to action potential trains were also examined, and Lp channels were found to show much greater responses than were Ls channels. These results suggest that the Lp channel may play a critical role in the induction of long-lasting changes in synaptic strength.
Structural diversity of voltage-gated Ca channels underlies much of the functional diversity in Ca signaling in neurons. Alternative splicing is an important mechanism for generating structural variants within a single gene family. In this paper, we show the expression pattern of an alternatively spliced 21 amino acid encoding exon in the II-III cytoplasmic loop region of the N-type Ca channel alpha(1B) subunit and assess its functional impact. Exon-containing alpha(1B) mRNA dominated in sympathetic ganglia and was present in approximately 50% of alpha(1B) mRNA in spinal cord and caudal regions of the brain and in the minority of alpha(1B) mRNA in neocortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum (&lt;20%). The II-III loop exon affected voltage-dependent inactivation of the N-type Ca channel. Steady-state inactivation curves were shifted to more depolarized potentials without affects on either the rate or voltage dependence of channel opening. Differences in voltage-dependent inactivation between alpha(1B) splice variants were most clearly manifested in the presence of Ca channel beta(1b) or beta(4), rather than beta(2a) or beta(3), subunits. Our results suggest that exon-lacking alpha(1B) splice variants that associate with beta(1b) and beta(4) subunits will be susceptible to voltage-dependent inactivation at voltages in the range of neuronal resting membrane potentials (-60 to -80 mV). In contrast, alpha(1B) splice variants that associate with either beta(2a) or beta(3) subunits will be relatively resistant to inactivation at these voltages. The potential to mix and match multiple alpha(1B) splice variants and beta subunits probably represents a mechanism for controlling the plasticity of excitation-secretion coupling at different synapses.
We previously demonstrated ferritin binding is specific to white matter in mouse and human brain tissue and is not found within Multiple Sclerotic plaques. These results suggest that ferritin receptors are selectively expressed on oligodendrocytes. The present studies were designed to test the hypothesis that oligodendrocyte progenitor cells selectively bind ferritin and internalize it by methods consistent with receptor-mediated endocytosis. Using a cell culture system enriched for oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, we determined, that oligodendrocyte progenitor cells bind ferritin in a saturable and competitive manner with a K(d) of 5 nM and a receptor density of 0.06 fmol bound/20,000 cells. FITC tagged ferritin is internalized by A2B5, O4 or CNPase expressing cells in the culture, but not by GFAP+ cells. The uptake of ferritin into the oligodendrocyte progenitors was inhibited by treating the cells with inhibitors of receptor mediated endocytosis (hypertonic medium, potassium deficient medium, ATP depletion, sulfhydryl reagents). In addition exogenous ferritin decreased iron responsive element/iron regulatory protein binding indicating that the iron within the internalized ferritin is released and contributes to the intracellular iron pool. Given the relatively high amount of iron that can be delivered via ferritin, and the selective distribution of ferritin receptors in the white matter tracts in vivo, we propose that ferritin is a major source of iron for oligodendrocytes.
Phencyclidine (PCP) is a non-competitive inhibitor of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) with biphasic characteristics. At low and high micromolar concentrations, PCP inhibits nAChR from fetal mouse muscle, whereas at intermediate concentrations PCP does not inhibit the receptor. The present study was performed to determine whether the high and low concentration effects of PCP on mouse nAChR were due to interactions of this blocker with channel lining amino acids. In order to test this hypothesis, we examined the ability of PCP to inhibit acetylcholine-induced currents from wild-type nAChR and nAChR in which amino acid substitutions were made in the 6', 8' and 10' positions of the M2 transmembrane segments of the receptor. Fetal mouse nAChR from BC(3)H-1 cells were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and studied using the two-electrode voltage clamp technique. The results of this study reveal that in native fetal muscle receptor, PCP potency is not affected by membrane potential between -80 mV and -30 mV. The potency of PCP is increased by mutations in M2 6', 8', and 10' positions. This increase in potency cannot be explained merely by either changes in hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity of amino acids at these positions or by side-chain size. A model proposing extra-luminal inhibitory and regulatory sites for PCP explains the lack of voltage-dependency, the biphasic effect of PCP, and the fact that all M2 mutations increased PCP potency (by disrupting the link with the regulatory sites).
Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we have studied the temporal expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNAs in three axotomy paradigms with distinct functional outcomes. Axotomy of adult rat facial motoneurons results in neuronal regeneration, axotomy of neonatal facial motoneurons results in neuronal apoptosis, and axotomy of rubrospinal neurons results in neuronal atrophy. Our RT-PCR findings show that a significant and sustained upregulation of IL-6 mRNA is associated uniquely with the regeneration of adult facial motoneurons. Histochemical studies using IL-6 immunohistochemistry show intense IL-6 immunoreactivity in axotomized adult facial motoneurons. Assessment of reactive glial changes with astroglial and microglial markers reveals that the reactive gliosis following adult facial nerve axotomy is more intense than that observed in either of the other two paradigms. Exposure of cultured microglial cells to IL-6 stimulates microglial proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Cultured microglia also show expression of IL-6 receptor mRNA, as determined by RT-PCR. Our findings support the idea that reactive gliosis is required for neuron regeneration to occur, and more specifically, they suggest that neuron-derived IL-6 serves as a signalling molecule that induces microglial proliferation during motoneuron regeneration.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of ligands binds to lipid anchored proteins termed GDNF family receptor (GFR)alphas, and then activates the RET receptor tyrosine kinase, by ligand GFRalpha. The binding of soluble GFRalphas to transfected cells suggested that different GFRalphas were dedicated to particular ligands, with GDNF acting primarily or entirely through GFRalpha1, and neurturin (NTN), through GFRalpha2. More recent evidence has suggested the possibility of cross-talk between these ligands and the two receptors. We examined here whether crosstalk between the GDNF ligands and the GFRalphas is biologically relevant, using midbrain dopaminergic, and parasympathetic, submandibular gland neurons. By biochemical and genetic addition and/or deletion of GFRalpha1 and 2, we show that in both neuronal cell types, robust biological activities of GDNF or NTN can be mediated by either GFRalpha1 or GFRalpha2, although GDNF is slightly more potent in dopaminergic (DA) neurons which normally express GFRalpha1, and NTN in submandibular neurons which normally express GFRalpha2. Throughout the body, GDNF and NTN are likely to have important biological actions on both GFRalpha1- and GFRalpha2-expressing cells.

The emerging field of Orofacial Pain is being considered by the American Dental Association for full status as a new dental specialty. Many recent advances in the neuroscience of orofacial pain have lead to treatments by orofacial pain dentists that provide significant relief for patients with chronic orofacial pain disorders. However, access to this care has been limited leaving many patients to continue to suffer. Subsequently, recent efforts to improve this by developing the field into a specialty have shown broad support among dentists and increased awareness of the benefits this field can provide for dentists and their patients. A recent survey of 805 individuals in the general population who reported having a persistent pain disorder revealed that more than four out of 10 people have yet to find adequate relief, saying their pain is out of control-despite having the pain for more than 5 years and switching doctors at least once. &quot;This survey suggests that there are millions of people living with severe uncontrolled pain,&quot; says Russell Portenoy, MD, President of the American Pain Society. &quot;This is a great tragedy. Although not everyone can be helped, it is very likely that most of these patients could benefit if provided with state-of-the-art therapies and improved access to pain specialists when needed.&quot; (1). Development of the field of Orofacial Pain into a dental specialty has been motivated primarily by this issue; patients with complex chronic orofacial pain disorders have not been historically treated well by any discipline of health care. Recent studies of chronic orofacial pain patients have found that these patients have a high number of previous clinicians and have endured many years with pain prior to seeing an orofacial pain dentist (2) (Fig. 1). Complex pain patients and the clinicians who see them are often confused about whom they should consult for relief of the painful disorder. Treatment for these patients within the existing structure of dental or medical specialties has been inadequate and millions of patients are left suffering. Insurers are also confused with regard to reimbursement and make decisions to exclude treatment for orofacial pain disorders under both dental and medical policies. However, Dentistry has taken a leading role in health care to address this national problem by developing the field of Orofacial Pain into a dental specialty. A study of dentists and dental specialists have shown that there is a recognized need and broad support for further development of this field into a new dental specialty(3).
Antidromically propagated action potentials can be recorded in the proximal end of the severed medial articular nerve (MAN) on mechanical stimulation of an inflamed knee in rats and are referred to as dorsal root reflex (DRR) activity. The absence of DRR activity in normal rats suggests that the activity could be the result of hyperexcitability of spinal neurons induced by inflammation. In this study, the role of spinal type 1 metabotropic glutamate (mGlu(1)) receptors in the generation of DRR activity in the MAN during acute knee inflammation was investigated. Four hours after an injection of a mixture of kaolin and carrageenan (k/c) into a knee joint, DRR activity could be evoked in the ipsilateral MAN by mechanical stimulation of the inflamed limb. Spinal application of a selective mGlu(1) receptor antagonist, [RS]-1-Aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid/UPF 523 (AIDA), or a potent, but less specific mGlu(1) receptor antagonist, LY393053, both depressed the DRR activity significantly. AIDA and LY39053 had no effect on recordings in the MAN from noninflamed control animals. However, spinal administration of AIDA did suppress DRR activity generated by infusion of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a K(+) channel blocker, into the dorsal horn of noninflamed animals. These observations suggest that mGlu(1) receptors support the generation of DRR activity in the MAN following sensitization of spinal cord neurons.
Experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are present at sites of neurotransmission to the guinea pig ileum circular smooth muscle. Circular smooth muscle preparations, from which the myenteric plexus had been removed (circular muscle-axon preparation), were used for this purpose. Nicotine and dimethylphenyl piperazinium iodide (10-100 microM) induced contraction of the circular smooth muscle. Agonist-induced contraction was inhibited by 1 microM scopolamine and abolished in the combined presence of 1 microM scopolamine and 0. 3 microM CP 96,345-01, a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. Contractions induced by electric field stimulation (30 pulses, 0.5 ms, 70 V, 10 Hz) were abolished by 0.3 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX); in contrast, agonist-induced contraction was attenuated but not abolished by 0.3 microM TTX. Mecamylamine (3 or 30 microM), an nAChR antagonist, blocked agonist-induced contractions. Frequency-response curves for both &quot;ON and &quot;OFF electric field stimulation contractions were abolished by the combined presence of 1 microM scopolamine and 0.3 microM CP 96,345-01 or by 0.3 microM TTX. At stimulation frequencies greater than 2 Hz, the ON contraction was increased in the presence of 100 microM nitro-L-arginine. Mecamylamine (3 microM) was used to block the stimulatory prejunctional nAChRs located near sites of neurotransmitter release to the circular smooth muscle; however, ON and OFF contractions were not affected by mecamylamine. Although the prejunctional nAChRs are not targets for endogenously released acetylcholine under the conditions tested here, these receptors may be targets for the development of new prokinetic agents.
Acetylcholine is a regulatory cofactor for numerous activity-dependent processes of central nervous system development and plasticity in which increases in cytosolic calcium ion concentration ([Ca(2+)](cyto) couple membrane excitation to cellular changes. We examined how cholinergic receptor activation affects temporal and spatial aspects of increases in [Ca(2+)](cyto) during short trains of action potentials in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurones. Membrane-impermeant Ca(2+)-sensitive dye was introduced into the cytosol during whole-cell recordings, and Ca(2+)-dependent fluorescence was recorded from somatic, nuclear and proximal dendrite regions with high temporal resolution. In all neuronal compartments, the cholinergic agonist carbachol (5 microM) increased resting [Ca(2+)](cyto) and the maximum [Ca(2+)](cyto) attained during a short action potential train. Carbachol also slowed the recovery of [Ca(2+)](cyto) towards resting levels. The largest increases in peak cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration (delta [Ca(2+)](cyto) were seen in the dendrite and apical cell body, while relaxations of the carbachol-induced increase in delta [Ca(2+)](cyto) showed greater prolongation in the nucleus and basal cell body. Most significantly, the difference between Ca(2+) signals recorded before and during exposure to carbachol consistently showed a monotonic rise and smooth fall in all cell compartments, suggesting that the increase in [Ca(2+)](cyto) associated with each action potential was not altered by carbachol. Consistent with this view, changes in Ca(2+) signalling were not accompanied by changes in action potential waveforms. The effects of carbachol were partially reversed by simultaneous exposure to atropine, or partially inhibited by inclusion of heparin in the intracellular solution, indicating the involvement of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and InsP(3)-sensitive Ca(2+)-release channels. Our data indicate that carbachol-induced slowing of [Ca(2+)]cyto relaxations after each action potential results in enhanced accumulation of Ca(2+) in the cytosol in the absence of changes in action potential-driven Ca(2+) entry. By modulating the time course of Ca(2+) signals, cholinergic stimulation may regulate the activation of Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular processes dependent on patterns of [Ca(2+)](cyto) changes.
We describe a quantitative method to assess repeated stair stepping stability. In both the mediolateral (ML) and anterioposterior (AP) directions, the trajectory of the subject's center of mass (COM) was compared to an ideal sinusoid. The two identified sinusoids were unique in each direction but coupled. Two dimensionless numbers-the mediolateral instability index (IML) and AP instability index (IAP)-were calculated using the COM trajectory and ideal sinusoids for each subject with larger index values resulting from less stable performance. The COM trajectories of nine nonimpaired controls and six patients diagnosed with unilateral or bilateral vestibular labyrinth hypofunction were analyzed. The average IML and IAP values of labyrinth disorder patients were respectively 127% and 119% greater than those of controls (p&lt;0.014 and 0.006, respectively), indicating that the ideal trajectory analysis distinguishes persons with labyrinth disorder from those without. The COM trajectories also identify movement inefficiencies attributable to vestibulopathy.
Lyme borreliosis is caused by infection with the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. Nonhuman primates inoculated with the N40 strain of B. burgdorferi develop infection of multiple tissues, including the central (CNS) and peripheral nervous system. In immunocompetent nonhuman primates, spirochetes are present in low numbers in tissues. For this reason, it has been difficult to study their localization and changes in expression of surface proteins. To further investigate this, we inoculated four immunosuppressed adult Macaca mulatta with 1 million spirochetes of the N40 strain of B. burgdorferi, and compared them with three infected immunocompetent animals and two uninfected controls. The brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, skeletal muscle, heart, and bladder were obtained at necropsy 4 months later. The spirochetal tissue load was first studied by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-ELISA of the outer surface protein A (ospA) gene. Immunohistochemistry was used to study the localization and numbers of spirochetes in tissues and the expression of spirochetal proteins and to characterize the inflammatory response. Hematoxylin and eosin and trichrome stains were used to study inflammation and tissue injury. The results showed that the number of spirochetes was significantly higher in immunosuppressed animals. B. burgdorferi in the CNS localized to the leptomeninges, nerve roots, and dorsal root ganglia, but not to the parenchyma. Outside of the CNS, B. burgdorferi localized to endoneurium and to connective tissues of peripheral nerves, skeletal muscle, heart, aorta, and bladder. Although ospA, ospB, ospC, and flagellin were present at the time of inoculation, only flagellin was expressed by spirochetes in tissues 4 months later. Significant inflammation occurred only in the heart, and only immunosuppressed animals had cardiac fiber degeneration and necrosis. Plasma cells were abundant in inflammatory foci of steroid-treated animals. We concluded that B. burgdorferi has a tropism for the meninges in the CNS and for connective tissues elsewhere in the body.
We compared the number and volume of enhancing lesions detected in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) seen on post-contrast T(1)-weighted scans obtained after the injection of different gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) doses. Enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were obtained from 16 patients with relapsing remitting or secondary progressive MS on two different occasions separated by an interval of approximately 24 h. On the first occasion, enhanced scans were obtained 15 min after the injection of a double dose of Gd (0.2 mmol/Kg), on the second 15 min after the injection of a triple dose (0.3 mmol/Kg) of Gd. Scans were assessed by consensus in a random order by two observers unaware of the dose of Gd used. We counted the same 30 enhancing lesions on both double dose and triple dose scans from 9 patients. The mean (SD) volumes of enhancing lesions were 1.7 (2.7) mL on double dose and 1.9 (3.4) mL on triple-dose scans. This difference was not statistically significant. This study demonstrated that double dose of Gd has a sensitivity for detecting MS activity similar to that of a triple dose, with the advantage of a significant cost saving.
Why have some researchers found reports of flashbulb memories to be stable, while others have observed inconsistencies? Paradoxically, it appears that relatively long delays between event and initial documentation have produced greater consistency of participants' reports. To investigate this directly, we collected the initial documentation of hearing about O.J. Simpson's acquittal either five hours or one week after the acquittal was read. Observed consistency of memories varied as a function of documentation time; following an eight-week retention, the delayed reports were more consistent. The delayed group also reported fewer propositions in their initial documentation. We proposed a consolidation model to explain these results: during the days immediately following a newsworthy event, the narrative structure of these memories changes in that some details are forgotten. After this consolidation period, the memories may solidify. Thus, it may have been easier for the delayed group to provide consistent memories at the two intervals.
Members of the innexin protein family are structural components of invertebrate gap junctions and are analogous to vertebrate connexins. Here we investigate two Drosophila innexin genes, Dm-inx2 and Dm-inx3 and show that they are expressed in overlapping domains throughout embryogenesis, most notably in epidermal cells bordering each segment. We also explore the gap-junction-forming capabilities of the encoded proteins. In paired Xenopus oocytes, the injection of Dm-inx2 mRNA results in the formation of voltage-sensitive channels in only approximately 40% of cell pairs. In contrast, Dm-Inx3 never forms channels. Crucially, when both mRNAs are coexpressed, functional channels are formed reliably, and the electrophysiological properties of these channels distinguish them from those formed by Dm-Inx2 alone. We relate these in vitro data to in vivo studies. Ectopic expression of Dm-inx2 in vivo has limited effects on the viability of Drosophila, and animals ectopically expressing Dm-inx3 are unaffected. However, ectopic expression of both transcripts together severely reduces viability, presumably because of the formation of inappropriate gap junctions. We conclude that Dm-Inx2 and Dm-Inx3, which are expressed in overlapping domains during embryogenesis, can form oligomeric gap-junction channels.
Previously, progesterone was found to regulate the initiation and biosynthetic rate of myelin synthesis in Schwann cell/neuronal cocultures. The mRNA for cytochrome P450scc (converts cholesterol to pregnenolone), 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD, converts pregnenolone to progesterone), and the progesterone receptor were found to be markedly induced during active myelin synthesis. However, the cells in the cocultures responsible for these changes were not identified. In this study, in situ hybridization was used to determine the localization of the enzymes responsible for steroid biosynthesis. The mRNA for cytochrome P450scc and 3beta-HSD were detected only in actively myelinating cocultures and were localized exclusively in the Schwann cells. Using immunocytochemistry, with minimal staining of the Schwann cells, we found the progesterone receptor in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. The progesterone receptor in the neurons translocated into the nuclei of these cells when progesterone was added to neuronal cultures or during myelin synthesis in the cocultures. Additionally, a marked induction of the progesterone receptor was found in neuronal cultures after the addition of progesterone. The induction of various genes in the neurons was also investigated using mRNA differential display PCR in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism of steroid action on myelin synthesis. Two novel genes were induced in neuronal cultures by progesterone. These genes, along with the progesterone receptor, were also induced in cocultures during myelin synthesis, and their induction was blocked by RU-486 (a progesterone receptor antagonist). These genes were not induced in Schwann cells cultured alone after the addition of progesterone. These results suggest that progesterone is synthesized in Schwann cells and that it can indirectly regulate myelin formation by activating transcription via the classical steroid receptor in the DRG neurons.
The Egr family of zinc finger transcription factors, whose members are encoded by Egr1 (NGFI-A), Egr2 (Krox20), Egr3, and Egr4 (NGFI-C) regulate critical genetic programs involved in cellular growth, differentiation, and function. Egr1 regulates luteinizing hormone beta subunit (LHbeta) gene expression in the pituitary gland. Due to decreased levels of LHbeta, female Egr1-deficient mice are anovulatory, have low levels of progesterone, and are infertile. By contrast, male mutant mice show no identifiable defects in spermatogenesis, testosterone synthesis, or fertility. Here, we have shown that serum LH levels in male Egr1-deficient mice are adequate for maintenance of Leydig cell steroidogenesis and fertility because of partial functional redundancy with the closely related transcription factor Egr4. Egr4-Egr1 double mutant male mice had low steady-state levels of serum LH, physiologically low serum levels of testosterone, and atrophy of androgen-dependent organs that were not present in either Egr1- or Egr4-deficient males. In double mutant male mice, atrophic androgen-dependent organs and Leydig cell steroidogenesis were fully restored by administration of exogenous testosterone or human chorionic gonadotropin (an LH receptor agonist), respectively. Moreover, a normal distribution of gonadotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons and normal innervation of the median eminence in the hypothalamus, as well as decreased levels of LH gene expression in Egr4-Egr1-relative to Egr1-deficient male mice, indicates a defect of LH regulation in pituitary gonadotropes. These results elucidate a novel level of redundancy between Egr4 and Egr1 in regulating LH production in male mice.
Protein kinase C (PKC) plays an important role in the regulation of glioma growth; however, the identity of the specific isoform and mechanism by which PKC fulfills this function remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that PKC activation in glioma cells increased their progression through the cell cycle. Of the six PKC isoforms that were present in glioma cells, PKC alpha was both necessary and sufficient to promote cell cycle progression when stimulated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Also, decreased PKC alpha expression resulted in a marked decrease in cell proliferation. The only cell cycle-regulatory molecule whose expression was rapidly altered and increased by PKC alpha activity was the cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor p21(Waf1/Cip1). Coimmunoprecipitation studies revealed that p21(Waf1/Cip1) upregulation was accompanied by an incorporation of p21(Waf1/Cip1) into various cyclin-CDK complexes and that the kinase activity of these complexes was increased, thus resulting in cell cycle progression. Furthermore, depletion of p21(Waf1/Cip1) by antisense strategy attenuated the PKC-induced cell cycle progression. These results suggest that PKC alpha activity controls glioma cell cycle progression through the upregulation of p21(Waf1/Cip1), which facilitates active cyclin-CDK complex formation.

This study reports the findings of an analysis of temporal correlation between tremor of different muscles of the same and different limbs in four patients with Parkinson's disease. Spectral coherence methods were used for determining whether simultaneously occurring oscillations in the electromyograms of different muscles are statistically coupled. The incidence of significant coherence was considerably higher for muscle pairs in the same limb than for pairs in different limbs; Parkinson's disease tremor is coupled within but not between limbs. Because the characteristics of tremor are known to vary under different behavioral situations, the intralimb coupling was examined for different tasks. A mental arithmetic task resulted in an increase in the coherence between muscles of the same limb, whereas the finger-to-nose task decreased the coherence. No significant change in coherence was found for a postural task. The amplitude and regularity of tremor electromyography showed changes analogous to those in coherence. These results support the hypothesis that tremor in different limbs results from the activity of several neural circuits oscillating independently. The results also emphasize the value of these methods for rigorously characterizing tremor, in relation to disease state, behavioral conditions, and the selection of treatment strategies.

The development of social familiarity in rodents depends predominantly on olfactory cues and can critically influence reproductive success. Researchers have operationally defined this memory by a reliable decrease in olfactory investigation in repeated or prolonged encounters with a conspecific. Brain oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) seem to modulate a range of social behaviour from parental care to mate guarding. Pharmacological studies indicate that AVP administration may enhance social memory, whereas OT administration may either inhibit or facilitate social memory depending on dose, route or paradigm. We found that male mice mutant for the oxytocin gene (Oxt-/-) failed to develop social memory, whereas wild-type (Oxt+/+) mice showed intact social memory. Measurement of both olfactory foraging and olfactory habituation tasks indicated that olfactory detection of non-social stimuli is intact in Oxt-/- mice. Spatial memory and behavioural inhibition measured in a Morris water-maze, Y-maze, or habituation of an acoustic startle also seemed intact. Treatment with OT but not AVP rescued social memory in Oxt-/- mice, and treatment with an OT antagonist produced a social amnesia-like effect in Oxt+/+ mice. Our data indicate that OT is necessary for the normal development of social memory in mice and support the hypothesis that social memory has a neural basis distinct from other forms of memory.
Synaptic connections are made and broken in an activity-dependent manner in diverse regions of the nervous system. However, whether activity is strictly necessary for synapse elimination has not been resolved directly. Here we report that synaptic terminals occupying motor endplates made electrically silent by tetrodotoxin and alpha-bungarotoxin block were frequently displaced by regenerating axons that were also both inactive and synaptically ineffective. Thus, neither evoked nor spontaneous activation of acetylcholine receptors is required for competitive reoccupation of neuromuscular synaptic sites by regenerating motor axons.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) mediate long-lasting changes in synapse strength via downstream signaling pathways. We report proteomic characterization with mass spectrometry and immunoblotting of NMDAR multiprotein complexes (NRC) isolated from mouse brain. The NRC comprised 77 proteins organized into receptor, adaptor, signaling, cytoskeletal and novel proteins, of which 30 are implicated from binding studies and another 19 participate in NMDAR signaling. NMDAR and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes were linked to cadherins and L1 cell-adhesion molecules in complexes lacking AMPA receptors. These neurotransmitter-adhesion receptor complexes were bound to kinases, phosphatases, GTPase-activating proteins and Ras with effectors including MAPK pathway components. Several proteins were encoded by activity-dependent genes. Genetic or pharmacological interference with 15 NRC proteins impairs learning and with 22 proteins alters synaptic plasticity in rodents. Mutations in three human genes (NF1, Rsk-2, L1) are associated with learning impairments, indicating the NRC also participates in human cognition.


To assess age-related differences in cortical activation during form perception, two classes of visual textures were shown to young and older subjects undergoing positron emission tomography (PET). Subjects viewed even textures that were rich in rectangular blocks and extended contours and random textures that lacked these organized form elements. Within-group significant increases in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during even stimulation relative to random stimulation in young subjects were seen in occipital, inferior and medial temporal regions, and cerebellum, and in older subjects, in posterior occipital and frontal regions. Group by texture type interactions revealed significantly smaller rCBF increases in older subjects relative to young in occipital and medial temporal regions. These results indicate that young subjects activate the occipitotemporal pathway during form perception, whereas older subjects activate occipital and frontal regions. The between-group differences suggest that age-related reorganization of cortical activation occur during early visual processes in humans.


Dominant mutations in the Presenilin 1 gene are linked to an aggressive, early-onset form of familial Alzheimer's Disease (FAD). Spatial memory of transgenic (Tg) mice expressing either mutant (lines Tg(M146L)1, Tg(M146L)76, Tg(L286V)198) or wild type (line Tg(PS1wt)195) human PS1 transgenes was investigated in the Morris water maze (WM) test at 6 and 9 months of age. The results showed that the mutated Tg mice had increased swim speed when compared to non-Tg littermates or Tg PS1 wild type mice. The swim speed difference did not, however, significantly affect the spatial learning in the WM test and all groups showed comparable search paths during training and similar spatial bias during probe trials. When re-tested at 9 months, all mice showed significantly improved learning acquisition of spatial information. The lack of progressive spatial learning impairment in mice expressing the mutated human PS1 transgene in the WM does not preclude impairments in other cognitive tasks but suggests that full phenotypic expression of mutant PS1 alleles may require co-expression of human versions of other AD-associated genes.

The Fragile-X mental retardation protein, the protein absent in Fragile-X syndrome, is synthesized near synapses upon neurotransmitter activation. Humans and mice lacking this protein exhibit abnormal dendritic spine lengths and numbers. Here we investigated Fragile-X protein levels in animals exposed to behavioral paradigms that induce neuronal morphological change. Fragile-X protein immunoreactivity was examined in visual cortices of rats reared in a complex environment for 10 or 20 days, motor cortices of rats trained on motor-skill tasks for 3 or 7 days, and either visual or motor cortices of inactive controls. Rats exposed to a complex environment for 20 days or trained for 7 days on motor-skill tasks exhibited increased Fragile-X protein immunoreactivity in visual or motor cortices, respectively. These results provide the first evidence for a behaviorally induced alteration of Fragile-X protein expression and are compatible with previous findings suggesting synaptic regulation of its expression. These results also strengthen the association of Fragile-X mental retardation protein expression with the alteration of synaptic structure.
The influence of GM1 on the neuritogenic phase of neuronal differentiation has been highlighted in recent reports showing upregulation of this ganglioside in the plasma and nuclear membranes concomitant with axonogenesis. These changes are accompanied by alterations in Ca2+ flux which constitute an essential component of the signaling mechanism for axon outgrowth. This study examines 2 distinct mechanisms of induced neurite outgrowth involving plasma membrane GM1, as expressed in 3 neuroblastoma cell lines. Growth of Neuro-2a and NG108-15 cells in the presence of neuraminidase (N'ase), an enzyme that increases the cell surface content of GM1, caused prolific outgrowth of neurites which, in the case of Neuro-2a, could be blocked by the B subunit of cholera toxin (Ctx B) which binds specifically to GM1; however, the latter agent applied to NG108-15 cells proved neuritogenic and potentiated the effect of N'ase. With N18 cells, the combination was also neuritogenic as was Ctx B alone, whereas N'ase by itself had no effect. Neurite outgrowth correlated with influx of extracellular Ca2+, determined with fura-2. Treatment of NG108-15 and N18 cells with Ctx B alone caused modest but persistent elevation of intracellular Ca2+ while a more pronounced increase occurred with the combination Ctx B + N'ase. Treatment with N'ase alone also caused modest but prolonged elevation of intracellular Ca2+ in NG108-15 and Neuro-2a but not N18; in the case of Neuro-2a this effect was blocked by Ctx B. Neuro-2a and N18 thus possess 2 distinctly different mechanisms for neuritogenesis based on Ca2+ modulation by plasma membrane GM1, while NG108-15 cells show both capabilities. The neurites stimulated by N'ase + Ctx B treatment of N18 cells were shown to have axonal character, as previously demonstrated for NG108-15 cells stimulated in this manner and for Neuro-2a cells stimulated by N'ase alone.
Melatonin has for a long time been involved in the photoperiodic control of fish physiology (growth, reproduction) and behavior (locomotor activity); but its mechanisms of action are not understood. We show here that 2-[(125)I]iodomelatonin binds specifically to membrane preparations from Pike (Esox lucius, L.) pituitaries (K(D): 556 pM; B(max): 2.8 fmol/mg proteins). Radioautography indicated that the binding was restricted to a part of the pituitary only. Using polymerase chain reaction from pike genomic DNA, we subcloned two partial cDNAs encoding the P1.4 (Mel(1a)) and the P2.6 (Mel(1b)) melatonin receptor subtypes. The two corresponding transcripts were expressed in the pituitary as revealed by RT-PCR assay and Southern blot hybridization. In culture, melatonin inhibited in a time- and dose-dependent manner cyclic AMP levels in pituitaries cultured in the presence of forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase activator. This is the first evidence for the expression of melatonin receptors and binding sites, and for the modulation of a second messenger by melatonin in the pituitary of a nonmammalian species. We suggest that in fish, the melatonin-mediated photoperiodic control of neuroendocrine functions involves, at least, a direct effect on the pituitary.
Spatiotopy is a fundamental organizing principle of the visual brain. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we have demonstrated reliable data, consistent with spatiotopic organization in the human superior colliculi. Five subjects underwent cardiac-triggered echo-planar image acquisition, during which they viewed alternating left and right visual hemifield stimulation. Intensity variations from the variable TR were removed, and the data were evaluated for correlation with the lateralized stimulus. The data indicate a strongly preferential response of the left superior colliculus to the right side of visual space, and vice versa. This is consistent with previous findings in animal systems and confirms the existence of spatiotopy in the human superior colliculus.
The neural plasticity associated with learning and development is increasingly being studied using functional neuroimaging methods such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this paper I outline a set of conceptual and methodological issues that are particularly relevant for the study of neural plasticity. A number of confounds, related to changes in performance and the inherently temporal nature of learning and development, must be addressed when imaging plasticity. The interpretation of changes in imaging signals is greatly underdetermined, suggesting that hypothesis-driven research approaches may be most fruitful. Finally, I argue that the imaging of learning-related and developmental plasticity can enhance the ability of functional neuroimaging to identify and characterize the underlying neural basis of cognition.
Mice that are mutant for Reelin or Dab1, or doubly mutant for the VLDL receptor (VLDLR) and ApoE receptor 2 (ApoER2), show disorders of cerebral cortical lamination. How Reelin and its receptors regulate laminar organization of cerebral cortex is unknown. We show that Reelin inhibits migration of cortical neurons and enables detachment of neurons from radial glia. Recombinant and native Reelin associate with alpha3beta1 integrin, which regulates neuron-glia interactions and is required to achieve proper laminar organization. The effect of Reelin on cortical neuronal migration in vitro and in vivo depends on interactions between Reelin and alpha3beta1 integrin. Absence of alpha3beta1 leads to a reduction of Dab1, a signaling protein acting downstream of Reelin. Thus, Reelin may arrest neuronal migration and promote normal cortical lamination by binding alpha3beta1 integrin and modulating integrin-mediated cellular adhesion.
The authors used a task-switching paradigm to investigate set shifting ability in schizophrenia. This paradigm included 2 choice reaction time (RT) tasks: up-down and right-left. Switching tasks were associated with costs (i.e., longer RT in task-switch trials than in task-repetition trials); patients responded more slowly than controls and suffered greater switching costs, were as efficient as controls in engaging in an upcoming task set, and were faster than controls in disengaging from the previous task set. There were indications that patients quickly forgot what each keypress indicated, making it necessary for them to acquire response meaning information anew in each trial. To test this notion, the authors subsequently tested normal participants in conditions in which response meaning information needed to be acquired anew in each trial. These participants produced a pattern of switching costs resembling that of patients. Results suggest that set switching difficulties in schizophrenia, as exhibited in the present paradigm, reflect poor memory for task context information.

A new technique for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series analysis is presented. The technique referred to here as independent component-cross correlation-sequential epoch (ICS) analysis is a hybrid technique of two standard methodologies of biological signal analysis, namely, data driven methods, represented by independent component analysis, and hypothesis driven methods, represented by a general linear model. The technique successfully identified four functionally discrete areas within the primary sensorimotor cortex (SMI) in normal human subjects based on blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series performed on a high field (3.0 T) system. Each of the four areas identified corresponded to the four physiological subdivisions of SMI, recognized in primates to be essential for voluntary hand motion, namely, 4 anterior (MI-4a) and 4 posterior (MI-4p) of the primary motor cortex, and 3a and the 'classical' (Brodmann areas 1, 2, and 3b) primary sensory cortex, respectively. ICS analysis appears to be a highly reliable and versatile technique for fMRI time series analysis.
Glutamate toxicity on PC12 cells is mediated by oxidative stress as a consequence of the inhibition of a cystine uptake system with depletion of GSH. In this study we report that glutamate decreases PC12 cell viability, inhibiting the reduction of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). This decrease was prevented by the antioxidants vitamin E, idebenone and L-deprenyl, which were also shown to be effective in reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cells exposed to glutamate, decreasing the fluorescence of 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF). Incubation of PC12 cells with high glutamate concentrations induced mitochondrial dysfunction, leading to the loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, evaluated as a decrease in rhodamine 123 (Rh123) retention by mitochondria, and to the decrease of intracellular ATP levels. The mitochondrial dysfunction, induced by glutamate, can be involved in the observed increase of [Ca2+]i. The elevation of [Ca2+]i occurred after GSH depletion, suggesting that oxidative stress is involved in the disturbances of intracellular calcium homeostasis. In conclusion, our data indicate that glutamate, at concentrations which block cystine uptake in PC12 cells leading to GSH depletion and inducing oxidative stress, increases ROS accumulation and decreases cell survival by a mechanism involving mitochondrial dysfunction and impairment of Ca2+ homeostasis.


Brucellosis, which is endemic in Saudi Arabia, can present as a disease with multisystem involvement. Occasionally the organisms invade the central nervous system producing varied neurological manifestations. Often the clinical diagnosis of neurobrucellosis is not straight forward and is obscure. Certain criteria have to be fulfilled for the definitive diagnosis of neurobrucellosis. We report 2 cases of neurobrucellosis which were encountered for the first time during the past 10 years at this hospital.
Five children (3F:2M), in the age group 1 years to 11 years, with Munchausen syndrome by proxy are reported from the Sultanate of Oman. They were seen over a four years period from 1996-1999. In all these children, the mother came up with history of uncontrolled epilepsy. Carbamazepine was the most common antiepileptic drug used. One of these children remained hospitalized elsewhere for nearly 9 months, as a case of uncontrolled status epilepticus. It took 18 months to 6 years (mean 2.8 years) to establish the diagnosis and the mother was the offender in all. The main lead to diagnosis, was the disparity between history and clinical presentation to hospital. The carbamazepine levels were several times above the upper limit of therapeutic range. Munchausen syndrome by proxy very much exists here, but is possibly less recognized and needs immediate attention to formulate policies to identify and manage these children. It is necessary to create awareness even in the medical community, to recognise this problem. There is an urgent need to develop a child protection council at the national or regional level.
Sphenoid sinusitis is an uncommon infection that accounts for approximately 3% of all cases of acute sinusitis. It is usually accompanied by pansinusitis; less commonly it occurs alone. We are presenting a case of a 30 year old young male patient who presented with three weeks history of headache, along with blurry vision and diplopia. Neurological examination showed evidence of bilateral sixth nerve palsy. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of pansinusitis, including sphenoidal sinusitis. Cerebrospinal fluid studies showed no evidence of meningitis.




There is a definitive association between valproate therapy and acute pancreatitis. More than 50 cases have been reported. Most of the reported cases were mild yet there were a few more cases with higher morbidity and mortality. The risk is higher in patients under 20 years of age, during the first year of therapy, on the patient having encephalopathy or chronic renal failure and on patients with anti-epileptic drug polytherapy. The treatment of pancreatitis is supportive, laparotomy should be avoided. Re-challenge is hazardous and should be avoided.
The term febrile convulsion is not a diagnostic entity. It simply describes any seizure that occurs in response to a febrile stimulus. It usually occurs between the age of 3 months and 5 years and occurs in 2-4% of young children. The typical febrile convulsion is a generalized tonic clonic seizure lasting between a few seconds and 15 minutes, followed by a period of drowsiness. Febrile seizures tend to occur in families, although the exact mode of inheritance is not known. Viruses are the most common cause of illness in children admitted to the hospital with a first febrile seizure. Routine laboratory studies are not indicated for patients who have febrile seizures and should be performed only as part of the evaluation for a source of fever. Prognosis is generally good. Only a small minority of children develop epilepsy or recurrent non-febrile seizures. Children with febrile seizures are at no greater risk of intellectual impairments than their peers. Treatment to prevent recurrence has not been shown to prevent later development of epilepsy.
Neuropsychological testing may reflect subtle structural changes that may not be readily apparent with neuroimaging studies, and physiologic disruption of normal neural function secondary to epileptic activity. Neuropsychological testing is used during the pre-operative evaluation for epilepsy surgery to assess functional brain status, which, in turn, provides important information on the risks for post-operative neruopsychological deficits and also provides confirmatory evidence of seizure onset laterality in patients whose seizures originate in temporal lobes. This review will focus primarily on the pre-operative neuropsychological of candidates for temporal lobectomy surgery since they represent the majority of individuals undergoing ablative epilepsy surgery, and also because the literature and knowledge for the neuropsychology of temporal lobectomy far exceeds that of any other epilepsy surgical group.

INNOVATION IS THE driving force behind progress in neurosurgery. Most significant innovations require commercialization to ensure appropriate development and ultimate distribution to patients. There are several key factors that determine whether a particular innovation is likely to be commercially successful. Relationships between academic neurosurgeons and industry are likely to increase in the future. Stronger and more productive relationships between academic neurosurgeons and commercial ventures will provide new opportunities for neurosurgeons to bring innovations to patients more effectively and efficiently. The transfer of innovation from the academic environment to the commercial setting is consistent with the academic mission and can increase funding for basic and clinical neuroscience research.


Recently, we reported that in utero and lactational exposure to 2,3, 7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) resulted in a task-specific reduction of errors on the radial arm maze (RAM), without similar improvements on other spatial learning tasks including the Morris water maze. The effect was more pronounced in males than in females. This study further investigated the effects of in utero and lactational exposure to TCDD on RAM performance by testing male and female TCDD-exposed rats on either an eight-arm RAM with all arms baited or a 12-arm RAM with 8 of the 12 arms baited. If the rats have improved spatial learning or memory on the RAM, then they should be improved on both RAM tasks; whereas, if they are using adjacent arm selection or some other response strategy to solve the task, they should not show enhanced performance on the 12-arm RAM where not all the arms are rewarded. Time-mated Sprague-Dawley dams were gavaged with corn oil vehicle or one of two doses of TCDD in vehicle (0.1 or 0.2 microg/kg body weight) on gestational days 10 to 16. Litters were culled to eight on day 2 and weaned on day 21. Beginning on day 80, one male and female from each litter was tested on the eight-arm RAM with all arms baited. As in our previous studies, the 0.1-microg/kg TCDD-exposed male rats showed a significant decrease in the number of errors. However, the 0.2-microg/kg males did not differ from the controls. Neither group of TCDD-exposed females differed from the controls. None of the TCDD-exposed rats differed from the controls in adjacent arm selection behavior. An additional male and female from each litter were tested on the 12-arm RAM with only 8 of the 12 arms baited. In this task, neither TCDD group differed from the controls. These results suggest that the reduction of errors on the eight-arm RAM may be due to increased response patterning or use of intramaze cues rather than to improved spatial learning or memory. Also, the reduction in errors was only present at the lower dose of TCDD suggesting that the improvement in performance is only present at very low, nonovertly toxic doses of TCDD.
Positron-emission tomography (PET) provides potential in neuropsychiatric drug development by expanding knowledge of drug action in the living human brain and reducing time consumption and costs. The 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor is of central interest as a target for the treatment of anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia. Research on the clinical significance of the 5-HT(1A) receptor now benefits from the highly selective radioligand [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 (WAY) for quantitative determination of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the primate and human brain in vivo using PET. In this paper, three studies are reviewed to demonstrate the suitability of WAY as radioligand for quantification of central 5-HT(1A) receptors in brain and as an applicable tool for drug development. In the first study a monkey model was used to characterize WAY binding. It was confirmed that the reference ligand 8-OH-DPAT and psychoactive drugs such as buspirone and pindolol occupies 5-HT(1A) receptors in the primate brain. Pindolol is an beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist with a high affinity to 5-HT(1A) receptors. This drug has been suggested in combination with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of depression and was given to healthy males in the second study. Pindolol induced a marked inhibition of central 5-HT(1A) receptors as calculated by the ratio-analysis method and simplified reference tissue model, 2 h after administration of 10 mg as a single oral dose. This observation suggests that pindolol may have a role for the suggested potentiation of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment of depression. The third study was on robalzotan (NAD-299), a recently developed 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist and putative drug with implications for the treatment of depression. In the cynomolgus monkey brain, robalzotan in the dose range 2-100 microg/kg IV occupied 5-HT(1A) receptors in a dose-dependent and saturable manner with a maximal calculated occupancy of 70-80%. The relationship between robalzotan plasma concentration and 5-HT(1A) receptor occupancy could be described by a hyperbolic function that was used to guide the selection of appropriate doses in man. In a subsequent PET study of robalzotan binding to 5-HT(1A) receptors in the living human brain, similar results have been replicated recently. These studies reviewed here illustrate and corroborate that quantitative neuroimaging of receptor binding has potential for the evaluation and dose finding of new central nervous system drugs.
The apparent obesity epidemic in the industrialized world is not explained completely by increased food intake or decreased energy expenditure. Once obesity develops in genetically predisposed individuals, their obese body weight is avidly defended against chronic caloric restriction. In animals genetically predisposed toward obesity, there are multiple abnormalities of neural function that prime them to become obese when dietary caloric density and quantity are raised. Once obesity is fully developed, these abnormalities largely disappear. This suggests that obesity might be the normal state for such individuals. Formation of new neural circuits involved in energy homeostasis might underlie the near permanence of the obese body weight. Such neural plasticity can occur during both nervous system development and in adult life. Maternal diabetes, obesity, and undernutrition have all been associated with obesity in the offspring of such mothers, especially in genetically predisposed individuals. Altered brain neural circuitry and function often accompanies such obesity. This enhanced obesity may then be passed on to subsequent generations in a feed-forward, upward spiral of increasing body weight across generations. Such findings suggest a form of &quot;metabolic imprinting&quot; upon genetically predisposed neural circuits involved in energy homeostasis. Centrally acting drugs used for obesity treatment lower the defended body weight and alter the function of neural pathways involved in energy homeostasis. But they generally have no permanent effect on body weight or neural function. Thus, early identification of obesity-prone mothers, infants, and adults and treatment of early obesity may be the only way to prevent the formation of permanent neural connections that promote and perpetuate obesity in genetically predisposed individuals.

Parkinson's disease (PD) affects both women and men. The surgical treatment of this disease has experienced a worldwide increase since the mid-eighties. In order to document eventual differences in gender distribution of patients undergoing various stereotactic surgical procedures for PD, we reviewed scientific papers published during the last 14years.A literature search provided 145 clinical papers, published between January 1985 and February 1999, and dealing with pallidotomy, thalamotomy and deep brain stimulation procedures. These papers were scrutinised with respect to redundancies or other overlap of reported patients. The resulting numbers of patients were compiled according to gender, to surgical procedure, and to geographic area of origin of the publishing centers.In one third of the reviewed publications the gender of the patients was not specified. In the remaining papers, the overall sex distribution of patients who underwent surgery was 35% females and 65% males. These proportions between sexes were relatively consistent regardless of surgical procedure, and regardless of geographic origin of the publications.Male preponderance in patients undergoing surgery for PD cannot be explained by a corresponding difference in gender-prevalence of the disease. The criteria of selection, and patterns of referral, of patients for surgery, as well as the respective attitude of female and male patients toward surgery, may account for the uneven gender distribution in surgical PD patients.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP, also known as Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome) is relatively uncommon. Studies to date have found a crude population prevalence for PSP of between 1.39 and 4.9 cases per 100,000. An increased awareness of the condition, together with recently formulated clinical diagnostic criteria, should facilitate future descriptive epidemiological studies.Possible aetiological influences both genetic (tau polymorphisms) and environmental (herbal tea and tropical fruit consumption in the French West Indies) have recently been postulated. Future studies into both disease prevalence and aetiology would benefit from a multi-centre approach.
Catecholamines and serotonin, which act as neurotransmitters and regulate blood circulation, are degraded by monoamine oxidase (MAO) [EC 1.4.3.4.] which exists two iso-enzymes named MAO-A and MAO-B. In this study, the effects of magnetic fields on MAO activity in the rat brain were examined. MAO-A activity was not changed in static magnetic fields (0.1-340 mT) or in 10-500 mT/s of alternate isosceles triangular magnetic fields (AITMF) (50 Hz). MAO-B activity was not changed in static magnetic fields (0.1-340 mT) and in 10, 34, 340, 95, 105, 110, and 340 mT/s of AITMF. However, it was increased to 114% in the 100 mT/s of AITMF. In 100 mT/s, Michaelis constant (K(m)) significantly decreased to 72%, suggesting that the affinity of the substrate to the enzyme also increased. These results indicate that only MAO-B was influenced by AITMF with 'active window' phenomenon, and suggest that AITMF might affect neural activity and hemodynamics by altering MAO-B.
We have previously described the immunoreactivities of glutamate transporters, EAAT4 and GLAST, in the developing human cerebellum. In the present report, we demonstrate the different expression of EAAT4 and GLAST in the pathologic condition, neonatal subarachnoid hemorrhage. EAAT4 and GLAST were characteristically disturbed in the cerebellar cortices beneath the subarachnoid hemorrhage. In preterm infants with subarachnoid hemorrhage the decrease in EAAT4 immunoreactivity was more prominent than in term infants, and GLAST immunoreactivity in the inner granular cell layer decreased and reappeared later than in term infants with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Although Bergmann's glia removes glutamate from the extracellular space surrounding Purkinje cells in the early stage of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage, the reaction of EAAT4 and GLAST in the cerebellar cortex under the subarachnoid hemorrhage was decreased, and immature glia had a delayed reaction. These characteristics of glutamate transporters in immature cells may lead to cell death and olivocerebellar degeneration.
We investigated the adverse effect of hypocapnia on the neonatal rabbit brain. Two-week-old Japanese white rabbits were assigned to three groups, hyperventilation (H group), ischemia (I group), or hypocapnia with ischemia (HI group) and then subjected for 1.5 h with simultaneous measurement of the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) and intracranial Hb concentration changes. Marked reductions of PaCO2 and MABP were induced in the hyperventilation-loaded groups and the ischemia-loaded groups, respectively. The intracranial oxyhemoglobin and total Hb concentrations decreased slightly in the H group and markedly in the I and HI groups after the start of experimental protocols, although there were no statistical differences between the I and HI groups. Animals were killed at 24 h after experiments and then subjected to pathologic examination. Damaged neurons with shrunken cell bodies and nuclear changes were found on light microscopic examination, mainly in the pyramidal cell layer of the subiculum and cornu ammonis 1. The numerical density of damaged neurons was significantly higher in the HI group than those in the H or I groups (p &lt; 0.05). These damaged neurons were positive on DNA nick end labeling. A DNA ladder was detected on electrophoresis with a DNA sample extracted from hippocampal tissue in the HI group, but not in the other two groups. On electron microscopic examination, not only condensation of the nucleus but also disruption of mitochondria and the cell membrane were detected. These results suggested that hypocapnia under hypotension might cause neuronal cell death in the hippocampus of neonatal rabbit. Not only ischemia but also a metabolic change induced by hypocapnia might contribute to this apoptotic neuronal cell damage.
Orphanin FQ/Nociceptin (OFQ/N) is a peptide whose structure resembles that of the endogenous opioid peptides (endorphins). OFQ/N and its receptor are distributed in neural tissue and brain regions involved in the regulation of pituitary hormone release. Functional studies have shown that this peptide evokes a unique pattern of cardiovascular and renal excretory responses. This review will focus on the neural and humoral effects of OFQ/N and how this peptide may participate in the regulation of cardiovascular and renal function.
Orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ) is a recently discovered endogenous ligand for the novel opioid receptor-like receptor (ORL-1). There are numerous reports in the literature demonstrating paradoxical effects of exogenous OFQ on pain modulation. For example, OFQ produces a pronociceptive effect in the brain and an analgesic effect in the spinal cord. In order to better understand the physiological actions of OFQ, the present study focused on the pain-modulatory effect of endogenously released OFQ measured using antibody microinjection techniques. We found that electroacupuncture analgesia (EA) was increased by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of an OFQ-antibody and decreased following intrathecal injection. Furthermore, i.c.v. OFQ-antibody partially reversed tolerance to both chronic morphine and chronic EA. These data suggest that endogenously released OFQ plays an important role in pain modulation, where pain sensitivity in the brain and spinal cord is increased and decreased, respectively.
Cellular actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) resemble those of micro-, delta-, and kappa-opioids, i.e. activation of inwardly rectifying K(+) conductance, inhibition of high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel currents, and impediment of neurotransmitter release. Differences in ORL(1) and micro-receptor distribution lead to: 1) more widespread actions of N/OFQ on periaqueductal gray neurons than opioids and 2) differential effects of N/OFQ and opioids in the brainstem. Also, unlike opioids, N/OFQ inhibits T-type Ca(2+) channel current in sensory neurons. Opioids and N/OFQ may modulate glutamate responses in different ways, and certain actions of N/OFQ are potentiated following nerve injury whereas those of micro-opioids are attenuated. Agonists at ORL(1) receptors may therefore be of clinical interest in the management of neuropathic pain.
The endogenous ligand for the orphan NOR receptor (earlier named ORL1) was recently discovered. This ligand, nociceptin/orphanin FQ is involved in a number of pharmacological actions in the CNS, including modulation of pain and cognition. However, its specific physiological role remains to be determined. Two major pathways of metabolism have been identified; the action of aminopeptidase(s) that prominently occurs in plasma, and endopeptidase activity that successively generates the N-terminal 1-13 and 1-9 fragments. Both pathways result in fragments that are inactive at the NOR receptor. However, short N-terminal fragments appear to be active in blocking the release of substance P from primary afferent C-fiber terminals in the dorsal spinal cord. The same endopeptidase(s) may also be involved in the fragmentation of dynorphin A since the inhibitor profile is similar. Enzyme activity is upregulated by morphine using either peptide as substrate that may lead to pharmacological interactions.
In imaging studies of brain functions using pharmacological probes, identification of the time point at which central effects of intravenously infused drugs become stable is crucial to separate the effects of experimental variables from the concomitant changes in drug effects over time. We evaluated the time courses of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, including butyrylcholinesterase inhibition and central neural responses, of physostigmine in healthy young subjects. Ten positron emission tomography (PET) scans that alternated between a rest condition (eyes open, ears unplugged) and a working memory for faces (WM) task were acquired in healthy subjects. Subjects in the drug group received a saline infusion for the first two scans, providing a baseline measure, then received an infusion of physostigmine for all subsequent scans. Subjects in the control group received a placebo infusion of saline for all scans. Physostigmine plasma levels and percent butyrylcholinesterase inhibition increased over time (p &lt; 0. 0001), and both became stable by 40 min. Physostigmine decreased reaction time (RT) (p = 0.0005), and this effect was detected after 20 min of infusion and stable thereafter. Physostigmine also decreased regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in right prefrontal cortex during task (p = 0.0002), and this effect was detected after 40 min of infusion and stable thereafter. No change in RT or rCBF was observed in the control group. These results indicate that a 40-min infusion of physostigmine was necessary to obtain stable central effects. More generally, we have demonstrated that experimental effects can vary with time, especially during the initial phases of a drug infusion, indicating that it is critical that these changes are controlled.

Ingestion by rats of rat placenta or amniotic fluid enhances opioid-mediated, or partly opioid-mediated, antinociception produced by morphine injection, vaginal or cervical stimulation, late pregnancy, and foot shock. This phenomenon is believed to be produced by a placental opioid-enhancing factor (POEF). Ingestion by rats of human or dolphin placenta has also been shown to enhance opioid antinociception, suggesting that POEF may be common to many mammalian species. We tested bovine amniotic fluid (BAF) for its capacity to enhance morphine antinociception in female Long-Evans rats, as determined by percentage change from baseline tail-flick latency in response to radiant heat, and we report that 0.50 mL BAF effectively enhanced morphine antinociception but did not by itself produce antinociception. The efficacy of POEF across species suggests that POEF may have been functionally (and structurally) conserved during evolution. Furthermore, the availability of POEF at parturition, as well as its ability to enhance pregnancy-mediated antinociception without disrupting maternal behavior, offers a tenable explanation for the long-debated ultimate causality of placentophagia.
An oral assessment tool was developed alongside care plans in a neurosciences unit, including the rationale for interventions, to provide nurses with an evidence-based means of providing mouth care. Awareness and standards of mouth care improved as a result of introducing the tool and care plans.
Prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogues have recently been introduced on the market for glaucoma treatment. While these drugs have a well-documented intraocular pressure reducing effect only a limited number of studies have been published regarding their effects on the microvasculature in the eye. Since many naturally occurring prostaglandins have marked effects on the cardiovascular system it is conceivable that synthetic prostaglandins used as glaucoma drugs may exert microvascular effects in the eye, even if they exhibit receptor selectivity. Latanoprost, the active principle of Xalatan((R)) eye drops, is a selective FP prostanoid receptor agonist, and much of the paper is focused on the microvascular effects of latanoprost and some closely related prostaglandin analogues. The purpose of the paper is to review the literature on the microvascular effects of prostaglandins in the eye, and to present some unpublished data on the effects of selective prostaglandin analogues. Most of the prostaglandin analogues studied exhibit selectivity for the FP prostanoid receptor. Results from studies with the following prostaglandin analogues are presented in the paper: PGF(2alpha)-isopropyl ester (PGF(2alpha)-IE), 17-phenyl-18,19,20-trinor-PGF(2alpha)-isopropyl ester (17-phenyl-PGF(2a)-IE), 15-keto-17-phenyl-18,19, 20-trinor-PGF(2alpha)-isopropyl ester (15-keto-17-phenyl-PGF(2a)-IE), 13,14-dihydro-17-phenyl-18,19,20-trinor-PGF(2alpha)-isopropy l ester (latanoprost), 13,14-dihydro-15R,S-17-phenyl-18,19, 20-trinor-PGF(2alpha)-isopropyl ester (PhXA34), 17-phenyl-18,19, 20-trinor-PGE(2)-isopropyl ester (17-phenyl-PGE(2)-IE), and 19R-hydroxy-PGE(2) (19R-OH-PGE(2)). The regional blood flow has been determined with radioactively labelled microspheres, the blood volume with (51)Cr labelled erythrocytes and the capillary permeability to albumin with (125)I and (131)I labelled albumin. PGF(2alpha)-IE has been shown to exert marked microvascular effects in the rabbit anterior segment including vasodilatation, increased capillary permeability, and a breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier. 17-phenyl-PGF(2alpha)-IE, 15-keto-17-phenyl-PGF(2alpha)-IE, and PhXA34/latanoprost exerted significantly less vasodilatory effect, and little effect on capillary permeability was seen with the FP receptor agonists when studied with Evans blue. Intravenous administration of PhXA34 at a dose range of 1-100 microg/kg b.w. had no consistent effect on the regional blood flow in the eye indicating that FP receptors in the ocular blood vessels are not expressed in the rabbit, or alternatively are not functionally coupled to regulation of vascular tone. In cats topical application of PGF(2alpha)-IE had no significant effect the on the regional blood flow in cannulated eyes. No blood flow experiments were performed in intact eyes with PGF(2alpha)-IE. 17-phenyl-PGF(2alpha)-IE and latanoprost caused some vasodilation in the anterior segment. None of the analogues had any significant effect on the blood volume in the ocular tissues, but an increase in capillary permeability to albumin was seen in several tissues of the eye. However, in the eyelid, nictitating membrane and conjunctiva exposed to high concentrations of the prostaglandins no or only little leakage of albumin was detected. It appears that the intraocular microvasculature in the cat exhibits some sensitivity to FP prostanoid receptor agonists. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
This article reviews pertinent psychological theory to argue for two discrete human motivational tracts. These dual systems appear to draw from disparate constellations of emotional energies that normatively become interactive across development. The article stipulates eight premises from the accepted tenets of psychology, development, and pathology along with corroborating evidence from laterality studies, neuropsychology, and the neurosciences. These premises lead to a verifiable hypothesis reflecting Richard Leakey's proposal that H. sapiens emerged from an interpersonal shaping of adaptation across several million years of group living. The totality of the supportive evidence suggests that the flexibility, agility, and creativity of the human mind was abetted by tensions and reconciliations between two disparate hemispheric perspectives, which express as a Personal Self and a Social Self, focused by a lens molded by survival pressures.
W. Ruml and A. Caramazza's (2000) analysis of the model of normal and aphasic lexical access proposed by G. S. Dell, M. F. Schwartz, N. Martin, E. M. Saffran, and D. A. Gagnon (1997) is completely at odds with current practice concerning the use of models in psychology. An evaluation of Dell et al.'s original claims using Ruml and Caramazza's model parameters sustains these claims in all respects.
Sodium valproic acid (VPA) is a widely prescribed anticonvulsant medication that has been shown to interfere with pubertal maturation of the reproductive system, and induce endocrine abnormalities in adults, within a subset of the clinical population. While VPA's mechanism of action is still poorly understood, it may exert its anti-reproductive effects by enhancing GABAergic inhibition of the GnRH neuronal population within the medial preoptic area (mPOA). The purpose of this study was to determine if chronic administration of VPA alters GABA levels within the mPOA region. In Experiment 1, the mPOA, caudate, and arcuate nucleus regions were harvested from VPA-treated and control mice. Analysis of whole tissue content of GABA revealed that levels were lower in the caudate and arcuate nucleus regions of VPA-treated animals, whereas there were no group differences for the mPOA region. Collapsing across drug group, there was also a trend for males having overall higher levels of GABA as compared to females. In Experiments 2 and 3, mice were implanted with microdialysis probes within the mPOA region and sampled for extracellular GABA levels. Females (Exp. 3) were sampled either on diestrous, proestrous, or estrous. Results from males (Exp. 2) revealed that VPA enhanced extracellular GABA levels in the mPOA region compared with controls. However, GABA levels for both groups remained stable across the sampling period. Conversely, in Exp. 3, females showed cyclical release of GABA across the sampling period. For control females, GABA levels increased during the afternoon on all cycle days, but the rise on proestrus was smaller than on other cycle days. VPA-treated animals showed an overall reduction in GABA levels compared with controls. Furthermore, while GABA increased over sampling time on estrus and diestrus days of the cycle, there was not a significant rise in GABA on proestrus. These data indicate: (1) regional specificity in VPA effects upon GABA levels, (2) a sex difference in the effects of VPA on GABA levels within the mPOA, and (3) GABA levels increase on the afternoon of all days of the estrous cycle with VPA attenuating the rise seen on the afternoon of proestrus. These results provide evidence that VPA effects upon the reproductive axis may involve changes in GABA release, and that males and females show different patterns of neurochemical response to the drug.



There is a latency period of several weeks before the onset of clinical effect of antidepressant drugs. The detailed mechanisms underlying drug-induced adaptive neuronal changes are not known. To elucidate the involvement of changes in gene expression of candidate transcription factors, we treated rats for 21 days with buspirone, fluoxetine, 8-OH-DPAT and moclobemide. In situ hybridization was used to study mRNAs encoding NGFI-A, NGFI-B and the glucocorticoid receptors, MR and GR. NGFI-A mRNA expression increased profoundly in the hippocampal formation and the cerebral cortex after all drug treatments, especially after moclobemide treatment (77-122% increase); with the exception of buspirone. MR mRNA expression was induced in hippocampal CA1/CA2 subregions (27-37%) by all antidepressants, while moclobemide and 8-OH-DPAT significantly increased GR gene expression mainly in the CA1 region (31-44%). NGFI-B mRNA was significantly decreased in the hippocampal CA3 subfield (23%) and restrosplenial granular cortex (38%) by moclobemide treatment. There are selective effects of antidepressant drugs on specific transcription factors. These may be important for adaptive neuronal and neuroendocrine changes after antidepressant treatment including HPA axis negative feedback regulation.
The respiratory response to hypoxia is dynamic in the adult anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rat. Hypoxia elicits acute increases in both tidal volume (VT) and respiratory frequency (fR) followed by short-term increases in VT and short-term decreases in fR. After brief hypoxia (&lt;1 min), recovery of the breathing pattern is again dynamic, where both VT and fR decrease immediately, but where VT remains above, and fR drops below, baseline. These acute changes are followed by a short-term progressive decrease in VT and increase in fR to baseline. We have identified a potential neural mechanism that depends on the integrity of the ventrolateral (vl) pons. Our studies show that: (a) blockade of activity in the vl pons prevents the short-term decrease in fR after hypoxia (b) stimulation of the vl pons decreases fR, and (c) vl pontine expiratory neurons are activated after hypoxia. These neurons may not be acting through alpha(2) -adrenergic receptors, but their effect does depend on NMDA-type receptor function. We conclude that the vl pons is a critical element in the pontomedullary network that generates and modulates the fR response to acute hypoxia.





Even if computer science, at its birth, had strong links with the neurosciences, it is today mainly oriented toward efficiency and robustness. For example, memory in a computer has few relationships with memory in a living being. Nevertheless, some domains in computer science are interested in this kind of modelling. In particular, connectionism, whose goal is to elaborate artificial neural networks, uses a formalism for its calculus inspired from calculus in the brain. Different kinds of memory that can be emulated by artificial neural networks, inspired by statistics or biology, are presented here. Their relationships with human memory are discussed together with their tentative interest for the biologist or the therapist.
Our studies show that chronic alcohol consumption (CAC) in Balb/c mice induces (1) a deficit of spontaneous but not effortful retrieval processes, and (2) a concomitant reduction of anxiety, suggesting a potential interaction between emotional and memory disorders. We have shown that the benzodiazepine agonist, diazepam, induces memory deficits similar to those produced by CAC, whereas administering beta CCM (an inverse agonist of the benzodiazepine receptor) alleviated the memory deficits of alcohol-treated subjects. Parallel neuroanatomical studies have shown that CAC produced cell damage in the mamillary bodies, whereas no major changes were observed in the hippocampus or the frontal cortex, which is involved in long-term consolidation processes. Overall data show that CAC induced amnesia is not due to a dysfunction of the neural networks underlying memory storage processes, but rather results from a difficulty in activating the neural substrates engaged in retrieval processes which depend on emotional, motivational or environmental factors.
The present work was aimed at determining, both at the psychological and at the neurobiological levels, aspects of rodent memory that fall into line with human declarative memory which is known to be selectively impaired in amnesic subjects and during the course of ageing. The ability to compare and to contrast items in memory, and to support inferential use of memories in novel situations (flexibility), were considered to be the two key psychological features of human declarative memory that were altered by both hippocampal lesions and hippocampal dysfunction. Adult and aged mice were trained on learning tasks using two-stage paradigms, the aim of which was to assess memory performance through these two psychological aspects in the same subjects. Results suggest that ageing specifically impairs the ability to both compare and contrast items in memory (declarative/relational memory based on complex associations), without altering memory based on simple S-R associations (procedural memory). Hippocampal lesions in adult mice produced the same dissociation between relational memory (impaired) and procedural memory (spared). Pharmacological experiments showed that, depending on the drug used, the relational memory deficit of aged mice may be selectively reversed (i.e. without changes in procedural memory) and that the behavioural efficacy of certain treatments was shown to parallel their potency in re-establishing normal (i.e. adult) levels of hippocampal plasticity-related mechanisms. Together with previous findings, these results suggest that the storage and use of relational representations would critically depend on the plasticity of hippocampal synapses, which via their connections with cortical areas, would support the storage of associations between perceptual, behavioral and cognitive events.
The representation of body orientation and configuration is dependent on multiple sources of afferent and efferent information about ongoing and intended patterns of movement and posture. Under normal terrestrial conditions, we feel virtually weightless and we do not perceive the actual forces associated with movement and support of our body. It is during exposure to unusual forces and patterns of sensory feedback during locomotion that computations and mechanisms underlying the ongoing calibration of our body dimensions and movements are revealed. This review discusses the normal mechanisms of our position sense and calibration of our kinaesthetic, visual and auditory sensory systems, and then explores the adaptations that take place to transient Coriolis forces generated during passive body rotation. The latter are very rapid adaptations that allow body movements to become accurate again, even in the absence of visual feedback. Muscle spindle activity interpreted in relation to motor commands and internally modeled reafference is an important component in permitting this adaptation. During voluntary rotary movements of the body, the central nervous system automatically compensates for the Coriolis forces generated by limb movements. This allows accurate control to be maintained without our perceiving the forces generated.
Mitochondria have been linked to both necrotic and apoptotic cell death, which are thought to have a major role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Recent evidence shows that nuclear gene defects affecting mitochondrial function have a role in the pathogenesis of Friedreich's ataxia, Wilson's disease and hereditary spastic paraplegia. There is also accumulating evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction might have a role in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. If this is so, a number of therapeutic targets are implicated that might result in novel treatments for neurodegenerative diseases.
In 1996, as an innovation for the UK, the Wellcome Trust set up two 'American style' four-year PhD programmes in neuroscience, with an initial year of broad training followed by a three-year PhD. Here, some of the first cohort of students, who are soon to graduate and the coordinators of the programmes, give their views on this experiment in neuroscience research training.
Depending on their differentiation state, vertebrate neurones can commit suicide after neurotropic virus infection. Such suicide might be an evolved strategy in multicellular organisms for limiting virus expansion. Regulation of suicide in this context operates by a programme similar to that activated during embryogenesis or in response to nervous-system injury and disease. In contrast to immature neurones that can readily initiate apoptosis following infection, mature neurones are generally highly resistant and can survive for long periods if they remain functional. Mature, infected neurones might gain competence to die owing to the attuned activation of pathways that sensitize the cell to subsequent stress. The consequence of either perturbation of function as a result of viral persistence or a chronic but progressive loss of infected neurones might be a failure of key neural functions.
Tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists have failed to exhibit efficacy in clinical trials of a variety of clinical pain states. By contrast, in preclinical studies in animals NK1 receptor antagonists have been shown to attenuate nociceptive responses sensitized by inflammation or nerve damage, although they exhibit little effect on baseline nociception. Other agents with this profile of activity in animal tests, typically nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), are analgesic in humans. Thus, NK1 receptor antagonists appear able to block behavioural responses to noxious and other stressful sensory stimuli at a level detectable in animal tests but fail to provide the level of sensory blockade required to produce clinical analgesia in humans.

A multiport-readout, frame-transfer charge-coupled device (CCD) digital imaging system has been successfully developed and tested for intermediate-high-voltage electron microscopy (IVEM) applications up to 400 keV. The system employs a back-thinned CCD with 2560 x 1960 pixels and a pixel size of 24 microm x 24 microm. In the current implementation, four of the eight on-chip readout ports are used in parallel each operating at a pixel rate of 1- or 2-MHz so that the entire CCD array can be read out in as short as 0.6 s. The frame-transfer readout functions as an electronic shutter which permits the rapid transfer of charges in the active pixels to four masked buffers where the charges are readout and digitized while the active area of the CCD is integrating the next frame. With a thin film-based phosphor screen and a high-performance lens relay, the system has a conversion factor of 2.1 digital units per incident electron at 400 keV, and a modulation transfer function value of 14% at the Nyquist frequency.

Pavlov's concept of conditioned reflexes and Ukhtomskii theory of dominanta fall within the biological line in physiology. They unravel the integral adaptive and active nature of the organism behavior in the environment. It is impossible to develop modern concepts about the determinants of goal-directed behavior of animals and voluntary activity of humans without in-depth study of the achievements of these Russian physiological schools which not only formed the methodological basis for the current studies but also directed the way for their further development.
Noise was traditionally regarded as a nuisance, which should be minimized if possible. However, recent research has shown that addition of an appropriate amount of noise can actually improve signal detection in a nonlinear system, an effect called stochastic resonance. While stochastic resonance has been described in a variety of physical and biological systems, its functional significance in human sensory systems remains mostly unexplored. Here we report psychophysical data showing that signal detection and discrimination can be enhanced by noise in human subjects whose hearing is evoked by either normal acoustic stimulation or electric stimulation of the auditory nerve or the brainstem. Our results suggest that noise is an integral part of the normal sensory process and should be added to auditory prostheses.
The present study demonstrates the effect of ibotenic acid lesioning of ventral subiculum on the theta activity of CA1 area of hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex during REM sleep. Ibotenic acid lesioning of ventral subiculum, has increased the absolute power with no noticeable change in the relative power of theta of the CA1 area. In contrast, it has decreased both the absolute and relative power of entorhinal cortical theta. Subicular output may serve to modulate the synchronous neuronal activity of entorhinal cortex and CA1 pyramidal cells during REM sleep.
Hypoxia markedly depresses synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices of the rat. This depression is attributed to presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release and is largely mediated by adenosine released during hypoxia acting through presynaptic adenosine A(1) receptors. Paired pulse facilitation studies allowed us to confirm the presynaptic nature of the depression of synaptic transmission during hypoxia. We tested the hypothesis that activation of heterosynaptic inhibitory receptors localized in glutamatergic presynaptic terminals in the hippocampus, namely gamma-aminobutyric acid subtype B (GABA(B)) receptors, alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors, and muscarinic receptors might contribute to the hypoxia-induced depression of synaptic transmission. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices from young adult (5-6 weeks) Wistar rats. Neither the selective antagonist for alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors, rauwolscine (10 microM), nor the antagonist for the GABA(B) receptors, CGP 55845 (10 microM), modified the response to hypoxia. The selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, DPCPX (50 nM), reduced the hypoxia-induced depression of synaptic transmission to 59.2+/-9.6%, and the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine (10 microM), in the presence of DPCPX (50 nM), further attenuated the depression of synaptic transmission to 49.4+/-8.0%. In the same experimental conditions, in the presence of DPCPX (50 nM), the muscarinic M(2) receptor antagonist AF-DX 116 (10 microM), but not the M(1) receptor antagonist pirenzepine (1 microM), also attenuated the hypoxia-induced depression to 41.6+/-6.6%. Activation of muscarinic M(2) receptors contributes to the depression of synaptic transmission upon hypoxia. This effect should assume particular relevance during prolonged periods of hypoxia when other mechanisms may become less efficient.
The X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 (XRCC1) protein plays a central role in the DNA base excision repair pathway by interacting with DNA ligase III and DNA polymerase beta. The present study examined the protein expression of XRCC1 and DNA fragmentation before and after cold injury-induced brain trauma (CIBT) in mice, in which apoptosis is assumed to participate. Immunohistochemistry showed the nuclear expression of XRCC1 in the entire region of the control brains. Fifteen minutes after CIBT, nuclear immunoreactivity was predominantly decreased in the inner boundary of the lesion, followed by a significant reduction of XRCC1 in the entire lesion 4 h after CIBT. A characteristic 70-kDa band was detected in the non-traumatic area, and was markedly decreased after CIBT as shown by Western blot analysis. DNA fragmentation was also observed after CIBT, and double staining with XRCC1 immunohistochemistry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling showed a spatial relationship between XRCC1 loss and DNA fragmentation 24 h after CIBT. These data indicate that early decrease of XRCC1 and failure of the DNA repair mechanism may contribute to DNA-damaged neuronal cell death after CIBT.
Male zebra finches learn to produce a vocal pattern during a sensitive period of development, whereas females do not. The motor output of telencephalic song processing is RA (the robust nucleus of the archistriatum), a region containing a population of projection neurons that descend to the hindbrain (nXIIts, the tracheo-syringeal portion of the hypoglossal nerve nucleus). In turn, nXIIts neurons innervate the vocal organ (syrinx). Previous work shows that the number of RA neurons is monomorphic in fledgling males and females. RA neuron number in males does not change thereafter, but females show a substantial developmental loss of RA neurons. Because the developmental sex difference in RA neuron number implies a change in the number of projection neurons within RA, we have made injections of retrograde tracer into the hindbrain to measure the percentage of RA neurons that project to nXIIts as a function of age in females and vocal development in males. In juveniles of both sexes, we found that close to two-thirds of RA neurons project to nXIIts. However, the percentage of RA neurons projecting to nXIIts declined by 44% during female development, and by 14% during a specific stage of male vocal development (the transition from subsong to plastic song). These data indicate that in addition to regulation of RA neuron number, sexual differentiation and vocal learning correlate with a significant decrease in the amount of descending input to the vocal organ. The loss of projection neurons during vocal learning is surprising in light of the stability of RA neuron number in males, and our findings suggest that the behavioral transition from subsong to plastic song may involve a restricted period of RA neuron loss and replacement and/or axon rearrangement.
Immunohistochemical localization of the substance P receptor (SPR) was examined in the developing rat medulla oblongata, with special reference to the development of substance P (SP)-immunoreactive neurons which form the medullary raphe nuclei. During development, SPR immunoreactivity was detected in cells lying lateral to the medullary midline from embryonic day 13 (E13) to postnatal day 5 (P5). The SPR-positive cell bodies were located close to the fourth ventricle, and bore long processes extending to the ventral pial surface. This SPR immunoreactivity co-localized with staining for monoclonal antibody 1D11, a specific marker of immature astrocytes. Substance P (SP)-immunoreactive neurons were first detected at E14 in the ventrolateral part of the medulla. By E16 their number had increased and they were arrayed in two rows closely parallel to the SPR-immunoreactive processes of non-neuronal cells. By P1, two separate SP-immunoreactive cell clusters could be recognized at the midline, representing dorsally the nascent raphe pallidus and ventrally the raphe obscurus. In addition, many SP-immunoreactive fibers traveled rostrocaudally in the medulla oblongata, juxtaposed to the midline sheets of SPR-immunoreactive long processes. SPR-immunoreactive processes at the midline were also immunoreactive for S-100, a glia-specific calcium-binding protein that is known to promote axonal growth of raphe neurons. These results suggest that SPR-expressing immature glial cells at the medullary midline are involved in the development of SP-immunoreactive raphe neurons, both in the formation of the medullary raphe nuclei and in axon guidance and growth.
This laboratory previously showed that in utero ethanol exposure severely impairs the development of the cell bodies and projections of serotonin (5-HT) neurons, and that maternal treatment with a 5-HT(1A) agonist prevents many of these abnormalities. Others demonstrated that stimulation of fetal astroglial 5-HT(1A) receptors increases production and release of S100B, a glial trophic factor that is essential for the development of 5-HT neurons. The present study investigated a potential mechanism by which ethanol hinders development of 5-HT neurons, and by which maternal 5-HT(1A) agonist treatment prevents this damage. This study tested the hypothesis that in utero ethanol exposure reduces the number of S100B immunopositive glia and that maternal 5-HT(1A) agonist treatment prevents ethanol-associated changes in S100B. To test our hypothesis, we determined the effects of in utero ethanol exposure and maternal treatments with the 5-HT(1A) agonists ipsapirone and buspirone on S100B immunopositive glial cells. On gestation day 20 (G20), S100B immunopositive cells were quantified in the midline raphe glial structure (MRGS), a large transient structure that contains substantial numbers of S100B-positive glial cells and that spans the dorsal raphe, median raphe, and B9 complex of 5-HT neurons. S100B immunopositive glial cells were also determined in an area proximal to the dorsal raphe in postnatal day 2 (PN2) rats. In utero ethanol exposure significantly reduced S100B immunopositive glial cells in the MRGS at G20 and in the dorsal raphe at PN2. In addition, treatment of pregnant rats with a 5-HT(1A) agonist between G13 and G20 prevented the ethanol-associated reduction in S100B immunopositive glial cells. These studies demonstrated that part of ethanol's damaging effects on developing 5-HT neurons is mediated by a reduction of S100B and that some of the protective effects of maternal 5-HT(1A) agonist treatment are related to the actions of these drugs on glial cells.
We established Jurkat transfectants that overexpress Pyk2 or its mutants, K457A (lysine 457 was mutated to alanine), Pyk2-Y402F (tyrosine 402 to phenylalanine), and Pyk2-Y881F to investigate the role of Pyk2 in T cell activation. Pyk2 as well as kinase-inactive Pyk2-K457A, was phosphorylated at tyrosine residues 402, 580, and 881 upon T cell antigen receptor cross-linking, indicating that these residues are phosphorylated by other tyrosine kinase(s). However, no tyrosine phosphorylation of Pyk2-Y402F was detected while more than 60% of the tyrosine phosphorylation was observed in Pyk2-Y881F. Pyk2-Y402F inhibited the activation of endogenous Pyk2. The degree of activation of both c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase but not extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase after concurrent ligation of T cell antigen receptor and CD28 was reduced by more than 50% in the clones expressing Pyk2-Y402F. Consistent with this inhibition, IL-2 production was significantly diminished in the Pyk2-Y402F-expressing clones. Furthermore, we found that Pyk2, when overexpressed, associates with Zap70 and Vav. Taken together, these findings suggest that Pyk2 is involved in the activation of T cells through its tyrosine 402.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha)-induced maturation of dendritic cells (DC), with down-regulation of their endocytic ability, has been reported to be mediated by the accumulation of the lipid messenger ceramide. We have now studied the effects and mechanisms of action of NO on endocytosis, investigated with fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled dextran using human monocyte-derived DC, both immature and after treatment with TNFalpha. Exposure of DC to NO, released by either bystander phagocytes or NO donors, reversed the inhibition of endocytosis induced by TNFalpha. The intracellular accumulation of ceramide induced by TNFalpha was also inhibited by NO. In addition, NO was found to exert an inhibitory effect downstream of the TNFalpha-triggered ceramide accumulation, because NO donors reversed the inhibition of endocytosis induced by the cell-permeant C(2)-ceramide. These effects of NO were mimicked by the membrane-permeant cyclic GMP analogue, 8-Br cyclic GMP, and prevented by inhibition of the soluble guanylyl cyclase. At variance with rodents, the inducible isoform of the NO synthase was expressed neither in immature human DC nor after cell treatment with TNFalpha, interferon-gamma, and lipopolysaccharide, suggesting that regulation of these cells depends on exogenous NO. NO, working through cyclic GMP, might therefore prolong the ability of human DC to internalize antigens at the site of inflammation and thus modulate the initial steps leading to antigen-specific immune responses.
Synaptic function requires proper localization of proteins at synaptic sites. Targeting of the postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) relies on multiple signals within the protein, including twelve C-terminal amino acids. We now show that this C-terminal targeting domain of PSD-95 mediates postsynaptic localization through a short tyrosine-based motif followed by a pair of hydrophobic amino acids. Consistent with a role in cellular trafficking, the tyrosine motif resembles the canonical motif for interactions with clathrin adaptor proteins. In fact, we find that the C-terminal targeting domain of PSD-95 is sufficient to mediate clathrin-dependent endocytosis when appended to a transmembrane protein. Furthermore, systematic mutagenesis reveals that endocytosis mediated by this domain depends on both the tyrosine motif and the dihydrophobic amino acid pair. Thus, postsynaptic targeting of PSD-95 requires a tyrosine-based signal that can mediate clathrin-coated vesicle formation.
RIM1 is a putative effector protein for Rab3s, synaptic GTP-binding proteins. RIM1 is localized close to the active zone at the synapse, where it interacts in a GTP-dependent manner with Rab3 located on synaptic vesicles. We now describe a second RIM protein, called RIM2, that is highly homologous to RIM1 and also expressed primarily in brain. Like RIM1, RIM2 contains an N-terminal zinc finger domain that binds to Rab3 as a function of GTP, a central PDZ domain, and two C-terminal C(2) domains that are separated by long alternatively spliced sequences. Unexpectedly, the 3'-end of the RIM2 gene produces an independent mRNA that encodes a smaller protein referred as NIM2. NIM2 is composed of a unique N-terminal sequence followed by the C-terminal part of RIM2. Data bank searches identified a third RIM/NIM-related gene, which encodes a NIM isoform referred to as NIM3; no RIM transcript from this gene was detected. To test if NIMs, like RIMs, may function in secretion, we investigated the effect of NIM3 on calcium-triggered exocytosis in PC12 cells. NIM3 induced a dramatic increase in calcium-evoked exocytosis (50%), with no significant effect on base-line release, suggesting that NIMs, like RIMs, regulate exocytosis The combination of conserved and variable sequences in RIMs and NIMs indicates that the individual domains of these proteins provide binding sites for interacting molecules during exocytosis, as shown for the zinc finger domain of RIM, which binds to GTP-bound Rab3s. To search for additional interacting proteins for RIMs, we employed yeast two-hybrid screens with the C-terminal half of RIM1. Two members of a new family of homologous brain proteins, referred to as RIM-binding proteins (RIM-BPs), were identified. RIM-BPs bind to RIM in yeast two-hybrid and GST pull-down assays, suggesting a specific interaction. In RIMs, the binding site for RIM-BPs consists of a conserved proline-rich sequence between the two C(2) domains, N-terminal to the beginning of NIMs. RIM-BPs are composed of multiple domains, including three fibronectin type III-domains and three Src homology 3 domains, of which the second Src homology 3 domain binds to RIMs. With the RIM-BPs, we have identified a partner for RIMs that may bind to RIMs at the synapse in addition to Rab3.
Neurotrophin 4/5 (NT4/5) is the least understood member of the mammalian neurotrophin family. Precise and reliable determinations of endogenous NT4/5 levels are essential to understand its physiology. Immunoassay has been used for neurotrophin quantification for over three decades. However, this apparently simple task has proved elusive: conflicting results have long been recognized for nerve growth factor (NGF; up to 10000-fold variations in serum values have been reported in the literature) and more recently, for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (as much as 50-fold reported in rat hippocampus). Reasons for these variations have been extensively investigated by researchers, but rarely explained. During the development of our NT4/5 immunoassay, we discovered that false positive reactions resulted when tissues were extracted and assayed under certain conditions. In this study, we examined the major factors that adversely affect the quantification of NT4/5. Tissue samples from Sprague-Dawley rats were dissected and extracted in a range of buffers. The assay was performed on 96 well vinyl plates using sheep anti-NT4/5 immunoglobulin (Ig) as the capture (first) antibody, and a monoclonal anti-NT4/5 as the detector (second) antibody, followed by anti-mouse IgG (third) conjugated with peroxidase or alkaline phosphatase from several manufacturers. Our results show that: (1) tissue extraction at high or low pH, a method previously found to increase the measurable amount of NGF, produced greater false positive results for NT4/5 when compared with extraction at neutral pH; (2) the most significant source of error derived from the use of conjugated antibodies capable of reacting with molecules within tissue extracts which bind to the plate, even after thorough blocking; and (3) quantification is also significantly affected by both the standards used and the ability of the antibodies to react with these standards. Our findings indicate that the precise determination of neurotrophin levels requires quality reagents and the optimization of extraction conditions for each neurotrophin. The use of a two - rather than a three - antibody assay system avoids most of the interactions which give rise to false positive reactions.
