Quinpirole-sensitized rats were tested on a discrete-trials 40-s peak-interval procedure using lever pressing as the instrumental response. Although there was no evidence of rhythmical activity in lever pressing, periodic output was observed in a secondary response (food-cup entries) during the inter-trial interval following the delivery of reinforcement on fixed-interval trials, but not during unreinforced probe trials. This repetitive pattern of behavior with a 40-s period points to the primacy of reinforcement as a time marker and an increased tendency to synchronize to noisy and sparse periodic input as a result of reduced inhibitory control in cortico-striatal circuits following chronic quinpirole administration. Parallels between quinpirole-induced rhythmical behavior and the repetitive motor habits frequently observed in obsessive-compulsive disorder are discussed.
Tolerance to the anxiolytic-like effect of drugs may develop because of a memory derived from prior experience in certain apparatuses such as the elevated plus-maze (EPM). Activity in basolateral amygdala was shown to be required for consolidating this knowledge. The dorsal hippocampus (DH) is also implicated in long-term memory consolidation, a process relying on new protein synthesis. It is unknown, however, whether the DH protein synthesis disruption would prevent the phenomenon rendering animals unresponsive to benzodiazepines in the EPM retest. To address this, we bilaterally infused the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin (ANI) into the rat DH 0, 3 or 6 h after, or 15 min before, the EPM test. DH infusion of ANI (80 g) around the time of EPM testing preserved the anxiolysis of the midazolam (MDZ; 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats retested in the EPM 24 h later, suggesting that information consolidated by DH protein synthesis impacts on the subsequent animal's responsiveness to this drug. To examine whether impaired memory acquisition could also contribute to the prevention of MDZ tolerance seen in EPM-experienced animals infused with ANI before testing, the EPM retest was performed 3 h after testing to coincide with the temporal window in which short-term memory remains, for the reason that this process does not require protein synthesis for its formation. The pretest DH anisomycin infusion's ability to prevent the MDZ tolerance on retesting was now missing. This result confirms a specific action of the ANI on memory consolidation. We also found that rats express further avoidance to open-arms in the EPM retest. However, neither pretest nor posttest DH ANI infusion interfered with this pattern of results exhibited by EPM-experienced rats.
Bushy cells (BCs) process auditory information in the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN). Yet, most neuroanatomical findings come from studies in cats and rodents, and the ultrastructural morphological features of BCs in humans and higher nonhuman primates are unknown. In this study, we combined histological, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural methods to examine the morphology and synaptic organization of BCs in the rhesus monkey VCN. We observed that BCs were organized in a complex neural network that appears to interconnect the cells. The fine structure of BC somata and dendrites, as well as their synaptic inputs, are similar to those in other mammals. We found that BCs received numerous endbulb-like VGLUT1- and VGLUT2-immunopositive endings. In addition, they expressed glutamate AMPA (GluR2/3 and GluR4), NMDA (NR1), delta1/2 receptor subunits, and the 1 subunit of the glycine receptor. These receptor types and subunits mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission from the cochlea and inhibitory neurotransmission from noncochlear inputs. Parvalbumin immunostaining and semithin sections showed that BC dendrites are oriented toward neighboring BC somas to form neuronal clusters. Within the cluster, the incoming inputs established multiple, divergent synaptic contacts. Thus, BCs were connected by specialized dendrosomatic and somasomatic membrane junctions. Our results indicate that the cytoarchitectural organization of BCs is well conserved between primates and other mammalian species.
Investigating the localization of gastric sensation within the brain is important for understanding the neural correlates of satiety. Previous rodent studies have identified the brain-stem and hypothalamus as key mediators of gastric distention-induced satiation. Although, recent blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD fMRI) studies in humans have identified a role for higher cortico-limbic structures in mediating the satiation effects of gastric distention, the role of these regions in rodents remains to be characterized. We determined the effects of gastric distention on global spatio-temporal BOLD fMRI signal changes in the rodent brain. Brain images were acquired with a high resolution 9.4 T magnet during gastric distention with continuous monitoring of blood pressure in adult male Sprague Dawley rats (n=8-10). Distention of the stomach with an intragastric balloon, at rates which mimicked the rate of consumption and emptying of a mixed nutrient liquid meal, resulted in robust reduction in food intake and increase in blood pressure. Gastric distention increased BOLD fMRI activity within homeostatic regions such as the hypothalamus and nucleus tractus solitarius, as well as non homeostatic regions including the hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, cerebellum and the cortex (cingulate, insular, motor and sensory cortices). Further, the increase in BOLD fMRI activity following distention was strongly correlated to an increase in blood pressure. These results indicate that gastric distention, mimicking the rate of intake and emptying of a liquid meal, increases BOLD fMRI activity in both homeostatic and non homeostatic brain circuits which regulate food intake, and that these BOLD fMRI signal changes may in part be attributable to transient increases in blood pressure.
Glutamate and GABA are, respectively, the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the retina, participating in the two pathways through which the retina processes light information. It has already been shown that glutamate induces GABA release from amacrine cells through a transporter-mediated mechanism, and that this process is mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors. It is well established that glutamate can also activate metabotropic glutamate receptors, which are widely distributed in the retina, and can be detected in amacrine cell bodies and synaptic contacts. Thus, we decided to investigate the role of the activation of groups I and II metabotropic glutamate receptors in GABA release from amacrine cells in the chicken retina. Group I/II agonist trans-ACPD promoted a 40% decrease in the number of GABA-positive cells in relation to the control, effect that was prevented by antagonists of both groups. Also, the trans-ACPD effect was blocked by GAT-1 inhibitor or by antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Trans-ACPD induced release of GABA was abolished when the experiment was conducted in absence of calcium ions. Under the superfusing conditions used, trans-ACPD promoted an increase in endogenous glutamate release that was prevented when calcium was omitted from the bathing medium. The results suggest that mGluRI/II regulate the release of glutamate, likely from bipolar cells, that in turn activates GABA release from amacrine cells via a transporter mediated process.
The pontomesencephalic tegmentum (PMT) provides cholinergic input to the inferior colliculus (IC) and the medial geniculate body (MG). PMT cells are often characterized as projecting to more than one target. The purpose of this study was to determine whether individual PMT cholinergic cells, (1) innervate the auditory pathways bilaterally via collateral projections to left and right auditory thalamus; or, (2) innervate multiple levels of the auditory pathways via collateral projections to the auditory thalamus and inferior colliculus. We used multiple retrograde tracers to identify individual PMT cells that project to more than one target. We combined the retrograde tracer studies with immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase to determine whether the projecting cells were cholinergic. We found that individual PMT cells send branching axonal projections to two or more auditory targets in the midbrain and thalamus. The collateral projection pattern that we observed most frequently was to the ipsilateral IC and ipsilateral MG. Cells projecting to both MGs were somewhat less common, followed by cells projecting to the contralateral IC and ipsilateral MG. Both cholinergic and non-cholinergic cells contribute to each of these projection patterns. Less often, we found cells that project to one IC and both MGs; there was no evidence for non-cholinergic cells in this projection pattern. It is likely that collateral projections from PMT cells could have coordinated effects bilaterally and at multiple levels of the ascending auditory pathways.
Silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) is a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent deacetylase directly implicated in protecting a wide range of organisms against internal and external metabolic insults. However, the identification of SIRT1-specific DNA targets that confer such protection have remained elusive. Using human cells, we show that SIRT1 binds to, and transcriptionally regulates, a gene locus encoding presenilin1 (PSEN1), a protein intrinsically involved in the function of the -secretase protein complex. We also demonstrate that rats fed with resveratrol exhibit a significant increase in sirt1 and psen1 expression. Finally, dietary consumption of resveratrol also leads to an enhanced proliferative state of neuronal stem cells in the rat hippocampus. Our findings reveal a strong link between resveratrol-dependent SIRT1 signaling and hippocampal plasticity in the mammalian brain.
Serotonergic systems are thought to play an important role in control of motor activity and emotional states. We used a fear-potentiated startle paradigm to investigate the effects of a motor-eliciting stimulus in the presence or absence of induction of an acute fear state on serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) and cells in subdivisions of the central amygdaloid nucleus (CE), a structure that plays an important role in fear responses, using induction of the protein product of the immediate-early gene, c-Fos. In Experiment 1 we investigated the effects of fear conditioning training, by training rats to associate a light cue (conditioned stimulus, CS; 1000 lx, 2 s) with foot shock (0.5 s, 0.5 mA) in a single session. In Experiment 2 rats were given two training sessions identical to Experiment 1 on days 1 and 2, then tested in one of four conditions on day 3: (1) placement in the training context without exposure to either the CS or acoustic startle (AS), (2) exposure to 10 trials of the 2 s CS, (3) exposure to 40 110 dB AS trials, or (4) exposure to 40 110 dB AS trials with 10 of the trials preceded by and co-terminating with the CS. All treatments were conducted during a 20 min session. Fear conditioning training, by itself, increased c-Fos expression in multiple subdivisions of the CE and throughout the DR. In contrast, fear-potentiated startle selectively increased c-Fos expression in the medial subdivision of the CE and in serotonergic neurons in the dorsal part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRD). These data are consistent with previous studies demonstrating that fear-related stimuli selectively activate DRD serotonergic neurons. Further studies of this mesolimbocortical serotonergic system could have important implications for understanding mechanisms underlying vulnerability to stress-related psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and affective disorders.
Adolescence is a critical vulnerable period during which exposure to nicotine greatly enhances the possibility to develop drug addiction. Growing evidence suggests that serotonergic (5-HT) neurotransmission may contribute to the initiation and maintenance of addictive behavior. As the dorsal raphe (DR) and median raphe (MnR) nuclei are the primary 5-HT source to the forebrain, the current study tested the hypothesis that there are age-dependent effects of acute nicotine administration on activation of 5-HT neurons within these regions. Both adolescent (Postnatal day 30) and adult (Postnatal day 70) male Sprague-Dawley rats received subcutaneous injection of either saline or nicotine (0.2, 0.4, or 0.8 mg/kg). Subsequently, the number of 5-HT cells that were double-labeled for Fos and tryptophan hydroxylase was counted in seven subregions within the DR and the entire MnR. The results show that acute nicotine injection induces Fos expression in 5-HT neurons in a region-specific manner. In addition, adolescents show broader regional activations at either a lower (0.2 mg/kg) and a higher (0.8 mg/kg) dose of nicotine, displaying a unique U-shape response curve across doses. In contrast, 5-HT cells with activated Fos expression were restricted to fewer regions in adults, and the patterns of expression were more consistent across doses. The results reveal dose-dependent effects of nicotine during adolescence with apparent sensitization at different ends of the dosage spectrum examined compared to adults. These data indicate that initial exposure to nicotine may have unique effects in adolescence on the ascending 5-HT system, with the potential for consequences on the affective-motivational qualities of the drug and the subsequent propensity for repeated use.
The hippocampal formation (HF) is an important site at which stress circuits and endogenous opioid systems intersect, likely playing a critical role in the interaction between stress and drug addiction. Prior study findings suggest that the stress-related neuropeptide corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and the delta opioid receptor (DOR) may localize to similar neuronal populations within HF lamina. Here, hippocampal sections of male and cycling female adult Sprague-Dawley rats were processed for immunolabeling using antisera directed against the DOR and CRF peptide, as well as interneuron subtype markers somatostatin or parvalbumin, and analyzed by fluorescence and electron microscopy. Both DOR- and CRF-labeling was observed in interneurons in the CA1, CA3, and dentate hilus. Males and normal cycling females displayed a similar number of CRF immunoreactive neurons co-labeled with DOR and a similar average number of CRF-labeled neurons in the dentate hilus and stratum oriens of CA1 and CA3. In addition, 70% of DOR/CRF dual-labeled neurons in the hilar region co-labeled with somatostatin, suggesting a role for these interneurons in regulating perforant path input to dentate granule cells. Ultrastructural analysis of CRF-labeled axon terminals within the hilar region revealed that proestrus females have a similar number of CRF-labeled axon terminals that contain DORs compared to males but an increased number of CRF-labeled axon terminals without DORs. Taken together, these findings suggest that while DORs are anatomically positioned to modulate CRF immunoreactive interneuron activity and CRF peptide release, their ability to exert such regulatory activity may be compromised in females when estrogen levels are high.
Targeting signalling molecules to ion channels can expedite regulation and assure the proper transition of changes to excitability. In the bag cell neurons of Aplysia, single-channel studies of excised patches have revealed that protein kinase C (PKC) gates a non-selective cation channel through a close, physical association. This channel drives a prolonged afterdischarge and concomitant neuropeptide secretion to provoke reproductive behaviour. However, it is not clear if PKC alters cation channel function and/or the membrane potential at the whole-cell level. Afterdischarge-like depolarizations can be evoked in cultured bag cell neurons by bath-application of Conus textile venom (CtVm), which triggers the cation channel through an apparent intracellular pathway. The present study shows that the CtVm-induced depolarization was reduced by nearly 50% compared to control following dialysis with the G-protein blocker, guanosine-5'-O-2-thiodiphosphate (GDP--S), or treatment with either the phospholipase C inhibitor, 1-[6-[[(17)-3-Methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122), or the PKC inhibitor, sphinganine. Neurons exposed to the PKC activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), displayed depolarization with accompanying spiking, and were found to be far more responsive to depolarizing current injection versus control. Immunocytochemical staining for the two typical Aplysia PKC isoforms, Apl I and Apl II, revealed that both kinases were present in unstimulated cultured bag cell neurons. However, in CtVm-treated neurons, the staining intensity for PKC Apl I increased, peaking at 10 min post-application. Conversely, the intensity of PKC Apl II staining decreased over the duration of CtVm exposure. Our results suggest that the CtVm-induced depolarization involves PKC activation, and is consistent with prior work showing PKC closely-associating with the cation channel to produce the depolarization necessary for the afterdischarge and species propagation.
A broad range of motor skills, such as speech and writing, evolves with the ability to articulate elementary motor movements into novel sequences that come to be performed smoothly through practice. Neuroimaging studies in humans have demonstrated the involvement of the cerebello-cortical and striato-cortical motor loops in the course of motor sequence learning. Nonetheless, the nature of the improvement and brain mechanisms underlying different parameters of movement kinematics are not yet fully ascertained. We aimed at dissociating the cerebral substrates related to the increase in performance on two kinematic indices: velocity, that is the speed with which each single movement in the sequence is produced, and transitions, that is the duration of the gap between these individual movements. In this event-related fMRI experiment, participants practiced an eight-element sequence of finger presses on a keypad which allowed to record those kinematic movement parameters. Velocity was associated with activations in the ipsilateral spinocerebellum (lobules 4-5, 8 and medial lobule 6) and in the contralateral primary motor cortex. Transitions were associated with increased activity in the neocerebellum (lobules 6 bilaterally and lobule 4-5 ipsilaterally), as well as with activations within the right and left putamen and a broader bilateral network of motor cortical areas. These findings indicate that, rather than being the product of a single mechanism, the general improvement in motor performance associated with early motor sequence learning arises from at least two distinct kinematic processes, whose behavioral expressions are supported by partially overlapping and segregated brain networks.
A second wave of neuronal generation occurs in the ventrobasal nucleus of the rat thalamus (VB) during the first three postnatal weeks. The present study tested the hypotheses (1) that postnatal neurogenesis in the VB is neurotrophin-regulated and (2) that ethanol-induced changes in this proliferation are mediated by neurotrophins. The first studies examined the effects of neurotrophins on the numbers of cycling cells in ex vivo preparations of the VB from 3-day-old rats. The proportion of cycling (Ki-67-positive) VB cells was higher in cultured thalamic slices treated with neurotrophins than in controls. Interestingly, this increase occurred with nerve growth factor (NGF) alone or with a combination of NGF and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but not with BDNF alone. Based on these data, the VBs from young offspring of pregnant rats fed an ethanol-containing or an isocaloric non-alcoholic liquid diet were examined between postnatal day (P) 1 and P31. Studies used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays and immunoblots to explore the effects of ethanol on the expression of neurotrophins, their receptors, and representative signaling proteins. Ethanol altered the expression of neurotrophins and receptors throughout the first postnatal month. Expression of NGF increased, but there was no change in the expression of BDNF. The high affinity receptors (TrkA and TrkB) were unchanged but ethanol decreased expression of the low affinity receptor, p75. One downstream signaling protein, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), decreased but Akt expression was unchanged. Thus, postnatal cell proliferation in the VB of young rat pups is neurotrophin-responsive and is affected by ethanol.
Botulinum toxin is an agent that is typically encountered in two settings: as an agent that can cause disease (e.g. botulism), and as an agent that can be used to treat disease (i.e., a variety of neurologic disorders). In both cases it would be advantageous to develop a sound understanding of the mechanisms by which antibodies neutralize the toxin. In the present study, recombinant antigens were used to generate antibodies against the carboxyterminal half of the toxin heavy chain (HC50), the entire toxin light chain (LC), and the HA17, HA35 and HA70 components of the progenitor toxin complex. These antibodies were then evaluated for their respective abilities to alter botulinum toxin-induced changes in locomotor behavior in mice. The botulinum toxin type A complex was shown to produce dose-dependent depression of locomotor behavior within the dose range of 0.3-0.7 mouse LD50 units. At a dose of 0.5 LD50, the toxin typically reduced running behavior by 90% or more, and full recovery was not observed for approximately 4 weeks. Mice that were actively or passively vaccinated against the HC50 polypeptide were resistant to toxin action, presumably because the antibodies occluded the toxin binding domain. Interestingly, mice that were actively or passively vaccinated against LC were also resistant to toxin action. This effect may have been due to steric hindrance of the binding process. There was no scenario in which anti-HA antibodies altered the effects of toxin on locomotor behavior. This absence of effect was likely due to the fact that HAs and neurotoxin in the progenitor toxin complex spontaneously dissociate in physiologic media.
A lesion to the superior frontal gyrus (SFG) has been associated with long-lasting deficits in complex motor functions. The aim of this study was to analyze the functional role of the SFG by means of electrical cortical stimulation. Direct intraoperative electrical stimulation was used in a group of 21 subjects with lesions within or close to the SFG while they performed three motor tasks that require high skills or bimanual synergy. The results were compared to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Ninety-four of the 98 (94.9%) labels identified were located on the convexity surface of the SFG and only four (4.1%) labels were located on the middle surface of the SFG. Areas of blockage of the three tasks were identified in six of the 12 (50%) hemispheres with lesions that had infiltrated the SFG, compared to all 10 of the 10 hemispheres (100%) with lesions that spared the SFG. The difference between these two proportions was statistically significant (P=0.015). fMRI activation was mainly located on the medial aspect of the SFG. We show that the convexity surface of the SFG has an important role in bilateral control of complex movements and in bimanual coordination. The infiltration of the posterior part of the SFG by a lesion disturbs some of the complex hand motor functions, which may be assumed by the contralesional homologous area. Finally, the current study emphasizes the discrepancies between fMRI and intraoperative electrical stimulation maps in complex hand motor function.
The perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) is a major wake-promoting structure. It predominantly contains neurons that are active during behavioral and cortical activation. PF-LHA stimulation produces arousal and PF-LHA lesions produce somnolence. Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous neurotransmitter that has been implicated in the regulation of multiple pathological and physiological processes including the regulation of sleep. NO levels are higher in the cortex and in the basal forebrain (BF) during arousal. In this study we determined whether NO levels increase in the PF-LHA during prolonged arousal and whether increased NO modulates the discharge activity of PF-LHA neurons. Experiments were conducted during lights-on phase between 8.00 and 20.00 h (lights-on at 8.00 h). First, we quantified levels of NO metabolites, NO2- and NO3- (collectively called NOx-) in the microdialysis dialysates collected from the PF-LHA during baseline (undisturbed rats), 6 h of sleep deprivation (SD), and recovery after SD. We further determined the effects of a NO donor, NOC-18, on the discharge activity of PF-LHA neurons in urethane-anesthetized rats. Overall, SD significantly affected NOx- production in the PF-LHA (one way repeated measures ANOVA, F=7.827, P=0.004). The levels of NOx- increased progressively in animals that were subjected to prolonged arousal as compared to the undisturbed predominantly sleeping animals and decreased during the recovery period. Local application of NOC-18 significantly suppressed the discharge of PF-LHA neurons including a majority of stimulus-on neurons or neurons exhibiting activation during electroencephalogram (EEG) desynchronization. The findings of this study suggest that in the PF-LHA, NO production is elevated during prolonged waking and that NO exerts predominantly inhibitory effects on PF-LHA neurons, especially on those neurons that are active during cortical activation. These findings are consistent with a hypothesis that NO in the PF-LHA plays a role in sleep regulation by inhibiting its neurons.
Central nitric oxide (NO) has an important role in hypothermia induced by hypoxia as well as in that elicited by noradrenaline (NA) microinjected into the rostromedial preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus. Here, I tested the hypothesis that activation of adrenoceptors and NO in the rostromedial POA is involved in hypoxia-induced hypothermia in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked, artificially ventilated rats. Hypoxic ventilation (10% O2-90% N2, 5 min) evoked an increase in the tail skin temperature and a decrease in the colonic temperature, though these changes occurred at 30 s to 7 min after returning the rats to ventilation with room air. These responses were eliminated by prior bilateral transection of the carotid sinus nerves, but not by bilateral cervical vagotomy, suggesting the involvement of activated carotid chemoreceptors in the hypoxic ventilation-induced hypothermia. Such responses were also greatly attenuated by the microinjection of an NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 25 nmol), but not by that of its inactive enantiomer, NG-monomethyl-D-arginine (D-NMMA, 25 nmol), into the NA-sensitive, hypothermia-inducing site in the rostromedial POA. Pretreatment with the 1-adrenoceptor blocker prazosin (50 pmol), but not vehicle saline, also greatly attenuated the hypoxic ventilation-induced heat loss responses. These results suggest that this hypoxia-induced hypothermia was mediated, at least in part, by activation of 1-adrenoceptors and NOS in the rostromedial POA.
Prion protein (PrP) is abundant in the nervous system, but its role remains uncertain. Prion diseases depend on an aggregation of the protein that is likely to interfere with its normal function. Loss of function does not in itself cause neurodegeneration, but whether it contributes to the clinical features of the disease remains an open question. Patients with classical Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) have a higher than expected incidence of epilepsy. To study the mechanisms by which loss of PrP function may underlie changes in vulnerability to epilepsy in disease, we used several acute epilepsy models: we applied a variety of convulsant treatments (zero-magnesium, bicuculline, and pentylenetetrazol) to slices in vitro from PrP knockout (Prnp0/0) and control mice. In all three epilepsy models, we found that longer delays and/or higher concentrations of convulsants were necessary to generate spontaneous epileptiform activity in Prnp0/0 mice. These results together indicate an increased seizure threshold in Prnp0/0 mice, suggesting that loss of PrP function cannot explain a predisposition to seizures initiation in CJD.
In the early neonatal period activation of GABAB receptors attenuates calcium current through N-type calcium channels while enhancing current through L-type calcium channels in rat hippocampal neurons. The attenuation of N-type calcium current has been previously demonstrated to occur through direct interactions of the  subunits of Gi/o G-proteins, but the signal transduction pathway for the enhancement of L-type calcium channels in mammalian neurons remains unknown. In the present study, calcium currents were elicited in acute cultures from postnatal day 6-8 rat hippocampi in the presence of various modulators of protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC) pathways. Overnight treatment with an inhibitor of Gi/o (pertussis toxin, 200 ng/ml) abolished the attenuation of calcium current by the GABAB agonist, baclofen (10 M) with no effect on the enhancement of calcium current. These data indicate that while the attenuation of N-type calcium current is mediated by the Gi/o subtype of G-protein, the enhancement of L-type calcium current requires activation of a different G-protein. The enhancement of the sustained component of calcium current by baclofen was blocked by PKC inhibitors, GF-109203X (500 nM), chelerythrine chloride (5 M), and PKC fragment 19-36 (2 M) and mimicked by the PKC activator phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (1 M). The enhancement of the sustained component of calcium current was blocked by PKA inhibitors H-89 (1 M) and PKA fragment 6-22 (500 nM) but not Rp-cAMPS (30 M) and it was not mimicked by the PKA activator, 8-Br-cAMP (500 M-1 mM). The data suggest that activation of PKC alone is sufficient to enhance L-type calcium current but that PKA may also be involved in the GABAB receptor mediated effect.
Application of the volatile anesthetic isoflurane during the early phase of reperfusion reduces ischemic heart and brain injury (anesthetic post-conditioning). We hypothesize that inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), a protein whose activation can lead to cell death, participates in anesthetic post-conditioning-induced neuroprotection. SH-SY5Y cells, a human neuroblastoma cell line, were induced by retinoic acid to differentiate into terminal neuron-like cells. The cells were then subjected to a 1-h oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), a condition to simulate ischemia in vitro, and a 20-h simulated reperfusion. Isoflurane, sevoflurane or desflurane, three commonly used volatile anesthetics, were applied for 1 h during the early phase of simulated reperfusion. Cell injury was quantified by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release. Phospho-GSK3 at Ser9 and total GSK3 were quantified at 1 or 3 h after the OGD. OGD increased LDH release, suggesting that OGD induced cell injury. Post-treatment with isoflurane, sevoflurane or desflurane reduced this cell injury. This protection was apparent when 2% isoflurane was applied within 1 h after the onset of reperfusion. Isoflurane post-treatment also significantly increased the phosphorylation of GSK3 at Ser9 at 1 h after the OGD. GSK3 inhibitors reduced OGD and simulated reperfusion-induced LDH release. The combination of GSK3 inhibitors and isoflurane post-conditioning did not cause a greater protection than isoflurane post-conditioning alone. These results suggest that volatile anesthetic post-conditioning reduces OGD and simulated reperfusion-induced cell injury. Since phospho-GSK3 at Ser9 decreases GSK3 activity, our results suggest that volatile anesthetic post-conditioning in human neuron-like cells may be mediated by GSK3 inhibition.
Sensory neurons express a variety of voltage-gated Ca2+ channel subtypes, but reports differ on their proportionate representation, and the effects of painful nerve injury on each subtype are not established. We compared levels of high-voltage activated currents in medium-sized (30-40 m) dorsal root ganglion neurons dissociated from control animals and those subjected to spinal nerve ligation, using sequential application of semiselective channel blockers (nisoldipine for L-type, SNX-111 or -conotoxin GVIA for N-type, agatoxin IVA or -conotoxin MVIIC for P/Q-type, and SNX-482 for a component of R-type) during either square wave depolarizations or action potential waveform voltage commands. Using sequential administration of multiple blockers, proportions of total Ca2+ current attributable to different subtypes and the effect of injury depended on the sequence of blocker administration and type of depolarization command. Overall, however, N-type and L-type currents comprised the dominant components of ICa in sensory neurons under control conditions, and these subtypes showed the greatest loss of current following injury (L-type 26-71% loss, N-type 0-51% loss). Further exploration of N-type current identified by its sensitivity to -conotoxin GVIA applied alone showed that injury reduced the peak N-type current during step depolarization by 68% and decreased the total charge entry during action potential waveform stimulation by 44%. Isolation of N-type current by blockade of all other subtypes demonstrated a 50% loss with injury, and also revealed an injury-related rightward shift in the activation curve. Non-stationary noise analyses of N-type current in injured neurons revealed unitary channel current and number of channels that were not different from control, which indicates that injury-induced loss of current is due to a decrease in channel open probability. Our findings suggest that diminished Ca2+ influx through N-type and L-type channels may contribute to sensory neuron dysfunction and pain after nerve injury.
Dexamethasone (Dex) provides neuroprotection against subsequent hypoxia ischemia (HI) in newborn rats, but the mechanism of this neuroprotection is not well understood. It is known that vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF) has neuroprotective effects. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of the VEGF signaling pathway in the Dex-induced neuroprotection in newborn rats. Seven-day-old rat pups had the right carotid artery permanently ligated followed by 140 or 160 min of hypoxia (8% oxygen). Rat pups received two i.p. injections of either saline or Dex (0.25 mg/kg) at 24 and 4 h before HI exposure. To quantify the effects of a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) blocker, on postnatal day (PD) 6 and 15 min prior to Dex treatment rat pups received s.c. vehicle or RU486 (GR blocker, 60 mg/kg). After 24 h at PD 7, all rat pups had HI as described earlier. To quantify the effects of a VEGFR 2 blocker, at 24 h after Dex/Veh treatment (PD7), SU5416, a VEGFR 2 inhibitor or vehicle was injected intracerebroventricularly in the right hemisphere at 30 min before and 2 h after HI. Dex pre-treatment reduced brain injury and enhanced the HI-induced brain VEGF protein while a GR blocker inhibited these effects. Treatment with VEGFR 2 blocker decreased Dex-induced neuroprotection also. Dex pre-treatment enhanced the HI-induced increase in mRNA expression of VEGF splice variants and decreased the HI-induced reduction of Akt phosphorylation. Additionally, it also decreased HI-induced increase of caspase-3 activity and DNA fragments in neonatal rat brain. We conclude that Dex provides robust neuroprotection against subsequent HI in newborn rats via GR likely with the partial involvement of VEGF signaling pathway.
Although the orbitofrontal cortex has been implicated in important aspects of social behavior, few studies have evaluated semi-naturalistic social behavior in nonhuman primates after discrete lesions of this cortical area. In the present report, we evaluated the behavior of adult rhesus monkeys during dyadic social interactions with novel animals following discrete lesions of the orbitofrontal cortex. In a constrained condition, in which animals could engage in only restricted social behaviors, there were no significant differences in social behavior between the lesion group and the sham-operated control group. When the experimental animals could freely interact with partner animals, however, lesioned animals differed from control animals in terms of social interest and fear-related behaviors. These alterations were contingent on the partner with which they interacted. The lesioned animals, when compared to the control animals, had a significantly greater propensity to approach some but not all of their social partners. They also grimaced more towards the partner animal that they did not approach. Behavioral alterations were more apparent during the initial interactions between animals. We discuss these findings in relation to the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in context dependent modulation of social behavior.
Migration of cells and degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) are required for efficient tumor cell invasion, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are only partially known. The PPFIA1 gene for liprin-1 is frequently amplified in human breast cancers. We recently demonstrated that liprin-1 is an important regulator of cell edge dynamics during motility. We show, herein, that the liprin-1 protein is highly expressed in human breast tumors. Functional analysis shows that liprin-1 is specifically required for the migration and invasion of highly invasive human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells. We used time-lapse analysis to demonstrate defects in the motility of liprin-1-depleted cells that include a striking instability of the lamellipodia. Liprin-1 levels altered by either RNA interference or overexpression affected also cell spreading and the number of invadopodia per cell, but not the density of invadopodia per unit of surface area. On the other hand, silencing of liprin-1 inhibited the degradation of the ECM, whereas its overexpression enhanced degradation, resulting in significant negative or positive effects, respectively, on the area of degradation per invadopodium. Transfection of fluorescent-labeled cortactin revealed that depletion of liprin-1 also affected the assembly and disassembly of invadopodia, with decrease of their lifetime. Our results strongly support a novel important role of liprin-1 in the regulation of human tumor cell invasion.

Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) produces inclusions that are composed of proteins known as crystal proteins or Cry toxins. Due to their high specificity and their safety to humans and the environment, these Cry toxins are considered to be valuable alternatives to chemical pesticides in insect control programs. It is believed that Cry toxin-induced membrane pore formation is responsible for insect toxicity. The molecular mechanism of pore formation involves recognition and subsequent binding of the toxin to membrane receptors. This binding is accompanied by toxin oligomerization and transfer of domain I helices of the toxin to the lipid-water interface. This toxin insertion creates pores that lyse the cells. Several receptors from lepidopteran, coleopteran, and dipteran insects have been well characterized. This paper provides an overview of the understanding of the interactions between Cry toxin and multiple receptors in mosquitoes, in particular Aedes aegypti and reviews the manner by which the receptors were identified and characterized, with a focus on three proteins, cadherin, alkaline phosphatase, and aminopeptidase-N.

We explain the mechanism that elicits the mixed mode oscillations (MMOs) and the subprimary firing range that we recently discovered in mouse spinal motoneurons. In this firing regime, high-frequency subthreshold oscillations appear a few millivolts below the spike voltage threshold and precede the firing of a full blown spike. By combining intracellular recordings in vivo (including dynamic clamp experiments) in mouse spinal motoneurons and modeling, we show that the subthreshold oscillations are due to the spike currents and that MMOs appear each time the membrane is in a low excitability state. Slow kinetic processes largely contribute to this low excitability. The clockwise hysteresis in the I-F relationship, frequently observed in mouse motoneurons, is mainly due to a substantial slow inactivation of the sodium current. As a consequence, less sodium current is available for spiking. This explains why a large subprimary range with numerous oscillations is present in motoneurons displaying a clockwise hysteresis. In motoneurons whose I-F curve exhibits a counterclockwise hysteresis, it is likely that the slow inactivation operates on a shorter time scale and is substantially reduced by the de-inactivating effect of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) current, thus resulting in a more excitable state. This accounts for the short subprimary firing range with only a few MMOs seen in these motoneurons. Our study reveals a new role for the AHP current that sets the membrane excitability level by counteracting the slow inactivation of the sodium current and allows or precludes the appearance of MMOs.
System x(c)- exchanges intracellular glutamate for extracellular cystine, giving it a potential role in intracellular glutathione synthesis and nonvesicular glutamate release. We report that mice lacking the specific xCT subunit of system x(c)- (xCT(-/-)) do not have a lower hippocampal glutathione content, increased oxidative stress or brain atrophy, nor exacerbated spatial reference memory deficits with aging. Together these results indicate that loss of system x(c)- does not induce oxidative stress in vivo. Young xCT(-/-) mice did however display a spatial working memory deficit. Interestingly, we observed significantly lower extracellular hippocampal glutamate concentrations in xCT(-/-) mice compared to wild-type littermates. Moreover, intrahippocampal perfusion with system x(c)- inhibitors lowered extracellular glutamate, whereas the system x(c)- activator N-acetylcysteine elevated extracellular glutamate in the rat hippocampus. This indicates that system x(c)- may be an interesting target for pathologies associated with excessive extracellular glutamate release in the hippocampus. Correspondingly, xCT deletion in mice elevated the threshold for limbic seizures and abolished the proconvulsive effects of N-acetylcysteine. These novel findings sustain that system x(c)-) is an important source of extracellular glutamate in the hippocampus. System x(c)(-) is required for optimal spatial working memory, but its inactivation is clearly beneficial to decrease susceptibility for limbic epileptic seizures.
Taste buds consist of at least three principal cell types that have different functions in processing gustatory signals: glial-like (type I) cells, receptor (type II) cells, and presynaptic (type III) cells. Using a combination of Ca2+ imaging, single-cell reverse transcriptase-PCR and immunostaining, we show that GABA is an inhibitory transmitter in mouse taste buds, acting on GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors to suppress transmitter (ATP) secretion from receptor cells during taste stimulation. Specifically, receptor cells express GABA(A) receptor subunits 2, , and , as well as GABA(B) receptors. In contrast, presynaptic cells express the GABA(A) 3 subunit and only occasionally GABA(B) receptors. In keeping with the distinct expression pattern of GABA receptors in presynaptic cells, we detected no GABAergic suppression of transmitter release from presynaptic cells. We suggest that GABA may serve function(s) in taste buds in addition to synaptic inhibition. Finally, we also defined the source of GABA in taste buds: GABA is synthesized by GAD65 in type I taste cells as well as by GAD67 in presynaptic (type III) taste cells and is stored in both those two cell types. We conclude that GABA is an inhibitory transmitter released during taste stimulation and possibly also during growth and differentiation of taste buds.
Stopping an initiated response could be implemented by a fronto-basal-ganglia circuit, including the right inferior frontal cortex (rIFC) and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Intracranial recording studies in humans reveal an increase in beta-band power (approximately 16-20 Hz) within the rIFC and STN when a response is stopped. This suggests that the beta-band could be important for communication in this network. If this is the case, then altering one region should affect the electrophysiological response at the other. We addressed this hypothesis by recording scalp EEG during a stop task while modulating STN activity with deep brain stimulation. We studied 15 human patients with Parkinson's disease and 15 matched healthy control subjects. Behaviorally, patients OFF stimulation were slower than controls to stop their response. Moreover, stopping speed was improved for ON compared to OFF stimulation. For scalp EEG, there was greater beta power, around the time of stopping, for patients ON compared to OFF stimulation. This effect was stronger over the right compared to left frontal cortex, consistent with the putative right lateralization of the stopping network. Thus, deep brain stimulation of the STN improved behavioral stopping performance and increased the beta-band response over the right frontal cortex. These results complement other evidence for a structurally connected functional circuit between right frontal cortex and the basal ganglia. The results also suggest that deep brain stimulation of the STN may improve task performance by increasing the fidelity of information transfer within a fronto-basal-ganglia circuit.
To identify candidate proteins in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) as potential pharmacotherapeutic targets for treating cocaine addition, an 8-plex iTRAQ (isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation) proteomic screen was performed using NAc tissue obtained from rats trained to self-administer cocaine followed by extinction training. Compared with yoked-saline controls, 42 proteins in a postsynaptic density (PSD)-enriched subfraction of the NAc from cocaine-trained animals were identified as significantly changed. Among proteins of interest whose levels were identified as increased was AKAP79/150, the rat ortholog of human AKAP5, a PSD scaffolding protein that localizes signaling molecules to the synapse. Functional downregulation of AKAP79/150 by microinjecting a cell-permeable synthetic AKAP (A-kinase anchor protein) peptide into the NAc to disrupt AKAP-dependent signaling revealed that inhibition of AKAP signaling impaired the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Reinstatement of cocaine seeking is thought to require upregulated surface expression of AMPA glutamate receptors, and the inhibitory AKAP peptide reduced the PSD content of protein kinase A (PKA) as well as surface expression of GluR1 in NAc. However, reduced surface expression was not associated with changes in PKA phosphorylation of GluR1. This series of experiments demonstrates that proteomic analysis provides a useful tool for identifying proteins that can regulate cocaine relapse and that AKAP proteins may contribute to relapse vulnerability by promoting increased surface expression of AMPA receptors in the NAc.
Serotonergic neurons possess an enhanced ability to regenerate or sprout after many types of injury. To understand the mechanisms that underlie their unusual properties, we used a combinatorial approach comparing the behavior of serotonergic and cortical axon tips over time in the same injury environment in vivo and to growth-promoting or growth-inhibitory substrates in vitro. After a thermocoagulatory lesion in the rat frontoparietal cortex, callosal axons become dystrophic and die back. Serotonergic axons, however, persist within the lesion edge. At the third week post-injury, 5-HT+ axons sprout robustly. The lesion environment contains both growth-inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and growth-promoting laminin. Transgenic mouse serotonergic neurons specifically labeled by enhanced yellow fluorescent protein under control of the Pet-1 promoter/enhancer or cortical neurons were cultured on low amounts of laminin with or without relatively high concentrations of the CSPG aggrecan. Serotonergic neurons extended considerably longer neurites than did cortical neurons on low laminin and exhibited a remarkably more active growth cone on low laminin plus aggrecan during time-lapse imaging than did cortical neurons. Chondroitinase ABC treatment of laminin/CSPG substrates resulted in significantly longer serotonergic but not cortical neurite lengths. This increased ability of serotonergic neurons to robustly grow on high amounts of CSPG may be partially due to significantly higher amounts of growth-associated protein-43 and/or 1 integrin than cortical neurons. Blocking 1 integrin decreased serotonergic and cortical outgrowth on laminin. Determining the mechanism by which serotonergic fibers persist and sprout after lesion could lead to therapeutic strategies for both stroke and spinal cord injury.
The classic view of brain and behavioral sexual differentiation holds that the neural mechanisms controlling sexual behavior in female rodents develop in the absence of ovarian sex hormone actions. However, in a previous study, female aromatase knock-out (ArKO) mice, which cannot convert testosterone to estradiol, showed deficient male-oriented partner preference and lordosis behaviors in response to adult ovarian hormones, raising the possibility that estradiol may contribute to the development of these female sexual behaviors. In the present experiments, administering estradiol prepubertally [between postnatal day 15 (P15) and P25] significantly enhanced the ability of ArKO female mice to display lordosis behavior in response to ovarian hormones administered later in adulthood, whereas treatment with estradiol over an earlier postnatal period (P5-P15) had no such effect. Treatment of ArKO females with estradiol between P15 and P25 also rescued their later preference to approach distal cues from an intact male over an estrous female. ArKO females also displayed significantly less female-directed (male-typical) mounting behavior than wild-type control females when treated with testosterone in adulthood. Prepubertal estradiol treatment failed to reverse this deficit in ArKO females, whereas earlier postnatal estradiol augmented later mounting in both genotypes. Our results provide new evidence for an organizing role of prepubertal estradiol in the development of neural mechanisms that control female-typical sexual behavior.

Establishing precise synaptic connectivity during development is crucial for neural circuit function. However, very few molecules have been identified that are involved in determining where and how many synapses form. The Plexin cell-surface molecules are a conserved family of axon guidance receptors that mediate axon fasciculation and repulsion during neural development, and later in development PlexinA receptors are involved in eliminating axonal branches and synapse numbers. Here we investigate the roles of PlexinA and PlexinB receptors in axonal branch and varicosity formation in Drosophila. We knocked down PlexinA or PlexinB expression using RNAi in identified mechanosensory neurons and analyzed axonal branching patterns and varicosity formations. Reducing PlexinA expression increased the axonal arbor complexity by increasing the number of branches and varicosities along the axon. In contrast, knocking down PlexinB expression decreased morphological complexity by decreasing the number of branches and the overall size of the axonal arbor, but did not reduce the number of varicosities. Our results demonstrate opposing roles for PlexinA and PlexinB in local wiring within a target region, where PlexinA functions to suppress excessive axonal branches and synapses and PlexinB facilitates axonal growth.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by both neurological and systemic abnormalities. Immune activation is a well-established feature of the HD brain and we have previously demonstrated a widespread, progressive innate immune response detectable in plasma throughout the course of HD. In the present work we used multiplex ELISA to quantify levels of chemokines in plasma from controls and subjects at different stages of HD. We found an altered chemokine profile tracking with disease progression, with significant elevations of five chemokines (eotaxin-3, MIP-1, eotaxin, MCP-1 and MCP-4) while three (eotaxin-3, MIP-1 and eotaxin) showed significant linear increases across advancing disease stages. We validated our results in a separate sample cohort including subjects at different stages of HD. Here we saw that chemokine levels (MCP-1 and eotaxin) correlated with clinical scores. We conclude that, like cytokines, chemokines may be linked to the pathogenesis of HD, and that immune molecules may be valuable in tracking and exploring the pathogenesis of HD.
The use of non-chemical methods to differentiate stem cells has attracted researchers from multiple disciplines, including the engineering and the biomedical fields. No doubt, growth factor based methods are still the most dominant of achieving some level of proliferation and differentiation control--however, chemical based methods are still limited by the quality, source, and amount of the utilized reagents. Well-defined non-chemical methods to differentiate stem cells allow stem cell scientists to control stem cell biology by precisely administering the pre-defined parameters, whether they are structural cues, substrate stiffness, or in the form of current flow. We have developed a culture system that allows normal stem cell growth and the option of applying continuous and defined levels of electric current to alter the cell biology of growing cells. This biphasic current stimulator chip employing ITO electrodes generates both positive and negative currents in the same culture chamber without affecting surface chemistry. We found that biphasic electrical currents (BECs) significantly increased the proliferation of fetal neural stem cells (NSCs). Furthermore, BECs also promoted the differentiation of fetal NSCs into neuronal cells, as assessed using immunocytochemistry. Our results clearly show that BECs promote both the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of fetal NSCs. It may apply to the development of strategies that employ NSCs in the treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
The HIV protein, Vpr, is a multifunctional accessory protein critical for efficient viral infection of target CD4+ T cells and macrophages. Vpr is incorporated into virions and functions to transport the preintegration complex into the nucleus where the process of viral integration into the host genome is completed. This action is particularly important in macrophages, which as a result of their terminal differentiation and non-proliferative status, would be otherwise more refractory to HIV infection. Vpr has several other critical functions including activation of HIV-1 LTR transcription, cell-cycle arrest due to DCAF-1 binding, and both direct and indirect contributions to T-cell dysfunction. The interactions of Vpr with molecular pathways in the context of macrophages, on the other hand, support accumulation of a persistent reservoir of HIV infection in cells of the myeloid lineage. The role of Vpr in the virus life cycle, as well as its effects on immune cells, appears to play an important role in the immune pathogenesis of AIDS and the development of HIV induced end-organ disease. In view of the pivotal functions of Vpr in virus infection, replication, and persistence of infection, this protein represents an attractive target for therapeutic intervention.
Our understanding of the development of the retina and visual pathways has seen enormous advances during the past 25years. New imaging technologies, coupled with advances in molecular biology, have permitted a fuller appreciation of the histotypical events associated with proliferation, fate determination, migration, differentiation, pathway navigation, target innervation, synaptogenesis and cell death, and in many instances, in understanding the genetic, molecular, cellular and activity-dependent mechanisms underlying those developmental changes. The present review considers those advances associated with the lineal relationships between retinal nerve cells, the production of retinal nerve cell diversity, the migration, patterning and differentiation of different types of retinal nerve cells, the determinants of the decussation pattern at the optic chiasm, the formation of the retinotopic map, and the establishment of ocular domains within the thalamus.
Botulinum neurotoxins cleave synaptic SNAREs and block exocytosis, demonstrating that these proteins function in neurosecretion. However, the function of the SNARE syntaxin remains less clear because no neurotoxin cleaves it selectively. Starting with a botulinum neurotoxin that cleaves both syntaxin and SNAP-25, we engineered a version that retains activity against syntaxin but spares SNAP-25. These mutants block synaptic release in neurons and norepinephrine release in neuroendocrine cells, thus establishing an essential role for syntaxin in Ca2+-triggered exocytosis. These mutants can generate syntaxin-free cells as a useful experimental system for research and may lead to pharmaceuticals that target syntaxin selectively.

Riluzole is approved for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); however, recent accumulating evidence suggests that riluzole is also effective for the treatment of psychiatric disorders, such as mood disorders. Plastic change in the brain induced by neurotrophic factors/growth factors is thought to be involved in the mechanism of antidepressants. This study investigated the mechanism of riluzole-induced glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) production in rat C6 glioma cells (C6 cells), a model of astrocytes. The study investigated the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), an important transcriptional factor of the gdnf gene, and found that riluzole increased CREB phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner, peaking at 40min after treatment. The riluzole-induced CREB phosphorylation was completely blocked by a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor (U0126). Riluzole increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation prior to CREB phosphorylation. These results suggest that riluzole rapidly activates the MEK/ERK/CREB pathway. Furthermore, two types of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (SU5402 and PD173074) completely blocked riluzole-induced CREB phosphorylation. In addition, riluzole rapidly phosphorylated FGFR substrate 2 (FRS2), a major adaptor protein of FGFR. These findings suggest that riluzole induces CREB phosphorylation through FGFR. In addition, PD173074 inhibited riluzole-induced GDNF production. In contrast, l-glutamate and a glutamate transporter inhibitor (t-PDC) did not yield any effects in either CREB phosphorylation or GDNF production. These findings suggest that riluzole rapidly activates a MEK/ERK/CREB pathway through FGFR in a glutamate transporter-independent manner, followed by GDNF expression in C6 cells.
Altered expression of neurotrophins may contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Several studies suggest sex steroid hormones may be involved in the regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling, as well as the symptoms of schizophrenia. This study aimed to identify sex differences in BDNF-TrkB signaling in the forebrain of wild type (WT) and BDNF heterozygous (+/-) mice. Protein expression of neurotrophins and TrkB were measured by Western blot analysis in brain regions pertinent to schizophrenia, namely the frontal cortex, striatum, and dorsal (DHP) and ventral hippocampus (VHP). In both the frontal cortex and striatum, protein expression levels of phosphorylated TrkB (pTrkB) over total TrkB (pTrkB/TrkB) was significantly increased in male, but not female BDNF(+/-) mice, suggesting sex-specific changes in TrkB signaling. pTrkB/TrkB levels were also elevated in the DHP of both male and female BDNF(+/-), while levels remained unchanged in the VHP, indicating region-specific changes in TrkB signaling. Sex-specific phosphorylation of TrkB corresponded with downstream changes in ERK2 phosphorylation in the frontal cortex and striatum. No sex-specific effects of genotype were found in the expression of TrkB ligands, BDNF and NT-4. However, a marked, region-specific increase in NT-4 expression was found in the striatum of both male and female BDNF(+/-) mice. In conclusion, there are complex sex- and region-specific changes in BDNF-TrkB signaling in BDNF(+/-) mice. These results provide new insight into sex-dependent BDNF signaling in forebrain regions and assist in understanding the role of neurotrophins in schizophrenia.
Recent observations linking the vagus nerve to plasticity in the central nervous system could pave the way to new treatments for one of the most common and intractable disorders of the auditory system.
A recent study shows that expectation about the timing of behaviorally-relevant sounds enhances the responses of neurons in the primary auditory cortex and improves the accuracy and speed with which animals respond to those sounds.

Hedonic reward, dependence and addiction are unwanted effects of opioid analgesics, linked to the phasic cycle of  opioid receptor activation, tolerance and withdrawal. In vitro studies of recombinant G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) over expressed in cell lines reveal an alternative tonic signaling mechanism that is independent of agonist. Such studies demonstrate that constitutive GPCR signaling can be inhibited by inverse agonists but not by neutral antagonists. However, ligand-independent activity has been difficult to examine in vivo, at the systems level, due to relatively low levels of constitutive activity of most GPCRs including  receptors, often necessitating mutagenesis or pharmacological manipulation to enhance basal signaling. We previously demonstrated that the absence of -arrestin 2 (-arr2) augments the constitutive coupling of  receptors to voltage-activated Ca+ channels in primary afferent dorsal root ganglion neurons from -arr2/ mice. We used this in vitro approach to characterize neutral competitive antagonists and inverse agonists of the constitutively active wild type  receptors in neurons. We administered these agents to -arr2/ mice to explore the role of constitutive  receptor activity in nociception and hedonic tone. This study demonstrates that the induction of constitutive  receptor activity in vivo in -arr2/ mice prolongs tail withdrawal from noxious heat, a phenomenon that was reversed by inverse agonists, but not by antagonists that lack negative efficacy. By contrast, the aversive effects of inverse agonists were similar in -arr2/ and -arr2+/+ mice, suggesting that hedonic tone was unaffected.




Recent clinical trials for Huntington's disease (HD) have been slowed by the inability to complete enrollment in a timely manner. We report a successful advocacy-based recruiting approach at Evergreen Neuroscience Institute, a new Huntington Study Group (HSG) investigative site that lacked an HD patient base. By partnering with community advocates and utilizing web-based advocacy group alerts, Evergreen ranked third of 27 North American sites conducting the Study of ACR16 for the Treatment of Huntington's disease (HART) for number of participants, and first for rate of recruitment -- all while decreasing the time and financial resources needed for site-based recruiting. To our knowledge this is the first published outcome study for advocacy recruiting in any disease population.
The ability to visualize neurons inside living brain tissue is a fundamental requirement in neuroscience and neurosurgery. Especially the development of a noninvasive probe of brain morphology with micrometer-scale resolution is highly desirable, as it would provide a noninvasive approach to optical biopsies in diagnostic medicine. Two-photon laser-scanning microscopy (2PLSM) is a powerful tool in this regard, and has become the standard for minimally invasive high-resolution imaging of living biological samples. However, while 2PLSM-based optical methods provide sufficient resolution, they have been hampered by the requirement for fluorescent dyes to provide image contrast. Here we demonstrate high-contrast imaging of live brain tissue at cellular resolution, without the need for fluorescent probes, using optical third-harmonic generation (THG). We exploit the specific geometry and lipid content of brain tissue at the cellular level to achieve partial phase matching of THG, providing an alternative contrast mechanism to fluorescence. We find that THG brain imaging allows rapid, noninvasive label-free imaging of neurons, white-matter structures, and blood vessels simultaneously. Furthermore, we exploit THG-based imaging to guide micropipettes towards designated neurons inside live tissue. This work is a major step towards label-free microscopic live brain imaging, and opens up possibilities for the development of laser-guided microsurgery techniques in the living brain.

During the past two decades, the advent of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has fundamentally changed our understanding of brain-behavior relationships. However, the data from any one study add only incrementally to the big picture. This fact raises important questions about the dominant practice of performing studies in isolation. To what extent are the findings from any single study reproducible? Are researchers who lack the resources to conduct a fMRI study being needlessly excluded? Is pre-existing fMRI data being used effectively to train new students in the field? Here, we will argue that greater sharing and synthesis of raw fMRI data among researchers would make the answers to all of these questions more favorable to scientific discovery than they are today and that such sharing is an important next step for advancing the field of cognitive neuroscience.
While the ventral striatum has long been implicated in the rewarding properties of psychomotor stimulants and opiates, little attention has been paid to the possible contribution of more dorsal regions of the striatum. We have thus examined the effects of lesions in three different striatal subregions on cocaine and morphine self-administration. Different groups of rats were trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine (1.0mg/kg/infusion) or morphine (0.5mg/kg/infusion) first under fixed ratio (FR) and then under progressive ratio (PR) schedules of reinforcement. Upon completion of the training, independent groups received bilateral electrolytic or sham lesions of the dorsal portion of the caudate-putamen (dCPu), the ventral portion of the caudate-putamen (vCPu) or the more ventral nucleus accumbens (NAS). Following recovery, they were tested for self-administration of cocaine (0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5mg/kg/infusion) or morphine (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 0.75mg/kg/infusion) under the PR schedule. The PR responding for each drug was significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner following lesions of dCPu, vCPu and NAS. While the relative effectiveness of these lesions is likely to be specific to the conditions of this experiment, NAS lesions reduced self-administration of each drug to a greater extent than did dCPu or vCPu lesions.
The body schema is an action-related representation of the body that arises from activity in a network of multiple brain areas. While it was initially thought that the body schema developed with experience, the existence of phantom limbs in individuals born without a limb (amelics) led to the suggestion that it was innate. The problem with this idea, however, is that the vast majority of amelics do not report the presence of a phantom limb. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) applied over the primary motor cortex (M1) of traumatic amputees can evoke movement sensations in the phantom, suggesting that traumatic amputation does not delete movement representations of the missing hand. Given this, we asked whether the absence of a phantom limb in the majority of amelics means that the motor cortex does not contain a cortical representation of the missing limb, or whether it is present but has been deactivated by the lack of sensorimotor experience. In four upper-limb amelic subjects we directly stimulated the arm/hand region of M1 to see 1) whether we could evoke phantom sensations, and 2) whether muscle representations in the two cortices were organised asymmetrically. TMS applied over the motor cortex contralateral to the missing limb evoked contractions in stump muscles but did not evoke phantom movement sensations. The location and extent of muscle maps varied between hemispheres but did not reveal any systematic asymmetries. In contrast, forearm muscle thresholds were always higher for the missing limb side. We suggest that phantom movement sensations reported by some upper limb amelics are mostly driven by vision and not by the persistence of motor commands to the missing limb within the sensorimotor cortex. We propose that prewired movement representations of a limb need the experience of movement to be expressed within the primary motor cortex.
In a &quot;block-copying paradigm&quot;, subjects were required to copy a configuration of colored blocks from a model area to a distant work area, using additional blocks provided at an equally distant resource area. Experimental conditions varied between the inter-area separation (walking distance) and the complexity of the block patterns to be copied. Two major behavioral strategies were identified: in the memory-intensive strategy, subjects memorize large parts of the pattern and rebuild them without intermediate visits at the model area. In the acquisition-intensive strategy, subjects memorize one block at a time and return to the model after having placed this block. Results show that the frequency of the memory-intensive strategy is increased for larger inter-area separations (larger walking distances) and for simpler block patterns. This strategy-shift can be interpreted as the result of an optimization process or trade-off, minimizing combined, condition-dependent costs of the two strategies. Combined costs correlate with overall response time. We present evidence that for the memory-intensive strategy, costs correlate with model visit duration, while for the acquisition-intensive strategy, costs correlate with inter-area transition (i.e., walking) times.
The CNS is a unique organ due to its limited capacity for immune surveillance. As macrophages of the CNS, microglia represent a population originally known for the ability to assist neuronal stability, are now appreciated for their role in initiating and regulating immune responses in the brain. Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced demyelinating disease is a mouse model of multiple sclerosis (MS). In response to TMEV infection in vitro, microglia produce high levels of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, and are efficient antigen-presenting cells (APCs) for activating CD4(+) T cells. However, the regulatory function of microglia and other CNS-infiltrating APCs in response to TMEV in vivo remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that microglia increase expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and phenotypically express high levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-Class I and II in response to acute infection with TMEV in SJL/J mice. Microglia increase expression of the inhibitory co-stimulatory molecule, B7-H1 as early as day 5 post-infection, while CNS-infiltrating CD11b(+)CD11c(-)CD45(HIGH) monocytes/macrophages and CD11b(+)CD11c(+)CD45(HIGH) dendritic cells upregulate expression of B7-H1 by day 3 post-infection. Utilizing a neutralizing antibody, we demonstrate that B7-H1 negatively regulates TMEV-specific ex vivo production of interferon (IFN)-, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and IL-2 from CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. In vivo blockade of B7-H1 in SJL/J mice significantly exacerbates clinical disease symptoms during the chronic autoimmune stage of TMEV-IDD, but only has minimal effects on viral clearance. Collectively, these results suggest that CNS expression of B7-H1 regulates activation of TMEV-specific T cells, which affects protection against TMEV-IDD.

Background. Diabetes mellitus (DM) confers high vascular risk and is a growing national epidemic. We assessed clinical characteristics and prevalence of diagnosed DM among patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in the US over the last decade. Methods. Data were obtained from all states within the US that contributed to the Nationwide Inpatient Sample. All patients admitted to hospitals between 1997 and 2006 with a primary discharge diagnosis of AMI were included. Time trends in the proportion of these patients with DM diagnosis were computed. Results. The portion of patients with comorbid diabetes among AMI hospitalizations increased substantially from 18% in 1997 to 30% in 2006 (P &lt; .0001). Absolute numbers of AMI hospitalizations in the US decreased 8% (from 729,412 to 672,243), while absolute numbers of AMI hospitalizations with coexisting DM rose 51% ((131,189 to 198,044), both (P &lt; .0001). Women with AMI were significantly more likely to have DM than similarly aged men, but these differences diminished with increasing age. Conclusion. Although overall hospitalizations for AMI in the US diminished over the last decade, prevalence of diabetes rose substantially. This may have important consequences for the future societal vascular disease burden.
To through light on the mechanisms underlying the stimulation and persistence of glial cell activation in Parkinsonism, we investigate the function of IFN- and TNF- in experimental models of Parkinson's disease and analyze their relation with local glial cell activation. It was found that IFN- and TNF- remained higher over the years in the serum and CNS of chronic Parkinsonian macaques than in untreated animals, accompanied by sustained glial activation (microglia and astroglia) in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Importantly, Parkinsonian monkeys showed persistent and increasing levels of IFN-R signaling in both microglial and astroglial cells. In addition, experiments performed in IFN- and TNF- KO mice treated with MPTP revealed that, even before dopaminergic cell death can be observed, the presence of IFN- and TNF- is crucial for microglial and astroglial activation, and, together, they have an important synergistic role. Both cytokines were necessary for the full level of activation to be attained in both microglial and astroglial cells. These results demonstrate that IFN- signaling, together with the contribution of TNF-, have a critical and cell-specific role in stimulating and maintaining glial cell activation in Parkinsonism.
Is directionality of electroencephalographic (EEG) synchronization abnormal in amnesic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD)? And, do cerebrovascular and AD lesions represent additive factors in the development of MCI as a putative preclinical stage of AD? Here we reported two studies that tested these hypotheses. EEG data were recorded in normal elderly (Nold), amnesic MCI, and mild AD subjects at rest condition (closed eyes). Direction of information flow within EEG electrode pairs was performed by directed transfer function (DTF) at  (2-4Hz),  (4-8Hz), 1 (8-10Hz), 2 (10-12Hz), 1 (13-20Hz), 2 (20-30Hz), and  (30-40Hz). Parieto-to-frontal direction was stronger in Nold than in MCI and/or AD subjects for  and  rhythms. In contrast, the directional flow within interhemispheric EEG functional coupling did not discriminate among the groups. More interestingly, this coupling was higher at , 1, 2, and 1 in MCI with higher than in MCI with lower vascular load. These results suggest that directionality of parieto-to-frontal EEG synchronization is abnormal not only in AD but also in amnesic MCI, supporting the additive model according to which MCI state would result from the combination of cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative lesions.
Lack of complexity in general movements in early infancy is an important marker of potential motor disorders of neurological origin, such as cerebral palsy. Quantitative approaches to characterising this complexity are hampered by experimental difficulties in recording from infants in their first few months of life. The aim of this study was to design and validate bespoke surface-marker clusters to facilitate data acquisition and enable full quantification of joint rotations. The clusters were validated by recording the controlled movements of a soft-body dummy doll simultaneously with an optical (Qualisys) and inertial (XSens) motion capture system. The angles estimated from the optical system were compared with those measured by the inertial system. We demonstrate that the surface-marker based approach compares well with the use of an inertial system to obtain &quot;direct&quot; readings of the rotations whilst alleviating the issues associated with the use of an optical motion capture system. We briefly report use of this technique in 1-5 month old infants. By enabling full quantification of joint rotation, use of the custom made markers could pave the way for early diagnosis of movement disorders.
Sexual differentiation of the rodent brain is dependent upon the organizing actions of the steroid hormone, estradiol. In the preoptic area, a brain region critical for the expression of adult reproductive behavior, there are twice as many dendritic spine synapses per unit length on newborn male neurons compared to female neurons and this sex difference correlates with the expression of adult male copulatory behavior. The sex difference in the POA is achieved via estradiol's upregulation of the membrane-derived lipid signaling molecule prostaglandin E (PGE); PGE is necessary and sufficient to masculinize both dendritic spine density and adult sexual behavior in rats. We have previously shown that PGE activates EP and EP receptors which increases protein kinase A (PKA) activity and that masculinized dendritic spine density and sex behavior are both dependent upon PKA as well as activation of AMPA type glutamate receptors. In the current experiments, we build upon this signaling cascade by determining that PGE induces phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor subunit, GluR1, which leads to increased AMPA receptor insertion at the membrane. Treating female pups on the day of birth with PGE induced the phosphorylation of GluR1 at the PKA-sensitive site within 2 hours of treatment, an effect that was blocked by co-administration of the PKA/AKAP inhibitor, HT31 with PGE. Brief treatment of mixed neuronal/glial POA cultures with PGE or the cAMP/PKA stimulator, forskolin, increased membrane associated GluR1 in both neurons and glia. We speculate that PGE induced increases in AMPA receptor associated with the membrane underlies our previously observed increase in dendritic spine density and is a critical component in the masculinization of rodent sex behavior.
Differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into mature oligodendrocytes requires extensive changes in gene expression, which are partly mediated by post-translational modifications of nucleosomal histones. An essential modification for oligodendrocyte differentiation is the removal of acetyl groups from lysine residues which is catalyzed by histone deacetylases (HDACs). The transcriptional targets of HDAC activity within OPCs however, have remained elusive and have been identified in this study by interrogating the oligodendrocyte transcriptome. Using a novel algorithm that allows clustering of gene transcripts according to expression kinetics and expression levels, we defined major waves of co-regulated genes. The initial overall decrease in gene expression was followed by the up-regulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism and myelination. Functional annotation of the down-regulated gene clusters identified transcripts involved in cell cycle regulation, transcription, and RNA processing. To define whether these genes were the targets of HDAC activity, we cultured rat OPCs in the presence of trichostatin A (TSA), an HDAC inhibitor previously shown to inhibit oligodendrocyte differentiation. By overlaying the defined oligodendrocyte transcriptome with the list of 'TSA sensitive' genes, we determined that a high percentage of 'TSA sensitive' genes are part of a normal program of oligodendrocyte differentiation. TSA treatment increased the expression of genes whose down-regulation occurs very early after induction of OPC differentiation, but did not affect the expression of genes with a slower kinetic. Among the increased 'TSA sensitive' genes we detected several transcription factors including Id2, Egr1, and Sox11, whose down-regulation is critical for OPC differentiation. Thus, HDAC target genes include clusters of co-regulated genes involved in transcriptional repression. These results support a de-repression model of oligodendrocyte lineage progression that relies on the concurrent down-regulation of several inhibitors of differentiation.
Relief fits the definition of a reward. Unlike other reward types the pleasantness of relief depends on the violation of a negative expectation, yet this has not been investigated using neuroimaging approaches. We hypothesized that the degree of negative expectation depends on state (dread) and trait (pessimism) sensitivity. Of the brain regions that are involved in mediating pleasure, the nucleus accumbens also signals unexpected reward and positive prediction error. We hypothesized that accumbens activity reflects the level of negative expectation and subsequent pleasant relief. Using fMRI and two purpose-made tasks, we compared hedonic and BOLD responses to relief with responses during an appetitive reward task in 18 healthy volunteers. We expected some similarities in task responses, reflecting common neural substrates implicated across reward types. However, we also hypothesized that relief responses would differ from appetitive rewards in the nucleus accumbens, since only relief pleasantness depends on negative expectations. The results confirmed these hypotheses. Relief and appetitive reward task activity converged in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which also correlated with appetitive reward pleasantness ratings. In contrast, dread and pessimism scores correlated with relief but not with appetitive reward hedonics. Moreover, only relief pleasantness covaried with accumbens activation. Importantly, the accumbens signal appeared to specifically reflect individual differences in anticipation of the adverse event (dread, pessimism) but was uncorrelated to appetitive reward hedonics. In conclusion, relief differs from appetitive rewards due to its reliance on negative expectations, the violation of which is reflected in relief-related accumbens activation.
We describe an illusion in which a stranger's voice, when presented as the auditory concomitant of a participant's own speech, is perceived as a modified version of their own voice. When the congruence between utterance and feedback breaks down, the illusion is also broken. Compared to a baseline condition in which participants heard their own voice as feedback, hearing a stranger's voice induced robust changes in the fundamental frequency (F0) of their production. Moreover, the shift in F0 appears to be feedback dependent, since shift patterns depended reliably on the relationship between the participant's own F0 and the stranger-voice F0. The shift in F0 was evident both when the illusion was present and after it was broken, suggesting that auditory feedback from production may be used separately for self-recognition and for vocal motor control. Our findings indicate that self-recognition of voices, like other body attributes, is malleable and context dependent.

The recombination activating genes (RAGs) encode two enzymes that play key roles in the adaptive immune system. RAG1 and RAG2 mediate VDJ recombination, a process necessary for the maturation of B- and T-cells. Interestingly, RAG1 is also expressed in the brain, particularly in areas of high neural density such as the hippocampus, although its function is unknown. We tested evidence that RAG1 plays a role in brain function using a social recognition memory task, an assessment of the acquisition and retention of conspecific identity. In a first experiment, we found that RAG1-deficient mice show impaired social recognition memory compared to mice wildtype for the RAG1 allele. In a second experiment, by breeding to homogenize background genotype, we found that RAG1-deficient mice show impaired social recognition memory relative to heterozygous or RAG2-deficient littermates. Because RAG1 and RAG2 null mice are both immunodeficient, the results suggest that the memory impairment is not an indirect effect of immunological dysfunction. RAG1-deficient mice show normal habituation to non-socially derived odors and habituation to an open-field, indicating that the observed effect is not likely a result of a general deficit in habituation to novelty. These data trace the origin of the impairment in social recognition memory in RAG1-deficient mice to the RAG1 gene locus and implicate RAG1 in memory formation.
Nicotine (NIC) is a highly addictive substance that interacts with different subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems. While the direct action of NIC on central neurons appears to be essential for its reinforcing properties, the role of peripheral actions of this drug remains a matter of controversy. In this study, we examined changes in locomotor activity and temperature fluctuations in the brain (nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area), temporal muscle, and skin induced by intravenous (iv) NIC at low human-relevant doses (10 and 30g/kg) in freely moving rats. These effects were compared to those induced by social interaction, an arousing procedure that induces behavioral activation and temperature responses via pure neural mechanisms, and iv injections of a peripherally acting NIC analog, NIC pyrrolidine methiodide (NIC-PM) used at equimolar doses. We found that NIC at 30g/kg induces a modest locomotor activation, rapid and strong decrease in skin temperature, and weak increases in brain and muscle temperature. While these effects were qualitatively similar to those induced by social interaction, they were much weaker and showed a tendency to increase with repeated drug administrations. In contrast, NIC-PM did not affect locomotion and induced much weaker than NIC increases in brain and muscle temperatures and decreases in skin temperature; these effects showed a tendency to be weaker with repeated drug administrations. Our data indicate that NIC's actions in the brain are essential to induce locomotor activation and brain and body hyperthermic responses. However, rapid peripheral action of NIC on sensory afferents could be an important factor in triggering its central effects, contributing to neural and physiological activation following repeated drug use.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a pleiotropic neuropeptide that acts as a neuromodulator in the CNS. Recently, secretion of several functional molecules has been identified in VIP-stimulated astrocytes in vitro. However, the relationship between VIP and its specific receptors in neurological disorders remains unknown. To investigate the role of the VIP system under pathological conditions, we performed a cold injury on the right cerebrum of adult C57BL/6 mice and observed expression patterns for VIP and its receptor, VPAC2. Immunohistochemical studies revealed VPAC2 expression in reactive astrocytes around the core lesion by post-injury day 7, which then returned to contralateral levels at post-injury day 14. By contrast, VIP immunoreactivity was detected in activated microglial cells, suggesting that microglia-astrocyte interactions in the VIP/VPAC2 system are important for the tissue repair process. In primary cultured astrocytes stimulated with N6,2'-O-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate sodium salt (dbcAMP) to mimic reactive astrocytosis, VPAC2 mRNA expression was highly up-regulated compared to that of the other VIP receptors, PAC1 and VPAC1. VPAC2 activation by the selective VPAC2 agonist, Ro25-1553, induced reactive morphological and biochemical changes from a polygonal shape to a stellate shape in cultured astrocytes. Further, Ro25-1553 increased cell surface expression of the glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT-1, which can limit excitotoxic neuronal cell death. In summary, the transient expression of VPAC2 in reactive astrocytes and the up-regulation of functional glutamate transporters suggest that the VIP/VPAC2 system induces reactive astrocytosis and plays a key role in neuroprotection against excitotoxicity in neurological disorders.
We have investigated spontaneous synaptic transmission in hippocampal nodular heterotopias in rats exposed to methylazoxymethanol (MAM) in utero. Pregnant Wistar rats were injected with MAM at E16. Acute hippocampal slices were prepared from the rat pups P14 to P40. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were made from visually identified neurons using IR-DIC video microscopy. Synaptic events were recorded from either heterotopic neurons in the CA1 region or &quot;slice-matched&quot; normotopic CA1 pyramidal neurons. Both the spontaneous inhibitory (sIPSC) and excitatory synaptic transmission (sEPSC) to the same neurons were recorded. We found a profound reduction in the frequency of sIPSCs in the heterotopic neurons vs. normotopic neurons. No significant differences in the frequency of sEPSCs were found. We also found a profound reduction in the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs in normotopic neurons following application of the GABA reuptake blocker, NO-711, even in the presence of a GABA(B) receptor antagonist (CGP 55845). Preferentially blocking extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors caused an increased frequency of sIPSCs in the heterotopic neurons. Our data suggest that there is a predominant change in inhibitory synaptic transmission, as measured by changes in sIPSCs, with no change in excitatory synaptic transmission to heterotopic neurons in hippocampus of rats exposed to MAM in utero. We suggest that this change is caused by an increase in the extracellular concentration of GABA but is not mediated via activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Rather, we propose that the increased extracellular GABA concentration in the heterotopias dampens the activity in inhibitory neurons via activation of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors.
Neuromodulation of synaptic plasticity by 17-estradiol (E2) is thought to influence information processing and storage in the cortex and hippocampus. Because E2 rapidly affects cortical memory and synaptic plasticity, we examined its effects on phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) [AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1 subunit)], all of which are important for the induction and maintenance of synaptic plasticity and memory. Acute E2 treatment resulted in an increased temporal and spatial phosphorylation pattern of CaMKII, ERK, and AMPAR (GluR1 subunit). By using inhibitors, we were able to attribute GluR1 phosphorylation to CaMKII at serine 831, and we also found that E2 treatment increased GluR1 insertion into the surface membrane. Because soluble amyloid-beta (A) oligomers inhibit CaMKII and ERK activation, which is necessary for synaptic plasticity, we also tested E2's ability to ameliorate A-induced dysfunction of synaptic plasticity. We found that estrogen treatment in neuronal culture, slice culture, and in vivo, ameliorated A oligomer-induced inhibition of CaMKII, ERK, and AMPAR phosphorylation, and also ameliorated the A oligomer-induced reduction of dendritic spine density in a CaMKII-dependent manner. These phosphorylation events are correlated with the early stage of inhibitory avoidance learning, and our data show that E2 improved inhibitory avoidance memory deficits in animals treated with soluble A oligomers. This study identifies E2-induced signaling that attenuates soluble A peptide-mediated dysfunction of pathways in synaptic plasticity.
Paired immunoglobulin-like receptor B (PIR-B) partially mediates the regeneration-inhibiting effects of the myelin-derived protein Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), and oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein (OMgp). In this study, we report that inhibition of the PIR-B signaling cascades in neurons enhances axon regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). Binding of MAG to PIR-B led to the association of PIR-B with tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors. Src homology 2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase (SHP)-1 and SHP-2, which were recruited to PIR-B upon MAG binding, functioned as Trk tyrosine phosphatases. Further, SHP-1 and SHP-2 inhibition reduced MAG-induced dephosphorylation of Trk receptors and abolished the inhibitory effect of MAG on neurite growth. Thus, PIR-B associated with Trk to downregulate basal and neurotrophin-regulated Trk activity through SHP-1/2 in neurons. Moreover, in vivo transfection of small interfering RNA (siRNA) for SHP-1 or SHP-2 induced axonal regeneration after optic nerve injury in mice. Our results thus identify a new molecular target to enhance regeneration of the injured CNS.

Life stress frequently occurs within the context of homeostatic challenge, requiring integration of physiological and psychological need into appropriate hormonal, cardiovascular, and behavioral responses. To test neural mechanisms underlying stress integration within the context of homeostatic adversity, we evaluated the impact of a pronounced physiological (hypernatremia) challenge on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA), cardiovascular, and behavioral responses to an acute psychogenic stress. Relative to normonatremic controls, rats rendered mildly hypernatremic had decreased HPA activation in response to physical restraint, a commonly used rodent model of psychogenic stress. In addition, acute hypernatremia attenuated the cardiovascular response to restraint and promoted faster recovery to prestress levels. Subsequent to restraint, hypernatremic rats had significantly more c-Fos expression in oxytocin- and vasopressin-containing neurons within the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus. Hypernatremia also completely eliminated the increased plasma renin activity that accompanied restraint in controls, but greatly elevated circulating levels of oxytocin. The endocrine and cardiovascular profile of hypernatremic rats was predictive of decreased anxiety-like behavior in the social interaction test. Collectively, the results indicate that acute hypernatremia is a potent inhibitor of the HPA, cardiovascular, and behavioral limbs of the stress response. The implications are that the compensatory responses that promote renal-sodium excretion when faced with hypernatremia also act on the nervous system to decrease reactivity to psychogenic stressors and facilitate social behavior, which may suppress the anxiety associated with approaching a communal water source and support the social interactions that may be encountered when engaging in drinking behavior.
Structural plasticity of dendritic spines and synapses is a fundamental mechanism governing neuronal circuits and may form an enduring basis for information storage in the brain. We find that the p65 subunit of the nuclear factor-B (NF-B) transcription factor, which is required for learning and memory, controls excitatory synapse and dendritic spine formation and morphology in murine hippocampal neurons. Endogenous NF-B activity is elevated by excitatory transmission during periods of rapid spine and synapse development. During in vitro synaptogenesis, NF-B enhances dendritic spine and excitatory synapse density and loss of endogenous p65 decreases spine density and spine head volume. Cell-autonomous function of NF-B within the postsynaptic neuron is sufficient to regulate the formation of both presynaptic and postsynaptic elements. During synapse development in vivo, loss of NF-B similarly reduces spine density and also diminishes the amplitude of synaptic responses. In contrast, after developmental synaptogenesis has plateaued, endogenous NF-B activity is low and p65 deficiency no longer attenuates basal spine density. Instead, NF-B in mature neurons is activated by stimuli that induce demand for new synapses, including estrogen and short-term bicuculline, and is essential for upregulating spine density in response to these stimuli. p65 is enriched in dendritic spines making local protein-protein interactions possible; however, the effects of NF-B on spine density require transcription and the NF-B-dependent regulation of PSD-95, a critical postsynaptic component. Collectively, our data define a distinct role for NF-B in imparting transcriptional regulation required for the induction of changes to, but not maintenance of, excitatory synapse and spine density.
Earlier findings had suggested that spontaneous and evoked glutamate release activates non-overlapping populations of NMDA receptors. Here, we evaluated whether AMPA receptor populations activated by spontaneous and evoked release show a similar segregation. To track the receptors involved in spontaneous or evoked neurotransmission, we used a polyamine agent, philanthotoxin, that selectively blocks AMPA receptors lacking GluR2 subunits in a use-dependent manner. In hippocampal neurons obtained from GluR2-deficient mice, philanthotoxin application decreased AMPA-receptor-mediated spontaneous miniature EPSCs (AMPA-mEPSCs) down to 20% of their initial level within 5 min. In contrast, the same philanthotoxin application at rest decreased the subsequent AMPA-receptor-mediated evoked EPSCs (eEPSCs) only down to 80% of their initial value. A 10-min-long perfusion of philanthotoxin further decreased AMPA-eEPSC amplitudes to 60% of their initial magnitude, which remained substantially higher than the level of AMPA-mEPSC block achieved within 5 min. Finally, stimulation after removal of philanthotoxin resulted in reversal of AMPA-eEPSC block, verifying strict use dependence of philanthotoxin. These results support the notion that spontaneous and evoked neurotransmission activate distinct sets of AMPA receptors and bolster the hypothesis that synapses harbor separate microdomains of evoked and spontaneous signaling.
Dynamic regulation of the localization and function of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) is critical for synaptic development and function. The composition and localization of NMDAR subunits at synapses are tightly regulated and can influence the ability of individual synapses to undergo long-lasting changes in response to stimuli. Here, we examine mechanisms by which EphB2, a receptor tyrosine kinase that binds and phosphorylates NMDARs, controls NMDAR subunit localization and function at synapses. We find that, in mature neurons, EphB2 expression levels regulate the amount of NMDARs at synapses, and EphB activation decreases Ca(2+)-dependent desensitization of NR2B-containing NMDARs. EphBs are required for enhanced localization of NR2B-containing NMDARs at synapses of mature neurons; triple EphB knock-out mice lacking EphB1-3 exhibit homeostatic upregulation of NMDAR surface expression and loss of proper targeting to synaptic sites. These findings demonstrate that, in the mature nervous system, EphBs are key regulators of the synaptic localization of NMDARs.
Development of spatial memory in the rat is influenced by both maternal and nonmaternal aspects of the postnatal environment. Yet it remains poorly understood how these two aspects of the postnatal environment interact to program offspring cognitive development. By considering the joint influence of neonatal environmental novelty and maternal self-stress regulation on the development of spatial memory function in Long-Evans hooded rats, we show a persistent neonatal novelty-induced enhancement in spatial reference and working memory functions among the same individual offspring from juvenility to adulthood and a contrasting transient maternal modulatory influence on this novelty-related enhancement present during only juvenility. Specifically, at and only at juvenility, for mothers with good self-stress regulation as indexed by a low circulating basal corticosterone level, offspring showed a novelty-induced enhancement in spatial memory function, whereas for mothers with poor self-stress regulation, indexed by a high basal corticosterone level, offspring showed little enhancement or even small impairments. These findings indicate that maternal and nonmaternal postnatal environments exert separate but interacting influences on offspring cognitive development and support a maternal modulation model of cognitive development that considers maternal self-stress regulation as an important factor among the multitude of maternal influences.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are widely hypothesized to regulate signaling events through processing of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules. We previously demonstrated that membrane-associated Mmp2 is expressed in exit glia and contributes to motor axon targeting. To identify possible substrates, we undertook a yeast interaction screen for Mmp2-binding proteins and identified the novel ECM protein faulty attraction (Frac). Frac encodes a multidomain extracellular protein rich in epidermal growth factor (EGF) and calcium-binding EGF domains, related to the vertebrate Fibrillin and Fibulin gene families. It is expressed in mesodermal domains flanking Mmp2-positive glia. The juxtaposition of Mmp2 and Frac proteins raises the possibility that Frac is a proteolytic target of Mmp2. Consistent with this hypothesis, levels of full-length Frac are increased in Mmp2 loss-of-function (LOF) and decreased in Mmp2 gain-of-function (GOF) embryos, indicating that Frac cleavage is Mmp2 dependent. To test whether frac is necessary for axon targeting, we characterized guidance in frac LOF mutants. Motor axons in frac LOF embryos are loosely associated and project ectopically, a phenotype essentially equivalent to that of Mmp2 LOF. The phenotypic similarity between enzyme and substrate mutants argues that Mmp2 activates Frac. In addition, Mmp2 overexpression pathfinding phenotypes depend on frac activity, indicating that Mmp2 is genetically upstream of frac. Last, overexpression experiments suggest that Frac is unlikely to have intrinsic signaling activity, raising the possibility that an Mmp2-generated Frac fragment acts as a guidance cue cofactor. Indeed, we present genetic evidence that Frac regulates a non-canonical LIM kinase 1-dependent bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathway in motoneurons necessary for axon pathfinding during embryogenesis.
The postsurgical period during which neurons remain without target connections (chronic axotomy) and distal nerve stumps and target muscles are denervated (chronic denervation) deleteriously affects functional recovery. An autologous nerve graft and cross-suture paradigm in Sprague Dawley rats was used to systematically and independently control time of motoneuron axotomy, denervation of distal nerve sheaths, and muscle denervation to determine relative contributions of each factor to recovery failure. Tibial (TIB) nerve was cross-sutured to common peroneal (CP) nerve via a contralateral 15 mm nerve autograft to reinnervate the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle immediately or after prolonging TIB axotomy, CP autograft denervation, or TA muscle denervation. Numbers of motoneurons that reinnervated TA muscle declined exponentially from 99  15 to asymptotic mean ( SE) values of 35  1, 41  10, and 13  5, respectively. Enlarged reinnervated motor units fully compensated for reduced motoneuron numbers after prolonged axotomy and autograft denervation, but the maximal threefold enlargement did not compensate for the severe loss of regenerating nerves through chronically denervated nerve stumps and for failure of reinnervated muscle fibers to recover from denervation atrophy. Muscle force, weight, and cross-sectional area declined. Our results demonstrate that chronic denervation of the distal stump plays a key role in reduced nerve regeneration, but the denervated muscle is also a contributing factor. That chronic Schwann cell denervation within the nerve autograft reduced regeneration less than after the denervation of both CP nerve stump and TA muscle, argues that chronic muscle denervation negatively impacts nerve regeneration.
During embryogenesis, the pallial-subpallial boundary (PSB) divides the two main progenitor domains in the telencephalon: the pallium, the major source of excitatory neurons, and the subpallium, the major source of inhibitory neurons. The PSB is formed at the molecular interface between the pallial (high Pax6+) and subpallial (high Gsx2+) ventricular zone (VZ) compartments. Initially, the PSB contains cells that express both Pax6 and Gsx2, but during later stages of development this boundary is largely refined into two separate compartments. In this study we examined the developmental mechanisms underlying PSB boundary formation and the postnatal consequences of conditional loss of Pax6 function at the PSB on neuronal fate in the amygdala and olfactory bulb, two targets of PSB-derived migratory populations. Our cell fate and time-lapse imaging analyses reveal that the sorting of Pax6+ and Gsx2+ progenitors during embryogenesis is the result of a combination of changes in gene expression and cell movements. Interestingly, we find that in addition to giving rise to inhibitory neurons in the amygdala and olfactory bulb, Gsx2+ progenitors generate a subpopulation of amygdala excitatory neurons. Consistent with this finding, targeted conditional ablation of Pax6 in Gsx2+ progenitors results in discrete local embryonic patterning defects that are linked to changes in the generation of subsets of postnatal excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the amygdala and inhibitory neurons in the olfactory bulb. Thus, in PSB progenitors, Pax6 plays an important role in the generation of multiple subtypes of neurons that contribute to the amygdala and olfactory bulb.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is exquisitely sensitive to its neurochemical environment. Minor fluctuations in cortical dopamine (DA) can profoundly alter working memory, a PFC-dependent cognitive function that supports an array of essential human behaviors. Dopamine's action in the PFC follows an inverted U-shaped curve, where an optimal DA level results in maximal function and insufficient or excessive DA impairs PFC function. In animals, 17-estradiol (the major estrogen in most mammals, referred to henceforth as estradiol) has been shown to enhance DA activity, yet no human study has adequately addressed whether estradiol's impact on cognition occurs by way of modulating specific neurochemical systems. Here we examined the effects of endogenous fluctuations in estradiol on working memory in healthy young women as a function of baseline PFC DA [indexed by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val(158)Met genotype and, at a finer scale, COMT enzyme activity]. The results demonstrate that estradiol status impacts working memory function and, crucially, the direction of the effect depends on indices of baseline DA. Moreover, consistent with a DA cortical efficiency hypothesis, functional MRI revealed that inferred optimal DA was associated with reduced PFC activity sustained across task blocks and selectively enhanced PFC activity on trials with the greatest demand for cognitive control. The magnitude of PFC activity during high control trials was predictive of an individual's performance. These findings show that although estrogen, considered in isolation, may have unpredictable effects on cognitive performance, its influence is clarified when considered within a larger neuromodulatory framework. Given the clinical prevalence of dopaminergic drugs, understanding the relationship between estrogen and DA is essential for advancing women's health.
Several recent models of medial temporal lobe (MTL) function have proposed that the parahippocampal cortex processes context information, the perirhinal cortex processes item information, and the hippocampus binds together items and contexts. While evidence for a clear functional distinction between the perirhinal cortex and other regions within the MTL has been well supported, it has been less clear whether such a dissociation exists between the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex. In the current study, we use a novel approach applying a functional magnetic resonance imaging adaptation paradigm to address these issues. During scanning, human subjects performed an incidental target detection task while viewing trial-unique sequentially presented pairs of natural scenes, each containing a single prominent object. We observed a striking double dissociation between the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex, with the former showing a selective sensitivity to changes in the spatial relationship between objects and their background context and the latter engaged only by scene novelty. Our findings provide compelling support for the hypothesis that rapid item-context binding is a function of the hippocampus, rather than the parahippocampal cortex, with the former acting to detect relational novelty of this nature through its function as a match-mismatch detector.
Perception of fairness can influence outcomes in human exchange. However, an inherent subjectivity in attribution renders it difficult to manipulate fairness experimentally. Here using a modified ultimatum game, within a varying social context, we induced a bias in human subjects' acceptance of objectively identical offers. To explain this fairness-related behavior, we use a computational model to specify metrics for the objective and contextual aspects of fairness, testing for correlations between these model parameters and brain activity determined using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We show that objective social inequality, as defined by our model, is tracked in posterior insula cortex. Crucially, this inequality is integrated with social context in posterior and mid-insula, consistent with construction of a fairness motivation that flexibly adapted to the social environment. We suggest that the dual importance of objective and contextual aspects to fairness we highlight might explain seemingly inconsistent societal phenomena, including public attitudes to income disparities.
Alcohol addiction (alcoholism) is one of the most prevalent substance abuse disorders worldwide. Addiction is thought to arise, in part, from a maladaptive learning process in which enduring memories of drug experiences are formed. However, alcohol (ethanol) generally interferes with synaptic plasticity mechanisms in the CNS and thus impairs various types of learning and memory. Therefore, it is unclear how powerful memories associated with alcohol experience are formed during the development of alcoholism. Here, using brain slice electrophysiology in mice, we show that repeated in vivo ethanol exposure (2 g/kg, i.p., three times daily for 7 d) causes increased susceptibility to the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated transmission in mesolimbic dopamine neurons, a form of synaptic plasticity that may drive the learning of stimuli associated with rewards, including drugs of abuse. Enhancement of NMDAR plasticity results from an increase in the potency of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) in producing facilitation of action potential-evoked Ca(2+) signals, which is critical for LTP induction. This increase in IP(3) effect, which lasts for a week but not a month after ethanol withdrawal, occurs through a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent mechanism. Corticotropin-releasing factor, a stress-related neuropeptide implicated in alcoholism and other addictions, further amplifies the PKA-mediated increase in IP(3) effect in ethanol-treated mice. Finally, we found that ethanol-treated mice display enhanced place conditioning induced by the psychostimulant cocaine. These data suggest that repeated ethanol experience may promote the formation of drug-associated memories by enhancing synaptic plasticity of NMDARs in dopamine neurons.
Adaptive behaviour, cognition and emotion are the result of a bewildering variety of brain spatio-temporal activity patterns. An important problem in neuroscience is to understand the mechanism by which the human brain's 100 billion neurons and 100 trillion synapses manage to produce this large repertoire of cortical configurations in a flexible manner. In addition, it is recognized that temporal correlations across such configurations cannot be arbitrary, but they need to meet two conflicting demands: while diverse cortical areas should remain functionally segregated from each other, they must still perform as a collective, i.e. they are functionally integrated. Here, we investigate these large-scale dynamical properties by inspecting the character of the spatio-temporal correlations of brain resting-state activity. In physical systems, these correlations in space and time are captured by measuring the correlation coefficient between a signal recorded at two different points in space at two different times. We show that this two-point correlation function extracted from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data exhibits self-similarity in space and time. In space, self-similarity is revealed by considering three successive spatial coarse-graining steps while in time it is revealed by the 1/f frequency behaviour of the power spectrum. The uncovered dynamical self-similarity implies that the brain is spontaneously at a continuously changing (in space and time) intermediate state between two extremes, one of excessive cortical integration and the other of complete segregation. This dynamical property may be seen as an important marker of brain well-being in both health and disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) was first described a little more than 100 years ago. It is the most common cause of dementia with an estimated prevalence of 30 million people worldwide, a number that is expected to quadruple in 40 years. There currently is no effective treatment that delays the onset or slows the progression of AD. However, major scientific advances in the areas of genetics, biochemistry, cell biology, and neuroscience over the past 25 years have changed the way we think about AD. This review discusses some of the challenges to translating these basic molecular and cellular discoveries into clinical therapies. Current information suggests that if the disease is detected before the onset of overt symptoms, it is possible that treatments based on knowledge of underlying pathogenesis can and will be effective.


Conventional nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists, such as acetylcholine, act at an extracellular &quot;orthosteric&quot; binding site located at the interface between two adjacent subunits. Here, we present evidence of potent activation of 7 nAChRs via an allosteric transmembrane site. Previous studies have identified a series of nAChR-positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) that lack agonist activity but are able to potentiate responses to orthosteric agonists, such as acetylcholine. It has been shown, for example, that TQS acts as a conventional 7 nAChR PAM. In contrast, we have found that a compound with close chemical similarity to TQS (4BP-TQS) is a potent allosteric agonist of 7 nAChRs. Whereas the 7 nAChR antagonist metyllycaconitine acts competitively with conventional nicotinic agonists, metyllycaconitine is a noncompetitive antagonist of 4BP-TQS. Mutation of an amino acid (M253L), located in a transmembrane cavity that has been proposed as being the binding site for PAMs, completely blocks agonist activation by 4BP-TQS. In contrast, this mutation had no significant effect on agonist activation by acetylcholine. Conversely, mutation of an amino acid located within the known orthosteric binding site (W148F) has a profound effect on agonist potency of acetylcholine (resulting in a shift of 200-fold in the acetylcholine dose-response curve), but had little effect on the agonist dose-response curve for 4BP-TQS. Computer docking studies with an 7 homology model provides evidence that both TQS and 4BP-TQS bind within an intrasubunit transmembrane cavity. Taken together, these findings provide evidence that agonist activation of nAChRs can occur via an allosteric transmembrane site.
Neurons respond to sensory stimuli by altering the rate and temporal pattern of action potentials. These spike trains both encode and propagate information that guides behavior. Local inhibitory networks can affect the information encoded and propagated by neurons by altering correlations between different spike trains. Correlations introduce redundancy that can reduce encoding but also facilitate propagation of activity to downstream targets. Given this trade-off, how can networks maximize both encoding and propagation efficacy? Here, we examine this problem by measuring the effects of olfactory bulb inhibition on the pairwise statistics of mitral cell spiking. We evoked spiking activity in the olfactory bulb in vitro and measured how lateral inhibition shapes correlations across timescales. We show that inhibitory circuits simultaneously increase fast correlation (i.e., synchrony increases) and decrease slow correlation (i.e., firing rates become less similar). Further, we use computational models to show the benefits of fast correlation/slow decorrelation in the context of odor coding. Olfactory bulb inhibition enhances population-level discrimination of similar inputs, while improving propagation of mitral cell activity to cortex. Our findings represent a targeted strategy by which a network can optimize the correlation structure of its output in a dynamic, activity-dependent manner. This trade-off is not specific to the olfactory system, but rather our work highlights mechanisms by which neurons can simultaneously accomplish multiple, and sometimes competing, aspects of sensory processing.
Mammalian brain connectivity requires the coordinated production and migration of billions of neurons and the formation of axons and dendrites. The LKB1/Par4 kinase is required for axon formation during cortical development in vivo partially through its ability to activate SAD-A/B kinases. LKB1 is a master kinase phosphorylating and activating at least 11 other serine/threonine kinases including the metabolic sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), which defines this branch of the kinome. A recent study using a gene-trap allele of the 1 regulatory subunit of AMPK suggested that AMPK catalytic activity is required for proper brain development including neurogenesis and neuronal survival. We used a genetic loss-of-function approach producing AMPK1/2-null cortical neurons to demonstrate that AMPK catalytic activity is not required for cortical neurogenesis, neuronal migration, polarization, or survival. However, we found that application of metformin or AICAR, potent AMPK activators, inhibit axogenesis and axon growth in an AMPK-dependent manner. We show that inhibition of axon growth mediated by AMPK overactivation requires TSC1/2-mediated inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. Our results demonstrate that AMPK catalytic activity is not required for early neural development in vivo but its overactivation during metabolic stress impairs neuronal polarization in a mTOR-dependent manner.
Defects in neuronal connectivity of the brain are well documented among schizophrenia patients. Although the schizophrenia susceptibility gene Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) has been implicated in various neurodevelopmental processes, its role in regulating axonal connections remains elusive. Here, a heterologous DISC1 transgenic system in the relatively simple and well-characterized Caenorhabditis elegans motor neurons has been established to investigate whether DISC1 regulates axon guidance during development. Transgenic DISC1 in C. elegans motor neurons is enriched in the migrating growth cones and causes guidance defects of their growing axons. The abnormal axonal phenotypes induced by DISC1 are similar to those by gain-of-function rac genes. In vivo genetic interaction studies revealed that the UNC-73/TRIO-RAC-PAK signaling pathway is activated by ectopic DISC1 in C. elegans motor axons. Using in vitro GST pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we found that DISC1 binds specifically to the amino half of spectrin repeats of TRIO, thereby preventing TRIO's amino half of spectrin repeats from interacting with its first guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domain, GEF1, and facilitating the recruitment of RAC1 to TRIO. In cultured mammalian cells, RAC1 is activated by increased TRIO's GEF activity when DISC1 is present. These results together indicate that the TRIO-RAC-PAK signaling pathway can be exploited and modulated by DISC1 to regulate axonal connectivity in the developing brain.
Ablating or functionally compromising sets of sensory neurons has provided important insights into peripheral modality-specific wiring in the somatosensory system. Inflammatory hyperalgesia, cold pain, and noxious mechanosensation have all been shown to depend upon Na(v)1.8-positive sensory neurons. The release of fast-acting neurotransmitters, such as glutamate, and more slowly released neuropeptides, such as substance P (SP), contribute to the diversified responses to external stimuli. Here we show that deleting Vglut2 in Na(v)1.8(Cre)-positive neurons compromised mechanical pain and NGF-induced thermal hyperalgesia, whereas tactile-evoked sensation, thermal, formalin-evoked, and chronic neuropathic pain were normal. However, when Vglut2(f/f);Na(v)1.8(Cre) mice were injected with a SP antagonist before the formalin test, the second phase pain response was nearly completely abolished, whereas in control mice, the pain response was unaffected. Our results suggest that VGLUT2-dependent signaling originating from Na(v)1.8-positive neurons is a principal sensing mechanism for mechanical pain and, together with SP, inflammatory pain. These data define sets of primary afferents associated with specific modalities and provide useful genetic tools with which to analyze the pathways that are activated by functionally distinct neuronal populations and transmitters.
FTY720 (fingolimod, Gilenya) is a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator that shows significant therapeutic efficacy after oral administration to patients of multiple sclerosis. Because FTY720 does not contain any atom whose PET or SPECT radioisotope would have a half-life compatible with its pharmacokinetic properties, it cannot be used directly for imaging. Instead, we propose BZM055 as a surrogate tracer to study its pharmacokinetics and organ distribution in patients and, given that FTY720 accumulates in myelin sheaths, for myelin imaging. BZM055 (2a, 2-iodo-FTY720) can be easily radiolabeled with I (for SPECT) or I (for PET). Not only does it closely mimic the pharmacokinetics and organ distribution of FTY720, but also its affinity, selectivity for S1P receptors, phosphorylation kinetics, and overall physicochemical properties. [I]BZM055 is currently under development for clinical imaging.
In addition to mitochondria, NADPH oxidase (NOX) is a source of oxidative stress, which can induce oxidative damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD). For this reason, several groups have investigated the effect of its inhibition. In AD mice, NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2) deficiency improved behavior and cerebrovascular function, and reduced oxidative stress. In our study, we administered the NOX inhibitor apocynin to Tg19959 mice, and found that it did not improve cognitive and synaptic deficits, and did not decrease amyloid deposition, microgliosis and hyperphosphorylated tau. However, apocynin reduced carbonyl levels in the cerebral cortex but not the hippocampus, which may have not been sufficient to ameliorate symptoms. Also, the reduction of NOX-mediated oxidative stress may not be sufficient to prevent AD, since other sources of reactive oxygen species such as mitochondria may be more important.

To date, mutual interaction between action and perception has been investigated mainly by focusing on single individuals. However, we perceive affording objects and acts upon them in a surrounding world inhabited by other perceiving and acting bodies. Thus, the issue arises as to whether our action-oriented object perception might be modulated by the presence of another potential actor. To tackle this issue we used the spatial alignment effect paradigm and systematically examined this effect when a visually presented handled object was located close either to the perceiver or to another individual (a virtual avatar). We found that the spatial alignment effect occurred whenever the object was presented within the reaching space of a potential actor, regardless of whether it was the participant's own or the other's reaching space. These findings show that objects may afford a suitable motor act when they are ready not only to our own hand but also, and most importantly, to the other's hand. Our proposal is that this effect is likely to be due to a mapping of our own and the other's reaching space and we posit that such mapping could play a critical role in joining our own and the other's action.
The last several decades have seen a large increase in knowledge of the underlying biological mechanisms that serve learning and memory. The insights gleaned from neurobiological and cognitive neuroscientific experimentation in humans and in animal models have identified many of the processes at the molecular, cellular, and systems levels that occur during learning and the formation, storage, and recall of memories. Moreover, with the advent of noninvasive technologies to monitor patterns of neural activity during various forms of human cognition, the efficacy of different strategies for effective teaching can be compared. Considerable insight has also been developed as to how to most effectively engage these processes to facilitate learning, retention, recall, and effective use and application of the learned information. However, this knowledge has not systematically found its way into the medical education process. Thus, there are considerable opportunities for the integration of current knowledge about the biology of learning with educational strategies and curricular design. By teaching medical students in ways that use this knowledge, there is an opportunity to make medical education easier and more effective. The authors present 10 key aspects of learning that they believe can be incorporated into effective teaching paradigms in multiple ways. They also present recommendations for applying the current knowledge of the neurobiology of learning throughout the medical education continuum.



Decompressive craniectomy is a neurosurgical technique in which a portion of the skull is removed to reduce intracranial pressure. The rationale for this procedure is based on the Monro-Kellie Doctrine; expanding the physical space confining edematous brain tissue after traumatic brain injury will reduce intracranial pressure. There is significant debate over the efficacy of decompressive craniectomy despite its sound rationale and historical significance. Considerable variation in the employment of decompressive craniectomy, particularly for secondary brain injury, explains the inconsistent results and mixed opinions of this potentially valuable technique. One way to address these concerns is to establish a consistent methodology for performing decompressive craniectomies. The purpose of this paper is to begin accomplishing this goal and to emphasize the critical points of the hemicraniectomy and bicoronal (Kjellberg type) craniectomy.

Optineurin (OPTN) is a multifunctional protein involved in vesicular trafficking, signal transduction and gene expression. OPTN mutations were described in eight Japanese patients with familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS, SALS). OPTN-positive inclusions co-localising with TDP-43 were described in SALS and in FALS with SOD-1 mutations, potentially linking two pathologically distinct pathways of motor neuron degeneration. We have explored the abundance of OPTN inclusions using a range of antibodies in postmortem tissues from 138 cases and controls including sporadic and familial ALS, frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and a wide range of neurodegenerative proteinopathies. OPTN-positive inclusions were uncommon and detected in only 11/32 (34%) of TDP-43-positive SALS spinal cord and 5/15 (33%) of FTLD-TDP. Western blot of lysates from FTLD-TDP frontal cortex and TDP-43-positive SALS spinal cord revealed decreased levels of OPTN protein compared to controls (p &lt; 0.05), however, this correlated with decreased neuronal numbers in the brain. Large OPTN inclusions were not detected in FALS with SOD-1 and FUS mutation, respectively, or in FTLD-FUS cases. OPTN-positive inclusions were identified in a few Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases but did not co-localise with tau and TDP-43. Occasional striatal neurons contained granular cytoplasmic OPTN immunopositivity in Huntington's disease (HD) but were absent in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3. No OPTN inclusions were detected in FTLD-tau and -synucleinopathy. We conclude that OPTN inclusions are relatively rare and largely restricted to a minority of TDP-43 positive ALS and FTLD-TDP cases. Our results do not support the proposition that OPTN inclusions play a central role in the pathogenesis of ALS, FTLD or any other neurodegenerative disorder.
The deposition of amyloid- (A) peptides in the walls of leptomeningeal and cortical blood vessels as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is present in normal ageing and the majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. The failure of clearance mechanisms to eliminate A from the brain contributes to the development of sporadic CAA and AD. Here, we investigated the effects of CAA and ageing on the pattern of perivascular drainage of solutes in the brains of nave mice and in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. We report that drainage of small molecular weight dextran along cerebrovascular basement membranes is impaired in the hippocampal capillaries and arteries of 22-month-old wild-type mice compared to 3- and 7-month-old animals, which was associated with age-dependent changes in capillary density. Age-related alterations in the levels of laminin, fibronectin and perlecan in vascular basement membranes were also noted in wild-type mice. Furthermore, dextran was observed in the walls of veins of Tg2576 mice in the presence of CAA, suggesting that deposition of A in vessel walls disrupts the normal route of elimination of solutes from the brain parenchyma. These data support the hypothesis that perivascular solute drainage from the brain is altered both in the ageing brain and as a consequence of CAA. These findings have implications for the success of therapeutic strategies for the treatment of AD that rely upon the health of the ageing cerebral vasculature.
Abnormal brain iron homeostasis has been proposed as a pathological event leading to oxidative stress and neuronal injury under pathological conditions. We examined the possibility that neuronal iron overload would mediate free radical production and delayed neuronal death (DND) in hippocampal CA1 area after transient forebrain ischemia (TFI). Mitochondrial free radicals (MFR) were biphasically generated in CA1 neurons 0.5-8 and 48-60 h after TFI. Treatment with Neu2000, a potent spin trapping molecule, as well as trolox, a vitamin E analogue, blocked the biphasic MFR production and attenuated DND in the CA1, regardless of whether it was administered immediately or even 24 h after reperfusion. The late increase in MFR was accompanied by iron accumulation and blocked by the administration of deferoxamine-an iron chelator. Iron accumulation was attributable to prolonged upregulation of the transferrin receptor and to increased uptake of peripheral iron through a leaky blood-brain barrier. Infiltration of iron-containing cells and iron accumulation were attenuated by depletion of circulating blood cells through X-ray irradiation of the whole body except the head. The present findings suggest that excessive iron transported from blood mediates slowly evolving oxidative stress and neuronal death in CA1 after TFI, and that targeting iron-mediated oxidative stress holds extended therapeutic time window against an ischemic event.


Previously we demonstrated profound effects of dopamine transporter (DAT) SLC6A3 genotype on limbic responses to smoking cues (SCs). Probands carrying at least one copy of the 9-repeat allele (9-repeat carriers) had greater neural responses to SCs in the anatomically interconnected rostral ventral striatum/medial orbitofrontal cortex (VS/mOFC), compared with homozygotes for the 10-repeat allele (10/10-repeats). To test the reliability of the initial findings, we examined perfusion functional magnetic resonance images acquired during SC exposure in a new cohort of smokers (N=26) who were genotyped for the SLC6A3 polymorphism. In smokers overall, activity was enhanced in the VS/mOFC (t=3.77). Contrasts between allelic groups revealed that 9-repeat carriers had a greater response to SCs in the VS (t=3.12) and mOFC (t=3.19). In separate groups, 9-repeat carriers showed increased activity in the VS (t=5.47) and mOFC (T=4.96), while no increases were observed in 10-repeats. Subjective reports of craving correlated with increased activity in reward-related structures including the extended amygdala, insula and post-central gyrus, and decreased activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and were DAT-genotype dependent (r=0.63-0.96). In secondary analyses, we found that The Fagerstrm Test for Nicotine Dependence scores correlated with enhanced SC-induced perfusion in 10/10-repeats in the insula, mOFC, medial temporal and superior frontal gyri (r=0.50-0.82), while correlations were absent in 9-repeat carriers. Despite heterogeneity introduced by a host of factors, including variance in other genes involved in smoking behavior, we confirm that DAT genotype predicts the direction and location of neural responses to SCs.
The present study used conventional and quantitative microdialysis to assess glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission in the hippocampal CA3 area of the rat following a moderate-dose ethanol treatment regimen. Male Wistar rats received 3.4 g/kg of ethanol or water for 6 days via gastric gavage. Microdialysis experiments commenced 2 days later. Basal and depolarization-induced glutamate overflow were significantly elevated in ethanol-treated animals. Basal and depolarization-induced gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) overflow were unaltered. Quantitative no-net-flux microdialysis was used to determine if changes in dialysate glutamate levels following ethanol administration are due to an increase in release or a decrease in uptake. To confirm the validity of this method for quantifying basal glutamate dynamics, extracellular concentrations of glutamate and the extraction fraction, which reflects changes in analyte clearance, were quantified in response to retro-dialysis of the glutamate uptake blocker trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tPDC). tPDC significantly decreased the extraction fraction for glutamate, resulting in augmented extracellular glutamate concentrations. Repeated ethanol administration did not alter the glutamate extraction fraction. However, extracellular glutamate concentrations were significantly elevated, indicating that glutamate release is increased as a consequence of repeated ethanol administration. These data demonstrate that repeated bouts of moderate ethanol consumption alter basal glutamate dynamics in the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus. Basal glutamate release is augmented, whereas glutamate uptake is unchanged. Furthermore, they suggest that dysregulation of glutamate transmission in this region may contribute to the previously documented deficits in cognitive function associated with moderate dose ethanol use.
Severe abnormalities in brain glucose/energy metabolism and insulin signaling have been documented to take a pivotal role in early sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD) pathology. Indeed, the &quot;insulin-resistant brain state&quot; has been hypothesized to form the core of the neurodegenerative events that occur in sAD. In this vein, intracerebroventricular administration of subdiabetogenic doses of streptozotocin (STZ) in rats can induce an insulin-resistant brain state, which is proposed as a suitable experimental model of sAD. This review highlights the involvement of disturbed brain insulin metabolism in sAD etiopathogenesis. Furthermore, current knowledge demonstrates that central STZ administration produces brain pathology and behavioral changes that resemble changes found in sAD patients. The STZ-intracerebroventricularly treated rat represents a promising experimental tool in this field by providing new insights concerning early brain alterations in sAD, which can be translated in novel etiopathogenic and therapeutic approaches in this disease.
The long-term goal of our study is to identify chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)-related bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) nitroproteins to clarify COPD pathological mechanisms and to discover biomarkers of COPD. The goal of the present study was to detect the presence of, and potential roles of, nitroproteins in, human ex-smoker (without COPD) BALF samples. Nitroproteins were immunoprecipitated from two separate BALF samples, and digested with trypsin; and tryptic peptides were analyzed with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Each MS/MS spectrum was composed of accumulated scans (n = 50-100). The MS/MS data were searched with BioWorks 2.0 TuboSequest in the SwissProt database to generate the amino acid sequence, which was evaluated manually. Eleven nitrotyrosine sites were identified in eight proteins, including progestin and adipoQ receptor family member III, zinc finger protein 432, proteasome subunit alpha type 2, NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase B14, slit homolog 1 protein, lysozyme, aldose 1-epimerase, and PTS system lactose-specific EIICB component. Each nitrotyrosine site was located within a specific protein domain and motif. Those identified nitrated proteins could be involved in multiple functional metabolic systems, including transcriptional regulation, mitochondrial complex, immune system, and energy metabolism.



The recent proposal to dissolve the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and National Institute on Drug Abuse and create a new institute for substance use, abuse, and addiction will require significant effort by the staff of both institutes, the Advisory Councils, and outside experts to overcome complex challenges that could threaten its success. Although integration of the grants portfolios can be achieved, harmonization of goals and policies related to legal use of alcohol versus illegal consumption of drugs will present serious challenges. Consolidating the infrastructure of the 2 existing institutes would entail avoiding encroachment on grant funding. A new institute for substance use, abuse, and addiction would require an enormous amount of cooperation from other institutes as the portfolios of research on alcohol, tobacco, and other drug abuse should logically be transferred to the new institute. In the near term, a structural reorganization would be less efficient and more costly than the individual institutes are currently. Increasing efficiency and reducing costs over time will necessitate careful strategic planning. Success in this difficult task would be made easier and less costly by first implementing carefully placed building blocks of increasing functional reorganization. The newly created institute should increase opportunities for specialization within disorders of addiction, attract new leadership, and build a novel strategic plan that will energize scientists and staff and incorporate ideas of stakeholders to advance the public good in preventing and treating alcohol, tobacco, and all addictions. Attention must be paid to the devil in the details.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, characterized by an increased deposition of -amyloid (Abeta) within the central nervous system, leading to neuronal death. The availability of effective models, in which confirming novel pathogenic hypotheses and developing therapeutic targets, represents a very important goal for the field of AD. Fibroblasts from these patients may be relevant models in which addressing these issues, as they display biochemical alterations mirroring SNC ones. In this work, fibroblasts obtained from controls were studied after exposure to nonfibrillar Abeta 1-42, showing decreased glutamate uptake, similar to that observed in AD cells, in absence of transporters modifications. Nonfibrillar Abeta 1-42 was able to induce in control cells mitochondrial alterations and p38-phosphorylation, mirroring similar alterations found in AD fibroblasts. Under our experimental conditions, this treatment induced neither apoptosis nor necrosis. To investigate a putative role of p38-modulation in mediating nonfibrillar Abeta 1-42 toxicity, fibroblasts from controls were pretreated with retinoic-acid, and SB203580, a p38-inhibitor. These pretreatments prevented both p38-phosphorylation and glutamate uptake inhibition. Our results suggest that nonfibrillar Abeta 1-42 downregulates glutamate transporters activity interfering with p38-activation and mitochondrial stress. Thus, modulating complex kinase signaling pathway might represent a future therapeutic target in AD.


By pure endpoint diagnosis of the disease, the risk of developing schizophrenia has been repeatedly associated with specific variants of the neuregulin1 (NRG1) gene. However, the role of NRG1 in the etiology of schizophrenia has remained unclear. Since Nrg1 serves vital functions in early brain development of mice, we hypothesized that human NRG1 alleles codetermine developmentally influenced readouts of the disease: age of onset and positive symptom severity. We analyzed 1,071 comprehensively phenotyped schizophrenic/schizoaffective patients, diagnosed according to DSM-IV-TR, from the GRAS (Gttingen Research Association for Schizophrenia) Data Collection for genetic variability in the Icelandic region of risk in the NRG1 gene. For the case-control analysis part of the study, we included 1,056 healthy individuals with comparable ethnicity. The phenotype-based genetic association study (PGAS) was performed on the GRAS sample. Instead of a risk constellation, we detected that several haplotypic variants of NRG1 were, unexpectedly, less frequent in the schizophrenic than in the control sample (mean OR=0.78, range between 0.68 and 0.85). In the PGAS we found that these &quot;protective&quot; NRG1 variants are specifically underrepresented in subgroups of schizophrenic subjects with early age of onset and high positive symptom load. The GRAS Data Collection as a prerequisite for PGAS has enabled us to associate protective NRG1 genotypes with later onset and milder course of schizophrenia.
Recent treatments with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimens have been shown to improve general clinical status in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; however, the prevalence of cognitive alterations and neurodegeneration has remained the same or has increased. These deficits are more pronounced in the subset of HIV patients with the inflammatory condition known as HIV encephalitis (HIVE). Activation of signaling pathways such as GSK3 and CDK5 has been implicated in the mechanisms of HIV neurotoxicity; however, the downstream mediators of these effects are unclear. The present study investigated the involvement of CDK5 and tau phosphorylation in the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in HIVE. In the frontal cortex of patients with HIVE, increased levels of CDK5 and p35 expression were associated with abnormal tau phosphorylation. Similarly, transgenic mice engineered to express the HIV protein gp120 exhibited increased brain levels of CDK5 and p35, alterations in tau phosphorylation, and dendritic degeneration. In contrast, genetic knockdown of CDK5 or treatment with the CDK5 inhibitor roscovitine improved behavioral performance in the water maze test and reduced neurodegeneration, abnormal tau phosphorylation, and astrogliosis in gp120 transgenic mice. These findings indicate that abnormal CDK5 activation contributes to the neurodegenerative process in HIVE via abnormal tau phosphorylation; thus, reducing CDK5 might ameliorate the cognitive impairments associated with HIVE.
The sympathetic nervous system regulates visceral function through the release of catecholamines and cotransmitters from postganglionic sympathetic neurons and adrenal chromaffin cells (ACCs). Previous studies have shown that norepinephrine secretion is decreased during experimental colitis due to the inhibition of voltage-gated Ca(2+) current (I(Ca)) in postganglionic sympathetic neurons. The present study examined whether colonic inflammation causes a similar impairment in depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx in ACCs using the dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) model of acute colitis in mice. Alterations in ACC function during colitis were assessed using fura 2-acetoxymethyl ester Ca(2+) imaging techniques and perforated patch-clamp electrophysiology. In ACCs isolated from mice with DSS-induced acute colitis, the high-K(+)-stimulated increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) was significantly reduced to 74% of the response of ACCs from control mice. Acute colitis caused a 10-mV hyperpolarization of ACC resting membrane potential, without a significant effect on cellular excitability. Delayed-rectifier K(+) and voltage-gated Na(+) current densities were significantly enhanced in ACCs from mice with DSS-induced acute colitis, with peak current densities of 154 and 144% that of controls, respectively. Importantly, acute colitis significantly inhibited I(Ca) in ACCs between -25 and +20 mV. Peak I(Ca) density in ACCs from mice with DSS-induced acute colitis was 61% that of controls. High-K(+)-induced increases in [Ca(2+)](i) were also reduced in ACCs from mice with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid-induced acute colitis and DSS-induced chronic colitis to 68 and 78% of the control responses, respectively. Our results suggest that, during colitis, voltage-dependent Ca(2+) influx is impaired in ACCs. Given the importance of Ca(2+) signaling in exocytosis, these alterations may decrease systemic catecholamine levels, which could play an important role in inflammatory bowel disease. This is the first demonstration of aberrant ACC function during experimental colitis.


We describe the parallels between findings from cognitive science and neuroscience and Common-Sense Models in four areas: (1) Activation of illness representations by the automatic linkage of symptoms and functional changes with concepts (an integration of declarative and perceptual and procedural knowledge); (2) Action plans for the management of symptoms and disease; (3) Cognitive and behavioral heuristics (executive functions parallel to recent findings in cognitive science) involved in monitoring and modifying automatic control processes; (4) Perceiving and communicating to &quot;other minds&quot; during medical visits to address the declarative and non-declarative (perceptual and procedural) knowledge that comprise a patient's representations of illness and treatment (the transparency of other minds).

Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder with diverse etiologies. Neuroimaging plays an important role in workup of patients with epilepsy. It helps to identify brain pathologies that require specific treatment; and also in formulating syndromic and etiological diagnoses so as to give patients and their relatives an accurate prognosis. Magnetic resonance imaging, specially the 3 tesla MRI is the imaging of choice because of its ability to detect small lesions like mesial temporal sclerosis, cortical dysplasias, small tumors, etc that are not detected by conventional MR or CT scan of brain. Identification of these lesions often helps in managing refractory epilepsies more effectively. However, cost and non-availability of MR in large part of the country necessitate the use of CT as an alternative. CT is often the initial investigation and also useful in acute situations. Functional imagings are used for pre-surgical work-up of refractory epilepsy cases with an aim to identify the epileptogenic focus and to delineate functional areas nearing the focus.

In the late 1970s, Wally Welker and his colleagues published a series of papers describing the first high-resolution physiological maps of tactile mossy fiber projections to the granule cell layer of the rat. Over the subsequent decade, his laboratory continued to explore the implications of these results for cerebellar connectivity and function while also extending the basic mapping results to a number of additional mammalian species. In each case, the maps revealed several surprising features, including a dominance of tactile (cutaneous inputs), robust short latency responses from the sensory periphery, and a fractured patchy somatotopic organization of receptive fields. This paper summarizes the major results of these micromapping experiments and reconsiders their implications for cerebellar function in light of more recent experimental data. The paper also explores the relationship between these fundamental discoveries and Wally Welker's theory-neutral approach to experimental science.
The evolutionary process of readaptation to the aquatic environment was accompanied by extreme anatomical and physiological changes in the brain. This review discusses cortical specializations in the three major lineages of marine mammals in comparison to related terrestrial and semiaquatic species. Different groups of marine mammals adopted a wide range of strategies to cope with the challenges of aquatic living. Cetaceans and hippopotamids possess a completely agranular neocortex in contrast to phocids and sirenians; vertical modules are observed in deep layers V and VI in manatees, cetaceans, phocids, and hippopotamids, but in different cortical areas; and clustering in layer II appears in the insular cortex of hippopotamids, phocids, and cetaceans. Finally, von Economo neurons are present in cetaceans, hippopotamids, sirenians, and some phocids, with specific, yet different, cortical distributions. The interpretation of the evolutionary and functional significance of such specializations, and their relationships with the degrees of adaptation to the aquatic environment and phylogeny, remain difficult to trace, at least until comprehensive data, including representative species from all of the major mammalian families, become available.
Karten's neocortex hypothesis holds that many component cell populations of the sauropsid dorsal ventricular ridge (DVR) are homologous to particular cell populations in layers of auditory and visual tectofugal-recipient neocortex of mammals (i.e., temporal neocortex), as well as to some amygdaloid populations. The claustroamygdalar hypothesis, based on gene expression domains, proposes that mammalian homologues of DVR are found in the claustrum, endopiriform nuclei, and/or pallial amygdala. Because hypotheses of homology need to account for the totality of the evidence, the available data on multiple forebrain features of sauropsids and mammals are reviewed here. While some genetic data are compatible with the claustroamygdalar hypothesis, and developmental (epigenetic) data are indecisive, hodological, morphological, and topographical data favor the neocortex hypothesis and are inconsistent with the claustroamygdalar hypothesis. Detailed studies of gene signaling cascades that establish neuronal cell-type identity in DVR, tectofugal-recipient neocortex, and claustroamygdala will be needed to resolve this debate about the evolution of neocortex.
The following review and appreciation of the pioneering work and character of Wallace I. (Wally) Welker provides a historical perspective on Welker's life-long quest for answers to fundamental questions on the relationships among brain, behavior, and evolution, and evaluates his impact upon comparative behavioral neuroscience.

Emotions suffuse much of the language employed by students of animal behavior--from &quot;social bonding&quot; to &quot;alarm calls&quot;--yet are carefully avoided as an explicit topic in scientific discourse. Given the increasing interest in human emotional intelligence and the explicit attention in neuroscience to the emotions, both human and nonhuman, the taboo that has reigned for so long in animal behavior research seems outdated. The present review seeks to recall the history of our field in which emotions and instincts were mentioned in the same breath and in which neither psychologists nor biologists felt that animal emotions were off limits. One of the tenets supporting a renewed interest in this topic is to avoid unanswerable questions and to view emotions as mental and bodily states that potentiate behavior appropriate to environmental challenges. Understanding the emotionally deep structure of behavior will be the next frontier in the study of animal behavior.
Explicit memory refers to the conscious retrieval of past information or experiences, whereas implicit memory refers to an unintentional or nonconscious form of retrieval. Much of the literature in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience has focused on differences between explicit and implicit memory, and the traditional view is that they rely on distinct brain systems. However, the potential interplay between implicit and explicit memory is not always clear. This review draws from behavioral and functional neuroimaging evidence to evaluate three areas in which implicit and explicit memory may be interrelated. First, we discuss views of familiarity-based recognition in terms of its relationship with implicit memory. Second, we review the challenges of distinguishing between implicit memory and involuntary aware memory, at both behavioral and neural levels. Finally, we examine evidence indicating that implicit and explicit retrieval of relational information may rely on a common neural mechanism. Taken together, these areas indicate that, under certain circumstances, there may be an important and influential relationship between conscious and nonconscious expressions of memory.
Auditory signals are decomposed into discrete frequency elements early in the transduction process, yet somehow these signals are recombined into the rich acoustic percepts that we readily identify and are familiar with. The cerebral cortex is necessary for the perception of these signals, and studies from several laboratories over the past decade have made significant advances in our understanding of the neuronal mechanisms underlying auditory perception. This review will concentrate on recent studies in the macaque monkey that indicate that the activity of populations of neurons better accounts for the perceptual abilities compared to the activity of single neurons. The best examples address whether the acoustic space is represented along the &quot;where&quot; pathway in the caudal regions of auditory cortex. Our current understanding of how such population activity could also underlie the perception of the nonspatial features of acoustic stimuli is reviewed, as is how multisensory interactions can influence our auditory perception.
This review summarizes recent ideas about the cortical circuits for seeing words, an important part of the brain system for reading. Historically, the link between the visual cortex and reading has been contentious. One influential position is that the visual cortex plays a minimal role, limited to identifying contours, and that information about these contours is delivered to cortical regions specialized for reading and language. An alternative position is that specializations for seeing words develop within the visual cortex itself. Modern neuroimaging measurements-including both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion weighted imaging with tractography (DTI) data-support the position that circuitry for seeing the statistical regularities of word forms develops within the ventral occipitotemporal cortex, which also contains important circuitry for seeing faces, colors, and forms. This review explains new findings about the visual pathways, including visual field maps, as well as new findings about how we see words. The measurements from the two fields are in close cortical proximity, and there are good opportunities for coordinating theoretical ideas about function in the ventral occipitotemporal cortex.
Delineating the functional organization of the prefrontal cortex is central to advancing models of goal-directed cognition. Considerable evidence indicates that specific forms of cognitive control are associated with distinct subregions of the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), but less is known about functional specialization within the right VLPFC. We report a functional MRI meta-analysis of two prominent theories of right VLPFC function: stopping of motor responses and reflexive orienting to abrupt perceptual onsets. Along with a broader review of right VLPFC function, extant data indicate that stopping and reflexive orienting similarly recruit the inferior frontal junction (IFJ), suggesting that IFJ supports the detection of behaviorally relevant stimuli. By contrast, other right VLPFC subregions are consistently active during motor inhibition, but not reflexive reorienting tasks, with posterior-VLPFC being active during the updating of action plans and mid-VLPFC responding to decision uncertainty. These results highlight the rich functional heterogeneity that exists within right VLPFC.
There has been a long debate on the existence of brain signals that precede the outcome of decisions, even before subjects believe they are consciously making up their mind. The framework of multivariate decoding provides a novel tool for investigating such choice-predictive information contained in neural signals leading up to a decision. New results show that the specific outcome of free choices between different plans can be interpreted from brain activity, not only after a decision has been made, but even several seconds before it is made. This suggests that a causal chain of events can occur outside subjective awareness even before a subject makes up his/her mind. An important future line of research would be to develop paradigms that allow feedback of real-time predictions of future decisions to reveal whether such decisions can still be reverted. This would shed light on how tight the causal link is between early predictive brain signals and subsequent decisions.
Widely considered the father of the field of cognitive neuroscience, Professor Michael S. Gazzaniga is one of the world's premier neuroscientists. He founded the Center for Neuroscience at the University of California, Davis; the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at Dartmouth College; the Cognitive Neuroscience Institute; Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience; and the Cognitive Neuroscience Society. He is currently the director of the Sage Center for the Study of the Mind at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Born on December 12, 1939 in Los Angeles and educated at Dartmouth College, he received his Ph.D. in psychobiology at the California Institute of Technology under the tutelage of Roger Sperry. As a graduate student, Professor Gazzaniga initiated the first lateralized testing of human split-brain patients, leading to a fundamental shift in our understanding of functional lateralization in the brain and how the cerebral hemispheres communicate with one another. His many scholarly publications and pioneering work during the last 50 years have produced significant contributions to our understanding of how the brain enables the mind. His landmark 1995 book for MIT Press, The Cognitive Neurosciences, now in its fourth edition, is recognized as the sourcebook for the field. He has also published many books accessible to a lay audience, including Mind Matters, Nature's Mind, and The Ethical Brain.
Social species are so characterized because they form organizations that extend beyond the individual. The goal of social neuroscience is to investigate the biological mechanisms that underlie these social structures, processes, and behavior and the influences between social and neural structures and processes. Such an endeavor is challenging because it necessitates the integration of multiple levels. Mapping across systems and levels (from genome to social groups and cultures) requires interdisciplinary expertise, comparative studies, innovative methods, and integrative conceptual analysis. Examples of how social neuroscience is contributing to our understanding of the functions of the brain and nervous system are described, and societal implications of social neuroscience are considered.
During the 1990s and early 2000s, cognitive neuroscience investigations of human category learning focused on the primary goal of showing that humans have multiple category-learning systems and on the secondary goals of identifying key qualitative properties of each system and of roughly mapping out the neural networks that mediate each system. Many researchers now accept the strength of the evidence supporting multiple systems, and as a result, during the past few years, work has begun on the second generation of research questions-that is, on questions that begin with the assumption that humans have multiple category-learning systems. This article reviews much of this second generation of research. Topics covered include (1) How do the various systems interact? (2) Are there different neural systems for categorization and category representation? (3) How does automaticity develop in each system? and (4) Exactly how does each system learn?

The calcium ion (Ca(2+)) is the main second messenger that helps to transmit depolarization status and synaptic activity to the biochemical machinery of a neuron. These features make Ca(2+) regulation a critical process in neurons, which have developed extensive and intricate Ca(2+) signaling pathways. High intensity Ca(2+) signaling necessitates high ATP consumption to restore basal (low) intracellular Ca(2+) levels after Ca(2+) influx through plasma membrane receptor and voltage-dependent ion channels. Ca(2+) influx may also lead to increased generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). Impaired abilities of neurons to maintain cellular energy levels and to suppress ROS may impact Ca(2+) signaling during aging and in neurodegenerative disease processes. This review focuses on mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) homeostasis and how they relate to synaptic Ca(2+) signaling processes, neuronal energy metabolism, and ROS generation. Also, the contribution of altered Ca(2+) signaling to neurodegeneration during aging will be considered. Advances in understanding the molecular regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis and how it is perturbed in neurological disorders may lead to therapeutic strategies that modulate neuronal Ca(2+) signaling to enhance function and counteract disease processes.
Deficits in episodic memory, related to medial temporal lobe dysfunction, are a core component of schizophrenia. Rey's Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) is one of the most widely used neuropsychological memory tasks in clinical practice but normative data are limited. Over the last 15 years, the RAVLT has been used to assess verbal episodic memory performance as part of the Western Australian Family Study of Schizophrenia (WAFSS). This study aims to provide RAVLT norms, derived from the WAFSS, for individuals meeting DSM-IV and ICD-10 diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia or schizophrenia-spectrum disorder, for use in clinical settings. Performance on three immediate and one delayed recall trials, and additional measures of encoding and forgetting, is presented for 492 patients and 260 healthy community controls. Results indicated that age and sex (both groups) and IQ (schizophrenia group only) significantly influenced performance. Norms are presented, as means and standard deviations, stratified accordingly. Additional between-groups analysis clearly shows a significant memory deficit in schizophrenia even when patients are matched on IQ, age, and sex with healthy controls.

The study aims to determine if recent intimate partner violence (IPV) is a prenatal risk factor for postpartum depression (PPD) among pregnant Latinas seeking prenatal care. A prospective observational study followed Latinas from pregnancy through 13 months postpartum. Prenatal predictors of PPD included depression, recent IPV exposure, remote IPV exposure, non-IPV trauma history, poverty, low social support, acculturation, high parity, and low education. Postpartum depression was measured at 3, 7, and 13 months after birth with the Beck's Depression Inventory-Fast Screen. Strength of association was evaluated using bivariate and multivariable odds ratio analysis. Subjects were predominantly low income, monolingual Spanish, and foreign-born, with mean age of 27.7. Recent IPV, prenatal depression, non-IPV trauma, and low social support were associated with greater likelihood of PPD in bivariate analyses. Recent IPV and prenatal depression continued to show significant association with PPD in multivariate analyses, with greater odds of PPD associated with recent IPV than with prenatal depression (adjusted OR=5.38, p&lt;0.0001 for recent IPV and adjusted OR=3.48, p&lt;0.0001 for prenatal depression). Recent IPV exposure is a strong, independent prenatal predictor of PPD among Latinas. Screening and referral for both IPV and PPD during pregnancy may help reduce postpartum mental health morbidity among Latinas.
To determine the prevalence of cigarette use among college students and to identify correlates of cigarette smoking, a cross-sectional study was conducted on 1750 college students in the city of Kerman, located in southern Iran. The average age of college students was 21.2  2.1 years. A total of 52% participants were female, 92% were single, and 11% (184) were smokers (22% of men and 2.4% of women). The average age of smoking initiation was 15.9  4.5 years. A high association was shown with the use of cigarettes among close friends (odds ratio [OR] = 4.3), alcohol use (OR = 2.95), and being a male (OR = 2.81). Less cigarette use was shown among participants who prayed (OR = 0.52) and those with better academic standing (OR = 0.68). Based up the high prevalence of cigarette use among college students and also taking into account the correlates of cigarette use, gender-specific programs need to be tailored for cigarette use prevention among college students.
The decision strategy adopted by an observer in a psychophysical procedure may be established by comparing estimates of sensitivity obtained by using detection-theoretic models based on each of the available decision strategies. Estimates of sensitivity obtained from 10 observers on auditory-level discrimination tasks using the yes/no, two-alternative forced choice (2AFC), and 2AFC with reminder (2AFCR; sometimes called duo-trio) procedures were compared in order to determine the decision strategy used by the judges in the 2AFCR procedure. 2AFCR permits at least three decision strategies: differencing, likelihood ratio, and comparison of distances. The latter strategy has frequently been assumed in the analysis of duo-trio data in the sensory evaluation literature. The present study demonstrates that the comparison-of-distances strategy was not used by 9 of the 10 observers in this auditory experiment. The nature of the instructions given to the observers had no measurable impact on the decision strategy that they adopted.
It is now widely accepted that individuals with autism have a Theory of Mind (ToM) or mentalizing deficit. This has traditionally been assessed with false-belief tasks and, more recently, with silent geometric animations, an on-line ToM task. In adults with milder forms of autism standard false-belief tests, originally devised for children, often prove insensitive, while the Frith-Happ animations have had rather better success at capturing the on-line ToM deficit in this population. However, analysis of participants' verbal descriptions of these animations, which span scenarios from &quot;Random&quot; to &quot;Goal-Directed&quot; and &quot;ToM,&quot; is time consuming and subjective. In this study, we developed and established the feasibility of an objective method of response through a series of multiple-choice questions. Sixteen adults with autism and 15 typically developing adults took part, matched for age and intelligence. The adults with autism were less accurate as a group at categorizing the Frith-Happ animations by the presence or absence of mental and physical interactions. Furthermore, they were less able to select the correct emotions that are typically attributed to the triangles in the mental state animations. This new objective method for assessing the understanding of the animations succeeded in being as sensitive as the original subjective method in detecting the mentalizing difficulties in autism, as well as being quicker and easier to administer and analyze.
Researchers have recently hypothesized that autism spectrum disorders (ASD) may be partly characterized by physiological over-arousal. One way to assess physiological arousal is through autonomic measures. Here heart period (HP) and parasympathetic activity measured by respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) were examined in adults with ASD and matched controls at rest and during performance of an emotional Stroop task. Resting HP and RSA were lower in adults with ASD than in matched controls, consistent with hypothesized over-arousal in ASD. However, dividing the ASD group on the basis of antipsychotic medication usage revealed that group differences in autonomic arousal may be related to the effects of these medications or their correlates. Autonomic adjustments for Stroop performance were comparable across groups, but in the control group, larger RSA reductions were correlated with faster responding (i.e., better performance). This relation was reversed in the unmedicated ASD group and absent in the medicated ASD group. Findings highlight the importance of considering medication status in the recently burgeoning area of psychophysiological studies of autism.
This study investigated the effect of postnatal tactile stimulation (TS) on juvenile behavior, adult amphetamine (AMPH) sensitization, and the interaction of TS and AMPH on prefrontal cortical (PFC) thickness and striatum size. Pups received TS by stroking daily with a feather duster from birth till weaning and were tested, as juveniles, in behavioral tasks including open field locomotion, elevated maze, novel object recognition, and play fighting behavior. Development and persistence of drug-induced behavioral sensitization was tested by chronic AMPH administration and challenge, respectively. PFC thickness and striatum size were assessed from serial brain sections. The findings showed that TS rats spent less time with novel objects on first exposure but open field locomotion and elevated plus maze tasks were not affected substantially. TS reduced the frequency of play fighting and enhanced evasion in response to a playful attack, but only in males. The probability of complete rotation defense, leading to a supine posture during play, was reduced in both sexes. AMPH administration resulted in gradual increase in behavioral sensitization that persisted at least for 2 weeks. However, TS rats exhibited attenuated AMPH sensitization compared to sex-matched controls. Neuroanatomically, AMPH reduced the PFC thickness in control females but enlarged the posterior striatum in control males. TS experience blocked these effects. In summary, TS during development modulated the response to novel objects and altered social behaviors and attenuated AMPH-induced behavioral sensitization by preventing drug-induced structural alteration in the PFC and the striatum, brain regions implicated in drug abuse.
The feedback-related negativity (FRN), an event-related potential (ERP) component reflecting feedback processing in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), has consistently been found to be reduced in healthy aging, whereas behavioral findings regarding age-related changes in decision making and feedback-based learning are inconsistent. This study aimed to elucidate similarities and differences between healthy younger and older subjects in the processing of monetary performance feedback focusing on effects of reward expectancy. Eighteen younger and 20 older subjects completed a feedback learning task, in which a rule could be learned to predict the reward probabilities associated with particular stimuli. Older subjects showed evidence of slower learning than younger subjects. In both younger and older subjects, the amplitude difference between nonreward and reward in the FRN time window was larger for unexpected than expected outcomes, driven by modulations of negative feedback ERPs. Consistent with previous findings, the amplitude difference tended to be generally reduced in older subjects. P300 amplitude was larger for reward than nonreward in both groups, and interactions between valence and probability indicated that only the P300 for reward was modulated by expectancy. Despite general changes of outcome-related ERPs in healthy aging, older subjects show evidence of preserved effects of expectancy on the processing of monetary feedback.
Opioid-coded neural circuits play a substantial role in how individuals respond to drugs of abuse. Most individuals begin using such drugs during adolescence and within a social context. Several studies indicate that adolescent mice exhibit a heightened sensitivity to the effects of morphine, a prototypical opiate drug, but it is unclear whether these developmental differences are related to aspects of motivated behavior. Moreover, exposure to opioids within the rodent brain can alter the expression of social behavior, yet little is known about whether this relationship changes as a function of development or genetic variation. In this study, we conducted a series of experiments to characterize the relationship between genetic background, adolescent development and morphine-induced changes in mouse social investigation (SI). At two time points during adolescent development [postnatal days (PD) 25 and 45], social interactions of test mice of the gregarious C57BL/6J (B6) strain were more tolerant to the suppressive effects of morphine [effective dose 50 (ED50)=0.97 mg/kg and 2.17 mg/kg morphine, respectively] than test mice from the less social BALB/cJ (BALB) strain (ED50=0.61 mg/kg and 0.91 mg/kg morphine, respectively). By contrast, this strain-dependent difference was not evident among adult mice on PD 90 (ED50=1.07 mg/kg and 1.41 mg/kg morphine for BALB and B6 mice, respectively). An additional experiment showed that the ability of morphine to alter social responsiveness was not directly related to drug-induced changes in locomotor behavior. Finally, administration of morphine to stimulus mice on PD 25 reduced social investigation of test mice only when individuals were from the B6 genetic background. Overall, these results indicate that alterations in endogenous opioid systems are related to changes in SI that occur during adolescence, and that morphine administration may mimic rewarding aspects of social encounter.
Cannabinoid receptors (CBRs) play an important role in a variety of physiological functions and have been considered drug targets for obesity and psychiatric disorders. In particular, the CB1R is highly expressed in brain regions crucial to learning and memory processes, and several lines of evidence indicate that pharmacological blockade of this receptor could have therapeutic applications in the treatment of cognitive disorders. In this study, we investigated whether MK-7128 (0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg, orally), a novel and selective CB1R inverse agonist, could improve learning and memory deficits induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg, subcutaneously) in mice. The investigators also assessed CB1R occupancy in the brain to ensure target engagement of MK-7128, and showed that MK-7128 significantly improved both Y-maze spontaneous alternation and object habituation performance in scopolamine-treated mice and inhibits the binding of radioiodinated AM251 in murine cortex and hippocampus. These data indicate that MK-7128 improves cognitive performance in a model of cholinergic hypofunction and suggest that efficacy is achieved at relatively low levels of CB1R occupancy in the brain. Our results extend earlier findings suggesting a role of CB1Rs in the modulation of memory processes and a potential therapeutic application for CB1R inverse agonists in cognitive disorders.
Preclinical evidence suggests an important role of the brain orexin system in behaviours related to drug addiction. This study aimed at assessing the effect of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 on aspects of psychostimulant-conditioned behaviours that are thought to contribute to the maintenance of and relapse to psychostimulant drug use. Rats were first allowed to nose poke for cocaine infusions associated with a cue light presentation (conditioned stimulus; CS) over five daily sessions. Subsequently, drug-free rats were tested for the acquisition of a new response in which presses on a novel active lever led to the presentation of the previously paired CS. We tested SB-334867 in two conditions, SB-334867 was given either before each cocaine self-administration or before the initial four sessions of acquisition for a novel instrumental responding paired with the CS (conditioned reinforcement). The effect of SB-334867 was also tested on the expression of conditioned place preference to d-amphetamine. The rats treated with SB-334867 before each cocaine self-administration session subsequently showed reduced active lever pressing compared with controls in the initial days of the conditioned reinforcement. In the second study, untreated rats showed normal acquisition of discriminated responding preferential for the lever providing the cocaine cue. In contrast, SB-334867 decreased the number of active lever pressing (compared with the control) with significant effects in all sessions. Finally, SB-334867 blocked the expression of d-amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference. These results suggest that orexin-1 receptor antagonism could offer therapeutic potential in reducing the impact of psychostimulant-predictive stimuli that contribute to compulsive drug seeking in human drug users.
Loss of synapses and synaptic damage are the best correlates of cognitive decline identified in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and mitochondrial oxidative damage and synaptic pathology have been identified as early events in the progression of AD. The progressive accumulation of amyloid beta (A) in synapses and synaptic mitochondria are hypothesized to cause synaptic degeneration and cognitive decline in patients with AD. However, the precise mechanistic link between A and mitochondria is not well understood. The purpose of this study was to better understand the effects of A on mitochondrial axonal transport and synaptic alterations in AD. Using mouse hippocampal neurons and A(25-35) peptide, we studied axonal transport of mitochondria, including mitochondrial motility, mitochondrial length and size, mitochondrial index per neurite, and synaptic alterations of the hippocampal neurons. In the PBS-treated neurons, 36.44.7% of the observed mitochondria were motile, with 21.01.3% moving anterograde and 15.43.4% moving retrograde and the average speed of movement was 12.11.8m/min. In contrast, in the A-treated neurons, the number of motile mitochondria were significantly less, at 20.42.6% (P&lt;0.032), as were those moving anterograde (10.12.6%, P&lt;0.016) relative to PBS-treated neurons, suggesting that the A(25-35) peptide impairs axonal transport of mitochondria in AD neurons. In the A-treated neurons, the average speed of motile mitochondria was also less, at 10.91.9m/min, and mitochondrial length was significantly decreased. Further, synaptic immunoreactivity was also significantly less in the A-treated neurons relative to the PBS-treated neurons, indicating that A affects synaptic viability. These findings suggest that, in neurons affected by AD, A is toxic, impairs mitochondrial movements, reduces mitochondrial length, and causes synaptic degeneration.
The study of rare, inherited mutations underlying familial forms of Parkinson's disease has provided insight into the molecular mechanisms of disease pathogenesis. Mutations in these genes have been functionally linked to several key molecular pathways implicated in other neurodegenerative disorders, including mitochondrial dysfunction, protein accumulation and the autophagic-lysosomal pathway. In particular, the mitochondrial kinase PINK1 and the cytosolic E3 ubiquitin ligase parkin act in a common pathway to regulate mitochondrial function. In this review we discuss the recent evidence suggesting that the PINK1/parkin pathway also plays a critical role in the autophagic removal of damaged mitochondria-mitophagy. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Mitochondria: the deadly organelle.





Amygdala reactivity is a heritable trait, potentiated in affective disorders and associated with both the 5-HTTLPR and the COMTval158met polymorphism. Fifty-four healthy volunteers selected a priori based on gender and 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 and COMTval158met genotypes performed a passive viewing task of angry facial expressions using fMRI. Amygdala reactivity and habituation were investigated using the a priori anatomical region of interest (ROI) approach. Furthermore, salivary cortisol and skin conductance responses were recorded. We observed an effect of 5-HTTLPR on right amygdala reactivity (s-carrier&gt;l/l) and COMTval158met on left amygdala reactivity (met/met&gt;val-carrier). We provide preliminary evidence that different amygdala habituation curves may partly underlie the differences between 5-HTTLPR and not COMT genotype groups. Further, exploratory analyses find no evidence for additive or interaction effects. Our results support that 5-HTTLPR s-carriers and COMT met/met carriers may be more sensitive to the detection of biologically and socially relevant information and suggest a mechanism behind this for the 5-HTTLPR.
Intra-subject variability of reaction times (ISV), generally considered secondary to measures of central tendency, has become increasingly important for cognitive neuroscience. Event-related potential (ERP) research suggests an inverse relationship between ISV and P3b amplitude; however ERP methods' reliance on averaged waveforms may be unsuitable for studying ISV due to potentially distorting effects of latency jitter. The present study investigates the neural bases of ISV through single-trial analysis of P3bs in groups with low and high ISV, using Infomax-rotated principal components analysis of ERP data. Results indicate that while latency jitter contributes to the reduced P3b amplitude seen in average ERPs of high ISV participants, group differences in amplitude survive the use of single-trial methods that are robust to such distortions. A decoupling of P3b and RT was also seen in the high ISV group. The results are discussed in the context of the P3b's dimensionality, and its possible catecholaminergic underpinnings.
Several clinical trials have failed to demonstrate a significant effect on outcome following human traumatic brain injury (TBI) despite promising results obtained in preclinical animal studies. These failures may be due in part to a misinterpretation of the findings obtained in preclinical animal models of TBI, a misunderstanding of the complexity of the human response to TBI, limited knowledge about the biological pathways that interact to contribute to good and bad outcomes after brain injury, and the effects of genomic variability and environment on individual recovery. Recent publications suggest that data obtained from gene expression profiling studies of complex neurological diseases such as stroke, multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's and Parkinson's may contribute to a more informed understanding of what affects outcome following TBI. These data may help to bridge the gap between successful preclinical studies and negative clinical trials in humans to reveal novel targets for therapy. Gene expression profiling has the capability to identify biomarkers associated with response to TBI, elucidate complex genetic interactions that may play a role in outcome following TBI, and reveal biological pathways related to brain health. This review highlights the current state of the literature on gene expression profiling for neurological disease and discusses its ability to aid in unraveling the variable human response to TBI and the potential for it to offer treatment strategies in an area where we currently have limited therapeutic options primarily based on supportive care.





Extracellular iron has been implicated in the pathogenesis of post-injury organ failure. However, the source(s) and biochemical species of this iron have not been identified. Based upon evidence that distant organ injury results from an increase in intestinal permeability, we looked for ferrous iron in mesenteric lymph in anesthetized rats undergoing hemorrhage and fluid resuscitation (H/R). Ferrous iron increased in lymph from 4.7nmol/mg of protein prior to hemorrhage to 86.6nmol/mg during resuscitation. Utilizing immuno-spin trapping in protein fractions that were rich in iron, we tentatively indentified protein carrier(s) of ferrous iron by MALDI-TOF MS. One of the identified proteins was the metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitor, TIMP-2. Antibody to TIMP-2 immunoprecipitated 74% of the ferrozine detectable iron in its protein fraction. TIMP-2 binds iron in vitro at pH 6.3, which is typical of conditions in the mesentery during hemorrhage, but it retains the ability to inhibit the metalloproteases MMP-2 and MMP-9. In summary, there is a large increase in extracellular ferrous iron in the gut in H/R demonstrating dysregulation of iron homeostasis. We have identified, for the first time, the binding of extracellular iron to TIMP-2.
The identification of structurally novel analogues of ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP), as NMDA receptor antagonists, with low to moderate potency at GluN2A and GluN2B receptors is discussed. In particular, some examples, such as compounds 6 and 10, shows decreased calculated lipophilicity, when compared to PCP, while retaining moderate activity. Moreover, the germinal aryl amino substituted lactam ring, as exemplified in compounds 7-10 and 11-13, constitutes a novel scaffold with potential application in the design of biologically active compounds.
The objective of the present study was to elucidate the mechanisms of intestinal transport of bis(12)-hupyridone (B12H) to predict its oral bioavailability. The effect of the B12H concentration and the contribution of the drug efflux transporters, P-glycoprotein (P-gp or ABCB1) and multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRPs or ABCC) on B12H absorption were measured and evaluated using the human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cell monolayer in the presence of transporter inhibitors. The results indicated that B12H was absorbed in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations ranging from 132 to 264M. However, only apical efflux was observed in the directional transport studies for B12H below 88M (P(app) (AP-to-BL): virtually zero; P(app) (BL-to-AP): 1.591  0.071  10(-5) cms(-1) ). P-gp and mixed P-gp/MRP inhibitors significantly increased the absorptive transport (P(app) (AP-to-BL)) to 0.619  0.018  10(-5) and 0.608  0.025  10(-5) cms(-1) , respectively, while decreasing secretory transport (P(app) (BL-to-AP)) by &gt;75%. A multiple-MRP inhibitor, probenecid, increased the P(app) (AP-to-BL) to 0.329  0.015  10(-5) cms(-1) while decreasing the P(app) (BL-to-AP) by 50%. Another multiple-MRP inhibitor, indomethacin, only modestly decreased the P(app) (BL-to-AP) by 30% and had no effect on the absorptive transport (P(app) (AP-to-BL): virtually zero). In addition, the effect of various pharmaceutical excipients (e.g. Pluronic F-68, Tween-80 and Brij-35) on B12H transport was determined and compared. Among them, Brij-35 effectively enhanced B12H absorption at a concentration lower than its critical micelle concentration (CMC, 60M). Therefore, Brij-35 can be used as a potential enhancer to improve intestinal absorption of B12H for oral administration.



Rosai-Dorfman disease is a rare non-neoplastic lymphoproliferative condition. It commonly affects individuals between third and fifth decades, most common presentation being in the form of massive painless cervical lymphadenopathy with fever, weight loss and malaise. Isolated intracranial involvement is rare seen in less than 5% of patients with extranodal involvement. We present a patient with isolated contiguous cranio-spinal involvement who presented to us with remitting symptoms.



Retrograde messengers adjust the precise timing of neurotransmitter release from the presynapse, thus modulating synaptic efficacy and neuronal activity. 2-Arachidonoyl glycerol, an endocannabinoid, is one such messenger produced in the postsynapse that inhibits neurotransmitter release upon activating presynaptic CB(1) cannabinoid receptors. Cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease is due to synaptic failure in hippocampal neuronal networks. We hypothesized that errant retrograde 2-arachidonoyl glycerol signalling impairs synaptic neurotransmission in Alzheimer's disease. Comparative protein profiling and quantitative morphometry showed that overall CB(1) cannabinoid receptor protein levels in the hippocampi of patients with Alzheimer's disease remain unchanged relative to age-matched controls, and CB(1) cannabinoid receptor-positive presynapses engulf amyloid--containing senile plaques. Hippocampal protein concentrations for the sn-1-diacylglycerol lipase  and  isoforms, synthesizing 2-arachidonoyl glycerol, significantly increased in definite Alzheimer's (Braak stage VI), with ectopic sn-1-diacylglycerol lipase  expression found in microglia accumulating near senile plaques and apposing CB(1) cannabinoid receptor-positive presynapses. We found that microglia, expressing two 2-arachidonoyl glycerol-degrading enzymes, serine hydrolase /-hydrolase domain-containing 6 and monoacylglycerol lipase, begin to surround senile plaques in probable Alzheimer's disease (Braak stage III). However, Alzheimer's pathology differentially impacts serine hydrolase /-hydrolase domain-containing 6 and monoacylglycerol lipase in hippocampal neurons: serine hydrolase /-hydrolase domain-containing 6 expression ceases in neurofibrillary tangle-bearing pyramidal cells. In contrast, pyramidal cells containing hyperphosphorylated tau retain monoacylglycerol lipase expression, although at levels significantly lower than in neurons lacking neurofibrillary pathology. Here, monoacylglycerol lipase accumulates in CB(1) cannabinoid receptor-positive presynapses. Subcellular fractionation revealed impaired monoacylglycerol lipase recruitment to biological membranes in post-mortem Alzheimer's tissues, suggesting that disease progression slows the termination of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol signalling. We have experimentally confirmed that altered 2-arachidonoyl glycerol signalling could contribute to synapse silencing in Alzheimer's disease by demonstrating significantly prolonged depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition when superfusing mouse hippocampi with amyloid-. We propose that the temporal dynamics and cellular specificity of molecular rearrangements impairing 2-arachidonoyl glycerol availability and actions may differ from those of anandamide. Thus, enhanced endocannabinoid signalling, particularly around senile plaques, can exacerbate synaptic failure in Alzheimer's disease.
Since the 1980s and 1990s, vagus nerve and deep brain stimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation and cranial electrotherapy stimulation have found their way into neurology as therapeutic approaches to epilepsy, Morbus Parkinson and other central nervous symptoms. Moreover, these methods have proven useful and provided hope in the therapy of other diseases, most of all in psychiatry. From a historic perspective, this new emphasis on somatic therapies in the case of transcranial magnetic stimulation and cranial electrotherapy stimulation represents the return of therapeutic methods widely used in the 19th century and based on very similar techniques. Against the background of a general rise in the importance of neurobiological concepts in the neurosciences, we are now in a new situation of change. Yet, as in the 1880s and 1990s, many epistemic questions remain unresolved, the methods not yet having been standardized. In particular, the inability to explain which way and precisely how electricity induces healing processes in the body continues to put the neurosciences, which have always regarded themselves as exact and scientific in nature, in a rather uncomfortable position. There was a similar situation in the 1880s and 1990s, when positivist scientific dogmas prevailed. For ideological and professional reasons, neurologists strongly rejected the notion pioneered by Leipzig neuropsychiatrist Paul Julius Mbius that curative effects of electrotherapy were based on suggestion. One should see, however, that Mbius's actual concern was not to raise opposition towards or question electrotherapy as such, but rather to sensitize his colleagues in view of the prevailing solely materialistic-somatic approach in order that they should not neglect the psychological component of all illness, both in clinical practice and in research. A singular and very special event illustrates the heated debate among German-speaking neurologists on the psychological/suggestive effects of electrotherapy in the last decade of the 19th century-namely the 'Frankfurt Council' of 1891. The statements made at the Frankfurt convention of 35 leading electrotherapists in opposition to Mbius's criticism very much resemble present-day arguments and attitudes. Yet neuroscientists of earlier generations also found very individual answers to fundamental questions in their field that might help both to understand problems from a long-term perspective and enrich present-day discussion as a beneficial corrective.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are a common complication of long-term therapy in Parkinson's disease. Although both pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms seem to be implicated in their development, the precise physiopathology of these disabling involuntary movements remains to be fully elucidated. Abnormalities in glutamate transmission (over expression and phosphorylation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) have been associated with the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in animal models of Parkinsonism. The role of glutamate function in dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease, however, is unclear. We used (11)C-CNS 5161 [N-methyl-3(thyomethylphenyl)cyanamide] positron emission tomography, a marker of activated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion channels, to compare in vivo glutamate function in parkinsonian patients with and without levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Each patient was assessed with positron emission tomography twice, after taking and withdrawal from levodopa. Striatal and cortical tracer uptake was calculated using a region of interest approach. In the 'OFF' state withdrawn from levodopa, dyskinetic and non-dyskinetic patients had similar levels of tracer uptake in basal ganglia and motor cortex. However, when positron emission tomography was performed in the 'ON' condition, dyskinetic patients had higher (11)C-CNS 5161 uptake in caudate, putamen and precentral gyrus compared to the patients without dyskinesias, suggesting that dyskinetic patients may have abnormal glutamatergic transmission in motor areas following levodopa administration. These findings are consistent with the results of animal model studies indicating that increased glutamatergic activity is implicated in the development and maintenance of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. They support the hypothesis that blockade of glutamate transmission may have a place in the management of disabling dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease.
In recent years, the anatomical and functional bases of conceptual activity have attracted a growing interest. In particular, Patterson and Lambon-Ralph have proposed the existence, in the anterior parts of the temporal lobes, of a mechanism (the 'amodal semantic hub') supporting the interactive activation of semantic representations in all modalities and for all semantic categories. The aim of then present paper is to discuss this model, arguing against the notion of an 'amodal' semantic hub, because we maintain, in agreement with the Damasio's construct of 'higher-order convergence zone', that a continuum exists between perceptual information and conceptual representations, whereas the 'amodal' account views perceptual informations only as a channel through which abstract semantic knowledge can be activated. According to our model, semantic organization can be better explained by two orthogonal higher-order convergence systems, concerning, on one hand, the right vs. left hemisphere and, on the other hand, the ventral vs. dorsal processing pathways. This model posits that conceptual representations may be mainly based upon perceptual activities in the right hemisphere and upon verbal mediation in the left side of the brain. It also assumes that conceptual knowledge based on the convergence of highly processed visual information with other perceptual data (and mainly concerning living categories) may be bilaterally represented in the anterior parts of the temporal lobes, whereas knowledge based on the integration of visual data with action schemata (namely knowledge of actions, body parts and artefacts) may be more represented in the left fronto-temporo-parietal areas.
We employ a linear mixed-effects model to estimate the effects of visual form and the linguistic properties of Chinese characters on M100 and M170 MEG responses from single-trial data of Chinese and English speakers in a Chinese lexical decision task. Cortically constrained minimum-norm estimation is used to compute the activation of M100 and M170 responses in functionally defined regions of interest. Both Chinese and English participants' M100 responses tend to increase in response to characters with a high numbers of strokes. English participants' M170 responses show a posterior distribution and only reflect the effect of the visual complexity of characters. On the other hand, the Chinese participants' left hemisphere M170 is increased when reading characters with high number of strokes, and their right hemisphere M170 is increased when reading characters with small combinability of semantic radicals. Our results suggest that expertise with words and the decomposition of word forms underlies processing in the left and right occipitotemporal regions in the reading of Chinese characters by Chinese speakers.


Controversial and ethically tenuous, the use of placebos is central to medicine but even more pivotal to psychosocial therapies. Scholars, researchers, and practitioners largely disagree about the conceptualization of placebos. While different professionals often confound the meanings of placebo effects with placebo responses, physicians continue to prescribe placebos as part of clinical practice. Our study aims to review attitudes and beliefs concerning placebos outside of clinical research. Herein we compare patterns of placebo use reported by academic psychiatrists with those reported by physicians from different specialties across Canadian medical schools. Using a web-based tool, we circulated an online survey to all 17 Canadian medical schools, with a special emphasis on psychiatry departments therein and in university-affiliated teaching hospitals. A variation on earlier efforts, our 5-minute, 21-question survey was anonymous. Among the 606 respondents who completed our online survey, 257 were psychiatrists. Our analysis revealed that psychiatrists prescribed significantly more subtherapeutic doses of medication than physicians in other specialties, although about 20% of both psychiatrists and nonpsychiatrists prescribed placebos regularly as part of routine clinical practice. However, compared with 6% of nonpsychiatrists, only 2% of psychiatrists deemed placebos of no clinical benefit. In addition, more than 60% of psychiatrists either agreed or strongly agreed that placebos had therapeutic effects relative to fewer than 45% of other practitioners. Findings from this pan-Canadian survey suggest that, compared with other physicians, psychiatrists seem to better value the influence placebos wield on the mind and body and maintain more favourable beliefs and attitudes toward placebo phenomena.
8-oxoguanine is a major base lesion in DNA or in nucleotides caused by oxidative stress, and is highly mutagenic because it can pair with adenine as well as cytosine. Adenine DNA glycosylase, encoded by the human mutY homolog gene, MUTYH, excises adenine in the nascent strand when inserted opposite 8-oxoguanine in template DNA, and thus suppresses mutagenesis caused by 8-oxoguanine that has accumulated in DNA due to oxidative stress. Several germ-line mutations in MUTYH are predisposed to MUTYH-associated polyposis, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by multiple colorectal adenomas and carcinomas. Loss of function of MUTYH leads to an accumulation of somatic mutations in APC and KRAS genes, resulting in the development of adenomas/carcinomas. We recently demonstrated that accumulation of 8-oxoguanine in nuclear and mitochondrial DNA triggers two distinct cell death pathways that are independent of each other. Both pathways are initiated by the accumulation of MUTYH-generated single-strand breaks (SSBs) in nuclear or mitochondrial DNA. Our findings indicate that MUTYH-induced cell death due to oxidative stress results in an efficient elimination of mutagenic cells that have accumulated high levels of 8-oxoguanine in their DNAs. It is most likely that loss of function of MUTYH in stem or progenitor cells in the intestinal epithelium of MUTYH-associated polyposis patients results in escape from programmed cell death; however, accumulated 8-oxoguanine causes various mutations in APC or KRAS genes in these proliferative cells, thereby promoting tumorigenesis. We thus propose that MUTYH suppresses tumorigenesis under conditions of oxidative stress by inducing cell death and by suppressing mutagenesis.
Exchange of proteins at sorting endosomes is not only critical to numerous signaling pathways but also to receptor-mediated signaling and to pathogen entry into cells; however, how this process is regulated in synaptic vesicle cycling remains unexplored. In this work, we present evidence that loss of function of a single neuronally expressed GTPase activating protein (GAP), Skywalker (Sky) facilitates endosomal trafficking of synaptic vesicles at Drosophila neuromuscular junction boutons, chiefly by controlling Rab35 GTPase activity. Analyses of genetic interactions with the ESCRT machinery as well as chimeric ubiquitinated synaptic vesicle proteins indicate that endosomal trafficking facilitates the replacement of dysfunctional synaptic vesicle components. Consequently, sky mutants harbor a larger readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles and show a dramatic increase in basal neurotransmitter release. Thus, the trafficking of vesicles via endosomes uncovered using sky mutants provides an elegant mechanism by which neurons may regulate synaptic vesicle rejuvenation and neurotransmitter release.
Nucleotides are of crucial importance as carriers of energy in all organisms. However, the concept that in addition to their intracellular roles, nucleotides act as extracellular ligands specifically on receptors of the plasma membrane took longer to be accepted. Purinergic signaling exerted by purines and pyrimidines, principally ATP and adenosine, occurs throughout embryologic development in a wide variety of organisms, including amphibians, birds, and mammals. Cellular signaling, mediated by ATP, is present in development at very early stages, e.g., gastrulation of Xenopus and germ layer definition of chick embryo cells. Purinergic receptor expression and functions have been studied in the development of many organs, including the heart, eye, skeletal muscle and the nervous system. In vitro studies with stem cells revealed that purinergic receptors are involved in the processes of proliferation, differentiation, and phenotype determination of differentiated cells. Thus, nucleotides are able to induce various intracellular signaling pathways via crosstalk with other bioactive molecules acting on growth factor and neurotransmitter receptors. Since normal development is disturbed by dysfunction of purinergic signaling in animal models, further studies are needed to elucidate the functions of purinoceptor subtypes in developmental processes.
The cell adhesion molecule Tag-1 is highly expressed in immature cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) during axonogenesis and is down-regulated prior to onset of radial migration. However, its precise role(s) during development of mammalian CGNs has been unclear. Here we studied the effects of anti-Tag-1 function blocking antibodies on the development of mouse CGNs in primary cell culture and in situ. Interfering antibodies inhibited axon formation by mouse CGNs in both cell cultures and in cerebellar slices. Effects on axon extension in cell cultures were observed under conditions of homotypic cell-cell contact, consistent with inhibition of cell adhesion activity. Further, when used as a substratum Tag-1 protein strongly stimulated neurite outgrowth by CGNs. Antagonism of Tag-1 also enhanced CGN migration in modified Boyden chamber assays. Radial migration was inhibited by Tag-1 antibodies in cerebellar slices, possibly reflecting a block in early CGN maturation in situ. These findings are consistent with a regulatory role for Tag-1 in axon emergence as well as migratory behavior by developing mouse CGNs.
Acupuncture at acupoints GB34 and LR3 has been reported to inhibit nigrostriatal degeneration in Parkinsonism models, yet the genes related to this preventive effect of acupuncture on the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system remain elusive. This study investigated gene expression profile changes in the striatal region of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced Parkinsonism models after acupuncture at the acupoints GB34 and LR3 using a whole transcript genechip microarray (Affymetrix genechip mouse gene 1.0 ST array). It was confirmed that acupuncture at these acupoints could inhibit the decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter in the nigrostriatal region of the MPTP model while acupuncture at the non-acupoints could not counteract this decrease. Genechip gene array analysis (fold change cutoff 1.3 and P &lt; 0.05) showed that 12 of the 69 probes up-regulated in MPTP when compared to the control were down-regulated by acupuncture at the acupoints. Of these 12 probes, 11 probes (nine annotated genes) were exclusively down-regulated by acupuncture only at the acupoints; the Gfral gene was excluded because it was commonly down-regulated by acupuncture at both the acupoints and the non-acupoints. In addition, 28 of the 189 probes down-regulated in MPTP when compared to the control were up-regulated by acupuncture at the acupoints. Of these 28 probes, 19 probes (seven annotated genes) were exclusively up-regulated by acupuncture only at the acupoints while nine probes were commonly up-regulated by acupuncture at both the acupoints and the non-acupoints. The regulation patterns of representative genes in real-time RT-PCR correlated with those of the genes in the microarray. These results suggest that the 30 probes (16 annotated genes), which are affected by MPTP and acupuncture only at the acupoints, are responsible for exerting in the striatal regions the inhibitory effect of acupuncture at the acupoints on MPTP-induced striatal degeneration.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) becomes one of the promising strategies in restoring lost functions of injured central nervous system. Elevated level of expressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was revealed in the previous studies to be related to the protective effects of OECs on injured cortical and brain stem neurons as well as retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), but no evidence has been obtained to demonstrate whether transplanted OECs protect injured central neurons directly by their secreted BDNF. In the present study, the effects of BDNF neutralization on the neuroprotection of adult OEC-conditioned medium (OEC-CM) on scratch-insulted RGCs were examined. The results showed that OEC-CM protected cultured RGCs from scratch insult, and neutralization of BDNF by BDNF neutralizing antibody attenuated such neuroprotection of the medium. It is thus concluded that neurotrophic factors including BDNF secreted by OECs can protect injured OECs in vitro and BDNF plays a major role in such a protection of OECs.
The guinea-pig caecum was studied by using immunohistochemistry for Kit receptors and nerves to clarify whether interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) were localized in association with the submucosal plexus (ICC-SP). A large area of the guinea-pig caecum was nearly devoid of longitudinal muscles, because they were concentrated into three bundles of the taenia caeci (coli) and this allowed clear observation of the myenteric and submucosal plexus as separate networks in whole-mount stretch preparations. The myenteric plexus was observed as a loose polygonal network consisting in elongated ganglia and long connecting nerve strands, whereas the submucosal plexus was identified as smaller ovoid ganglia connected to much thinner nerve strands in different tissue layers. Three-dimensional reconstruction of confocal images revealed multipolar-shaped ICC-SP located around the submucosal ganglion in a basket formation. Bipolar ICC-SP were also observed along the connecting nerve strands of the submucosal plexus. The functional involvement of ICC-SP in mucosal activity is discussed in relation to fluid transportation. This three-dimensional study of ICC-SP thus provides a candidate for the most suitable material available for functional experiments examining the physiological significance of ICC-SP.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from human adult adipose tissue (A-MSCs) have a better differentiative ability than MSCs derived from the derma (D-MSCs). To test whether this difference is associated with differences in the content of multi-potent progenitors in A-MSCs, the number and the differentiative properties of multi-potent progenitors have been analyzed in various preparations of A-MSCs and D-MSCs. Adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation performed on colony-forming units have revealed that adipogenic and osteogenic progenitors are similar in the two populations, with only a slighty better performance of A-MSCs over D-MSCs from passages p0 to p15. An analysis of the presence of tri-, bi-, uni- and nulli-potent progenitors isolated immediately after isolation from tissues (p0) has shown comparable numbers of tri-potent and bi-potent progenitors in MSCs from the two tissues, whereas a higher content in uni-potent cells committed to adipocytes and a lower content in nulli-potent cells has been observed in A-MSCs. Furthermore, we have characterized the progenitors present in A-MSCs after six passages in vitro to verify the way in which in vitro culture can affect content in progenitor cells. We have observed that the percentage of tri-potent cells in A-MSCs at p6 remains similar to that observed at p0, although bi-potent and uni-potent progenitors committed to osteogenic differentiation increase at p6, whereas nulli-potent cells decrease at p6. These data indicate that the greater differentiative ability of A-MSC populations does not correlate directly with the number of multi-potent progenitors, suggesting that other factors influence the differentiation of bulk populations of A-MSCs.
Earlier reports regarding secular trends of migraine are conflicting, and there is a lack of long-term follow-up studies of other headache syndromes among adults. The aim of the present study was to assess any changes in the prevalence of the major headache types in a large adult population. With an 11-year interval, all inhabitants aged 20 years (n=92,566 and 94,194) in the Norwegian county of Nord-Trndelag were invited to participate in two cross-sectional surveys. Attendance rates were 56% and 42%. The age-adjusted 1-year prevalences, according to the diagnostic criteria of the International Headache Society, sex-ratios and attack frequencies were assessed. The migraine prevalence increased from 12.1% to 13.2% (P&lt;0.001), but the sex ratio did not change. The prevalence of non-migrainous headache overall decreased (26.0% vs 24.2%; P&lt;0.001). The prevalences of 'headache suffering' (37.4%), chronic daily headache (2.5%) and medication overuse headache (1.0%) remained stable. Apart from a small increase of migraine, headache prevalences remained essentially stable among adults in a Norwegian county during an 11-year period.
Motion-in-depth causes changes in the size of retinal images in addition to producing optic flow patterns. A previous psychophysical study showed that human subjects can perceive expansion motion in texture stimuli that exhibit increases in the scale of image elements but no consistent optic flow pattern. The neural mechanisms by which the scale-change information is processed remain unknown. Here, we measured the responses of cat V1 and the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons to a sequence of random images whose spatial frequency spectrum changed over time (i.e., average spatial scale expanded or contracted). We found that V1 neurons exhibit direction sensitivity to scale changes, with more cells preferring expansion than contraction motion. This direction sensitivity can be partly accounted for by the spectrotemporal receptive field of V1 neurons. Comparison of the direction sensitivity between V1 and LGN neurons showed that the sensitivity in V1 may originate from LGN neurons. Repetitive stimulation with expansion or contraction motion can decrease the sensitivity to the adapted direction in V1, and the effect can be transferred interocularly, suggesting that intracortical connections may be critically involved in the adaptation. Together, our results suggest that direction sensitivity to scale change in V1 may contribute to motion-in-depth processing.
Previous neuroimaging and behavioral studies demonstrated structural and functional changes in the motor system across childhood. However, it is unclear what functionally relevant electrocortical processes underlie developmental differences in motor planning and control during multijoint, goal-directed movements. The current study characterized age-related differences in electrocortical processes during the performance of discrete aiming movements in children and adults. Electroencephalography and movement kinematics were recorded from 3 groups of participants (n = 15 each): young children (mean 6.7 years), older children (mean 10.2 years), and adults (mean 22.1 years). Age-related differences were evident in the electroencephalographic (EEG) signals. First, young children exhibited less movement-related activity in task-relevant motor areas compared with adults (movement-related cortical potentials). Second, young children exhibited greater activation (less alpha power) of the frontal areas and less activation of the parietal areas as compared with the other groups. At the behavioral level, young children made slower and jerkier movements, with less consistent directional planning compared with older children and adults. Significant correlations were also found between EEG and movement kinematic measures. Taken together, the results of this study provide evidence that age-related differences in the quality of motor planning and performance are reflected in the differences in electrocortical dynamics among children and adults.
The organization of forelimb representation areas of the monkey, cat, and rat motor cortices has been studied in depth, but its characterization in the mouse lags far behind. We used intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) and cytoarchitectonics to characterize the general organization of the C57BL/6 mouse motor cortex, and the forelimb representation in more detail. We found that the forelimb region spans a large area of frontal cortex, bordered primarily by vibrissa, neck, shoulder, and hindlimb representations. It included a large caudal forelimb area, dominated by digit representation, and a small rostral forelimb area, containing elbow and wrist representations. When the entire motor cortex was mapped, the forelimb was found to be the largest movement representation, followed by head and hindlimb representations. The ICMS-defined motor cortex spanned cytoarchitecturally identified lateral agranular cortex (AGl) and also extended into medial agranular cortex. Forelimb and hindlimb representations extended into granular cortex in a region that also had cytoarchitectural characteristics of AGl, consistent with the primary motor-somatosensory overlap zone (OL) characterized in rats. Thus, the mouse motor cortex has homologies with the rat in having 2 forelimb representations and an OL but is distinct in the predominance of digit representations.
It is of considerable interest to determine how diverse subtypes of -aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) interneurons integrate into the functional network of the cerebral cortex. Using inducible in vivo genetic fate mapping approaches, we found that interneuron precursors arising from the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) and caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE) at E12.5, respectively, populate deep and superficial cortical layers in a complementary manner in the mature cortex. These age-matched populations initiate tangential migration into the cortex simultaneously, migrate above and below the cortical plate in a similar ratio, and complete their entrance into the cortical plate by P1. Surprisingly, while these 2 interneuron populations show a comparable layer distribution at P1, they subsequently segregate into distinct cortical layers. In addition, the initiation of the radial sorting within each lineage coincided well with the upregulation of the potassium/chloride cotransporter KCC2. Moreover, layer sorting of a later born (E16.5) CGE-derived population occurred with a similar time course to the earlier born E12.5 cohorts, further suggesting that this segregation step is controlled in a subtype specific manner. We conclude that radial sorting within the early postnatal cortex is a key mechanism by which the layer-specific integration of GABAergic interneurons into the emerging cortical network is achieved.
Although cognitive neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the involvement of the prefrontal cortex in human memory, the necessity of the orbitofrontal cortex for key competencies of working memory remains largely unexplored. We therefore studied human brain lesion patients to determine whether the orbitofrontal cortex is necessary for working memory function, administering subtests of the Wechsler memory scale, the Wechsler adult intelligence scale, and the n-back task to 3 participant groups: orbitofrontal lesions (n = 24), prefrontal lesions not involving orbitofrontal cortex (n = 40), and no brain lesions (n = 54). Orbitofrontal damage was reliably associated with deficits on neuropsychological tests involving the coordination of working memory maintenance, manipulation, and monitoring processes (n-back task) but not on pure tests of working memory maintenance (digit/spatial span forward) or manipulation (digit/spatial span backward and letter-number sequencing). Our findings elucidate a central component of the neural architecture of working memory, providing key neuropsychological evidence for the necessity of the orbitofrontal cortex in executive control functions underlying the joint maintenance, manipulation, and monitoring of information in working memory.
Behavioral studies have shown that hand position influences saccade characteristics. This study examined the neuronal changes that could underlie this behavioral observation. Single neurons were recorded in the frontal eye field (FEF) of 2 monkeys as they executed a visually guided saccade task, while holding their hand at given locations on a touch screen. The task was performed with the hand either visible or invisible, in order to assess the relative contribution of visual and proprioceptive information on hand position. Among the 224 neurons tested, the visual, saccadic and/or preparatory activity of more than half of them was modulated by hand position, whether the hand was visible or invisible. Comparison of lower (hand's workspace) and upper (out of reach) visual targets showed that hand modulation was predominant in the hand's workspace. Finally, some cells preferred congruency of hand and target in space, others preferred incongruency. Interestingly, hand modulation of saccadic activity correlated with hand position effects on saccade reaction times. We conclude that visual and proprioceptive signals derived from the hand are integrated by FEF neurons. These signals can modulate target selection through attention and allow the oculomotor system to use hand-related somatosensory signals for the initiation of visually guided saccades.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common, chronic, and impairing condition in youth. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), now widely recognized as the gold standard intervention for childhood OCD, relies on exposure and response prevention, and also includes psychoeducation, creation of a symptom hierarchy, imaginal exposures, cognitive interventions, and a contingency management system. This article reviews the theoretical underpinnings of current CBT approaches, key components of treatment, developmental considerations specific to childhood OCD, and evidence supporting the use of this psychosocial intervention. The current state of knowledge will be aided by further study of predictors and mechanisms of CBT treatment response.





Dysfunctions in affective experience reflect a pernicious feature of schizophrenia-spectrum pathology that are largely intractable under current treatment regimens. Of note, individuals with schizophrenia show robust and marked deficits in the experience of pleasure when assessed using &quot;trait&quot; measures of affect (i.e., trait questionnaires and clinical interview), but fail to demonstrate this anhedonia &quot;in the moment&quot; using controlled laboratory mood-induction procedures. The reasons for this disjunction are unclear, but the last decade has seen a number of recent studies tackling this issue. We conduct a comprehensive review of this literature here. Five different explanations for this state-trait disjunction are identified: 1) anticipatory hedonic experience deficit, 2) affective regulation deficit, 3) encoding-retrieval deficit, 4) representational deficit and 5) social-specific deficit theories. Our present article reviews each of these theories, placing them in context of the larger affective and cognitive neuroscience literatures when appropriate. Additionally, practical recommendations for future studies examining affective dysfunction within the schizophrenia-spectrum are discussed.
Antipsychotic drugs were introduced in the early 50s on the basis of clinical observations in patients with schizophrenia. Experimental studies later revealed that antagonism at the D(2) dopamine receptor is a common characteristic of all antipsychotic drugs. In the 80s, the advent of brain imaging technologies such as positron emission tomography (PET) allowed for direct noninvasive studies of drug binding in treated patients. The concept receptor occupancy is defined as the fraction (%) of a receptor population that is occupied during treatment with an unlabelled drug. With regard to antipsychotic drugs, the radioligand [(11) C]-raclopride has been the most widely used for binding to the D(2) /D(3) -dopamine receptors. The present review discusses the contribution from molecular imaging to the current understanding of mechanism of action (MoA) of antipsychotic drugs. Consistent initial PET-findings of high D2-receptor occupancy in the striatum of patients responding to different antipsychotic drug treatments provided clinical support for the dopamine hypothesis of antipsychotic drug action. It has subsequently been demonstrated that patients with extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) have higher occupancy (above 80%) than patients with good response but no EPS (65-80%). The PET-defined interval for optimal antipsychotic drug treatment has been implemented in the evolvement of dose recommendations for classical as well as more recently developed drugs. Another consistent finding is lower D(2) -occupancy during treatment with the prototype atypical antipsychotic clozapine. The MoA of clozapine remains to be fully understood and may include nondopaminergic mechanisms. A general limitation is that currently available PET-radioligands are not selective for any of the five dopamine receptor subtypes. Current attempts at developing such ligands may provide the tools required to refine further the MoA of antipsychotic drugs.
Money's ability to enhance memory has received increased attention in recent research. However, previous studies have not directly addressed the time-dependent nature of monetary effects on memory, which are suggested to exist by research in cognitive neuroscience, and the possible detrimental effects of monetary rewards on learning interesting material, as indicated by studies in motivational psychology. By utilizing a trivia question paradigm, the current study incorporated these perspectives and examined the effect of monetary rewards on immediate and delayed memory performance for answers to uninteresting and interesting questions. Results showed that monetary rewards promote memory performance only after a delay. In addition, the memory enhancement effect of monetary rewards was only observed for uninteresting questions. These results are consistent with both the hippocampus-dependent memory consolidation model of reward learning and previous findings documenting the ineffectiveness of monetary rewards on tasks that have intrinsic value.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors type 1 (mGluR1s) are required for a normal function of the mammalian brain. They are particularly important for synaptic signaling and plasticity in the cerebellum. Unlike ionotropic glutamate receptors that mediate rapid synaptic transmission, mGluR1s produce in cerebellar Purkinje cells a complex postsynaptic response consisting of two distinct signal components, namely a local dendritic calcium signal and a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. The basic mechanisms underlying these synaptic responses were clarified in recent years. First, the work of several groups established that the dendritic calcium signal results from IP(3) receptor-mediated calcium release from internal stores. Second, it was recently found that mGluR1-mediated slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials are mediated by the transient receptor potential channel TRPC3. This surprising finding established TRPC3 as a novel postsynaptic channel for glutamatergic synaptic transmission.
We describe the case of a patient with confirmed voltage-gated potassium channel antibody-associated encephalitis (VGKC-Ab). MRI studies revealed bilateral hyper-intensity in the hippocampi, with their volumes preserved. At presentation, the patient's anterograde and retrograde memory skills were found to be impaired and he showed fluctuation in his ability to recall familiar information. Following treatment with immunotherapy, his condition improved considerably and, in a series of follow up assessments, he performed satisfactorily (i.e., within the average range or above) on formal tests of memory, as well as on a range of other cognitive tests, including tests of executive function. By contrast, in the context of contemporaneous unstructured interviews, he showed a strong tendency to confabulate. We argue that the reported case broadens the phenomenology of VGKC-Ab limbic encephalitis and raises important theoretical questions about the aetiology of this patient's most unusual memory disorder.
Phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs) bind and facilitate the transport of phosphatidylinositol (PI) and phosphatidylcholine between membrane compartments. They are highly conserved proteins, are found in both unicellular and multicellular organisms, and can be present as a single domain or as part of a larger, multi-domain protein. The hallmark of PITP proteins is their ability to sequester PI in their hydrophobic pocket. Ablation or knockdown of specific isoforms in vivo has wide ranging effects such as defects in signal transduction via phospholipase C and phosphoinositide 3-kinase, membrane trafficking, stem cell viability, Drosophila phototransduction, neurite outgrowth, and cytokinesis. In this review, we identify the common mechanism underlying each of these phenotypes as the cooperation between PITP proteins and lipid kinases through the provision of PI for phosphorylation. We propose that recruitment and concentration of PITP proteins at specific membrane sites are required for PITP proteins to execute their function rather than lipid transfer.
Peripheral nerve injury in humans often leads to incomplete functional recovery. In this review we discuss the potential for gene therapy to be used as a strategy alongside surgical repair techniques for the study of peripheral nerve regeneration in rodent models and with a view to its eventual use for the promotion of successful regeneration in the clinic. Gene therapy vectors based on herpes simplex virus, adenovirus, lentivirus and adeno-associated virus have been developed to deliver genes to the neurons of the peripheral nervous system, i.e. primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia and primary motor neurons. Adenoviral and lentiviral vectors have also been used to transduce Schwann cells and fibroblasts in the injured nerve. We present an overview of these vectors, their application so far in the peripheral nervous system, their potential as vectors for enhancing peripheral nerve repair, and the successful interventions that have been demonstrated in animal models. We also discuss some of the limitations of current vectors and how they may be overcome. While the technology for gene delivery is approaching a state of readiness for clinical translation, the current range of therapeutic genes for the repair of the traumatically injured peripheral nerve is mostly limited to neurotrophic factors delivered to neurons, Schwann cells or possibly the target organs. Finally, therefore, we consider what type of therapeutic transgene may be desirable to enhance nerve regeneration in the future.
Recent understanding in pathophysiological mechanisms of spinal cord and spinal root injuries has facilitated the development of new strategies to promote neural repair. Gene therapy approaches have been viewed as the ideal means to achieve long-term local delivery of therapeutic molecules in the central nervous system (CNS). Ex vivo gene delivery offers the additional advantage of providing cellular support for regenerating axons. In this review, we summarize the studies on viral vector-mediated gene delivery to spinal cord in animal models, both in vivo and ex vivo. Most of the studies reported so far are aimed at delivery of various growth factors, such as neurotrophins and neuropoietic cytokines. Other molecules tested include those that interfere with intracellular processes to prevent cell death, or increase intrinsic regenerating state of injured neurons, or modify the CNS environment to make it permissive for axon growth. Several different combinatorial strategies involving gene delivery are also discussed as it has been recognized that successful neural repair may require the synergistic actions of multiple therapeutic managements.
Frontal lobe seizures have a tendency to occur from sleep, and in some cases occur exclusively (or almost exclusively) from sleep; these individuals are said to have nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE). NFLE can be difficult to distinguish clinically from various other sleep disorders, particularly parasomnias, which also present with paroxysmal motor activity in sleep. Here, the manifestations of frontal lobe epilepsy are reviewed in detail, with particular reference to the influence of sleep and the characteristics of NFLE. Key aspects of differential diagnosis are also considered, and the underlying mechanisms involved in NFLE discussed.
Cortical malformations associated with defects in neuronal migration result in severe developmental consequences including intractable epilepsy and intellectual disability. Genetic causes of migration defects have been identified with the advent and widespread use of high-resolution MRI and genetic techniques. Thus, the full phenotypic range of these genetic disorders is becoming apparent. Genes that cause lissencephaly, pachygyria, subcortical band heterotopia, and periventricular nodular heterotopias have been defined. Many of these genes are involved in cytoskeletal regulation including the function of microtubules (LIS1, TUBA1A,TUBB3, and DCX) and of actin (FilaminA). Thus, the molecular pathways regulating neuronal migration including the cytoskeletal pathways appear to be defined by human mutation syndromes. Basic science, including cell biology and animal models of these disorders, has informed our understanding of the pathogenesis of neuronal migration disorders and further progress depends on the continued integration of the clinical and basic sciences.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor, cognitive, and psychiatric disturbance. In this article, we used polysomnography, actigraphy and a variety of validated questionnaires to ascertain the extent to which sleep changes are identifiable and measurable in mild stage HD, and importantly, to see whether patients are negatively impacted by the changes in their sleep. We found significant differences in sleep architecture and sleep efficiency in patients compared with controls using polysomnography. However, patient scores on the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, Medical Outcomes of Sleep Scale, and Epworth Sleepiness Scale were not significantly different to controls. These results suggest that although marked changes in sleep architecture are present in early HD and can be detected using polysomnography, patients do not necessarily recognize or report these abnormalities.
In the central nervous system, space is at a premium. This is especially true in the retina, where synapses, cells, and circuitry have evolved to maximize signal-processing capacity within a thin, optically transparent tissue. For example, at some retinal synapses, single presynaptic active zones contact multiple postsynaptic targets; some individual neurons perform completely different tasks depending on visual conditions, while others execute hundreds of circuit computations in parallel; and the retinal network adapts, at various levels, to the ever-changing visual world. Each of these features reflects efficient use of limited cellular resources to optimally encode visual information.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) are ligand gated ion channels that mediate excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain of vertebrates. A rapidly growing body of crystal structures for isolated iGluR extracellular domains, and more recently a full length AMPA receptor, combined with data from electrophysiological experiments and MD simulations, provides a framework that makes it possible to investigate the molecular basis for assembly, gating and modulation. These unprecedented advances in structural biology are constantly challenged by novel functional properties that emerge despite decades of functional analysis, and by a growing family of auxiliary proteins that modulate iGluR activity and assembly.
Experience-dependent modifications of neural circuits and function are believed to heavily depend on changes in synaptic efficacy such as LTP/LTD. Hence, much effort has been devoted to elucidating the mechanisms underlying these forms of synaptic plasticity. Although most of this work has focused on excitatory synapses, it is now clear that diverse mechanisms of long-term inhibitory plasticity have evolved to provide additional flexibility to neural circuits. By changing the excitatory/inhibitory balance, GABAergic plasticity can regulate excitability, neural circuit function and ultimately, contribute to learning and memory, and neural circuit refinement. Here we discuss recent advancements in our understanding of the mechanisms and functional relevance of GABAergic inhibitory synaptic plasticity.
Recent studies have begun to scrutinize the presynaptic machinery and vesicle populations that give rise to action potential evoked and spontaneous forms of neurotransmitter release. In several cases this work produced unexpected results which lend support to the notion that regulation, mechanisms, postsynaptic targets and possibly presynaptic origins of evoked and spontaneous neurotransmitter release differ. Furthermore, the list of regulatory pathways that impact spontaneous and evoked release in a divergent manner is rapidly growing. These findings challenge our classical views on the relationship between evoked and spontaneous neurotransmission. In contrast to the well-characterized neuromodulatory pathways that equally suppress or augment all forms of neurotransmitter release, molecular substrates specifically controlling spontaneous release remain unclear. In this review, we outline possible mechanisms that may underlie the differential regulation of distinct forms of neurotransmission and help demultiplex complex neuronal signals and generate parallel signaling events at their postsynaptic targets.
The emergence of astroglia as an important participant of the synaptic machinery has led to the 'tripartite synapse' hypothesis. Recent findings suggest that synaptic signaling also involves the surrounding extracellular matrix (ECM). The ECM can incorporate and store molecular traces of both neuronal and glial activities. It can also modulate function of local receptors or ion channels and send diffuse molecular signals using products of its use-dependent proteolytic cleavage. Recent experimental findings implicate the ECM in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity and glial remodeling, thus lending support to the 'tetrapartite synapse' concept. This inclusive view might help to understand better the mechanisms underlying signal integration and novel forms of long-term homeostatic regulation in the brain.




Whilst crucial for behavioural and homeostatic responses to environmental challenges, chronic elevation of sympathetic nervous system activity to specific vascular beds is associated with hypertension. Indeed such elevated activity may drive the increase in blood pressure seen in some people and in some experimental models of hypertension. This review discusses the neural circuitry involved in generating and modulating sympathetic efferent nerve activity, focusing on the premotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla show altered responses to angiotensin II in experimental models of hypertension, suggesting that this might be an important node for interaction between these two systems that are crucial for regulation of blood pressure.
Identifying neuronal morphology is a key component in understanding neuronal function. Several techniques have been developed to address this issue, including Golgi staining, electroporation of fluorescent dyes, and transfection of fluorescent constructs. Ballistic delivery of transgenic constructs has been a successful means of rapidly transfecting a nonbiased population of cells within tissue or culture. Recently, this technique was modified for the ballistic delivery of dye-coated gold or tungsten particles, enabling a nonbiased, rapid fluorescent membrane labeling of individual neurons in both fixed and nonfixed tissue. This unit outlines a step-by-step protocol for the ballistic method of dye delivery (&quot;DiOlistic&quot; labeling) to fixed tissue, including optimal tissue fixation conditions. In addition, a protocol for coupling &quot;DiOlistic&quot; labeling with other immunofluorescent methods is detailed, enabling the association of neuronal morphology with a specific cellular phenotype.
Antipsychotic medication has been enormously helpful in the treatment of psychotic symptoms during the past several decades. Unfortunately, several important side effects that can cause significant morbidity and mortality. The two most common are abnormal involuntary movements (tardive dyskinesia) and weight gain progressing through diabetes to metabolic syndrome. A more rare and life-threatening adverse effect is clozapine-induced agranulocytosis (CIA), which has been linked to clozapine use. Clozapine itself has a unique position among antipsychotic medications, representing the treatment of choice in refractory schizophrenia. Unfortunately, the potential risk of agranulocytosis, albeit small, prevents the widespread use of clozapine. Very few genetic determinants have been clearly associated with CIA due to small sample sizes and lack of replication in subsequent studies. The HLA system has been the main hypothesized region of interest in the study of CIA, and several gene variants in this region have been implicated, particularly variants of the HLA-DQB1 locus. A preliminary genome-wide association study has been conducted on a small sample for CIA, and a signal from the HLA region was noted. However, efforts to identify key gene mechanisms that will be useful in predicting antipsychotic side effects in the clinical setting have not been fully successful, and further studies with larger sample sizes are required.




Surprisingly little headway has been made towards understanding how brain growth maps onto mental growth during child development. This review aims at bridging and integrating recent human neuroscientific brain maturation findings with the conceptual thinking of theorists in the behavioural tradition of studying cognitive development. Developmental research in the field of internal control and self-regulation serves as a reference point for understanding the relation between brain maturation and mental growth. Using several recent neuroimaging findings as points in case, we show how a deeper appreciation of structural and functional neural development can be obtained from considering the traditional conceptual frameworks, and vice versa. We conclude that paradigmatic progress in developmental neuroscience can rely more on knowledge from developmental experimental psychology, and that developmental models of cognitive development can be constrained and articulated with more precision on the basis of knowledge of differential structural and functional brain maturation.
How do human children come to understand the actions of other people? What neural systems are associated with the processing of others' actions and how do these systems develop, starting in infancy? These questions span cognitive psychology and developmental cognitive neuroscience, and addressing them has important implications for the study of social cognition. A large amount of research has used behavioral measures to investigate infants' imitation of the actions of other people; a related but smaller literature has begun to use neurobiological measures to study of infants' action representation. Here we focus on experiments employing electroencephalographic (EEG) techniques for assessing mu rhythm desynchronization in infancy, and analyze how this work illuminates the links between action perception and production prior to the onset of language.
The ability to control the focus of attention relies on top-down modulation of cortical activity in areas involved in stimulus processing, and this ability is critical for maintaining items in working memory in the presence of distraction. Prior research demonstrates that children are less capable of focusing attention, relative to adults, and that this ability develops significantly during middle childhood. Here, using fMRI and a face/scene working memory task adapted from Gazzaley and colleagues (Gazzaley et al. 2005), we compared top-down modulation in fifteen children (aged 8-13) and fifteen young adults (aged 19-26). Replicating prior results, in young adults, attention to scenes modulated activity in the parahippocampal place area (PPA). In addition, modulation of PPA activity increased as a function of age in children. PPA activity was also related to performance in this group, on the working memory task as well on a test of subsequent memory. Dorsolateral PFC also demonstrated increasing task-specific activation, as a function of age, in children. The present findings support the idea that children's reduced ability to maintain items in working memory, especially in the presence of distraction, is driven by weaker top-down modulation of activity in areas involved in stimulus processing.

achaete-scute complex (ASC) genes, which encode basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, regulate embryonic and adult neurogenesis in many animals. In adult arthropods, including crustaceans, ASC homologs have been identified but rarely functionally characterized. We took advantage of the recently identified crustacean homolog, splash (spiny lobster achaete scute homolog), in the olfactory organ of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus to examine its role in adult neurogenesis. We tested the hypothesis that splash is associated with but not restricted to sensory neuron formation in the olfactory organ, the antennular lateral flagellum (LF), of adult spiny lobsters. We demonstrated splash labeling in epithelial cells across LF developmental zones (i.e., proliferation and mature zones), in auxiliary cells surrounding dendrites of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), and in immature and mature ORNs, but not in granulocytes or chromatophores. Since ORN proliferation varies with molt stage, we examined splash expression across molt stages and found that molt stage affected splash expression in the ORN mature zone but not in the proliferation zone. In vivo incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) showed no correlation in the cellular pattern of splash expression and BrdU labeling. The intensity of splash labeling was dramatically enhanced in the proliferation zones following LF damage, suggesting enhanced splash expression during repair and/or regeneration. We conclude that splash is not closely associated with the formation of sensory neurons under normal physiological conditions, and we propose that splash is involved in repair and regeneration. We also propose that splash has additional roles other than neurogenesis in adult crustaceans.
The calyx of Held synapse is a giant axosomatic synapse that has a fast relay function within the sound localization circuit of the brainstem. In the adult, each principal neuron of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) is contacted by a single calyx terminal. In rodents, the calyx of Held synapse forms around the third postnatal day (P3). Here, we studied the developmental changes in the intrinsic excitability of the principal neurons during the first postnatal week by making whole-cell recordings from brainstem slices. In slices from P0-1 rats, about 20% of the principal neurons were spontaneously active, whereas after P3, no spontaneously active cells were observed. Already at P0, principal neurons received both glutamatergic and GABAergic/glycinergic inputs. The occurrence of spontaneous action potentials depended upon the presence of spontaneous glutamatergic inputs; summation of only a few quanta was enough to reach action potential threshold. The main cause for this high excitability was a high resting membrane resistance, which decreased at least four-fold during the first postnatal week. A relatively slow decay of synaptic currents and a relatively depolarized membrane potential may have contributed as well. We conclude that the decrease in the excitability of principal neurons in the MNTB matches the increase of the strength of the synaptic inputs resulting from the formation and maturation of the calyx of Held synapse during the first postnatal week. This decrease in excitability will make it progressively more difficult for non-calyceal inputs to trigger action potentials.
The present study investigated whether three methodologies currently used in animal as well as human adult startle research could be adapted for measuring the startle response in 5-month-old infants. The three methods performed: an automated and computerized recording of the infants' whole-body motor reactions (Automated Infant Motor Movement Startle Seat, AIMMSS); a coding of the infants' facial muscular contractions involved in the startle response (FACS, Baby FACS); an analysis of the infants' eyeblink intensity in response to the startle probes (Eye-Blink Strength scale). The results showed that these methods accurately registered the latency and intensity parameters of the reactions to acoustic startle stimuli. A correlational analysis showed, also, that the three methods registered the same motor reaction measuring the infant acoustic startle response in a consistent way.
Protocadherin 15 (PCDH15) is expressed in hair cells of the inner ear and in photoreceptors of the retina. Mutations in PCDH15 cause Usher Syndrome (deaf-blindness) and recessive deafness. In developing hair cells, PCDH15 localizes to extracellular linkages that connect the stereocilia and kinocilium into a bundle and regulate its morphogenesis. In mature hair cells, PCDH15 is a component of tip links, which gate mechanotransduction channels. PCDH15 is expressed in several isoforms differing in their cytoplasmic domains, suggesting that alternative splicing regulates PCDH15 function in hair cells. To test this model, we generated three mouse lines, each of which lacks one out of three prominent PCDH15 isoforms (CD1, CD2 and CD3). Surprisingly, mice lacking PCDH15-CD1 and PCDH15-CD3 form normal hair bundles and tip links and maintain hearing function. Tip links are also present in mice lacking PCDH15-CD2. However, PCDH15-CD2-deficient mice are deaf, lack kinociliary links and have abnormally polarized hair bundles. Planar cell polarity (PCP) proteins are distributed normally in the sensory epithelia of the mutants, suggesting that PCDH15-CD2 acts downstream of PCP components to control polarity. Despite the absence of kinociliary links, vestibular function is surprisingly intact in the PCDH15-CD2 mutants. Our findings reveal an essential role for PCDH15-CD2 in the formation of kinociliary links and hair bundle polarization, and show that several PCDH15 isoforms can function redundantly at tip links.
Current cocaine-dependent users show reductions in white matter (WM) integrity, especially in cortical regions associated with cognitive control that have been associated with inhibitory dysfunction. A key question is whether these white matter differences are present following abstinence from drug use. To address this, WM integrity was examined using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) obtained on 43 cocaine abstinent patients (abstinence duration ranged between five days and 102 weeks) and 43 non-using controls. Additionally, a cross-sectional comparison separated the patients into three groups (short-term, mid-term and long-term) based upon duration of cocaine abstinence. The 43 cocaine abstinent patients showed lower fractional anisotropy (FA) in the left anterior callosal fibers, left genu of the corpus callosum, right superior longitudinal fasciculus, right callosal fibers and the superior corona radiata bilaterally when compared against non-using controls. Higher FA in the cocaine abstinent patients was observed in the splenium of the corpus callosum and right superior longitudinal fasciculus. Differences between the cocaine abstinent groups were observed bilaterally in the inferior longitudinal fasciculus, right anterior thalamic radiation, right ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus, left superior corona radiata, superior longitudinal fasciculus bilaterally, right cingulum and the WM of the right precentral gyrus. The results identified WM differences between cocaine abstinent patients and controls as well as distinct differences between abstinent subgroups. The findings suggest that specific white matter differences persist throughout abstinence while other, spatially distinct, differences discriminate as a function of abstinence duration. These differences may, therefore, represent brain changes that mark recovery from addiction.
The availability of a reliable in vitro assay to evaluate time-dependent inhibition (TDI) of cytchrome P450 enzymes by novel compounds is essential for the identification of candidate medicines. We have evaluated three assay methods, making use of 59 marketed compounds and 28 novel GSK compounds. Recombinant bactosomes expressing the CYP3A4 isozyme were used with two fluorescence-based methods: a &quot;Re-addition&quot; assay and a &quot;30 min&quot; assay. The third method evaluated used pooled human liver microsomes (PHLM) with LC-MS/MS detection (the data for GSK compounds were evaluated in this study, whereas data for marketed drugs were reported recently). Our evaluation showed that the Re-addition method is comparable to the LC-MS/MS method in terms of predictivity and reproducibility. In conclusion, Re-addition method is inexpensive, and provides a simple assessment of the risk of TDI for novel compounds. This assay is particularly appropriate for use during the early stages of drug discovery.

In this study, we hypothesized that overweight/obese persons have an exaggerated approach tendency toward high calorie foods. Testing this hypothesis, a stimulus response compatibility (SRC) task was used to assess approach-avoidance tendencies toward food in both overweight/obese participants (n=42), and normal weight controls (n=46). The SRC task is a reaction time task measuring how fast one approaches and avoids pictures of food and non-foods according to given instructions. It was found that overweight/obese men are slower at avoiding particularly high calorie snack foods. But this does not appear to be the case for overweight/obese women who showed nearly as fast avoidance as approach toward the high calorie food cues. It is concluded that overweight/obese women, rather than men, are ambivalent toward high calorie foods, which is the likely result of high dietary restraint.
Converging evidence from self-report data demonstrated that extraversion and dispositional positive affect are systematically related. Several authors therefore considered positive affect as the conceptual core of extraversion. Because the ventral striatum is regarded as a core region in the physiological basis of extraversion, the present study examines the importance of this neural substrate with a special focus on positive affect. Baseline cerebral blood flow was measured in 38 participants and regressed to the extraversion and dispositional positive affect scales. Partial correlational and indirect-effects analyses indicated that striatal blood flow was no longer associated with extraversion when positive affect was statistically controlled. In contrast, when extraversion was statistically controlled, striatal blood flow was still associated with positive affect. This finding suggests that the striatal region is not a biological basis of extraversion per se. Rather, this region sustains positive affect, which in turn appears to be a core feature of extraversion.
We establish attentional capture by emotional distractor faces presented as a &quot;singleton&quot; in a search task in which the emotion is entirely irrelevant. Participants searched for a male (or female) target face among female (or male) faces and indicated whether the target face was tilted to the left or right. The presence (vs. absence) of an irrelevant emotional singleton expression (fearful, angry, or happy) in one of the distractor faces slowed search reaction times compared to the singleton absent or singleton target conditions. Facilitation for emotional singleton targets was found for the happy expression but not for the fearful or angry expressions. These effects were found irrespective of face gender and the failure of a singleton neutral face to capture attention among emotional faces rules out a visual odd-one-out account for the emotional capture. The present study thus establishes irrelevant, emotional, attentional capture.


Perinatal exposure to testosterone (T), which can act upon both the androgen receptor (AR) and, via aromatization of T into estrogens, upon estrogen receptors, organizes many adult behaviors in rodents. We compared behaviors in wild-type (WT) male rats and AR-deficient rats with the testicular feminization mutation (Tfm), which on the day of birth were either gonadectomized (Neo-Gdx) or sham operated. In adulthood, all rats were either gonadectomized or sham operated and implanted with T capsules to equilibrate circulating androgens. In each of four tests of behavior related to anxiety (open field, novel object exposure, light/dark box, and elevated plus maze), Neo-Gdx rats showed decreased indices of anxiety and increased activity compared with rats sham operated on the day of birth, with no differences between WT or Tfm males within treatment groups. These results indicate that testicular hormones act in development to increase adult indices of anxiety and decrease activity in males and that functional ARs are not required for this effect. Acoustic startle response was also reduced by Neo-Gdx, suggesting that postnatal testicular secretions potentiate this behavior as well. Adult corticosterone levels and sensorimotor gating, as measured by prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response, were increased by neonatal castration in both WT and Tfm rats. These findings indicate a role of T before adulthood in the organization of anxiety-related behaviors, activity, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and sensorimotor gating in rats, all of which appears to be AR independent.
The activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is characterized by an ultradian pulsatile pattern of glucocorticoid secretion. Despite increasing evidence for the importance of pulsatility in regulating glucocorticoid-responsive gene transcription, little is known about the mechanism underlying the pulsatility of glucocorticoid synthesis and release. We tested the hypothesis that pulsatile ACTH release is critical for optimal adrenocortical function. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity was suppressed by oral methylprednisolone, and ACTH (4 ng/h) was infused for 24h either as a constant infusion or in 5-min pulses at hourly intervals. Control methylprednisolone-treated rats had very low plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels with undetectable pulses and also had steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc) heteronuclear RNA levels reduced to approximately 50% of that seen in untreated animals. Pulsatile but not constant ACTH infusion restored pulsatile CORT secretion, and this was accompanied by parallel rises in StAR and P450scc heteronuclear RNA levels during the rising phase of the CORT pulse, which then fell during the falling phase. The pulsatile pattern of StAR and P450scc was paralleled by pulsatile transcription of the melanocortin 2 receptor accessory protein. Pulsatile ACTH activation of the adrenal cortex not only is critical for the secretion of CORT but also induces episodic transcription of the rate-limiting enzymes necessary for physiological steroidogenic responses. Because constant infusion of identical amounts of ACTH did not activate CORT secretion, pulsatility of ACTH provides a more effective signaling system for the activation of adrenocortical activity.
The perinatal environment appears important in establishing metabolic phenotypes in adulthood. Mice deficient in IL-6 (IL-6(-/-)) tend to develop mature-onset obesity, but it is unknown whether perinatal exposure to IL-6 produced by the dam influences the metabolism of adult offspring. To address this issue, we monitored IL-6(-/-) offspring of IL-6(-/-) or IL-6(+/-) dams, as well as wild-type (WT) mice. At adult age, IL-6(-/-) mice weighed significantly more and had more body fat than WT mice, regardless of maternal genotype, and had lower insulin sensitivity. This phenotype was more pronounced in IL-6(-/-) offspring of IL-6(-/-) dams, because they gained weight significantly faster than IL-6(-/-) offspring of IL-6(+/-) dams and had more body fat and higher serum leptin levels at an earlier age. The leptin content was 2-fold higher in milk from IL-6(-/-) than WT dams. However, cross-fostering IL-6(-/-) mice with WT dams did not alter body weight, body composition, or adipocyte size at adult age compared with IL-6(-/-) mice fostered by IL-6(-/-) dams. Conversely, WT mice fostered by IL-6(-/-) dams weighed significantly more than those fostered by WT dams and had more body fat, larger adipocytes, and altered hypothalamic gene expression. We conclude that body fat of adult mice can be increased by perinatal exposure to factors affected by lack of maternal IL-6.
The comprehensive care of a patient with Dravet syndrome encompasses both the &quot;care&quot; and the &quot;cure&quot; of the patient, and requires cooperation among family, doctors, and several other specialized caregivers to search for the attainment of the best quality of life for the patients and their families. Several issues peculiar to the disease to be faced while dealing with the patient are: (1) SMEI is an &quot;evolving&quot; disease that appears in an otherwise healthy child with symptoms that appear and mutate throughout the course of the disease; (2) the severity of the disease is not fully predictable at onset and appears to be individual-specific; (3) the seizures are invariably drug resistant and seizure freedom is not a realistic goal; and (4) in addition to seizures many other invalidating clinical problems, including cognitive impairment, behavior disorders, and a number of comorbidities characterize the disease course. The comprehensive caring must be physician-guided and patient-centered and implies a multidisciplinary approach to be built around the children and caregivers, who need to be guided through the steps of the diagnosis, treatments, and managements of the various comorbidities.
Slowing of cognitive skills represents one of the diagnostic criteria of Dravet syndrome. This Italian multicentric study aims at clarifying the roles of epilepsy and/or underlying genetic alteration in determining the cognitive outcome. The study includes infants that were either in follow-up (retrospective study: 26 cases) and newly diagnosed (prospective study: in progress). Our multicentric study shows that slowing of cognitive achievements becomes evident during the second year of life in all cases, and that the epilepsy phenotype indeed has a prognostic value. In this study the early appearance of absences and myoclonic seizures is associated with the worst cognitive outcome; whereas convulsive prolonged seizures do not seem to represent, per se, a bad prognostic factor for mental outcome. In this study, statistical analysis failed to reveal differences in the cognitive outcome with regard to the presence and type of SCN1A mutation.

In view of previous reports of changes in seizure susceptibility in adult rats exposed to phenobarbital or diazepam as pups, we examined the effects of early life exposure to lamotrigine and phenytoin, two commonly used antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), for their effect on seizure threshold in adult rats. We found that pups exposed to lamotrigine for 6 days during the second postnatal week had a significantly lower threshold for pentylenetetrazole-evoked seizures when tested as adults. In contrast, phenytoin exposure during the second postnatal week was without a significant effect on seizure threshold in adults. Seizure scores at threshold were comparable across all groups tested. The dose of lamotrigine used in our study (20 mg/kg) was below that required to cause developmental neuronal apoptosis, whereas the dose of phenytoin used (50 mg/kg) was above that required for developmental neurotoxicity. Therefore, our findings suggest that neurodevelopmental alterations in seizure susceptibility may occur via mechanisms that are independent of those responsible for neural injury or teratogenesis. Our findings support the possibility that therapy with certain AEDs during pregnancy or infancy may alter seizure susceptibility later in life, a possibility that should be taken into account when examining early life factors that contribute to seizure susceptibility in adulthood.
Although epilepsy is historically considered a disease of gray matter, recent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have shown white matter abnormalities in patients with epilepsy. The histopathologic correlate of these findings, and whether they are a cause or consequence of epilepsy, remains unclear. To characterize these changes and their underlying histopathology, DTI was performed in juvenile rats, 4 and 8 weeks after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). In the medial corpus callosum (CC), mean diffusivity and axial diffusivity (MD and ) as well as a myelin staining were significantly reduced at 4 weeks. Only the  decrease persisted at 8 weeks. In the fornix fimbriae (FF),  and myelin staining were decreased at both time points, whereas fractional anisotropy (FA) and MD were significantly reduced at 8 weeks only. We conclude that SE induces both transient and chronic white matter changes in the medial CC and FF that are to some degree related to myelin pathology.

Patients with chronic medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) can be impaired in different tasks that evaluate emotional or social abilities. In particular, the recognition of facial emotions can be affected (Meletti S, Benuzzi F, Rubboli G, et al. Neurology 2003;60:426-31. Meletti S, Benuzzi F, Cantalupo G, Rubboli G, Tassinari CA, Nichelli P. Epilepsia 2009;50:1547-59). To better understand the nature of emotion recognition deficits in MTLE we investigated the decoding of basic emotions in the visual (facial expression) and auditory (emotional prosody) domains in 41 patients. Results showed deficits in the recognition of both facial and vocal expression of emotions, with a strong correlation between performances across the two tasks. No correlation between emotion recognition and measures of IQ, quality of life (QOLIE-31), and depression (Beck Depression Inventory) was significant, except for a weak correlation between prosody recognition and IQ. These data suggest that emotion recognition impairment in MTLE is not dependent on the sensory channel through which the emotional stimulus is transmitted. Moreover, these findings support the notion that emotional processing is at least partly independent of measures of cognitive intelligence.

Illness perceptions of health care professionals are likely to affect patient care. This study describes the illness perceptions of two groups of health care staff toward epilepsy and psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES). Sixty-one health care professionals (30 emergency care [EC] and 31 neuroscience ward [NW] staff) who regularly see patients with seizures completed the adapted Illness Perception Questionnaire-Revised (IPQ-R) and the Symptom Attribution Question for epilepsy and PNES. Respondents reported a poorer understanding of PNES than of epilepsy (P&lt;0.001), thought epilepsy was a more chronic condition (P=0.001/P&lt;0.001) and that patients with PNES had more &quot;personal control&quot; of their seizures (P=0.014/P&lt;0.001). Staff from both departments identified psychological causes as most important for PNES (P&lt;0.001). EC staff also attributed PNES to behavioral issues or alcohol. The Illness Perception Questionnaire-Revised and Symptom Attribution Question demonstrated important differences in attitudes of health care staff toward epilepsy and PNES. The findings illustrate why some patients with PNES have traumatic encounters with health care professionals.
There is increasing evidence that there is a strong relationship between brain oscillations and neurocognitive function. We used EEG power spectral analysis to determine if frequency and power provide an independent measure of developmental impairment in infants. We examined the spectral power of EEGs in 200 infants between 6 and 24 months of age who were evaluated for seizures. Infants were stratified into three age groups 6-12, 12-18, and 18-24 months, and development assessments were coded as normal, moderately delayed, and severely delayed. Compared with the normal infants, children with developmental delay had lower mean frequencies and greater delta and less theta and alpha power. Delta/theta and theta/alpha ratios were highly significant indicators of developmental status. This study demonstrates that frequency and power of brain oscillations during wakefulness is a strong predictor of development in infants. The findings support the concept that normal oscillatory activity is critical for normal cognitive function during development.
Semantic association, an essential element of human language, enables discourse and inference. Neuroimaging studies have revealed localization and lateralization of semantic circuitry, making substantial contributions to cognitive neuroscience. However, because of methodological limitations, these investigations have only identified individual functional components rather than capturing the behavior of the entire network. To overcome these limitations, we have implemented group independent component analysis (ICA) to investigate the cognitive modules used by healthy adults performing the fMRI semantic decision task. When compared with the results of a standard general linear modeling (GLM) analysis, ICA detected several additional brain regions subserving semantic decision. Eight task-related group ICA maps were identified, including left inferior frontal gyrus (BA44/45), middle posterior temporal gyrus (BA39/22), angular gyrus/inferior parietal lobule (BA39/40), posterior cingulate (BA30), bilateral lingual gyrus (BA18/23), inferior frontal gyrus (L&gt;R, BA47), hippocampus with parahippocampal gyrus (L&gt;R, BA35/36), and anterior cingulate (BA32/24). Although most of the components were represented bilaterally, we found a single, highly left-lateralized component that included the inferior frontal gyrus and the medial and superior temporal gyri, the angular and supramarginal gyri, and the inferior parietal cortex. The presence of these spatially independent ICA components implies functional connectivity and can be equated with their modularity. These results are analyzed and presented in the framework of a biologically plausible theoretical model in preparation for similar analyses in patients with right- or left-hemispheric epilepsies.
Verbal and visuospatial working memory (WM) impairment is a well-documented finding in psychiatric patients suffering from major psychoses such as schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder. However, in major depression (MDD) the literature on the presence and the extent of WM deficits is inconsistent. The use of a multitude of different WM tasks most of which lack process-specificity may have contributed to these inconsistencies. Eighteen MDD patients and 18 healthy controls matched with regard to age, gender and education were tested using process- and circuit-specific WM tasks for which clear brain-behaviour relationships had been established in prior functional neuroimaging studies. Patients suffering from acute MDD showed a selective impairment in articulatory rehearsal of verbal information in working memory. By contrast, visuospatial WM was unimpaired in this sample. There were no significant correlations between symptom severity and WM performance. These data indicate a dysfunction of a specific verbal WM system in acutely ill patients with MDD. As the observed functional deficit did not correlate with different symptom scores, further, longitudinal studies are required to clarify whether and how this deficit is related to illness acuity and clinical state of MDD patients.
Brevinin-1BYa (FLPILASLAAKFGPKLFCLVTKKC), first isolated from skin secretions of the frog Rana boylii, displays broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity and potent haemolytic activity. This study investigates the effects on conformation and biological activity of replacement of the intramolecular disulphide bridge in the peptide by a non-reducible dicarba bond. Dicarba-brevinin-1BYa was prepared by microwave irradiation of [Agl(18),Agl(24)]-brevinin-1BYa (Agl = allylglycine) in the presence of a second generation Grubbs' catalyst. Circular dichroism spectroscopy in 50% trifluoroethanol-water indicated that the degree of -helicity of the dicarba derivative (22%) was less than that of brevinin-1BYa (27%) but comparable to that of the acyclic derivative [Ser(18),Ser(24)]-brevinin-1BYa (23%). Dicarba-brevinin-1BYa showed a two-fold increase in potency against reference strains of Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Candida albicans compared with the native peptide and displayed potent bactericidal activity against clinical isolates of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (MIC in the range 1-8 M). Compared with brevinin-1BYa and [Ser(18),Ser(24)]-brevinin-1BYa, the dicarba derivative was associated with increased cytotoxicity against human erythrocytes (2.5-fold), MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma cells (1.3-fold) and HepG2 hepatoma-derived cells (1.5-fold).
We recently reported that in aged female rhesus macaques, spatial learning and memory correlates with circadian sleep-wake measures and hippocampal muscarinic type 1 (M(1)) receptor binding. To investigate if spatial memory also correlates with measures of immune function, we now assessed the magnitude of the adaptive immune response to vaccination in the same old female rhesus macaques. Cognitively characterized animals were classified as good spatial performers (GSP) or poor spatial performers (PSP) based on performance in the Spatial Foodport maze. The GSP group had higher frequency of CD8, but not CD4, interferon- (IFN-) producing cells following vaccination compared to the PSP group, suggesting a stronger CD8 T cell response in the GSP group. In addition, the number of CD-8 IFN- positive cells correlated with measures of sleep quality. Interestingly, the PSP group had a significantly higher antibody titer compared to the GSP group, and antibody titer negatively correlated with day-time activity. Thus, in aged female rhesus macaques, superior cognitive performance is correlated with a more robust CD8 T cell response but a reduced antibody response to vaccination.


Inflammation is known to cause significant neuronal damage and axonal injury in many neurological disorders. Among the range of inflammatory mediators, nitric oxide is a potent neurotoxic agent. Recent evidence has suggested that cellular peroxisomes may be important in protecting neurons from inflammatory damage. To assess the influence of peroxisomal activation on nitric oxide-mediated neurotoxicity, we investigated the effects of the peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- agonist fenofibrate on cortical neurons exposed to a nitric oxide donor or co-cultured with activated microglia. Fenofibrate protected neurons and axons against both nitric oxide donor-induced and microglia-derived nitric oxide-induced toxicity. Moreover, cortical neurons treated with this compound showed a significant increase in gene expression of ABCD3 (the gene encoding for peroxisomal membrane protein-70), with a concomitant increase in protein levels of PPAR- and catalase, which was associated with a functional increase in the activity of this enzyme. Collectively, these observations provide evidence that modulation of PPAR- activity and peroxisomal function by fenofibrate attenuates nitric oxide-mediated neuronal and axonal damage, suggesting a new therapeutic approach to protect against neurodegenerative changes associated with neuroinflammation.
In this multicentre study involving eight European centres, we characterized the spatial pattern of functional connectivity (FC) in the sensorimotor network from 61 right-handed patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and 74 age-matched healthy subjects assessed with the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a simple motor task of their right dominant hand. FC was investigated by using: (i) voxel-wise correlations between the left sensorimotor cortex (SMC) and any other area in the brain; and (ii) bivariate correlations between time series extracted from several regions of interest (ROIs) belonging to the sensorimotor network. Both healthy controls and MS patients had significant FC between the left SMC and several areas of the sensorimotor network, including the bilateral postcentral and precentral gyri, supplementary motor area, middle frontal gyri, insulae, secondary somatosensory cortices, thalami, and right cerebellum. Voxel-wise assessment of FC revealed increased connectivity between the left SMC and the right precentral gyrus, right middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and bilateral postcentral gyri in MS patients as compared with controls. ROI analysis also showed a widespread pattern of altered connectivity, characterized by increased FC between the right MFG, the left insula and the right inferior frontal gyrus in comparison with many regions of the sensorimotor network. These results provide further evidence for increased bihemispheric contributions to motor control in patients with MS relative to healthy controls. They further suggest that multicentre fMRI studies of FC changes are possible, and provide a potential imaging biomarker for use in experimental therapeutic studies directed at enhancing adaptive plasticity in the disease.
This study aimed to provide a first detailed description of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) innervation of the human basal ganglia under nonpathological conditions. We applied an immunohistochemical approach to postmortem human brain material with antibodies directed against the 5-HT transporter and the 5-HT-synthesizing enzyme (tryptophane hydroxylase) to visualize 5-HT axons and cell bodies, respectively. Adjacent sections were immunostained for tyrosine hydroxylase to compare the distribution of 5-HT axons with that of dopamine axons. Human basal ganglia are innervated by 5-HT axons that emerge chiefly from the dorsal and, less abundantly, from the median raphe nuclei. These axons form thick ascending fascicles that fragment themselves as they penetrate the decussation of the superior cerebellar peduncle. They regroup within the ventral tegmental area and ascend along the medial forebrain bundle, immediately beneath the dopamine ascending fibers. At regular intervals along their course, 5-HT axons detach themselves from the medial forebrain bundle and sweep laterally to arborize within all basal ganglia components, where they display highly variable densities and patterns of innervation. The substantia nigra is the most densely innervated component of the basal ganglia, whereas the caudate nucleus is more heterogeneously innervated than the putamen and pallidum. The subthalamic nucleus harbors 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers that display a mediolateral-decreasing gradient. The fact that all components of human basal ganglia receive a dense 5-HT input indicates that, in concert with dopamine, 5-HT plays a crucial role in the functional organization of these motor-related structures, which are often targeted in neurodegenerative diseases.
In the mammalian circadian system, cell-autonomous clocks in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) are distinguished from those in other brain regions and peripheral tissues by the capacity to generate coordinated rhythms and drive oscillations in other cells. To further establish in vitro models for distinguishing the functional properties of SCN and peripheral oscillators, we developed immortalized cell lines derived from fibroblasts and the SCN anlage of mPer2(Luc) knockin mice. Circadian rhythms in luminescence driven by the mPER2::LUC fusion protein were observed in cultures of mPer2(Luc) SCN cells and in serum-shocked or SCN2.2-co-cultured mPer2(Luc) fibroblasts. SCN mPer2(Luc) cells generated self-sustained circadian oscillations that persisted for at least four cycles with periodicities of 24h. Immortalized fibroblasts only showed circadian rhythms of mPER2::LUC expression in response to serum shock or when co-cultured with SCN2.2 cells. Circadian oscillations of luminescence in mPer2(Luc) fibroblasts decayed after 3-4 cycles in serum-shocked cultures but robustly persisted for 6-7 cycles in the presence of SCN2.2 cells. In the co-culture model, the circadian behavior of mPer2(Luc) fibroblasts was dependent on the integrity of the molecular clockworks in co-cultured SCN cells as persistent rhythmicity was not observed in the presence of immortalized SCN cells derived from mice with targeted disruption of Per1 and Per2 (Per1(ldc) /Per2(ldc) ). Because immortalized mPer2(Luc) SCN cells and fibroblasts retain their indigenous circadian properties, these in vitro models will be valuable for real-time comparisons of clock gene rhythms in SCN and peripheral oscillators and identifying the diffusible signals that mediate the distinctive pacemaking function of the SCN.
The role of histamine neurons in schizophrenia and psychostimulant abuse remains unclear. Behavioural sensitization to psychostimulants is a cardinal feature of these disorders. Here, we have explored the ability of imetit and ciproxifan (CPX), a reference H-receptor agonist and inverse agonist, respectively, to modulate locomotor sensitization induced in mice by methamphetamine (MET). Mice received saline, CPX (3 mg/kg) or imetit (3 mg/kg) 2 h before MET (2 mg/kg), once daily for 12 days, and were killed after a 2-day wash out. Imetit had no effect, but CPX induced a decrease of MET-induced locomotor activity, which became significant at Day 5, and even more at Day 10. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used in the sensitized mice to quantify brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor subunit 1 (NR1) mRNAs, two factors that are altered in both schizophrenia and drug abuse. Imetit and CPX used alone had no effect on any marker. Sensitization by MET decreased BDNF mRNAs by 40% in the hippocampus. This decrease was reversed by CPX. Sensitization by MET also induced strong decreases of NR1 mRNAs in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum, but not hypothalamus. These decreases were also reversed by CPX. The strong modulator effect of CPX in mice sensitized to MET may result from its modulator effect on NR1 mRNAs in the cerebral cortex and striatum. The reversal by CPX of BDNF and NR1 mRNAs in the hippocampus of sensitized animals further strengthens the interest of H-receptor inverse agonists for the long-term treatment of cognitive deficits of patients with schizophrenia.
In the Syrian hamster dorsal and median raph nuclei, the tryptophan hydroxylase 2 gene (tph2), which codes the rate-limiting enzyme of serotonin synthesis, displays daily variations in its expression in animals entrained to a long but not to a short photoperiod. The present study aimed to assess the role of glucocorticoids in the nycthemeral and photoperiodic regulation of daily tph2 expression. In hamsters held in long photoperiod from birth, after adrenalectomy and glucocorticoid implants the suppression of glucocorticoid rhythms induced an abolition of the daily variations in tph2-mRNA concentrations, a decrease in the amplitude of body temperature rhythms and an increase in testosterone levels. All these effects were reversed after experimental restoration of a clear daily rhythm in the plasma glucocorticoid concentrations. We conclude that the photoperiod-dependent rhythm of glucocorticoids is the main regulator of tph2 daily expression.
Memory system circuitry may regulate how cues associated with cocaine are extinguished, and understanding neurosubstrates of extinction may lead to the development of improved treatment strategies for cocaine addiction. Sites within the hippocampus and amygdala were investigated for their role in regulating cocaine cue extinction learning. Initially, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under a second-order reinforcement schedule (cocaine and cocaine cues present) followed by a 2-week abstinence period. Using lidocaine, rats next underwent bilateral inactivation of the dorsal subiculum (dSUB) or rostral basolateral amygdala (rBLA), asymmetric inactivation of the dSUB and rBLA, unilateral inactivation of the dSUB or rBLA, or ipsilateral inactivation of the dSUB and rBLA prior to cocaine cue extinction training sessions (only cocaine cues present) on two consecutive days. Relative to vehicle, bilateral and asymmetric lidocaine treatments in the dSUB and rBLA slowed cocaine cue extinction learning. Specifically, vehicle-treated rats exhibited a significantly larger difference in responding from Day 1 to Day 2 of extinction training than lidocaine-treated rats. In comparison, unilateral or ipsilateral lidocaine treatments in the dSUB and rBLA did not slow cocaine cue extinction learning. Rats treated with lidocaine and vehicle exhibited a similar difference in responding from Day 1 to Day 2 of extinction training. These results indicate that sites within the hippocampus and amygdala need to be functionally active simultaneously in at least one brain hemisphere for acquisition of cocaine cue extinction learning. These results further suggest that a serial circuit within each hemisphere mediates acquisition of cocaine cue extinction learning.

Evaluating potentially analgesic effects of drugs and various treatments is critically dependent on valid animal models of pain. Since primary somatosensory (SI) cortex is likely to play an important role in processing sensory aspects of pain, we here assess whether monitoring SI cortex nociceptive C fibre evoked potentials can provide useful information about central changes related to hyperalgesia in rats. Recordings of tactile and CO(2)-laser C fibre evoked potentials (LCEPs) in forelimb and hind limb SI cortex were made 20-24h after UV-B irradiation of the heel at a dose that produced behavioural signs of hyperalgesia. LCEPs from irradiated skin increased significantly in duration but showed no significant change in magnitude, measured as area under curve (AUC). By contrast, LCEPs in hind limb SI cortex from skin sites nearby the irradiated skin showed no increase in duration or onset latency but increased significantly in magnitude after UV-B irradiation. The LCEPs in forelimb or hind limb SI cortex elicited from forelimb skin did not change in magnitude, but were significantly delayed in hind limb SI cortex. Tramadol, a centrally acting analgesic known to reduce hyperalgesia, induced changes that counteracted the changes produced by UV-B irradiation on transmission to SI cortex from the hind paw, but had no significant effect on time course of LCEPs from forelimb skin. Tactile evoked potentials were not affected by UV-B irradiation or tramadol. We conclude that altered sensory processing related to hyperalgesia is reflected in altered LCEPs in SI cortex.
There is evidence in humans and animals that neonatal and early infant pain and stress may sensitize excitatory pain pathways. Possibly such experiences may result in long-term diminished activation of phasic endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms. We studied stress-induced activation of endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms in school-aged children (10-16 years) who had suffered moderate (N= =12) or severe (N=10) burn injuries in infancy (6-24 months of age) and 20 controls. Before and after the stress phase, pain threshold and pain tolerance (heat, pressure, ischemic pain) were assessed. Stress was successfully induced in all children as reflected by increases in heart rate, blood pressure and perceived stress. In the controls, there was evidence for stress-induced hypoalgesia as reflected by significant increases in heat pain threshold, heat pain tolerance and pressure pain tolerance. Pressure pain thresholds were not significantly altered. A similar pattern was observed in the moderately burned children. By contrast, children with severe burn injuries failed to show significant stress-related changes in heat and pressure pain sensitivity. In all groups, ischemic pain sensitivity was elevated post stress. The children reported being more distressed by the perceived loss of strength than by pain and had difficulties differentiating between the two. It is possible that ischemic pain may be less suitable for measuring pain sensitivity in children. The present study provides first evidence that pain and stress exposure due to severe burns in infancy may be associated with an attenuated stress-induced activation of phasic endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms later in childhood and adolescence.
Musculoskeletal pain deteriorates quality of life by disrupting daily activities and is a considerable economic burden to many countries because of the large number of patients. Little is known about the peripheral neural mechanisms of muscular nociception in the aged, although structural and functional changes in the muscle are apparent as a function of age. The aim of the present study was to investigate the activities of aged muscle nociceptors systematically to mechanical, chemical and thermal stimuli, and to compare with the data from young animals. Activities of single C-fibers were recorded from in vitro preparations of extensor digitorum longus muscle-nerve excised from hind legs of aged rats (125-133 weeks). Mechanical threshold measured by a ramp mechanical stimulus in the aged muscle (median; 45.2 mN (IQR; 38.1-59.1 mN), n=29) was significantly lower than that in the younger muscle (median; 65.4 mN (IQR; 46.6-122.0 mN), n=33, p&lt;0.01, Mann-Whitney U-test) reported in our previous study (Taguchi et al., 2005). In addition, the magnitude of the mechanical response during the first 5s of the 10s stimulus was significantly greater in the aged muscle (11.0 spikes (IQR; 6.5-20.5 spikes)) than in the young (7.0 spikes (IQR; 4.0-11.5 spikes), p&lt;0.05, Mann-Whitney U-test). In contrast, the numbers of discharges induced by chemical (pH 5.5, ATP and bradykinin) and thermal (cold and heat) stimuli were not different with the different ages. These results showed an augmented mechanical response in muscle C-afferents in the aged rats.
The activity of dentate gyrus granule neurons is under a strong GABAergic tonic inhibitory control which contributes to the sparse activation pattern of these neurons after environmental stimuli. Previously, we reported that in sparse dentate gyrus neurons such stimuli evoke Ser-10 (S10) phosphorylation and Lys-14 (K14) acetylation in the nucleosomal protein histone H3 (H3S10p-K14ac) resulting in the induction of c-Fos. We hypothesized that GABA is an important modulator of novelty stress-evoked epigenomic mechanisms in rat dentate neurons. As reported previously, exposure to novelty (30min in new cage) evoked a significant increase in H3S10p-K14ac-and c-Fos-positive neuron numbers in the dentate gyrus. Pre-treatment of rats with the benzo Lorazepam, an indirect GABA-A receptor agonist, had no effects on baseline levels of H3S10p-K14ac and c-Fos but dose-dependently inhibited the novelty-induced epigenomic effects. At the applied doses (0.1-0.3mg/kg), Lorazepam's effects on behavior were mainly anxiolytic-like. To examine the effects of attenuated GABAergic inhibition on dentate granule neurons we applied the partial inverse GABA-A agonist FG-7142. This drug profoundly enhanced baseline levels as well as novelty-induced increases in the number of H3S10p-K14ac- and c-Fos-positive dentate neurons. Furthermore, FG-7142 evoked behavior in the novel cage congruous with increased anxiety and hyper-vigilance. Interestingly, the FG-7142-evoked enhancements in epigenomic changes were completely blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. We conclude that GABA tonically controls epigenomic responses to psychologically salient events in dentate gyrus granule neurons. Furthermore, GABA appears to exert its controller activity through modulation of NMDA receptor function. These findings may be of significance for the elucidation of anxiety disorders especially PTSD.
Postpartum depression can mark the onset of bipolar disorder. The coding region of Per3 gene contains a variable-number tandem-repeat polymorphism, which has been shown to influence bipolar disorder onset and to affect breast cancer risk. We showed a relationship between Per3 polymorphism and postpartum depressive onset in bipolar disorder.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a highly heterogeneous and heritable psychiatric illness. Age at onset has been shown to be a powerful tool for dissecting both the phenotypic and genetic complexity of BD. In this article, we present findings from an association study between the DRD2 TaqIA polymorphism and age at onset, showing that both alleles and genotypes at this locus associate with early onset BD.
Maintenance therapy in bipolar disorder is primarily aimed at preventing recurrence of acute episodes. Clinicians often decide on the basis of their own experience whether mood stabilizer (MS) is properly satisfying the objective of preventing a relapse/recurrence. Evidence-based data seem far from clinical practice in assessing a MS efficacy, as they mainly focus on a drug's efficacy to first relapse and not considering the patient's course of illness. The problem of assessing MS's efficacy seems further complicated when considering combination therapy, which, due to lack of evidence-based data, economical aspects, attitude of clinicians and legal issues may bring to cumulative prescriptions. Nowadays, the drug therapy for a bipolar patient is usually tailored after longitudinal observation of his specific course of illness. The course of illness should be considered also when choosing practical criteria for the suspension of a MS due to lack of efficacy. The authors propose some preliminary criteria which may help clinicians evaluating whether a mood stabilizer is being useful or not, dividing possible outcomes and suggesting subsequent therapeutic steps in the optimization of a patient's treatment.
Most people find it easy to perform rhythmic movements in synchrony with music, which reflects their ability to perceive the temporal periodicity and to allocate attention in time accordingly. Musicians and non-musicians were tested in a click localization paradigm in order to investigate how grouping and metrical accents in metrical rhythms influence attention allocation, and to reveal the effect of musical expertise on such processing. We performed two experiments in which the participants were required to listen to isochronous metrical rhythms containing superimposed clicks and then to localize the click on graphical and ruler-like representations with and without grouping structure information, respectively. Both experiments revealed metrical and grouping influences on click localization. Musical expertise improved the precision of click localization, especially when the click coincided with a metrically strong beat. Critically, although all participants located the click accurately at the beginning of an intensity group, only musicians located it precisely when it coincided with a strong beat at the end of the group. Removal of the visual cue of grouping structures enhanced these effects in musicians and reduced them in non-musicians. These results indicate that musical expertise not only enhances attention to metrical accents but also heightens sensitivity to perceptual grouping.
Plasticity of corticospinal tract (CST) activity likely plays a key role in motor function recovery after central nervous system (CNS) lesions. In non-injured adults, 30min of repetitive common peroneal nerve stimulation (rCPnS) increases CST excitability by 40-50% and the effect persists for at least 30min. The present study evaluated with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) the changes in CST excitability after 30min of rCPnS in people with foot drop due to incomplete SCI. Suprathreshold rCPnS (25Hz, alternating 1s on 1s off stimulation cycle) was given for two 15-min periods, while the subject sat at rest with ankle and knee joints fixed. Before, between, and after the periods of stimulation, the tibialis anterior (TA) motor evoked potentials (MEPs) to TMS were measured at a TMS intensity that originally produced a half-maximum MEP (typically 10-20% above threshold) while the sitting subject provided 25-30% maximum voluntary TA contraction. In 10 subjects with SCI, the peak-to-peak TA MEP increased by 143% after rCPnS and the peak increase (+217%) occurred 15min after the cessation of rCPnS. The TA H-reflex, measured in separate experiments in 7 subjects, did not increase after rCPnS. The results indicate that rCPnS can increase CST excitability for the TA in people with incomplete SCI, although its effects appear smaller and shorter lasting than those found in non-injured control subjects. Such short-term plasticity in the CST excitability induced by rCPnS may contribute to long-term therapeutic effects of functional electrical stimulation previously reported in people with CNS lesions.
From observation of human behavior, we know that speed of movement initiation and execution can be influenced by motivational factors, for example we walk faster when in a hurry (sense of urgency) or write faster during an exam (potential reward of good results). However, there is scant experimental evidence for the motivational modulation of movement in man. Experiments in non-human primates have demonstrated shortening of reaction times in response to reward. However, it is not clear how reward might affect performance of reaction time (RT) tasks in humans, and specifically whether warned and unwarned simple and uncued and precued choice RTs are similarly or differentially affected by reward. The effect of monetary incentive on total time (TT, (RT + MT)) was assessed in 16 healthy participants using four paradigms: warned simple RT (wSRT), unwarned simple RT (uSRT), uncued choice RT (uCRT), and precued choice RT (pCRT). wSRT, uSRT, and pCRT tasks all allow advance preparation and preprogramming of the movement, whereas uCRT does not. We found a significant effect of monetary incentive in shortening TTs in wSRT, uSRT, and pCRT tasks, but no effect on the uCRT task. These results demonstrate that monetary incentive can speed up movement initiation and execution in human participants, but only in tasks where preprogramming of the response is possible. This suggests that in reaction time tasks such as these, monetary incentive is having its effect by enhancing preparation of preprogrammed movement, but has little effect when movements cannot be specified in advance. These &quot;RT and reward&quot; tasks provide a useful paradigm for investigation into the effects of monetary incentive on reaction times in man and to study motivational modulation of movement speed in health and disease.
Response time, or latency, is increasingly being used to provide information about neural decision processes. LATER (Linear Approach to Threshold with Ergodic Rate) is a quasi-Bayesian model of decision-making, with the additional feature that it introduces a degree of gratuitous randomisation into the decision process. It has had some success in predicting latencies under various conditions, but has not specifically been applied to an equally important aspect of decision-making, namely errors: a complete model of decision-making should not only account for latency distributions of correct decisions but also of wrong ones. We therefore used a decision task that generates large numbers of errors: subjects are told to look at suddenly appearing targets of one colour, but not another. We found that subjects' faster responses are as likely to be correct as wrong, but eventually the latency distributions diverge, with errors becoming infrequent. It seems that colour information, arriving after a delay, results both in cancellation of the developing response to the mere existence of the target and in delayed initiation of the correct response. A simple model, using LATER units in a similar way to one that has previously successfully modelled countermanding, accurately predicts latency distributions and proportions of all responses, whether correct or incorrect, demonstrating that the LATER model can indeed account for errors as well as correct responses.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have identified spatially distinct face-selective regions in human cortex. These regions have been linked together to form the components of a cortical network specialized for face perception but the cognitive operations performed in each region are not well understood. In this paper, we review the evidence concerning one of these face-selective regions, the occipital face area (OFA), to better understand what cognitive operations it performs in the face perception network. Neuropsychological evidence and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies demonstrate the OFA is necessary for accurate face perception. fMRI and TMS studies investigating the functional role of the OFA suggest that it preferentially represents the parts of a face, including the eyes, nose, and mouth and that it does so at an early stage of visual perception. These studies are consistent with the hypothesis that the OFA is the first stage in a hierarchical face perception network in which the OFA represents facial components prior to subsequent processing of increasingly complex facial features in higher face-selective cortical regions.
The extraocular muscles (EOM) are spared from pathology in aging and many forms of muscular dystrophy. Despite many studies, this sparing remains an enigma. The EOM have a distinct embryonic lineage compared to somite-derived muscles, and we have shown that they continuously remodel throughout life, maintaining a population of activated satellite cells even in aging. These data suggested the hypothesis that there is a population of myogenic precursor cells (mpcs) in EOM that is different from those in limb, with either elevated numbers of stem cells and/or mpcs with superior proliferative capacity compared to mpcs in limb. Using flow cytometry, EOM and limb muscle mononuclear cells were compared, and a number of differences were seen. Using two different cell isolation methods, EOM have significantly more mpcs per mg muscle than limb skeletal muscle. One specific subpopulation significantly increased in EOM compared to limb was positive for CD34 and negative for Sca-1, M-cadherin, CD31, and CD45. We named these the EOMCD34 cells. Similar percentages of EOMCD34 cells were present in both newborn EOM and limb muscle. They were retained in aged EOM, whereas the population decreased significantly in adult limb muscle and were extremely scarce in aged limb muscle. Most importantly, the percentage of EOMCD34 cells was elevated in the EOM from both the mdx and the mdx/utrophin(-/-) (DKO) mouse models of DMD and extremely scarce in the limb muscles of these mice. In vitro, the EOMCD34 cells had myogenic potential, forming myotubes in differentiation media. After determining a media better able to induce proliferation in these cells, a fusion index was calculated. The cells isolated from EOM had a 40% higher fusion index compared to the same cells isolated from limb muscle. The EOMCD34 cells were resistant to both oxidative stress and mechanical injury. These data support our hypothesis that the EOM may be spared in aging and in muscular dystrophies due to a subpopulation of mpcs, the EOMCD34 cells, that are retained in significantly higher percentages in normal, mdx and DKO mice EOM, appear to be resistant to elevated levels of oxidative stress and toxins, and actively proliferate throughout life. Current studies are focused on further defining the EOMCD34 cell subtype molecularly, with the hopes that this may shed light on a cell type with potential therapeutic use in patients with sarcopenia, cachexia, or muscular dystrophy.
Deficiency of the fast-twitch muscle protein -actinin-3 due to homozygosity for a nonsense polymorphism (R577X) in the ACTN3 gene is common in humans. -Actinin-3 deficiency (XX) is associated with reduced muscle strength/power and enhanced endurance performance in elite athletes and in the general population. The association between R577X and loss in muscle mass and function (sarcopenia) has previously been investigated in a number of studies in elderly humans. The majority of studies report loss of ACTN3 genotype association with muscle traits in the elderly, however, there is some indication that the XX genotype may be associated with faster muscle function decline. To further explore these potential age-related effects and the underlying mechanisms, we examined the effect of -actinin-3 deficiency in aging male and female Actn3 knockout (KO) mice (2, 6, 12, and 18 months). Our findings support previous reports of a diminished influence of ACTN3 genotype on muscle performance in the elderly: genotype differences in intrinsic exercise performance, fast muscle force generation and male muscle mass were lost in aged mice, but were maintained for other muscle function traits such as grip strength. The loss of genotype difference in exercise performance occurred despite the maintenance of some &quot;slower&quot; muscle characteristics in KO muscles, such as increased oxidative metabolism and greater force recovery after fatigue. Interestingly, muscle mass decline in aged 18 month old male KO mice was greater compared to wild-type controls (WT) (-12.2% in KO; -6.5% in WT). These results provide further support that -actinin-3 deficient individuals may experience faster decline in muscle function with increasing age.
Spinal cord injury induces structural plasticity throughout the mammalian nervous system, including distant locations in the brain. Several types of injury-induced plasticity have been identified, such as neurite sprouting, axon regeneration, and synaptic remodeling. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in injury-induced plasticity are unclear as is the extent to which injury-induced plasticity in brain is conserved across vertebrate lineages. Due to its robust roles in neurite outgrowth and synapse formation during developmental processes, we examined synapsin for its potential involvement in injury-induced plasticity. We used lamprey, a vertebrate that undergoes robust anatomical plasticity and functional recovery after spinal cord injury. At 3 and 11 weeks after spinal cord transection, synapsin I mRNA was upregulated &gt;2-fold in lamprey brain, as assayed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Other synaptic vesicle-associated genes remained unchanged. In situ hybridization revealed that synapsin I mRNA was increased globally throughout the lamprey brain. Immunolabeling for synapsin I protein revealed a significant increase in both the intensity and density of synapsin I-positive structures in lamprey hindbrain at 11 weeks post-transection, relative to controls. Moreover, the number of structures immunolabeled for phospho-synapsin (serine 9) increased after injury, suggestive of neurite sprouting. Indeed, at the ultrastructural level, there was an increase in neurite density at 11 weeks post-transection. Taken together, these data show that neurite sprouting in the brain is an evolutionarily conserved response to a distant spinal cord injury and suggest that synapsin and its phosphorylation at serine 9 play key roles in the sprouting mechanism.
The discovery of the gene mutation responsible for Huntington's disease (HD), huntingtin, in 1993 allowed for a better understanding of the pathology of and enabled the development of animal models. HD is caused by the expansion of a polyglutamine repeat region in the N-terminal of the huntingtin protein. Here we examine the behavioral, transcriptional, histopathological and anatomical characteristics of a knock-in HD mouse model with a 140 polyglutamine expansion in the huntingtin protein. This CAG 140 model contains a portion of the human exon 1 with 140 CAG repeats knocked into the mouse huntingtin gene. We have longitudinally examined the rearing behavior, accelerating rotarod, constant speed rotarod and gait for age-matched heterozygote, homozygote and non-transgenic mice and have found a significant difference in the afflicted mice. However, while there were significant differences between the non-transgenic and the knock-in mice, these behaviors were not progressive. As in HD, we show that the CAG 140 mice also have a significant decrease in striatally enriched mRNA transcripts. In addition, striatal neuronal intranuclear inclusion density increases with age. Lastly these CAG 140 mice show slight cortical thinning compared to non-transgenic mice, similarly to the cortical thinning recently reported in HD.
The neuropoietic cytokines and their cytoplasmic signaling molecules contribute to axotomy-induced events in the nerve cell body that are beneficial to axonal regeneration. Previous studies have revealed a paradox in that, in vivo, suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS3) is induced in axotomized primary sensory neurons which are in a growth mode but, in vitro, SOCS3 strongly inhibits neurite growth from the same neurons. The present studies in cell lines with immuno-precipitation and western blotting, and Frstner resonance energy transfer showed that SOCS3 binds to the C terminus of C-Jun N-terminal kinase-interacting protein-1 (JIP1), increases its serine phosphorylation, and increases its binding to kinesin. Axonal transport was studied in vitro in adult rat primary sensory neurons by analyses of recovery of fluorescence after photobleaching and of the velocity and direction of movement of organelles. Over-expression of SOCS3 in addition to JIP1 had two consequences. First, recovery of fluorescence after photobleaching was more rapid and, second, JIP1-containing organelles moved more quickly and more frequently in retrograde direction. With respect to neurite outgrowth, SOCS3 alone was, as expected, strongly inhibitory but, in the presence of excess JIP1 augmented the stimulatory activity of the latter. The observations indicate that interactions between JIP1 and SOCS3 influence favorably axonal transport and growth in vitro.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) can be an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. The therapeutic benefits are voltage-dependent and, in many cases, limited by the appearance of side effects, including muscle contractions. We have observed a number of clinical cases where improvements in rigidity were accompanied by a worsening of bradykinesia. Considering the anatomic position of STN and current approaches to implantation of the DBS lead, we hypothesized that this dissociation of motor symptoms arises from activation of pyramidal tract fibers in the adjacent internal capsule. The objective of this study was to assess the physiological basis for this dissociation and to test our hypothesis that the underlying etiology of this paradox is activation of fibers of the internal capsule. The effect of STN DBS at 80% of motor threshold for each of the four contacts was evaluated for its effect on rigidity, bradykinesia, and akinesia in a single primate with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism. Consistent with our observations in humans, this near-threshold stimulation was found to improve rigidity while bradykinesia and akinesia worsened. Worsening bradykinesia in the face of improvement of other motor signs in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients is suggestive of activation of pyramidal tract (PT) fibers during stimulation. This phenomenon may occur without overt muscle contraction and improved rigidity.
Astrocytes form a vascular-neuronal interface and provide CNS neural networks with essential structural and metabolic support. They embrace all penetrating arterioles and capillaries, enwrap multiple neuronal somata, thousands of individual synapses, and upon activation release gliotransmitters (ATP, glutamate and D-serine) capable of modulating neuronal activity. The aim of this brief report is to review recent data implicating astrocytes in the brain mechanisms responsible for the detection of different sensory modalities and transmitting sensory information to the relevant neural networks controlling vital behaviours. The concept of astrocytes as brain interoceptors is strongly supported by our recent data obtained from studies of the central nervous mechanisms underlying the chemosensory control of breathing. At the level of the medulla oblongata, astrocytes indeed act as functional central respiratory chemoreceptors, sensing changes in the arterial blood and brain levels of /pH and then imparting these changes on the activity of the respiratory network to induce adaptive changes in lung ventilation.
Introduction: Access to the CNS is essential for most neurotherapeutics to elicit their effects. Leveraging design strategies incorporating physicochemical properties, in vitro and in vivo assays to predict and measure brain penetration, and brain delivery approaches may enable the drug discovery community to improve access of drug candidates into the CNS compartment. Areas covered: This article reviews aspects of the most recent molecular design, in vitro and in vivo strategies, and delivery technologies to optimize the unbound brain concentrations (C (b,u)) of CNS molecules. Through this, the article provides insight into recent ideas and concepts in CNS drug molecule design, methods for evaluating CNS drug exposures and alternative approaches to maximize drug access to neurocompartments. Expert opinion: The most pharmacologically relevant measure in assessing a compound's pharmacodynamic response in the CNS is its C (b,u). The utilization of emerging design strategies, together with in vitro and in vivo assays, may enable the design of molecules with optimal C (b,u):C (p,u) (C (p,u), unbound plasma concentration) and appropriate C (b,u,) to elicit a biological response from the neurotherapeutic target. Where drug properties intrinsically render a compound CNS impaired, using novel CNS delivery approaches may result in sufficient C (b,u) to furnish a biological response.

Stroke is the third leading cause of death and a leading cause of severe long-term disability worldwide. It costs the world's economy billions of dollars each year in physician services, hospital costs, lost wages and decreased productivity. Rapid advances in medical technology have resulted in an explosion of treatment strategies in the management of acute ischemic stroke. Each clinical scenario presents unique challenges related to risks and benefits of therapy. In this article, we review the evolution of endovascular therapy in acute ischemic stroke, discuss the latest advances, challenges and controversies in the field and speculate on the future of this therapy.
Synaptic vesicles are key organelles in chemical signal transmission allowing neurons to communicate with each other and neighboring cells. The numerous tasks of synaptic vesicles are governed by a unique set of proteins. Recently, proteomic studies have been performed by several laboratories employing mass spectrometry and immunoblotting in order to identify the complete proteinaceous inventory of the purified synaptic vesicle compartment. Surprisingly, several fold more proteins were assigned to the organelle than previously anticipated. Despite several novel candidates, a large variety of proteins assumed to be only transiently associated with the vesicular compartment turned out to be constitutive components of the synaptic vesicle proteome. In recent years, the focus on protein-protein interactions has led to a deeper understanding of functional aspects in cellular trafficking. Several proteins acting in concert in defined cellular processes build an interactome. This article will survey the interacting partners during the entire synaptic vesicle life cycle identified by proteomic approaches. This includes anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of the synaptic vesicle membrane compartment, transport within the presynapse to the active zone, priming, docking, exocytosis, endocytosis, recycling and neurotransmitter reuptake to replenish the pool of exocytosis-competent synaptic vesicles.
The IFN- family are pleiotropic cytokines with the longest record of clinical use. Over the last decade, new biological effects of IFN- on immune cells, including dendritic cells, have been described, supporting the concept that these cytokines can act as effective vaccine adjuvants. Recently, an important advance in our understanding of the mechanisms of interferon adjuvant activity has been achieved. Some clinical studies have been performed to assess the adjuvant activity in individuals immunized with preventive vaccines, showing variable results depending on interferon/vaccine formulation and vaccinated subjects. In spite of many data in animal models, little information is available on the possible advantage of utilizing IFN- as an adjuvant for cancer vaccines in humans. Further clinical trials specifically designed to explore vaccine adjuvant activity are needed in order to define the best conditions for using IFN- or IFN--conditioned dendritic cells for the development of therapeutic vaccines.
The serine-protease OMI/HTRA2, required for several cellular processes, including mitochondrial function, autophagy, chaperone activity, and apoptosis, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of both Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Western blot quantification of OMI/HTRA2 in frontal cortex of patients with AD (n=10) and control subjects (n=10) in two separate materials indicated reduced processed (active, 35 kDa) OMI/HTRA2 levels, whereas unprocessed (50 kDa) enzyme levels were not significantly different between the groups. Interestingly, the specific protease activity of OMI/HTRA2 was found to be significantly increased in patients with AD (n=10) compared to matched control subjects (n=10) in frontal cortex in two separate materials. Comparison of OMI/HTRA2 mRNA levels in frontal cortex and hippocampus, two brain areas particularly affected by AD, indicated similar levels in patients with AD (n=10) and matched control subjects (n=10). In addition, we analyzed the occurrence of the OMI/HTRA2 variants A141S and G399S in Swedish case-control materials for AD and PD and found a weak association of A141S with AD, but not with PD. In conclusion, our genetic, histological, and biochemical findings give further support to an involvement of OMI/HTRA2 in the pathology of AD; however, further studies are needed to clarify the role of this gene in neurodegeneration.

Partner preference behavior can be viewed as the outcome of a set of hierarchical choices made by an individual in anticipation of mating. The first choice involves approaching a conspecific verses an individual of another species. As a rule, a conspecific is picked as a mating partner, but early life experiences can alter that outcome. Within a species, an animal then has the choice between a member of the same sex or the opposite sex. The final choice is for a specific individual. This review will focus on the middle choice, the decision to mate with either a male or a female. Available data from rats, mice, and ferrets point to the importance of perinatal exposure to steroid hormones in the development of partner preferences, as well as the importance of activational effects in adulthood. However, the particular effects of this hormone exposure show species differences in both the specific steroid hormone responsible for the organization of behavior and the developmental period when it has its effect. Where these hormones have an effect in the brain is mostly unknown, but regions involved in olfaction and sexual behavior, as well as sexually dimorphic regions, seem to play a role. One limitation of the literature base is that many mate or 'partner preference studies' rely on preference for a specific stimulus (usually olfaction) but do not include an analysis of the relation, if any, that stimulus has to the choice of a particular sexual partner. A second limitation has been the almost total lack of attention to the type of behavior that is shown by the choosing animal once a 'partner' has been chosen, specifically, if the individual plays a mating role typical of its own sex or the opposite sex. Additional paradigms that address these questions are needed for better understanding of partner preferences in rodents.
Different milestones have marked the development of the field of neuroendocrinology. This is an essay in which a new direction is proposed; one in which the field is marked more by a concern for ethical considerations than experimental procedures. Among the primary concerns is the need for a national registry for intersex and transsexual cases to follow how they are managed and to assess the long-term results. As in Europe, the data in the registries should be available to qualified and certified researchers and clinicians for analysis. A secondary focus is on the surgery often imposed in cases of intersex. Many current procedures have been found to have negative effects. The overall aim is to provide better management and treatment. Other topics are offered for ethical consideration.
A majority of birds are socially monogamous, providing exceptional opportunities to discover neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying preferences for opposite-sex partners where the sexes form extended affiliative relationships. Zebra finches have been the focus of the most systematic program of research to date in any socially monogamous animal. In this species, sexual partner preference can be partially or largely sex reversed with hormone manipulations during early development, suggesting a role for organizational hormone actions. This same conclusion emerges from research with Japanese quail, which do not form long-term pairs. In zebra finches, social experience manipulations during juvenile development also can sex reverse partner preference, either alone or in combination with an early hormone manipulation. Although there are several candidate brain regions where neural mechanisms could underlie these effects of hormones or social experience, the necessary research has not yet been done to determine their involvement. The neuroendocrinology of avian sexual partner preference is still frontier territory.
Genome mining has provided a valuable tool for peptide discovery in many species, yet no crustacean has undergone this analysis. Currently, the only crustacean with a sequenced genome is the cladoceran Daphnia pulex, a model organism in many fields of biology. Here, we have mined the D. pulex genome for peptide-encoding genes. For each gene identified, the encoded precursor protein was deduced, and its mature peptides predicted. Twenty-four peptide-encoding genes were identified, including ones predicted to produce members of the A-type allatostatin, B-type allatostatin, C-type allatostatin, allatotropin (ATR), bursicon , bursicon , calcitonin-like diuretic hormone, corazonin, crustacean cardioactive peptide, crustacean hyperglycemic hormone, ecdysis-triggering hormone, eclosion hormone (EH), insulin-like peptide (ILP), molt-inhibiting hormone, neuropeptide F, orcokinin (two genes), pigment-dispersing hormone, proctolin, red pigment concentrating hormone/adipokinetic hormone (RPCH/AKH), short neuropeptide F, SIFamide, sulfakinin, and tachykinin-related peptide (TRP) families/subfamilies. In total, 96 peptides were predicted from these genes. Our identification of isoforms of corazonin, EH, ILP, proctolin, RPCH/AKH, sulfakinin and TRP are the first for D. pulex, while our prediction of ATR from this species is the first from any crustacean. The number of peptides predicted in our study shows the power of genome mining for peptide discovery, and provides a model for future genomic analyses of the peptidomes of other crustaceans. In addition, the data presented in our study provide foundations for future molecular, biochemical, anatomical, and physiological investigation of peptidergic signaling in D. pulex and other cladoceran species.
The incidence of diabetes mellitus has soared to epidemic proportion worldwide. The debilitating chronic hyperglycemia is caused by either lack of insulin as in diabetes type 1 or its ineffectiveness as in diabetes type 2. Frequent replacement of insulin with or without insulin analogs for optimum glycemic control are the conventional cumbersome therapies. Recent application of leptin gene transfer technology has uncovered the participation of adipocytes-derived leptin-dependent hypothalamic neural signaling in glucose homeostasis and demonstrated that a breakdown in this communication due to leptin insufficiency in the hypothalamus underlies the etiology of chronic hyperglycemia. Reinstatement of central leptin sufficiency by hyperleptinemia produced either by intravenous leptin infusion or a single systemic injection of recombinant adenovirus vector encoding leptin gene suppressed hyperglycemia and evoked euglycemia only transiently in rodent models of diabetes type 1. In contrast, stable restoration of leptin sufficiency, solely in the hypothalamus, with biologically active leptin transduced by an intracerebroventicular injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding leptin gene (rAAV-lep) abolished hyperglycemia and imposed euglycemia through the extended duration of experiment by stimulating glucose disposal in the periphery in models of diabetes type 1. Further, similar hypothalamic leptin transgene expression abrogated chronic hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, the predisposing risk factors of the age and environmentally acquired diabetes type 2, and instituted euglycemia by independently activating relays that stimulate glucose metabolism and repress hyperinsulinemia and improve insulin sensitivity in the periphery. Consequently, this durable antidiabetic efficacy of one time rAAV-lep neurotherapy offers a potential novel substitute for insulin therapy following preclinical trials in subhuman primates and humans.
Low blood levels of B vitamins have been implicated in age-associated cognitive impairment. The present study investigated the association between genetic variation in folate metabolism and age-related cognitive decline in the ninth decade of life. Both the 677C&gt;T (rs1801133) polymorphism and the scarcely studied 1298A&gt;C (rs1801131) polymorphism of the MTHFR gene were assessed in relation to cognitive change over 8 years in older community-dwelling individuals. MTHFR genotype was determined in 476 participants of the Lothian Birth Cohort 1921, whose intelligence was measured in childhood in the Scottish Mental Survey of 1932. Cognitive performance on the domains of verbal memory, reasoning and verbal fluency was assessed at mean age of 79 (n = 476) and again at mean ages of 83 (n = 275) and 87 (n = 180). Using linear mixed models, the MTHFR 677C&gt;T and 1298A&gt;C variants were not associated with the rate of cognitive change between 79 and 87 years, neither in the total sample, nor in a subsample of individuals with erythrocyte folate levels below the median. APOE E4 allele carrier status did not interact with MTHFR genotype in affecting change in cognitive performance over 8 years. No significant combined effect of the two polymorphisms was found. In conclusion, MTHFR 677C&gt;T and 1298A&gt;C polymorphisms were not associated with individual change in cognitive functioning in the ninth decade of life. Although polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene may cause disturbances in folate metabolism, they do not appear to be accompanied by changes in cognitive functioning in old age.
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) associated sorting protein-1 (GASP-1) is suspected to play a key role in recycling and degradation of several GPCRs. In a previous study, we have shown that GASP-1-knock-out (GASP-1-KO) mice displayed deficits in acquiring a cocaine self-administration task, associated with an exacerbated down-regulation of striatal dopaminergic and cholinergic receptors. Among several possibilities, GASP-1 deficiency could have impaired memory processes underlying the acquisition of the operant conditioning task. Therefore, the present study investigated cognitive performances of GASP-1-KO mice and their wild-type littermates (WT) in a broad variety of memory tasks. Consistent with a deficit in procedural memory, GASP-1-KO mice showed delayed acquisition of a food-reinforced bar-press task. During water-maze training in hidden- or visible-platform paradigms, mutant and WT mice acquired the tasks at the same rate. However, GASP-1 mice exhibited persistent thigmotaxic swimming, longer distance to the platform, and reduced swim speed. There was no deficit in several tasks requiring simple behavioral responses (Barnes maze, object recognition and passive avoidance tasks). Thus, the ability to acquire and/or express complex responses seems affected in GASP-1-deficient mice. Hippocampal functions were preserved, as the retention of an acquired memory in spatial tasks remained unaffected. The pattern of behavioral deficits observed in GASP-1-KO mice is coherent with current knowledge on the role of striatal GPCRs in acquisition/expression of skilled behavior and in motivation. Together with the previous findings, the so far established phenotype of GASP-1-KO mice makes them a potentially exciting tool to study striatal functions.
Two experiments examined the effect of 5 days of passive exposure to ethanol (or water) on later self-infusion of ethanol or water via surgically implanted intragastric (IG) catheters in mouse genotypes previously shown to drink high (C57BL/6J, HAP2) or low (DBA/2J, LAP2) amounts of ethanol in home-cage continuous-access two-bottle choice procedures. Intragastric ethanol self-infusion was affected by both genotype and a history of passive ethanol exposure, with greater intakes in the high-drinking genotypes and in groups that received passive exposure to ethanol. Passive ethanol exposure also increased preference for the flavor that signaled ethanol infusion (S+), eliminating genetic differences in this measure. The increases in ethanol intake and S+ preference induced by ethanol exposure might have been mediated jointly by development of tolerance to aversive post-absorptive ethanol effects and negative reinforcement because of alleviation of withdrawal. Bout analyses indicated that ethanol exposure increased ethanol self-infusion by increasing the total number of daily bouts rather than by increasing bout size. These analyses also showed that DBA/2J mice infused larger ethanol bouts and a greater percentage of their total intakes in large bouts than C57BL/6J mice. Overall, these studies suggest that the IG self-infusion procedure is a potentially useful new tool for studying genetic and environmental influences on excessive ethanol intake and preference in mice.
At the heart of lineage commitment within the adaptive immune response is the intrinsic genetic plasticity of the naive peripheral T lymphocyte (T cell). Primary activation by presentation of cognate antigen is coupled to rapid T-cell cycling and progressive epigenetic changes that guide the cell down distinct T-cell lineages, either effector (Th1, Th2, Th17) or tolerogenic (Treg). Fate choice is influenced both by strength of the priming activation signal and by cues from the micro-environment that are integrated with lineage-specific gene expression profiles, eventually becoming hard-wired in the fully differentiated cell. The micro-environmental cues include cytokines, and the discovery that leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and interleukin (IL)-6 counter-regulate development of the Treg and Th17 lineages places LIF within the core regulatory circuitry of T cells. I first summarise current understanding of LIF and the LIF receptor in the context of T cells. Next, the central relevance of the LIF/IL-6 axis in immune-mediated disease is set in the context of (i) a new nano-therapeutic approach for targeted delivery of LIF and (ii) MARCH-7, a novel E3-ligase discovered to have a central mechanistic role in LIF-mediated T-cell biology, functioning as a rheostat-type regulator of endogenous LIF-signalling.
Neurogenic placodes are transient, thickened patches of embryonic vertebrate head ectoderm that give rise to the paired peripheral sense organs and most neurons in cranial sensory ganglia. We present the first analysis of gene expression during neurogenic placode development in a basal actinopterygian (ray-finned fish), the North American paddlefish (Polyodon spathula). Pax3 expression in the profundal placode confirms its homology with the ophthalmic trigeminal placode of amniotes. We report the conservation of expression of Pax2 and Pax8 in the otic and/or epibranchial placodes, Phox2b in epibranchial placode-derived neurons, Sox3 during epibranchial and lateral line placode development, and NeuroD in developing cranial sensory ganglia. We identify Sox3 as a novel marker for developing fields of electrosensory ampullary organs and for ampullary organs themselves. Sox3 is also the first molecular marker for actinopterygian ampullary organs. This is consistent with, though does not prove, a lateral line placode origin for actinopterygian ampullary organs.
Autism is an etiologically and clinically heterogeneous group of disorders, diagnosed solely by the complex behavioral phenotype. On the basis of the high-heritability index, geneticists are confident that autism will be the first behavioral disorder for which the genetic basis can be well established. Although it was initially assumed that major genome-wide and candidate gene association studies would lead most directly to common autism genes, progress has been slow. Rather, most discoveries have come from studies of known genetic disorders associated with the behavioral phenotype. New technology, especially array chromosomal genomic hybridization, has both increased the identification of putative autism genes and raised to approximately 25%, the percentage of children for whom an autism-related genetic change can be identified. Incorporating clinical geneticists into the diagnostic and autism research arenas is vital to the field. Interpreting this new technology and deciphering autism's genetic montage require the skill set of the clinical geneticist including knowing how to acquire and interpret family pedigrees, how to analyze complex morphologic, neurologic, and medical phenotypes, sorting out heterogeneity, developing rational genetic models, and designing studies. The current emphasis on deciphering autism spectrum disorders has accelerated the field of neuroscience and demonstrated the necessity of multidisciplinary research that must include clinical geneticists both in the clinics and in the design and implementation of basic, clinical, and translational research.
Gene fusions involving members of the RAF family of protein kinases have recently been identified as characteristic aberrations of low-grade astrocytomas, the most common tumors of the central nervous system in children. While it has been shown that these fusions cause constitutive activation of the ERK/MAPK pathway, very little is known about their formation. Here, we present a detailed analysis of RAF gene fusion breakpoints from a well-characterized cohort of 43 low-grade astrocytomas. Our findings show that the rearrangements that generate these RAF gene fusions may be simple or complex and that both inserted nucleotides and microhomology are common at the DNA breakpoints. Furthermore, we identify novel enrichment of microhomologous sequences in the regions immediately flanking the breakpoints. We thus provide evidence that the tandem duplications responsible for these fusions are generated by microhomology-mediated break-induced replication (MMBIR). Although MMBIR has previously been implicated in the pathogenesis of other diseases and the evolution of eukaryotic genomes, we demonstrate here that the proposed details of MMBIR are consistent with a recurrent rearrangement in cancer. Our analysis of repetitive elements, Z-DNA and sequence motifs in the fusion partners identified significant enrichment of the human minisatellite conserved sequence/-like element at one side of the breakpoint. Therefore, in addition to furthering our understanding of low-grade astrocytomas, this study provides insights into the molecular mechanistic details of MMBIR and the sequence of events that occur in the formation of genomic rearrangements.
Prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2) ) is a potent inflammatory mediator, which is implicated in both the initiation and resolution of inflammation in peripheral non-neural tissues. Its role in the central nervous system has not been fully elucidated. Spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with an acute inflammatory response, which contributes to secondary tissue damage that worsens functional loss. We show here, with the use of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase (HPGDS) deficient mice and a HPGDS selective inhibitor (HQL-79), that PGD(2) plays a detrimental role after SCI. We also show that HPGDS is expressed in macrophages in the injured mouse spinal cord and contributes to the increase in PGD(2) in the contused spinal cord. HPGDS(-/-) mice also show reduced secondary tissue damage and reduced expression of the proinflammatory chemokine CXCL10 as well as an increase in IL-6 and TGF-1 expression in the injured spinal cord. This was accompanied by a reduction in the expression of the microglia/macrophage activation marker Mac-2 and an increase in the antioxidant metallothionein III. Importantly, HPGDS deficient mice exhibit significantly better locomotor recovery after spinal cord contusion injury than wild-type (Wt) mice. In addition, systemically administered HPGDS inhibitor (HQL-79) also enhanced locomotor recovery after SCI in Wt mice. These data suggest that PGD(2) generated via HPGDS has detrimental effects after SCI and that blocking the activity of this enzyme can be beneficial.



The cat primary auditory cortex (AI) is usually assumed to form one continuous functional region. However, the dorsal and central parts of the AI iso-frequency domain contain neurons that have distinct response properties to acoustic stimuli. In this study, we asked whether neurons projecting to dorsal versus central regions of AI originate in different parts of the medial geniculate body (MGB). Spike rate responses to variations in the sound level and frequency of pure tones were used to measure characteristic frequency (CF) and frequency resolution. These were mapped with high spatial density in order to place retrograde tracers into matching frequency regions of the central narrow-band region (cNB) and dorsal AI. Labeled neurons projecting to these two parts of AI were concentrated in the middle and rostral thirds of the MGB, respectively. There was little evidence that differences in dorsal and central AI function could be due to convergent input from cells outside the ventral division of the MGB (MGBv). Instead, inputs arising from different locations along the caudal-to-rostral dimension of MGBv represent potential sources of response differences between central and dorsal sub-regions of AI.
Neurons in primary sensory cortices display selective receptive field plasticity in behavioral situations ranging from classical conditioning to attentional tasks, and it is generally assumed that neuromodulators promote this plasticity. Studies have shown that pairing a pure-tone and a stimulation of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis mimics the selective receptive field facilitations described after classical conditioning. Here, we evaluated the consequences of repeated pairings between a particular sound frequency and a phasic stimulation of locus coeruleus (LC) on the frequency tuning of auditory thalamus and auditory cortex neurons. Selective alterations for the paired frequency were observed for more than 30% of the cells recorded both in cortex and in thalamus. There were as much selective increases as selective decreases at the cortical level, whereas selective increases were prevailing at the thalamic level. Selective changes usually persisted 15 min after pairing in cortex; they dissipated in thalamus, and so did the general increases in both structures. In animals with stimulation sites outside the LC, pairing induced either general changes or no effect. These results indicate that the selective plasticity induced in the frequency tuning of auditory cortex neurons by LC stimulation is bidirectional, thereby suggesting that noradrenergic activation can contribute to the different forms of plasticity observed after distinct behavioral paradigms.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is the main auditory nucleus in the midbrain. This auditory center is made of a central nucleus (CNIC) characterized by a distinct laminar organization that is surrounded by cortical regions. The neuronal types in the CNIC are well established but thus far, the neuronal composition and functional roles of the cortical regions are not fully appreciated. As dendritic architecture is critical for the synaptic integrative properties of neurons, a detailed analysis of the dendritic architecture of the neurons in the collicular cortical regions should shed light on our understanding of their roles in collicular function. In the present study, we have used the del Rio-Hortega Golgi procedure to impregnate individual neurons within the IC. Rat brains were embedded in resin and sectioned serially to allow quantitative 3-D analyses of single neurons or groups of neurons. Our results demonstrate that the cortical regions of the IC are made up of unique sets of neuronal types and that there is an interdigitation of dendrites at the cortical borders. This latter feature may have led to difficulty in delineating a sharp border between the CNIC and cortical regions in previous studies. The quantitative analysis further demonstrates that there are significant differences in many of the dendritic parameters tested when compared to the neurons from the CNIC. Moreover, we observed that the neuronal populations of the cortical regions vary from the laminar pattern of the CNIC and from each other. Since the main organizing principle of the CNIC is the laminar organization of 'flat' neurons, evidence that cortical IC regions lack flat neurons supports the subdivision schema presented here.
In the auditory cortex (AC), GABAergic neurons constitute approximately 15-25% of all neurons. GABAergic cells are present in all sensory modalities and essential for modulating sensory receptive fields. Parvalbumin (PV) positive cells represent the largest sub-group of the GABAergic population in auditory neocortex. We investigated the projection pattern of PV cells in rat primary auditory cortex (AI) with a retrograde tracer (wheat germ apo-HRP conjugated to gold [WAHG]) and immunocytochemistry for PV. All AC layers except layer I contained cells double-labeled for PV and WAHG. All co-localized PV+ cells were within 2 mm of the injection site, regardless of laminar origin. Most (ca. 90%) of the co-localized PV cells were within 500 m of the injection site in both dorsal-ventral and rostral-caudal dimension of the auditory core region. WAHG-only cells declined less rapidly with distance and were found up to 6 mm from the deposit sites. WAHG-only labeled cells in the medial geniculate body were in ventral division loci compatible with an injection in AI. Differences in the range and direction of the distribution pattern of co-localized PV+ cells and WAHG-only cells in AI express distinct functional convergence patterns for the two cell populations.
Encephalopathy and brain edema are serious central nervous system complications of liver failure. Recent studies using molecular probes and antibodies to cell-specific marker proteins have demonstrated the activation of microglial cells in the brain during liver failure and confirmed a central neuroinflammatory response. In animal models of ischemic or toxic liver injury, microglial activation and concomitantly increased expression of genes coding for proinflammatory cytokines in the brain occur early in the progression of encephalopathy and brain edema. Moreover, the prevention of these complications with mild hypothermia or N-acetylcysteine (two treatments known to manifest both peripheral and central cytoprotective properties) averts central neuroinflammation due to liver failure. Recent studies using anti-inflammatory agents such as ibuprofen and indomethacin have shown promise for the treatment of mild encephalopathy in patients with cirrhosis, whereas treatment with minocycline, a potent inhibitor of microglial activation, attenuates the encephalopathy grade and prevents brain edema in experimental acute liver failure. The precise nature of the signaling mechanisms between the failing liver and central neuroinflammation has yet to be fully elucidated; mechanisms involving blood-brain cytokine transfer and receptor-mediated cytokine signal transduction as well as a role for liver-related toxic metabolites such as ammonia have been proposed. The prevention of central proinflammatory processes will undoubtedly herald a new chapter in the development of agents for the prevention and treatment of the central nervous system complications of liver failure.


The ontogeny of neural substrates underlying episodic memory is not well described. Place cells are a surrogate for episodic memory and are important for spatial navigation in rodents. Although place cells are well described in mature brains, the nature of the maturation processes remains uncertain. We now report on the ontogeny of the place cell system in rats between P22 and P43, a time during which there is rapid improvement in spatial behavior. We found that place cells with adult like firing fields were observed at the earliest ages. However, at this age, adult like place cells were few in number and their place fields were not stable across multiple exposures to the same environment. Independently of confounding factors such as the number of exposures to the environment, the proportion of adult-like place cells, their firing rate, and their stability increased with age and the average spatial signal of all pyramidal cells improved. These findings could account for the poor spatial behavior observed at young ages (P20-P30) and suggests that a small number of adult-like place cells are insufficient to support navigation.
Enlargement of dendritic spines and synapses correlates with enhanced synaptic strength during long-term potentiation (LTP), especially in immature hippocampal neurons. Less clear is the nature of this structural synaptic plasticity on mature hippocampal neurons, and nothing is known about the structural plasticity of inhibitory synapses during LTP. Here the timing and extent of structural synaptic plasticity and changes in local protein synthesis evidenced by polyribosomes were systematically evaluated at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses on CA1 dendrites from mature rats following induction of LTP with theta-burst stimulation (TBS). Recent work suggests dendritic segments can act as functional units of plasticity. To test whether structural synaptic plasticity is similarly coordinated, we reconstructed from serial section transmission electron microscopy all of the spines and synapses along representative dendritic segments receiving control stimulation or TBS-LTP. At 5 min after TBS, polyribosomes were elevated in large spines suggesting an initial burst of local protein synthesis, and by 2 h only those spines with further enlarged synapses contained polyribosomes. Rapid induction of synaptogenesis was evidenced by an elevation in asymmetric shaft synapses and stubby spines at 5 min and more nonsynaptic filopodia at 30 min. By 2 h, the smallest synaptic spines were markedly reduced in number. This synapse loss was perfectly counterbalanced by enlargement of the remaining excitatory synapses such that the summed synaptic surface area per length of dendritic segment was constant across time and conditions. Remarkably, the inhibitory synapses showed a parallel synaptic plasticity, also demonstrating a decrease in number perfectly counterbalanced by an increase in synaptic surface area. Thus, TBS-LTP triggered spinogenesis followed by loss of small excitatory and inhibitory synapses and a subsequent enlargement of the remaining synapses by 2 h. These data suggest that dendritic segments coordinate structural plasticity across multiple synapses and maintain a homeostatic balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs through local protein-synthesis and selective capture or redistribution of dendritic resources.
Several studies have suggested a close interaction between serotonin (5-HT) and BDNF; however, little is known of the specific relationship between BDNF and the 5-HT(2C) receptor. Therefore, in this study we investigated BDNF expression in 5-HT(2C) receptor knockout mice (5-HT(2C) KO). We also assessed functional consequences of any changes in BDNF using a behavioral test battery. Western blot analysis demonstrated a significant 2.2-fold increase in the expression of the mature form of BDNF in 5-HT(2C) KO mice when compared with wild-type controls (WT) in the hippocampus (P = 0.008), but not frontal cortex or striatum. No differences in the expression of the pro-BDNF isoform were found, and the ratio of mature/pro BDNF was significantly increased in 5-HT(2C) KO (P = 0.003). BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus was not different between the genotypes. Hence, increased mature BDNF levels in 5-HT(2C) KO hippocampus are most likely due to increased extracellular cleavage rates of pro-BDNF to its mature form. Protein expression of the BDNF receptor, tropomycin-related receptor B (TrkB), was also unchanged in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and striatum. With repeated training in a 10-day win-shift radial arm maze task, 5-HT(2C) KO and WT showed similar decreases of the number of working memory and reference memory errors. In addition, no genotype specific differences were observed for passive or active avoidance learning. 5-HT(2C) KO showed modest locomotor hyperactivity but no differences in tests for anxiety, sensorimotor gating, or depressive-like behaviors; however, in the tail suspension test 5-HT(2C) KO showed significantly reduced climbing (P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, loss of 5-HT(2C) receptor expression leads to a marked and selective increase in levels of the mature form of BDNF in the hippocampus. Despite this marked increase, 5-HT(2C) KO show only subtle behavioral changes.
Fifteen percent of women worldwide develop postpartum depression; however, many women also suffer from mood disorders during pregnancy. Our knowledge of how these stress-related disorders affect the neurobiology of the mother is very limited. In animal models, depressive-like behavior is often associated with repeated stress and alterations in adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus. However, research has yet to investigate the effect of stress on affective-like behavior and hippocampal neurogenesis in the pregnant female. The aim of the present study was to determine whether stress during gestation alters affective-like behaviors, corticosterone levels, and hippocampal cell proliferation and new cell survival in the pregnant female, and whether these effects differ from virgin females. Age-matched pregnant and virgin Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two conditions: 1) stress and 2) control. Females in the stress condition were repeatedly restrained during gestation, and at matched time points in virgin females. Affective-like behaviors were assessed at the end of gestation, and at matched time points in virgin females. Results demonstrate that regardless of repeated restraint stress, pregnant females have increased anxiety-like behavior, decreased depressive-like behavior, and lower corticosterone levels, compared to non-stressed, and at times stressed, virgin females. In addition, stressed virgin females have lower levels of depressive-like behavior compared to control virgin females. Interestingly, hippocampal cell proliferation was increased in both virgin and pregnant females after stress. Understanding how stress affects the female during different reproductive states will aid in improving the health and well being of the mother and child.
Despite the well-documented relation between estradiol (E2) and behavior, exposure to stressors may modify sensitivity to E2. The effects of E2 on behavior are, in part, likely related to their modulation of the serotonin (5HT) and oxytocin systems. The short allele (s-variant) polymorphism found in the promoter region of the SLC6A4 gene that encodes the 5HT transporter (5HTT) modulates responsivity to stressors. The current study used ovariectomized adult female rhesus monkeys to evaluate how exposure to the psychosocial stressor of social subordination and polymorphisms in the gene encoding 5HTT influence the behavioral effects of E2 and immunoreactive serum oxytocin. Dominant females had higher levels of oxytocin than subordinate animals even though E2 increased immunoreactive serum oxytocin in all females. E2 increased affiliative behaviors in all animals, with even more of these prosocial behaviors directed at dominant females. S-variant females, regardless of social status, were more aggressive toward more subordinate cage mates and these behaviors too were increased by E2. Subordinate s-variant females are most often involved in agonistic behavior, less affiliative behavior, and were less responsive to the anxiolytic action of E2. The results show that the short allele of the 5HTT gene synergizes with psychosocial stress exposure to affect the behavioral efficacy of E2 while confirming the actions of E2 for producing generalized behavioral arousal in females. Whether differences in the central action of 5HT and/or oxytocin are responsible for this effect requires further study.
In many rodent species, including Syrian hamsters, the expression of appropriate social behavior depends critically on the perception and identification of conspecific odors. The behavioral response to these odors is mediated by a network of steroid-sensitive ventral forebrain nuclei including the medial amygdala (Me), posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and medial preoptic area (MPOA). Although it is well-known that Me, BNST, and MPOA are densely interconnected and each uniquely modulates odor-guided social behaviors, the degree to which conspecific odor information and steroid hormone cues are directly relayed between these nuclei is unknown. To answer this question, we injected the retrograde tracer, cholera toxin B (CTB), into the BNST or MPOA of male subjects and identified whether retrogradely-labeled cells in Me and BNST 1) expressed immediate early genes (IEGs) following exposure to male and/or female odors or 2) expressed androgen receptor (AR). Although few retrogradely-labeled cells co-localized with IEGs, a higher percentage of BNST- and MPOA-projecting cells in the posterior Me (MeP) expressed IEGs in response to female odors than to male odors. The percentage of retrogradely-labeled cells that expressed IEGs did not, however, differ between and female and male odor-exposed groups in the anterior Me (MeA), posterointermediate BNST (BNSTpi), or posteromedial BNST (BNSTpm). Many retrogradely-labeled cells co-localized with AR, and a higher percentage of retrogradely-labeled MeP and BNSTpm cells expressed AR than retrogradely-labeled MeA and BNSTpi cells, respectively. Together, these data demonstrate that Me, BNST, and MPOA interact as a functional circuit to process sex-specific odor cues and hormone information in male Syrian hamsters.
Mental retardation is one of the clinical characteristics of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and in part of the patients growth hormone deficiency is demonstrable. Cognitive function seems to be influenced by insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I); however, little is known about cognitive function in relation to IGF-I levels in PWS adults. The aim of the present study was to evaluate cognitive function in adult PWS patients in comparison to healthy siblings and to investigate whether there is a correlation between cognitive function and IGF-I levels. Anthropometric measurements, IGF-I levels, quality of life (QoL), Appetite Assessment Score, IQ (GIT and Raven) and cognitive function (by four subtests of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Automated Testing Battery, CANTAB) were evaluated in PWS patients and their healthy siblings served as control group. PWS patients had significantly lower IGF-I levels, IQ and QoL when compared to controls. Reaction times were longer and performance was worse on CANTAB subtests in PWS adults. IGF-I on one hand and IQ, Appetite Assessment Score and cognitive performance on the other hand seem to be correlated in PWS patients. In conclusion, IGF-I levels, IQ and QoL are significantly lower in PWS subjects when compared to healthy siblings. In PWS adults, temporal as well as prefrontal cognitive functions are impaired. Higher IGF-I levels appear to be related to better intellectual skills and faster temporal memory processing in PWS patients.
Oxytocin (OT) is a versatile neuropeptide that is involved in a variety of mammalian behaviors, and its role in reproductive function and behavior has been well established. The majority of pharmacological studies of the effects of OT on male sexual behavior have focused on the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), ventral tegmental area (VTA), hippocampus, and amygdala. Less attention has been given to the medial preoptic area (MPOA), a major integrative site for male sexual behavior. The present study investigated the effects of intra-MPOA administration of OT and (d(CH2)51, Tyr(Me)2, Thr4, Orn8, Tyr-NH29)-vasotocin, an OT antagonist (OTA), on copulation in the male rat. The relationship between OT receptor (OTR) binding levels in the MPOA and sexual efficiency was also explored. Microinjection of OT into the MPOA facilitated copulation in sexually experienced male rats, whereas similar injections of an OTA inhibited certain aspects of copulation but had no significant effect on locomotor activity in an open field. Contrary to expectation, sexually efficient males had lower levels of OTR binding in the rostral MPOA compared to inefficient animals. The present data suggest that OT activity in the MPOA is not necessary for the expression of male sexual behavior but is sufficient to facilitate copulatory behaviors and improve sexual efficiency in sexually experienced male rats. These data also suggest that OTR activity in the MPOA stimulates anogenital investigation, facilitates the initiation of copulation, and plays a role in the sensitization effect of the first ejaculation on subsequent ejaculations.
The Queen Mary conference on Integrating Genetic and Cultural Evolutionary Approaches to Language, and the papers in this special issue, clearly illustrate the excitement and potential of trans-disciplinary approaches to language as an evolved biological capacity (phylogeny) and an evolving cultural entity (glossogeny). Excepting the present author, the presenters/authors are mostly young rising stars in their respective fields, and include scientists with backgrounds in linguistics, animal communication, neuroscience, evolutionary biology, anthropology, and computer science. On display was a clear willingness to engage with different approaches and terminology and a commitment to shared standards of scientific rigor, empirically driven theory, and logical argument. Because the papers assembled here, together with the introduction, speak for themselves, I will focus in this extro-duction on some of the terminological and conceptual difficulties which threaten to block this exciting wave of scientific progress in understanding language evolution, in both senses of that term. In particular I will first argue against the regrettably widespread practice of opposing cultural and genetic explanations of human cognition as if they were dichotomous. Second, I will unpack the debate concerning general-purpose and domain-specific mechanisms, which masquerades as a debate about nativism but is nothing of the sort. I believe that framing discussions of language in these terms has generated more heat than light, and that a modern molecular understanding of genes, development, behavior, and evolution renders many of the assumptions underlying this debate invalid.
Considerable knowledge is available on the neural substrates for speech and language from brain-imaging studies in humans, but until recently there was a lack of data for comparison from other animal species on the evolutionarily conserved brain regions that process species-specific communication signals. To obtain new insights into the relationship of the substrates for communication in primates, we compared the results from several neuroimaging studies in humans with those that have recently been obtained from macaque monkeys and chimpanzees. The recent work in humans challenges the longstanding notion of highly localized speech areas. As a result, the brain regions that have been identified in humans for speech and nonlinguistic voice processing show a striking general correspondence to how the brains of other primates analyze species-specific vocalizations or information in the voice, such as voice identity. The comparative neuroimaging work has begun to clarify evolutionary relationships in brain function, supporting the notion that the brain regions that process communication signals in the human brain arose from a precursor network of regions that is present in nonhuman primates and is used for processing species-specific vocalizations. We conclude by considering how the stage now seems to be set for comparative neurobiology to characterize the ancestral state of the network that evolved in humans to support language.
Recent research on the neural integration of speech and gesture has examined either gesture in the context of concrete [iconic (IC) gestures] or abstract sentence content [metaphoric (MP) gestures]. However, there has not yet been a direct comparison of the processing of both gesture types. This study tested the theory that left posterior temporal and inferior frontal brain regions are each uniquely involved in the integration of IC and MP gestures. During fMRI-data acquisition, participants were shown videos of an actor performing IC and MP gestures and associated sentences. An isolated gesture (G) and isolated sentence condition (S) were included to separate unimodal from bimodal effects at the neural level. During IC conditions, we found increased activity in the left posterior middle temporal gyrus and its right hemispheric homologue. The same regions in addition to the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) were activated during MP conditions in contrast to the isolated conditions (G&amp;S). These findings support the hypothesis that there are distinct integration processes for IC and MP gestures. In line with recent claims of the semantic unification theory, there seems to be a division between perceptual-matching processes within the posterior temporal lobe and higher-order relational processes within the IFG.
Studies of conceptual processing have revealed that the prefrontal cortex is implicated in close-ended, deliberate memory retrieval, especially the left ventrolateral prefrontal regions. However, much of human thought-particularly that which is characterized as creative-requires more open-ended, spontaneous memory retrieval. To explore the neural systems that support conceptual processing under these two distinct circumstances, we obtained functional magnetic resonance images from 24 participants either while retrieving the common use of an everyday object (e.g., &quot;blowing your nose,&quot; in response to a picture of a tissue) or while generating a creative (i.e., uncommon but plausible) use for it (e.g., &quot;protective padding in a package&quot;). The patterns of activation during open- and closed-ended tasks were reliably different, with regard to the magnitude of anterior versus posterior activation. Specifically, the close-ended task (i.e., Common Use task) reliably activated regions of lateral prefrontal cortex, whereas the open-ended task (i.e., Uncommon Use task) reliably activated regions of occipito-temporal cortex. Furthermore, there was variability across subjects in the types of responses produced on the open-ended task that was associated with the magnitude of activation in the middle occipital gyrus on this task. The present experiment is the first to demonstrate a dynamic tradeoff between anterior frontal and posterior occipitotemporal regions brought about by the close- or open-ended task demands.
The purpose of our study was to determine the relationship between mutant huntingtin (Htt) and mitochondrial dynamics in the progression of Huntington's disease (HD). We measured the mRNA levels of electron transport chain genes, and mitochondrial structural genes, Drp1 (dynamin-related protein 1), Fis1 (fission 1), Mfn1 (mitofusin 1), Mfn2 (mitofusin 2), Opa1 (optric atrophy 1), Tomm40 (translocase of outermembrane 40) and CypD (cyclophilin D) in grade III and grade IV HD patients and controls. The mutant Htt oligomers and the mitochondrial structural proteins were quantified in the striatum and frontal cortex of HD patients. Changes in expressions of the electron transport chain genes were found in HD patients and may represent a compensatory response to mitochondrial damage caused by mutant Htt. Increased expression of Drp1 and Fis1 and decreased expression of Mfn1, Mfn2, Opa1 and Tomm40 were found in HD patients relative to the controls. CypD was upregulated in HD patients, and this upregulation increased as HD progressed. Significantly increased immunoreactivity of 8-hydroxy-guanosine was found in the cortical specimens from stage III and IV HD patients relative to controls, suggesting increased oxidative DNA damage in HD patients. In contrast, significantly decreased immunoreactivities of cytochrome oxidase 1 and cytochrome b were found in HD patients relative to controls, indicating a loss of mitochondrial function in HD patients. Immunoblotting analysis revealed 15, 25 and 50 kDa mutant Htt oligomers in the brain specimens of HD patients. All oligomeric forms of mutant Htt were significantly increased in the cortical tissues of HD patients, and mutant Htt oligomers were found in the nucleus and in mitochondria. The increase in Drp1, Fis1 and CypD and the decrease in Mfn1 and Mfn2 may be responsible for abnormal mitochondrial dynamics that we found in the cortex of HD patients, and may contribute to neuronal damage in HD patients. The presence of mutant Htt oligomers in the nucleus of HD neurons and in mitochondria may disrupt neuronal functions. Based on these findings, we propose that mutant Htt in association with mitochondria imbalance and mitochondrial dynamics impairs axonal transport of mitochondria, decreases mitochondrial function and damages neurons in affected brain regions of HD patients.
Internal models are constantly updated based on the actions and experiences of a person in the world. In the present study, we proposed to assess the updating process of internal models of action by providing new environmental constraints for motor planning, postural control, and execution processes in daily tasks such as STS and BTS. STS and BTS tasks were performed with different inclinations of the support surface on which the participant and the chair were positioned: horizontal support, support tilted 10 to the right, or forward. Twelve healthy adults participated in this experiment. Kinematic characteristics were recorded using an optoelectronic motion analysis system. Movement duration and trunk inclination amplitudes were analyzed for STS and BTS as well as trunk orientation and strategies of head stabilization. Concerning the movement analysis our results showed (1) temporal asymmetry between STS and BTS, attributed mainly to the integration of the mechanical effects of gravity, and (2) a decrease of trunk movements when the support was tilted forward, attesting to an immediate adaptation process. Concerning the postural analysis our study revealed that adults adopted selective head stabilization on space strategy with respect to balance constraints. To conclude, young adults were able to immediately update their internal model of action in order to optimize motor control and vertical body orientation.
The purpose of the study was to investigate with what accuracy the soleus H-reflex modulation and excitability could be measured during human walking on two occasions separated by days. The maximal M-wave (Mmax) was measured at rest in the standing position. During treadmill walking every stimulus elicited an M-wave of 25  10% of Mmax in the soleus muscle and a supra-maximal stimulus elicited a maximal M-wave 60 ms after the first stimulus. Both Mmax during rest and during walking were later used for normalization. When normalized to resting Mmax, the peak reflex amplitude during walking was 5% lower on Day 2 than on Day 1 (p = .32). However, when the peak H-reflex was normalized to Mmax in every sweep, Day 2 showed a significant 15% lower amplitude (p = .037). The same pattern was found for the mean H-reflex. Spearman's Rho was .92 when normalized to resting Mmax but .88 when normalized to Mmax in every sweep. The Pearson product was used to identify one participant at a time on Day 1 among all seven participants on Day 2. For both normalization procedures 5 of 7 participants were identified by this test. Since 5 of 7 participants were recognized between days, it must be recommended to use 10-15 participants for training or intervention studies as far as the H-reflex pattern of modulation during movement is concerned.
Long-term monitoring of neuronal activity in awake behaving subjects can provide fundamental information about brain dynamics for neuroscience and neuroengineering applications. Here, we present a miniature, lightweight, and low-power recording system for monitoring neural activity in awake behaving animals. The system integrates two custom designed very-large-scale integrated chips, a neural interface module fabricated in 0.5 m complementary metal-oxide semiconductor technology and an ultra-wideband transmitter module fabricated in a 0.5 m silicon-on-sapphire (SOS) technology. The system amplifies, filters, digitizes, and transmits 16 channels of neural data at a rate of 1 Mb/s. The entire system, which includes the VLSI circuits, a digital interface board, a battery, and a custom housing, is small and lightweight (24 g) and, thus, can be chronically mounted on small animals. The system consumes 4.8 mA and records continuously for up to 40 h powered by a 3.7-V, 200-mAh rechargeable lithium-ion battery. Experimental benchtop characterizations as well as in vivo multichannel neural recordings from awake behaving rats are presented here.
A novel closed-loop system for improving gait in hemiparetic patients by supporting the production of the swing phase using electrical stimulations evoking the nociceptive withdrawal reflex was designed. The system exploits the modular organization of the nociceptive withdrawal reflex and its stimulation site- and gait-phase modulation in order to evoke movements of the hip, knee, and ankle joints during the swing phase. A modified model-reference adaptive controller (MRAC) was designed to select the best stimulation parameters from a set of 12 combinations of four electrode locations on the sole of the foot and three different stimulation onset times between heel-off and toe-off. It was hypothesized that the MRAC system would result in a better walking pattern compared with an open-loop preprogrammed fixed pattern of stimulation (FPS) controller. Thirteen chronic or subacute hemiparetic subjects participated in a study to compare the performance of the two control schemes. Both control schemes resulted in a more functional gait compared to no stimulation (P &lt; 0.05) with a weighted joint angle peak change of 4.0  1.6 (mean  Standard deviation) degrees and 3.1  1.4 degrees for the MRAC and FPS schemes, respectively. This indicates that the MRAC scheme performed better than the FPS scheme (P &lt; 0.001) in terms of reaching the control target.
The brain shows complex, nonstationarity temporal dynamics, with abrupt micro- and macrostate transitions during its information processing. Detecting and characterizing these transitions in dynamical states of the brain is a critical issue in the field of neuroscience and psychiatry. In the current study, a novel method is proposed to quantify brain macrostates (e.g., sleep stages or cognitive states) from shifts of dynamical microstates or dynamical nonstationarity. A ``dynamical microstate'' is a temporal unit of the information processing in the brain with fixed dynamical parameters and specific spatial distribution. In this proposed approach, a phase-space-based dynamical dissimilarity map (DDM) is used to detect transitions between dynamically stationary microstates in the time series, and Tsallis time-dependent entropy is applied to quantify dynamical patterns of transitions in the DDM. We demonstrate that the DDM successfully detects transitions between microstates of different temporal dynamics in the simulated physiological time series against high levels of noise. Based on the assumption of nonlinear, deterministic brain dynamics, we also demonstrate that dynamical nonstationarity analysis is useful to quantify brain macrostates (sleep stages I, II, III, IV, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep) from sleep EEGs with an overall accuracy of 77%. We suggest that dynamical nonstationarity is a useful tool to quantify macroscopic mental states (statistical integration) of the brain using dynamical transitions at the microscopic scale in physiological data.
Next-generation neuroprosthetic limbs will require a reliable long-term neural interface to residual nerves in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). To this end, we have developed novel biocompatible materials and a fabrication technique to create high site-count microelectrodes for stimulating and recording from regenerated peripheral nerves. Our electrodes are based on a biodegradable tyrosine-derived polycarbonate polymer system with suitable degradation and erosion properties and a fabrication technique for deployment of the polymer in a porous, degradable, regenerative, multiluminal, multielectrode conduit. The in vitro properties of the polymer and the electrode were tuned to retain mechanical strength for over 24 days and to completely degrade and erode within 220 days. The fabrication technique resulted in a multiluminal conduit with at least 10 functioning electrodes maintaining recording site impedance in the single-digit kOhm range. Additionally, in vivo results showed that neural signals could be recorded from these devices starting at four weeks postimplantation and that signal strength increased over time. We conclude that our biodegradable regenerative-type neural interface is a good candidate for chronic high fidelity recording electrodes for integration with regenerated peripheral nerves.
Increasing concentrations of anesthetics in the blood induce a continuum of neurophysiological changes, which reflect on the electroencephalogram (EEG). EEG-based depth of anesthesia assessment requires that the signal samples are correctly associated with the neurophysiological changes occurring at different anesthetic levels. A novel method is presented to estimate the phase of the continuum using the feature data extracted from EEG. The feature data calculated from EEG sequences corresponding to continuously deepening anesthesia are considered to form a one-dimensional nonlinear manifold in the multidimensional feature space. Utilizing a recently proposed algorithm, Isomap, the dimensionality of the feature data is reduced to achieve a one-dimensional embedding representing this manifold and thereby the continuum of neurophysiological changes during induction of anesthesia. The Isomap-based estimation is validated with data recorded from nine patients during induction of propofol anesthesia. The proposed method provides a novel approach to assess neurophysiological changes during anesthesia and offers potential for the development of more advanced systems for the depth of anesthesia monitoring.
The ability to accurately infer functional connectivity between ensemble neurons using experimentally acquired spike train data is currently an important research objective in computational neuroscience. Point process generalized linear models and maximum likelihood estimation have been proposed as effective methods for the identification of spiking dependency between neurons. However, unfavorable experimental conditions occasionally results in insufficient data collection due to factors such as low neuronal firing rates or brief recording periods, and in these cases, the standard maximum likelihood estimate becomes unreliable. The present studies compares the performance of different statistical inference procedures when applied to the estimation of functional connectivity in neuronal assemblies with sparse spiking data. Four inference methods were compared: maximum likelihood estimation, penalized maximum likelihood estimation, using either l(2) or l(1) regularization, and hierarchical Bayesian estimation based on a variational Bayes algorithm. Algorithmic performances were compared using well-established goodness-of-fit measures in benchmark simulation studies, and the hierarchical Bayesian approach performed favorably when compared with the other algorithms, and this approach was then successfully applied to real spiking data recorded from the cat motor cortex. The identification of spiking dependencies in physiologically acquired data was encouraging, since their sparse nature would have previously precluded them from successful analysis using traditional methods.
The zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) has been intensively studied in many research fields including neuroscience, behavioral neurobiology, and evolution of the genome. Although numerous molecular and genomic resources are available for this model species, immortalized cell lines have been lacking. We have established two zebra finch cell lines derived from spontaneous tumors. ZFTMA is a tetraploid female cell line and G266 as a diploid male cell line. These first zebra finch cell lines should facilitate development of research on this model species.

s of scientific papers are sometimes poorly written, often lack important information, and occasionally convey a biased picture. This paper provides detailed suggestions, with examples, for writing the background, methods, results, and conclusions sections of a good abstract. The primary target of this paper is the young researcher; however, authors with all levels of experience may find useful ideas in the paper.
Psychosis has been documented to occur during treatment for idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). This case report describes an elderly male who developed psychosis during the course of treatment for idiopathic PD. He was treated with clozapine but experienced significant adverse effects without clinical improvement. He was prescribed bifrontal electroconvulsive therapy (BF-ECT). Here, we report the efficacy of BF-ECT in treating psychosis and motor symptoms in PD, without producing cognitive side effects in an elderly male.
Vaginismus is defined as recurrent or persistent involuntary spasm of the musculature of the outer third of the vagina, which interferes with coitus and causes distress and interpersonal difficulty. In this report, we describe the successful treatment of vaginismus in a 25-year-old lady based on a model proposed by Keith Hawton. The eclectic approach involved education, graded insertion of fingers, Kegel's exercises and usage of local anesthesia with vaginal containment along with the prescription of Escitalopram.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is prescribed for schizophrenia patients for various indications, in our country. However, official guidelines in other countries have been cautious in prescribing ECT for schizophrenia. To study the indications for which patients with schizophrenia receive ECT. We studied records of schizophrenia inpatients receiving ECT in one year (2005) (n=101) retrospectively, as well as the consecutive data of patients between May 2007 and June 2008 (n=101) prospectively. The various indications for ECT in schizophrenia were studied by frequency analysis. Of the 202 schizophrenia patients who received ECT, the most common reason was 'to augment pharmacotherapy' in (n=116) cases. The target symptoms for which ECT was prescribed the most was catatonia (n=72). The mean number of ECTs (SD) received was 8.4 (2.8). Augmentation of pharmacotherapy was the most common indication of ECT in patients with schizophrenia.



Morgellons Disease is a condition involving painful skin lesions, fibrous growths protruding from the skin, and subcutaneous stinging and burning sensations, along with symptoms of anxiety, depression, fatigue, and memory and attention deficits. The etiological and physiological bases of these symptoms are unclear, making the diagnosis controversial and challenging to treat. There are currently no established treatments for Morgellons Disease. The following case example depicts treatment of a woman with Morgellons Disease using hypnotherapy. Data from this case example suggest that hypnotherapy is a promising intervention for the physical and psychological symptoms associated with Morgellons Disease.
The relationships between hypnotizability, sleepiness, and the subjective experience of hypnotic suggestions were investigated in 90 participants. Scores from the Harvard Group Scale of Hypnotic Susceptibility Form A (HGSHS:A), the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS), the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and our self-developed Questionnaire on Subjective Hypnotic Experiences (QSHE) were analyzed. Findings show that hypnotizability correlates with both habitual daytime sleepiness and instantaneous sleepiness after the hypnotic procedure. Results also indicate that subjective self-evaluation of responses to hypnotic suggestions may be a useful tool in some cases when comparing with other subjectively rated scales, such as those concerning sleepiness.
The proteasomal degradation of cytosolic, phosphorylation-independent tau in human brains is potentially linked to the pathogenesis of neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous studies showed that the active 20S proteasome core degrades recombinant tau effectively, which prompted this study to determine if there was evidence of proteasomal degradation of tau in human brain with a range of neurofibrillary pathology. Cytosolic proteins from temporal cortex were isolated from 30,000xgsupernatants by resolving in size-exclusion chromatogra-phy for assay of tau and proteasomal subunits by Western blots. Levels of tau and proteasome subunits varied from case to case, with a significant inverse correlation between the levels of tau and 20S -subunits, and between 70-kDa tau and 11S -subunits, suggesting that tau is a proteasomal substrate. The inability to detect tau in western blots on cases without neurofibrillary pathology is consistent with the hypothesis that the proteasome is capable of degrading normal tau with an intact projection domain at the amino-terminal end; however, as proteasomal function becomes impaired during aging, tau clearance is impeded. Tau accumulates in progressively larger and more heterogeneous forms in brains with neurofibrillary pathology. Under normal conditions, non-proteasomal proteases are capable of digesting recombinant-tau from both the amino- and carboxyl-terminal ends toward the mid-section, but are lack of chaperon-like activity to unfold carboxyl-terminal truncated tau accumulated in AD. Our results support the hypothesis that failure of proteasomal and non-proteasomal proteolytic clearance mechanisms leads to tau accumulation and progressive neurofibrillary degeneration in AD.
Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with auditory processing deficits in children; these effects have been confirmed with animal models of continuous high-dose prenatal nicotine exposure. The present experiments utilized a novel, low-dose, intermittent, intravenous (IV) gestational nicotine exposure model to investigate potential deficits on the preattentive process of sensorimotor gating, as indexed by prepulse inhibition (PPI), in preweanling and adult rat offspring. Pregnant dams received bolus IV injections of nicotine (0.05 mg/kg/injection) 3/day on gestational days 8-21. Auditory and tactile stimulus modalities were probed with tone and air puff prepulse stimuli, respectively. These prepulse stimuli preceded a 100 dB(A) startle tone by six different interstimulus intervals (ISIs; 0, 8, 40, 80, 120, 4000 ms) to define a curve of response inhibition. The magnitude of PPI increased with age, from 59 to 81% inhibition. Preweanlings (PNDs 14 and 18) and adults (PND 75) gestationally exposed to nicotine exhibited altered startle responding relative to controls, but the nature of the deficit became more localized at later ages. The entire curve of response inhibition in preweanlings exposed to prenatal nicotine (PND 14) was shifted up relative to controls, and notably, did not interact with prepulse stimulus modality, suggesting a generalized increased sensorimotor responsiveness as a function of prenatal nicotine. At PND 18, a shift in the response curve across all ISIs was again noted, but varied as a function of prepulse stimulus modality; the increased sensorimotor responsiveness was specific to the auditory, but not tactile, sensory modality. In adulthood, male and female animals prenatally exposed to nicotine were differentially sensitive to modulation by the ISIs, relative to control male and female animals. Specifically, despite robust PPI, adult females exposed to gestational nicotine were relatively insensitive to changes in ISI from 8 to 120 ms; in contrast, the robust PPI of nicotine-exposed males demonstrated a clear focal point of inhibition at 40 ms. These findings indicate that a low, daily dosing of IV prenatal nicotine produces long-lasting alterations in auditory PPI. An important implication of this research is that &quot;chipping&quot; with smoked-tobacco products during pregnancy may produce enduring changes in sensorimotor processing.

Anhedonia is a core symptom of depression that also characterizes substance abuse-related mood disorders, in particular those secondary to stimulant abuse. This study investigated the long-lasting condition of cocaine sensitization as an inducing condition for anhedonia in rats. Cortical-mesolimbic dopamine plays a central role in assessing the incentive value of a stimulus and an increased dopamine output in these areas after a novel palatable meal seems to correlate with the ability to acquire an instrumental behaviour aimed at earning it again. This dopaminergic response is associated with consistent modifications in the phosphorylation pattern of some cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) substrates and it is mediated by dopamine D1 receptor stimulation. Thus, since behavioural cocaine sensitization is characterized by tonically increased levels of phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 that is a potent PKA inhibitor, we hypothesized that cocaine-sensitized rats might reveal deficits in palatable food responding. Indeed, non-food-deprived cocaine-sensitized rats showed no interest in palatable food, no dopaminergic response after a palatable meal in terms of increased dopamine output and DARPP-32 phosphorylation changes, and no ability to acquire a palatable food-sustained instrumental behaviour. Repeated administration of an established antidepressant compound, imipramine, corrected these deficits and reinstated the dopaminergic response in the cortico-mesolimbic areas to control values. Thus, the behavioural modifications observed in cocaine-sensitized rats satisfy some requirements for an experimental model of anhedonia since they are induced by repeated cocaine administration (aetiological validity), they mimic an anhedonia-like symptom (construct validity), and are reversed by the administration of imipramine (predictive validity).


Complementary neuronal recordings and functional neuroimaging in humans, show that the primary taste cortex in the anterior insula provides separate and combined representations of the taste, temperature and texture (including fat texture) of food in the mouth independently of hunger and thus of reward value and pleasantness. One synapse on, in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), these sensory inputs are for some neurons combined by learning with olfactory and visual inputs, and these neurons encode food reward in that they only respond to food when hungry, and in that activations correlate with subjective pleasantness. Cognitive factors, including word-level descriptions, and attention, modulate the representation of the reward value of food in the OFC. Further, there are individual differences in the representation of the reward value of food in the OFC. It is argued that overeating and obesity are related in many cases to an increased reward value of the sensory inputs produced by foods, and their modulation by cognition and attention, which overrides existing satiety signals. It is proposed that control of all rather than one or several of these factors that influence food reward and eating may be important in the prevention and treatment of overeating and obesity.
While performing a visuo-motor task under incrementally-varied levels of difficulty, individuals were probed with a variety of novel, task-irrelevant, auditory stimuli. To determine the effect of task load on cerebral-cortical processing of these stimuli, event-related potentials were recorded while participants performed the task. We found that N1, P2, P3 and late positive potential (LPP) component amplitudes were inversely related to task-difficulty. This suggests that a variant of the oddball paradigm - in which the stimulus stream comprises novel sounds - is capable of providing a reliable index of mental workload.
By means of a narrowband wavelet analysis (0.5-6Hz), EEG delta event-related oscillations (EROs), both time- and phase-locked to spontaneous blinking (delta blink-related oscillations or delta BROs), have recently been demonstrated. On the basis of their spatiotemporal characteristics, delta BROs have been proposed as being involved in an automatic mechanism of maintaining awareness in a visuo-spatial context. The aim of the present study was: a) to investigate whether spontaneous blinking was also able to modulate alpha oscillations and, if so, b) whether this modulation was consistent with delta BROs, in order c) to acquire additional information for a better understanding of the cognitive phenomena underlying blinking. Using a broadband (0.5-100 Hz) continuous wavelet transform (CWT), we analysed a total of 189 three-second EEG epochs time-locked to the blinks of seven healthy volunteers. The EEG signals were submitted both to band-pass filtered cross-trial averaging (to obtain frequency-specific BROs) and to alpha event-related synchronization/desynchronization (i.e., blink-related synchronization/desynchronization, BRS/BRD). The alpha oscillations showed: a) an early BRS; b) a BRD in the same temporal window of the delta BROs and, c) a late BRS. We postulate that: a) the early BRS represents the short-term memory maintenance of the last visually perceived trace of the surroundings; b) the alpha BRD is associated with the comparison between the newly perceived image of the environment and its mnestic representation, and, lastly, c) the late BRS is connected with neuronal recovery phenomena.
Many children born with cleft palate have impaired speech during their pre-school years, but usually the speech difficulties are transient and resolved by later childhood. This study investigated communication attitude with the Swedish version of the Communication Attitude Test (CAT-S) in 54 10-year-olds with cleft (lip and) palate. In addition, environmental factors were assessed via parent questionnaire. These data were compared to speech assessments by experienced listeners, who rated the children's velopharyngeal function, articulation, intelligibility, and general impression of speech at ages 5, 7, and 10 years. The children with clefts scored significantly higher on the CAT-S compared to reference data, indicating a more negative communication attitude on group level but with large individual variation. All speech variables, except velopharyngeal function at earlier ages, as well as the parent questionnaire scores, correlated significantly with the CAT-S scores. Although there was a relationship between speech and communication attitude, not all children with impaired speech developed negative communication attitudes. The assessment of communication attitude can make an important contribution to our understanding of the communicative situation for children with cleft (lip and) palate and give important indications for intervention.




Over the past 20 years, the previously frowned upon combination of pharmacotherapy and psychoanalytic or psychodynamic therapy has become common practice because of both findings from the neurosciences that demonstrate hardwired brain development from chronic early stress and trauma and from efficacy studies that show the superiority of combined therapy over either psychotherapy or medication alone. With this shift has also come a more focused interest in the psychodynamics of pharmacotherapy itself. This article will review some of the current thinking in this area and then present the personal approaches toward pharmacotherapy of two psychoanalysts, one at an academic hospital (RC) and the other in private practice (JS).
Maintenance of airway patency during breathing involves complex interactions between pharyngeal dilator muscles. The few previous studies of geniohyoid activity using multiunit electromyography (EMG) have suggested that geniohyoid shows predominantly inspiratory phasic activity. This study aimed to quantify geniohyoid respiration-related activity with single motor unit (SMU) EMG recordings. Six healthy subjects of normal body mass index were studied. Intramuscular EMG recordings of geniohyoid activity were made with a monopolar needle with subjects in supine and seated positions. The depth of the geniohyoid was identified by ultrasound, and the electrode position was confirmed with maneuvers to isolate activity in geniohyoid and genioglossus. Activity was recorded at 85 sites in the geniohyoid during quiet breathing (45 supine and 40 seated). When subjects were supine, 33 sites (73%) showed no activity during breathing and 10 (22%) showed tonic activity. In addition, one site showed a tonic SMU with increased expiratory discharge, and one site in another subject had one unit with expiratory phasic activity. When subjects were seated, 27 sites (68%) in the geniohyoid showed no activity, 12 sites (30%) showed tonic activity that was not respiration related, and one unit at one site showed phasic expiratory activity. The average peak discharge frequency of geniohyoid motor units was 16.2  3.1 impulses/s during the &quot;geniohyoid maneuver,&quot; which was the first part of a swallow. In contrast to previous findings, the geniohyoid shows some tonic activity but minimal respiration-related activity in healthy subjects in quiet breathing. The geniohyoid has little active role in airway stability under these conditions.
We developed mathematical models that predict equilibrium distribution of water and electrolytes (proteins and simple ions), metabolites, and other species between plasma and erythrocyte fluids (blood) and interstitial fluid. The models use physicochemical principles of electroneutrality in a fluid compartment and osmotic equilibrium between compartments and transmembrane Donnan relationships for mobile species. Across the erythrocyte membrane, the significant mobile species Cl is assumed to reach electrochemical equilibrium, whereas Na(+) and K(+) distributions are away from equilibrium because of the Na(+)/K(+) pump, but movement from this steady state is restricted because of their effective short-term impermeability. Across the capillary membrane separating plasma and interstitial fluid, Na(+), K(+), Ca(+), Mg(+), Cl, and H(+) are mobile and establish Donnan equilibrium distribution ratios. In each compartment, attainment of equilibrium by carbonates, phosphates, proteins, and metabolites is determined by their reactions with H(+). These relationships produce the recognized exchange of Cl(-) and bicarbonate across the erythrocyte membrane. The blood submodel was validated by its close predictions of in vitro experimental data, blood pH, pH-dependent ratio of H(+), Cl, and HCO concentrations in erythrocytes to that in plasma, and blood hematocrit. The blood-interstitial model was validated against available in vivo laboratory data from humans with respiratory acid-base disorders. Model predictions were used to gain understanding of the important acid-base disorder caused by addition of saline solutions. Blood model results were used as a basis for estimating errors in base excess predictions in blood by the traditional approach of Siggaard-Andersen (acid-base status) and more recent approaches by others using measured blood pH and Pco values. Blood-interstitial model predictions were also used as a basis for assessing prediction errors of extracellular acid-base status values, such as by the standard base excess approach. Hence, these new models can give considerable insight into the physicochemical mechanisms producing acid-base disorders and aid in their diagnoses.
Sounds are filtered in a spatial- and frequency-dependent manner by the head and pinna giving rise to the acoustical cues to sound source location. These spectral and temporal transformations are dependent on the physical dimensions of the head and pinna. Therefore, the magnitudes of binaural sound location cues-the interaural time (ITD) and level (ILD) differences-are hypothesized to systematically increase while the lower frequency limit of substantial ILD production is expected to decrease due to the increase in head and pinna size during development. The frequency ranges of the monaural spectral notch cues to source elevation are also expected to decrease. This hypothesis was tested here by measuring directional transfer functions (DTFs), the directional components of head-related transfer functions, and the linear dimensions of the head and pinnae for chinchillas from birth through adulthood. Dimensions of the head and pinna increased by factors of 1.8 and 2.42, respectively, reaching adult values by ~6weeks. From the DTFs, the ITDs, ILDs, and spectral shape cues were computed. Maximum ITDs increased by a factor of 1.75, from ~160s at birth (P0-1, first postnatal day) to 280s in adults. ILDs depended on source location and frequency exhibiting a shift in the frequency range of substantial ILD (&gt;10dB) from higher to lower frequencies with increasing head and pinnae size. Similar trends were observed for the spectral notch frequencies which ranged from 14.7-33.4kHz at P0-1 to 5.3-19.1kHz in adults. The development of the spectral notch cues, the spatial- and frequency-dependent distributions of DTF amplitude gain, acoustic directionality, maximum gain, and the acoustic axis were systematically related to the dimensions of the head and pinnae. The dimension of the head and pinnae in the chinchilla as well as the acoustical properties associated with them are mature by ~6weeks.
The pilot investigation evaluated a theatrical intervention program, Social Emotional NeuroScience Endocrinology (SENSE) Theatre, designed to improve socioemotional functioning and reduce stress in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Eight children with ASD were paired with typically developing peers that served as expert models. Neuropsychological, biological (cortisol and oxytocin), and behavioral measures were assessed in a pretest-posttest design. The intervention was embedded in a full musical theatrical production. Participants showed some improvement in face identification and theory of mind skills. The intervention shows potential promise in improving the socioemotional functioning in children with ASD through the utilization of peers, video and behavioral modeling, and a community-based theatrical setting.
To refine mathematical models of the transcriptional/translational feedback loop in the clockwork of Arabidopsis thaliana, the investigators sought to determine the affinity of the transcription factors LHY, CCA1, and CHE for their cognate DNA target sequences in vitro. Steady-state dissociation constants were observed to lie in the low nanomolar range. Furthermore, the data suggest that the LHY/CCA1 heterodimer binds more tightly than either homodimer and that DNA binding of these complexes is temperature compensated. Finally, it was found that LHY binding to the evening element in vitro is enhanced by both molecular crowding effects and by casein kinase 2-mediated phosphorylation.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is recently utilized as a new approach to assess resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) in the human brain. For any new technique or new methodology, it is necessary to be able to replicate similar experiments using different instruments in order to establish its liability and reproducibility. We apply two different diffuse optical tomographic (DOT) systems (i.e., DYNOT and CW5), with various probe arrangements to evaluate RSFC in the sensorimotor cortex by utilizing a previously published experimental protocol and seed-based correlation analysis. Our results exhibit similar spatial patterns and strengths in RSFC between the bilateral motor cortexes. The consistent observations are obtained from both DYNOT and CW5 systems, and are also in good agreement with the previous fNIRS study. Overall, we demonstrate that the fNIRS-based RSFC is reproducible by various DOT imaging systems among different research groups, enhancing the confidence of neuroscience researchers and clinicians to utilize fNIRS for future applications.
Marfan syndrome is a systematic genetic disease of the connective tissue. The cardiac affection would predict the prognosis and ischemic stroke might complicate it. The purpose of this work is to discuss the mechanisms of the ischemic stroke in Marfan syndrome which have to be considered in all young patients of ischemic strokes. We report the case of a 17-year-old male patient who presented with right hemiparesis with brachio-facial dominance, hemihypoesthesia and Broca's aphasia; these symptoms were followed by partial right somato-motor epileptic seizure. The cerebral computed tomographic (CT) scan demonstrated early signs of ischemic stroke in the left Sylvian artery. Cardiovascular examination revealed a systolic murmur in the mitral site. Marfan syndrome with infectious endocarditis complicated by ischemic stroke was diagnosed. However, the family pathological history was negative. The Marfan syndrome diagnosis was approved considering the following criteria: Ligamentous hyperlaxity, crystalline ectopia and mitral valve prolapsus with mitral insufficiency. The patient benefited of antibiotherapy for 4 weeks. The patient underwent sessions of motor physical therapy and orthophonic rehabilitation. Then, cardiac surgery was carried out and valvuloplasty was performed. The surgical treatment confirmed the presence of mitral insufficiency and prolapsus of the big mitral valve and multiple friable anterior-posterior vegetations with broken cordage of the small mitral valve. Replacement of the mitral valve was achieved, and the post-surgery follow-ups were simple. The diagnosis of Marfan syndrome was based on well-defined criteria. The evolution of the patient was marked by a complete improvement of the cardiac and motor deficits, and disappearance of the Broca's aphasia. A fibroelastic disease such Marfan syndrome has to be considered in unexplained ischemic stroke in all young patients. Hence, the diagnosis of Marfan syndrome involves an anticipation of the neurovascular complications by early cardiovascular care.

Complement component C3, the central player in the complement cascade and the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1 is expressed by activated glial cells and may contribute to neurodegeneration. This study examines the regulation of the expression of C3 by IL-1 in astroglial cells focusing on the role of the upstream kinase MKK6, p38- MAPK, and C/EBP- isoforms (LAP1, LAP2, or LIP) in astroglial cells. Activation of human astroglial cell line, U373 with IL-1, led to the induction of C3 mRNA and protein expression as determined by real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. This induction was suppressed by the pharmacological inhibitor of p38 MAPK (i.e., SB202190-HCl), suggesting the involvement of p38 MAPK in C3 gene expression. IL-1 also induced C3 promoter activity in U373 cells in a MAP kinase- and C/EBP--dependent manner. Cotransfection of C3 luciferase reporter construct with constitutively active form of the upstream kinase in the MAP kinase cascade, that is, MKK6 (the immediate upstream activator of p38 kinase) resulted in marked stimulation of the promoter activity, whereas overexpression of a dominant negative forms of MKK6 and p38 MAPK inhibited C3 promoter activity. Furthermore, a mutant form of C/EBP-, LAP(T235A) showed reduction in IL-1-mediated C3 promoter activation. These results suggest that the p38, MAPK, and MKK6 play prominent roles in IL-1 and C/EBP--mediated C3 gene expression in astrocytes.
Particularly interesting new cysteine-histidine-rich protein (PINCH) is a LIM-domain-only adaptor protein involved in protein recruitment, subsequent assembly of multi-protein complexes, and subcellular localization of these complexes. PINCH is developmentally regulated and its expression is critical for proper cytoskeletal organization and extracellular matrix adhesion. Although PINCH has no catalytic abilities, the PIP (PINCH-ILK-parvin) complex serves as a link between integrins and components of growth factor receptor kinase and GTPase signaling pathways. Accordingly, PINCH-mediated signaling induces cell migration, spreading, and survival. Further research on the signaling cascades affected by PINCH is key to appreciating its biological significance in cell fate and systems maintenance, as the developmental functions of PINCH may extend to disease states and the cellular response to damage. PINCH is implicated in a diverse array of diseases including renal failure, cardiomyopathy, nervous system degeneration and demyelination, and tumorigenesis. This review presents evidence for PINCH's structural and functional importance in normal cellular processes and in pathogenesis. The current data for PINCH expression in nervous system disease is substantial, but due to the complex and ubiquitous nature of this protein, our understanding of its function in pathology remains unclear. In this review, an overview of studies identifying PINCH binding partners, their molecular interactions, and the potentially overlapping role(s) of PINCH in cancer and in nervous system diseases will be discussed. Many questions remain regarding PINCH's role in cells. What induces cell-specific PINCH expression? How does PINCH expression contribute to cell fate in the central nervous system? More broadly, is PINCH expression in disease a good thing? Clarifying the ambiguous functions of PINCH expression in the central nervous system and other systems is important to understand more clearly signaling events both in health and disease.
Translating experimental findings into clinically effective therapies is one of the major bottlenecks of modern medicine. As this has been particularly true for cerebrovascular research, attention has turned to the quality and validity of experimental cerebrovascular studies. We set out to assess the study design, statistical analyses, and reporting of cerebrovascular research. We assessed all original articles published in the Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism during the year 2008 against a checklist designed to capture the key attributes relating to study design, statistical analyses, and reporting. A total of 156 original publications were included (animal, in vitro, human). Few studies reported a primary research hypothesis, statement of purpose, or measures to safeguard internal validity (such as randomization, blinding, exclusion or inclusion criteria). Many studies lacked sufficient information regarding methods and results to form a reasonable judgment about their validity. In nearly 20% of studies, statistical tests were either not appropriate or information to allow assessment of appropriateness was lacking. This study identifies a number of factors that should be addressed if the quality of research in basic and translational biomedicine is to be improved. We support the widespread implementation of the ARRIVE (Animal Research Reporting In Vivo Experiments) statement for the reporting of experimental studies in biomedicine, for improving training in proper study design and analysis, and that reviewers and editors adopt a more constructively critical approach in the assessment of manuscripts for publication.
Depicting the salvageable tissue is increasingly used in the clinical setting following stroke. As absolute cerebral blood flow (CBF) is difficult to measure using perfusion magnetic resonance or computed tomography and has limitations as a penumbral marker, time-based variables, particularly the mean transit time (MTT), are routinely used as surrogates. However, a direct validation of MTT as a predictor of the penumbra threshold using gold-standard positron emission tomography (PET) is lacking. Using (15)O-PET data sets obtained from two independent acute stroke samples (N=7 and N=30, respectively), we derived areas under the curve (AUCs), optimal thresholds (OTs), and 90%-specificity thresholds (90%-Ts) from receiver operating characteristic curves for absolute MTT, MTT delay, and MTT ratio to predict three penumbra thresholds ('classic': CBF &lt;20 mL/100 g per min; 'normalized': CBF ratio &lt;0.5; and 'stringent': both CBF &lt;20 mL/100 g per min and oxygen extraction fraction &gt;0.55). In sample 1, AUCs ranged from 0.79 to 0.92, indicating good validity; OTs ranged from 7.8 to 8.3 seconds, 2.8 to 4.7 seconds, and 151% to 267% for absolute MTT, MTT delay, and MTT ratio, respectively, while as expected, 90%-Ts were longer. There was no significant difference between sample 1 and sample 2 for any of the above measurements, save for a single MTT parameter with a single penumbra threshold. These consistent findings from gold-standard PET obtained in two independent cohorts document that MTT is a very good surrogate to CBF for depicting the penumbra threshold.
Spreading depression (SD) involves coordinated depolarizations of neurons and glia that propagate through the brain tissue. Repetitive SD-like events are common following human ischemic strokes, and are believed to contribute to the enlargement of infarct volume. Accumulation of Zn(2+) is also implicated in ischemic neuronal injury. Synaptic glutamate release contributes to SD propagation, and because Zn(2+) is costored with glutamate in some synaptic vesicles, we examined whether Zn(2+) is released by SD and may therefore provide a significant source of Zn(2+) in the postischemic period. Spreading depression-like events were generated in acutely prepared murine hippocampal slices by deprivation of oxygen and glucose (OGD), and Zn(2+) release was detected extracellularly by a Zn(2+)-selective indicator FluoZin-3. Deprivation of oxygen and glucose-SD produced large FluoZin-3 increases that propagated with the event, and signals were abolished in tissues from ZnT3 knockout animals lacking synaptic Zn(2+). Synaptic Zn(2+) release was also maintained with repetitive SDs generated by microinjections of KCl under normoxic conditions. Intracellular Zn(2+) accumulation in CA1 neurons, assessed using microinjection of FluoZin-3, showed significant increases following SD that was attributed to synaptic Zn(2+) release. These results suggest that Zn(2+) is released during SDs and could provide a significant source of Zn(2+) that contributes to neurodegeneration in the postischemic period.
As a screening tool to identify symptoms of autonomic dysfunction, the Pediatric Autonomic Symptoms Scale was administered to parents of children with familial dysautonomia, autism spectrum disorders, and age-matched controls. The total scores for the presence of symptoms were compared among the 3 groups for each section and overall. The Pediatric Autonomic Symptoms Scale distinguished controls from children with familial dysautonomia and autism spectrum disorders with scores from each section and overall scores. Familial dysautonomia children scored significantly higher in visceral symptoms, while children with autism spectrum disorders scored significantly higher in psychosocial symptoms. In familial dysautonomia, the concordance for the presence of symptoms within sections and overall scores ranged from 71% to 100%. The concordance for absence of autonomic dysfunction symptoms in controls ranged from 75% to 87.5%. The Pediatric Autonomic Symptoms Scale is comprehensive and can profile autonomic dysfunction in the 2 neurodevelopmental disorders. Its usefulness in other pediatric disorders remains to be studied.

Biological development is driven by a complex dance between nurture and nature, determined not only by the specific features of the interacting genetic and environmental influences but also by the timing of their rendezvous. The initiation of large-scale longitudinal studies, ever-expanding knowledge of genetics, and increasing availability of neuroimaging data to provide endophenotypic bridges between molecules and behavior are beginning to provide some insight into interactions of developmental stage, genes, and the environment, although daunting challenges remain. Prominent amongst these challenges are difficulties in identifying and quantifying relevant environmental factors, discerning the relative contributions to multiply determined outcomes, and the likelihood that brain development is a non-linear dynamic process in which small initial differences may yield large later effects. Age-sensitive mechanisms include developmental changes in gene expression, epigenetic modifications, synaptic arborization/pruning, and maturational improvements in our capacity to seek out environments of our choosing. Greater understanding of how genetic and environmental factors interact differently across ages is an important step toward elucidating the mechanisms by which phenotypes are created - and how they may differ in health and disease. This knowledge may also provide clues to guide the type and timing of interventions to maximize outcomes.
Our aim is to present a working model that may serve as a valuable heuristic to predict enduring effects of drugs when administered during development. Our primary tenet is that a greater understanding of neurodevelopment can lead to improved treatment that intervenes early in the progression of a given disorder and prevents symptoms from manifesting. The immature brain undergoes significant changes during the transitions between childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. Such changes in innervation, neurotransmitter levels, and their respective signaling mechanisms have profound and observable changes on typical behavior, but also increase vulnerability to psychiatric disorders when the maturational process goes awry. Given the remarkable plasticity of the immature brain to adapt to its external milieu, preventive interventions may be possible. We intend for this review to initiate a discussion of how currently used psychotropic agents can influence brain development. Drug exposure during sensitive periods may have beneficial long-term effects, but harmful delayed consequences may be possible as well. Regardless of the outcome, this information needs to be used to improve or develop alternative approaches for the treatment of childhood disorders. With this framework in mind, we present what is known about the effects of stimulants, antidepressants, and antipsychotics on brain maturation (including animal studies that use more clinically-relevant dosing paradigms or relevant animal models). We endeavor to provocatively set the stage for altering treatment approaches for improving mental health in non-adult populations.
Experiences during early development profoundly affect development of the central nervous system (CNS) to impart either risk for or resilience to later psychopathology. Work in the developmental neuroscience field is providing compelling data that epigenetic marking of the genome may underlie aspects of this process. Experiments in rodents continue to show that experiences during sensitive periods of development influence DNA methylation patterns of several genes. These experience-induced DNA methylation patterns represent stable epigenetic modifications that alter gene transcription throughout the lifespan and promote specific behavioral outcomes. We discuss the relevance of these findings to humans, and also briefly discuss these findings in the broader contexts of cognition and psychiatric disorder. We conclude by discussing the implications of these observations for future research.

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is an inherited disease, and although strongly suggested, a contribution of inflammation to its pathogenesis has never been demonstrated. In FSHD patients, we found by immunohistochemistry inflammatory infiltrates mainly composed by CD8(+) T cells in muscles showing hyperintensity features on T2-weighted short tau inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging (T2-STIR-MRI) sequences. Therefore, we evaluated the presence of circulating activated immune cells and the production of cytokines in patients with or without muscles showing hyperintensity features on T2-STIR-MRI sequences and from controls. FSHD patients displaying hyperintensity features in one or more muscles showed higher CD8(+)pSTAT1(+), CD8(+)T-bet(+) T cells and CD14(+)pSTAT1(+), CD14(+)T-bet(+) cells percentages and IL12p40, IFN and TNF levels than patients without muscles displaying hyperintense features and controls. Moreover, the percentages of CD8(+)pSTAT1(+), CD8(+)T-bet(+) and CD14(+)pSTAT1(+) cells correlated with the proportion of muscles displaying hyperintensity features at T2-STIR sequences. These data indicate that circulating activated immune cells, mainly CD8(+) T cells, may favour FSHD progression by promoting active phases of muscle inflammation.

It has been reported that mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, when compared with controls, show increased activity in different brain regions within the ventral pathway during memory tasks. A key question is whether this profile of increased activity could be useful to predict which patients will develop dementia. Herein, we present profiles of brain magnetic activity during a memory task recorded with magnetoencephalography from MCI patients (N = 10), Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (N = 10), and healthy volunteers (N = 17). After 2 years of follow-up, five of the MCI patients developed AD. Patients who progressed to AD (PMCI) showed higher activity than those who remained stable (SMCI), AD patients and controls. This increased activity in PMCI patients involves regions within the ventral and dorsal pathways. In contrast, SMCI patients showed higher activation than controls only along the ventral pathway. This increase in both the ventral and dorsal pathways in PMCI patients may reflect a compensatory mechanism for the loss in efficiency in memory networks, which would be absent in AD patients as they showed lower activity levels than the rest of the groups.
Computerized detection of epileptiform transients (ETs), characterized by interictal spikes and sharp waves in the EEG, has been a research goal for the last 40 years. A reliable method for detecting ETs would assist physicians in interpretation and improve efficiency in reviewing long-term EEG recordings. Computer algorithms developed thus far for detecting ETs are not as reliable as human experts, primarily due to the large number of false-positive detections. Comparing the performance of different algorithms is difficult because each study uses individual EEG test datasets. In this article, we present EEGnet, a distributed web-based platform for the acquisition and analysis of large-scale training datasets for comparison of different EEG ET detection algorithms. This software allows EEG scorers to log in through the web, mark EEG segments of interest, and categorize segments of interest using a conventional clinical EEG user interface. This software platform was used by seven board-certified academic epileptologists to score 40 short 30-second EEG segments from 40 patients, half containing ETs and half containing artifacts and normal variants. The software performance was adequate. Interrater reliability for marking the location of paroxysmal activity was low. Interrater reliability of marking artifacts and ETs was high and moderate, respectively.
We present a 27-year-old Chinese male with a rare pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) that underwent transformation with metastasis to the scalp. To our knowledge this is the first report of a PXA undergoing malignant transformation and metastasizing to the scalp and provides further evidence that PXA may not be as benign as previously believed.
The influence of antipsychotic medication on brain morphology in schizophrenia may confound interpretation of brain changes over time. We aimed to assess the effect of discontinuation of atypical antipsychotic medication on change in brain volume in patients. Sixteen remitted, stable patients with first-episode schizophrenia, schizoaffective or schizophreniform disorder and 20 healthy controls were included. Two magnetic resonance imaging brain scans were obtained from all subjects with a 1-year interval. The patients either discontinued (n = 8) their atypical antipsychotic medication (olanzapine, risperidone, or quetiapine) or did not (n = 8) discontinue during the follow-up period. Intracranial volume and volumes of total brain, cerebral gray and white matter, cerebellum, third and lateral ventricle, nucleus caudatus, nucleus accumbens, and putamen were obtained. Multiple linear regression analyses were used to assess main effects for group (patient-control) and discontinuation (yes-no) for brain volume (change) while correcting for age, sex, and intracranial volume. Decrease in cerebral gray matter and caudate nucleus volume over time was significantly more pronounced in patients relative to controls. Our data suggest decreases in the nucleus accumbens and putamen volumes during the interval in patients who discontinued antipsychotic medication, whereas increases were found in patients who continued their antipsychotics. We confirmed earlier findings of excessive gray matter volume decrements in patients with schizophrenia compared with normal controls. We found evidence suggestive of decreasing volumes of the putamen and nucleus accumbens over time after discontinuation of medication. This might suggest that discontinuation reverses effects of atypical medication.
Based on the evidence that aripiprazole added to serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) or clomipramine in treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has reported promising results, the present 16-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial had the aim to explore the efficacy of aripiprazole add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptoms and cognitive functioning in a sample of treatment-resistant OCD patients receiving SRIs. After clinical and neurocognitive assessments, patients were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind design, 15 mg/d of aripiprazole or a placebo. A final sample of 30 patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that aripiprazole added to stable SRI treatment substantially improved obsessive-compulsive symptoms as measured by changes on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale total score and subscores (obsessions, P = 0.007; compulsions, P = 0.001; total score, P &lt; 0.0001). Regarding cognitive functions, improvement was observed in some explored areas, such as attentional resistance to interference (Stroop score, P = 0.001) and executive functioning (perseverative errors, P = 0.015). The findings provide evidence that aripiprazole augmentation of SRIs/clomipramine treatment is well tolerated and may be proposed as an effective therapeutic strategy to improve outcome in treatment-resistant OCD.
Prior lesion and functional imaging studies have highlighted the importance of the left ventral occipito-temporal (LvOT) cortex for visual word recognition. Within this area, there is a posterior-anterior hierarchy of subregions that are specialized for different stages of orthographic processing. The aim of the present fMRI study was to dissociate the effects of subword orthographic typicality (e.g., cider [high] vs. cynic [low]) from the effect of lexicality (e.g., pollen [word] vs. pillen [pseudoword]). We therefore orthogonally manipulated the orthographic typicality of written words and pseudowords (nonwords and pseudohomophones) in a visual lexical decision task. Consistent with previous studies, we identified greater activation for pseudowords than words (i.e., an effect of lexicality) in posterior LvOT cortex. In addition, we revealed higher activation for atypical than typical strings, irrespective of lexicality, in a left inferior occipital region that is posterior to LvOT cortex. When lexical decisions were made more difficult in the context of pseudohomophone foils, left anterior temporal activation also increased for atypical relative to typical strings. The latter finding agrees with the behavior of patients with progressive anterior temporal lobe degeneration, who have particular difficulty recognizing words with atypical orthography. The most novel outcome of this study is that, within a distributed network of regions supporting orthographic processing, we have identified a left inferior occipital region that is particularly sensitive to the typicality of subword orthographic patterns.
This study used fMRI to investigate the neural effects of increasing cognitive demands in normal aging and their role for performance. Simple and complex go/no-go tasks were used with two versus eight colored letters as go stimuli, respectively. In both tasks, no-go stimuli could produce high conflict (same letter, different color) or low conflict (colored numbers) with go stimuli. Multivariate partial least square analysis of fMRI data showed that older adults overengaged a cohesive pattern of fronto-parietal regions with no-go stimuli under the specific combination of factors which progressively amplified task demands: high conflict no-go trials in the first phase of the complex task. This early neural overrecruitment was positively correlated with a lower error rate in the older group. Thus, the present data suggest that age-related extra-recruitment of neural resources can be beneficial for performance under taxing task conditions, such as when novel, weak, and complex rules have to be acquired.
This study investigated links between working memory and speech processing systems. We used delayed pseudoword repetition in fMRI to investigate the neural correlates of sublexical structure in phonological working memory (pWM). We orthogonally varied the number of syllables and consonant clusters in auditory pseudowords and measured the neural responses to these manipulations under conditions of covert rehearsal (Experiment 1). A left-dominant network of temporal and motor cortex showed increased activity for longer items, with motor cortex only showing greater activity concomitant with adding consonant clusters. An individual-differences analysis revealed a significant positive relationship between activity in the angular gyrus and the hippocampus, and accuracy on pseudoword repetition. As models of pWM stipulate that its neural correlates should be activated during both perception and production/rehearsal [Buchsbaum, B. R., &amp; D'Esposito, M. The search for the phonological store: From loop to convolution. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20, 762-778, 2008; Jacquemot, C., &amp; Scott, S. K. What is the relationship between phonological short-term memory and speech processing? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 10, 480-486, 2006; Baddeley, A. D., &amp; Hitch, G. Working memory. In G. H. Bower (Ed.), The psychology of learning and motivation: Advances in research and theory (Vol. 8, pp. 47-89). New York: Academic Press, 1974], we further assessed the effects of the two factors in a separate passive listening experiment (Experiment 2). In this experiment, the effect of the number of syllables was concentrated in posterior-medial regions of the supratemporal plane bilaterally, although there was no evidence of a significant response to added clusters. Taken together, the results identify the planum temporale as a key region in pWM; within this region, representations are likely to take the form of auditory or audiomotor &quot;templates&quot; or &quot;chunks&quot; at the level of the syllable [Papoutsi, M., de Zwart, J. A., Jansma, J. M., Pickering, M. J., Bednar, J. A., &amp; Horwitz, B. From phonemes to articulatory codes: an fMRI study of the role of Broca's area in speech production. Cerebral Cortex, 19, 2156-2165, 2009; Warren, J. E., Wise, R. J. S., &amp; Warren, J. D. Sounds do-able: auditory-motor transformations and the posterior temporal plane. Trends in Neurosciences, 28, 636-643, 2005; Griffiths, T. D., &amp; Warren, J. D. The planum temporale as a computational hub. Trends in Neurosciences, 25, 348-353, 2002], whereas more lateral structures on the STG may deal with phonetic analysis of the auditory input [Hickok, G. The functional neuroanatomy of language. Physics of Life Reviews, 6, 121-143, 2009].
Emotion is known to influence multiple aspects of memory formation, including the initial encoding of the memory trace and its consolidation over time. However, the neural mechanisms whereby emotion impacts memory encoding remain largely unexplored. The present study used a levels-of-processing manipulation to characterize the impact of emotion on encoding with and without the influence of elaborative processes. Participants viewed emotionally negative, neutral, and positive scenes under two conditions: a shallow condition focused on the perceptual features of the scenes and a deep condition that queried their semantic meaning. Recognition memory was tested 2 days later. Results showed that emotional memory enhancements were greatest in the shallow condition. fMRI analyses revealed that the right amygdala predicted subsequent emotional memory in the shallow more than deep condition, whereas the right ventrolateral PFC demonstrated the reverse pattern. Furthermore, the association of these regions with the hippocampus was modulated by valence: the amygdala-hippocampal link was strongest for negative stimuli, whereas the prefrontal-hippocampal link was strongest for positive stimuli. Taken together, these results suggest two distinct activation patterns underlying emotional memory formation: an amygdala component that promotes memory during shallow encoding, especially for negative information, and a prefrontal component that provides extra benefits during deep encoding, especially for positive information.
We assessed electrophysiological activity over the medial frontal cortex (MFC) during outcome-based behavioral adjustment using a probabilistic reversal learning task. During recording, participants were presented two abstract visual patterns on each trial and had to select the stimulus rewarded on 80% of trials and to avoid the stimulus rewarded on 20% of trials. These contingencies were reversed frequently during the experiment. Previous EEG work has revealed feedback-locked electrophysiological responses over the MFC (feedback-related negativity; FRN), which correlate with the negative prediction error [Holroyd, C. B., &amp; Coles, M. G. The neural basis of human error processing: Reinforcement learning, dopamine, and the error-related negativity. Psychological Review, 109, 679-709, 2002] and which predict outcome-based adjustment of decision values [Cohen, M. X., &amp; Ranganath, C. Reinforcement learning signals predict future decisions. Journal of Neuroscience, 27, 371-378, 2007]. Unlike previous paradigms, our paradigm enabled us to disentangle, on the one hand, mechanisms related to the reward prediction error, derived from reinforcement learning (RL) modeling, and on the other hand, mechanisms related to explicit rule-based adjustment of actual behavior. Our results demonstrate greater FRN amplitudes with greater RL model-derived prediction errors. Conversely expected negative outcomes that preceded rule-based behavioral reversal were not accompanied by an FRN. This pattern contrasted remarkably with that of the P3 amplitude, which was significantly greater for expected negative outcomes that preceded rule-based behavioral reversal than for unexpected negative outcomes that did not precede behavioral reversal. These data suggest that the FRN reflects prediction error and associated RL-based adjustment of decision values, whereas the P3 reflects adjustment of behavior on the basis of explicit rules.
The temporal sequence of neural processes supporting figure-ground perception was investigated by recording ERPs associated with subjects' perceptions of the face-vase figure. In Experiment 1, subjects continuously reported whether they perceived the face or the vase as the foreground figure by pressing one of two buttons. Each button press triggered a probe flash to the face region, the vase region, or the borders between the two. The N170/vertex positive potential (VPP) component of the ERP elicited by probes to the face region was larger when subjects perceived the faces as figure. Preceding the N170/VPP, two additional components were identified. First, when the borders were probed, ERPs differed in amplitude as early as 110 msec after probe onset depending on subjects' figure-ground perceptions. Second, when the face or vase regions were probed, ERPs were more positive (at  150-200 msec) when that region was perceived as figure versus background. These components likely reflect an early &quot;border ownership&quot; stage, and a subsequent &quot;figure-ground segregation&quot; stage of processing. To explore the influence of attention on these stages of processing, two additional experiments were conducted. In Experiment 2, subjects selectively attended to the face or vase region, and the same early ERP components were again produced. In Experiment 3, subjects performed an identical selective attention task, but on a display lacking distinctive figure-ground borders, and neither of the early components were produced. Results from these experiments suggest sequential stages of processing underlying figure-ground perception, each which are subject to modifications by selective attention.

The long history of neuroscience has accumulated information about numerous types of neurons in the brain of various organisms. Because such neurons have been reported in diverse publications without controlled format, it is not easy to keep track of all the known neurons in a particular nervous system. To address this issue we constructed an online database called Flybrain Neuron Database (Flybrain NDB), which serves as a platform to collect and provide information about all the types of neurons published so far in the brain of Drosophila melanogaster. Projection patterns of the identified neurons in diverse areas of the brain were recorded in a unified format, with text-based descriptions as well as images and movies wherever possible. In some cases projection sites and the distribution of the post- and presynaptic sites were determined with greater detail than described in the original publication. Information about the labeling patterns of various antibodies and expression driver strains to visualize identified neurons are provided as a separate sub-database. We also implemented a novel visualization tool with which users can interactively examine three-dimensional reconstruction of the confocal serial section images with desired viewing angles and cross sections. Comprehensive collection and versatile search function of the anatomical information reported in diverse publications make it possible to analyze possible connectivity between different brain regions. We analyzed the preferential connectivity among optic lobe layers and the plausible olfactory sensory map in the lateral horn to show the usefulness of such a database.
The Morris water maze is an experimental procedure in which animals learn to escape swimming in a pool using environmental cues. Despite its success in neuroscience and psychology for studying spatial learning and memory, the exact mnemonic and navigational demands of the task are not well understood. Here, we provide a mathematical model of rat swimming dynamics on a behavioural level. The model consists of a random walk, a heading change and a feedback control component in which learning is reflected in parameter changes of the feedback mechanism. The simplicity of the model renders it accessible and useful for analysis of experiments in which swimming paths are recorded. Here, we used the model to analyse an experiment in which rats were trained to find the platform with either three or one extramaze cue. Results indicate that the 3-cues group employs stronger feedback relying only on the actual visual input, whereas the 1-cue group employs weaker feedback relying to some extent on memory. Because the model parameters are linked to neurological processes, identifying different parameter values suggests the activation of different neuronal pathways.
Phase response curves (PRCs) have been widely used to study synchronization in neural circuits comprised of pacemaking neurons. They describe how the timing of the next spike in a given spontaneously firing neuron is affected by the phase at which an input from another neuron is received. Here we study two reciprocally coupled clusters of pulse coupled oscillatory neurons. The neurons within each cluster are presumed to be identical and identically pulse coupled, but not necessarily identical to those in the other cluster. We investigate a two cluster solution in which all oscillators are synchronized within each cluster, but in which the two clusters are phase locked at nonzero phase with each other. Intuitively, one might expect this solution to be stable only when synchrony within each isolated cluster is stable, but this is not the case. We prove rigorously the stability of the two cluster solution and show how reciprocal coupling can stabilize synchrony within clusters that cannot synchronize in isolation. These stability results for the two cluster solution suggest a mechanism by which reciprocal coupling between brain regions can induce local synchronization via the network feedback loop.
This work presents a neuroinformatic method for deriving mechanistic descriptions of fine-structured neural activity. This is a new development in the computer-assisted analysis of dynamics in conductance-based models, which is illustrated using single compartment models of an action potential. A sequence of abstract, qualitative motifs is inferred from this analysis, forming a template that is independent of the specific equations from which they were abstracted. The template encodes the assumptions behind the model reduction steps used to derive the motifs, and so specifies quantitative information about their domains of validity. The template representation of a mechanism is converted to a hybrid dynamical system, which is simulated as a sequence of low-dimensional reduced models (in this example, phase plane models) with appropriate switching conditions taken from the motifs. We demonstrate the validity of the template on a detailed single neuron model of spiking taken from the literature, and show that the corresponding hybrid system simulation closely mimics the spiking dynamics of the full model.
A phase resetting curve (PRC) keeps track of the extent to which a perturbation at a given phase advances or delays the next spike, and can be used to predict phase locking in networks of oscillators. The PRC can be estimated by convolving the waveform of the perturbation with the infinitesimal PRC (iPRC) under the assumption of weak coupling. The iPRC is often defined with respect to an infinitesimal current as z(i)(), where  is phase, but can also be defined with respect to an infinitesimal conductance change as z(g)(). In this paper, we first show that the two approaches are equivalent. Coupling waveforms corresponding to synapses with different time courses sample z(g)() in predictably different ways. We show that for oscillators with Type I excitability, an anomalous region in z(g)() with opposite sign to that seen otherwise is often observed during an action potential. If the duration of the synaptic perturbation is such that it effectively samples this region, PRCs with both advances and delays can be observed despite Type I excitability. We also show that changing the duration of a perturbation so that it preferentially samples regions of stable or unstable slopes in z(g)() can stabilize or destabilize synchrony in a network with the corresponding dynamics.
Travelling waves of activity in neural circuits have been proposed as a mechanism underlying a variety of neurological disorders, including epileptic seizures, migraine auras and brain injury. The highly influential Wilson-Cowan cortical model describes the dynamics of a network of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The Wilson-Cowan equations predict travelling waves of activity in rate-based models that have sufficiently reduced levels of lateral inhibition. Travelling waves of excitation may play a role in functional changes in the auditory cortex after hearing loss. We propose that down-regulation of lateral inhibition may be induced in deafferented cortex via homeostatic plasticity mechanisms. We use the Wilson-Cowan equations to construct a spiking model of the primary auditory cortex that includes a novel, mathematically formalized description of homeostatic plasticity. In our model, the homeostatic mechanisms respond to hearing loss by reducing inhibition and increasing excitation, producing conditions under which travelling waves of excitation can emerge. However, our model predicts that the presence of spontaneous activity prevents the development of long-range travelling waves of excitation. Rather, our simulations show short-duration excitatory waves that cancel each other out. We also describe changes in spontaneous firing, synchrony and tuning after simulated hearing loss. With the exception of shifts in characteristic frequency, changes after hearing loss were qualitatively the same as empirical findings. Finally, we discuss possible applications to tinnitus, the perception of sound without an external stimulus.

It is important to consider several differential diagnoses in a patient presenting with altered sensorium following surgery. Fat embolism syndrome (FES) is a serious condition that needs to be excluded. Although criteria for diagnosis of FES are available, all patients may not satisfy them. We discuss a patient who presented with an incomplete triad of the FES, where the diagnosis was supported by transcranial doppler monitoring of microembolic signals and magnetic resonance imaging.
Schmajuk, Lam, and Gray (SLG, 1996) presented a neural network model of classical conditioning that addresses the multiple properties of latent inhibition (LI). According to the model, LI is the result of the decreased attention to the target stimulus during preexposure and testing. Recently, Holmes and Harris (2009) suggested that, although the model was able to describe their experimental results showing that LI to a preexposed stimulus disappears with extended compound conditioning, it could not describe the fact that LI is not affected by a delay following compound conditioning. However, computer simulations demonstrate that the SLG model describes and explains both results. Because the model also explains both the deleterious and the facilitating effects on LI of a delay following simple conditioning, the SLG model seems unique in explaining the complete range of reported effects of temporal delays on LI as well as most of the properties of LI.
Many letters of the alphabet are consistently mapped to specific colors in English-speaking adults, both in the general population and in individuals with grapheme-color synaesthesia who perceive letters in color. Here, across six experiments, we tested the ubiquity of the color/letter associations with typically developing toddlers, literate children, and adults. We found that pre-literate children associate O with white and X with black and discovered that they also associate I and ameboid nonsense shapes with white; Z and jagged nonsense shapes with black; and C with yellow; but do not make a number of other associations (B blue; Y yellow; A red; G green) seen in literate children and adults. The toddlers' mappings were based on the shape and not the sound of the letter. The results suggest that sensory cortical organization initially binds specific colors to some specific shapes and that learning to read can induce additional associations, likely through the influence of higher order networks as letters take on meaning.
We address the complex relationship between the stability, variability, and adaptability of psychological systems by decomposing the global variance of serial performance into two independent parts: the local variance (LV) and the serial correlation structure. For two time series with equal LV, the presence of persistent long-range correlations (or 1/  noise) increases the global variance. We hypothesized that a coadjustment between these two determinants of variability constitutes a resource for adaptive systems whose appropriate functioning under critical conditions requires the outcome variance to be limited. To test this hypothesis, we looked at the bimanual coordination dynamics at comfortable (stable) and critical (close to phase transition) frequencies. Results showed that a negative correlation appeared gradually as the theoretical stability of coordination modes decreased and reached significance only in the critical condition. We propose that the emergence of a mutual adjustment between LV and serial correlations might be an indicator of effective adaptation to stabilize behavior.
This study makes an effort to go beyond traditional analytical models to explore the complex and interactive nature of family processes. A total of 79 families affected by HIV in China participated in the study (79 persons living with HIV [PLH] and 79 seronegative family members), with in-person interviews conducted in 2009. A higher level of depressive symptoms was reported by PLH participants than their family members. Negative associations between depressive symptoms and social support and family relations were observed for both PLH and their family members. Results from actor-partner interdependence models indicate that the depressive symptoms of PLH and their family members were positively correlated when either the family relations measure or the social support measure was included in the model. Results highlight the link between family experience and individual well-being, with implications for designing and implementing interventions for families impacted by HIV.
The common gating of CLC-1 has been shown to be inhibited by intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in acidic pH conditions. Such modulation is thought to be mediated by direct binding of ATP to the cystathionine -synthase (CBS) domains at the C-terminal cytoplasmic region of CLC-1. Guided by the crystal structure of the C-terminal domain of CLC-5, we constructed a homology model of CLC-1's C terminus and mutated critical amino acid residues lining the potential ATP-binding site. The CLC-1 mutations V634A and E865A completely abolished the ATP inhibition of CLC-1, consistent with the loss of ATP binding seen with the corresponding mutations in CLC-5. Mutating two other residues, V613 and V860, also disrupted the ATP modulation of CLC-1. However, placing aromatic amino acids at position 634 increases the apparent ATP affinity. Mutant cycle analyses showed that the modulation effects of ATP and cytidine triphosphate on wild-type CLC-1 and the V634F mutant were nonadditive, suggesting that the side chain of amino acid at position 634 interacts with the base moiety of the nucleotide. The mutation effects of V634F and V613A on the ATP modulation were also nonadditive, which is consistent with the assertion suggested from the homology model that these two residues may both interact with the bound nucleotide. These results provide evidence for a direct ATP binding for modulating the function of CLC-1 and suggest an overall conserved architecture of the ATP-binding sites in CLC-1 and CLC-5. This study also demonstrates that CLC-1 is a convenient experimental model for studying the interaction of nucleotides/nucleosides with the CBS domain.


The aim of our study was to investigate whether genetic variants in the hypocretin receptor 1 (HCRTR1) gene could modify the occurrence and the clinical features of migraine. Using a case-control strategy we genotyped 384 migraine patients and 259 controls for three SNPs in the HCRTR1 gene. Genotypic and allelic frequencies of the rs2271933 non-synonymous polymorphism resulted different ((2)=9.872, p=0.007; (2)=8.108, p=0.004) between migraineurs and controls. The carriage of the A allele was associated with an increased migraine risk (OR 1.42, 95% CI 1.11-1.81). When we divided the migraine patients into different subgroups, the difference reached the level of statistical significance only in migraine without aura. The different genotypes had no significant effect on the examined clinical characteristics of the disease. In conclusion, our data supports the hypothesis that the HCRTR1 gene could represent a genetic susceptibility factor for migraine without aura and suggests that the hypocretin system may have a role in the pathophysiology of migraine.
Thunderclap headache (TCH) is an excruciating headache characterized by a very sudden onset. Recognition and accurate diagnosis of TCH are important in order to rule out the various, serious underlying brain disorders that, in a high percentage of cases, are the real cause of the headache. Primary TCH, which may recur intermittently and generally has a spontaneous, benign evolution, can thus be diagnosed only when all other potential underlying causes have been excluded through accurate diagnostic work up. In this review, we focus on the management of TCH, paying particular attention to the diagnostic work up and treatment of the condition.
Use of high doses of verapamil in preventive treatment of cluster headache (CH) is limited by cardiac toxicity. We systematically assess the cardiac safety of the very high dose of verapamil (verapamil VHD) in CH patients. Our work was a study performed in two French headache centers (Marseilles-Nice) from 12/2005 to 12/2008. CH patients treated with verapamil VHD (720 mg) were considered with a systematic electrocardiogram (EKG) monitoring. Among 200 CH patients, 29 (14.8%) used verapamil VHD (877227 mg/day). Incidence of EKG changes was 38% (11/29). Seven (24%) patients presented bradycardia considered as nonserious adverse event (NSAE) and four (14%) patients presented arrhythmia (heart block) considered as serious adverse event (SAE). Patients with EKG changes (1,003295 mg/day) were taking higher doses than those without EKG changes (800143 mg/day), but doses were similar in patients with SAE (990316 mg/day) and those with NSAE (1,011309 mg/day). Around three-quarters (8/11) of patients presented a delayed-onset cardiac adverse event (delay 2 years). Our work confirms the need for systematic EKG monitoring in CH patients treated with verapamil. Such cardiac safety assessment must be continued even for patients using VHD without any adverse event for a long time.
The objective of this study was to assess patient satisfaction with acute treatment of migraine with frovatriptan or rizatriptan by preference questionnaire. 148 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS 2004 criteria), with at least one migraine attack per month in the preceding 6 months, were enrolled and randomized to frovatriptan 2.5 mg or rizatriptan 10 mg treating 1-3 attacks. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with treatment periods lasting &lt;3 months. At the end of the study, patients assigned preference to one of the treatments using a questionnaire with a score from 0 to 5 (primary endpoint). Secondary endpoints were pain-free and pain relief episodes at 2 h, and recurrent and sustained pain-free episodes within 48 h. 104 of the 125 patients (83%, intention-to-treat population) expressed a preference for a triptan. The average preference score was not significantly different between frovatriptan (2.91.3) and rizatriptan (3.21.1). The rates of pain-free (33% frovatriptan vs. 39% rizatriptan) and pain relief (55 vs. 62%) episodes at 2 h were not significantly different between the two treatments. The rate of recurrent episodes was significantly (p&lt;0.001) lower under frovatriptan (21 vs. 43% rizatriptan). No significant differences were observed in sustained pain-free episodes (26% frovatriptan vs. 22% rizatriptan). The number of patients with adverse events was not significantly different between rizatriptan (34) and frovatriptan (25, p=NS). The results suggest that frovatriptan has a similar efficacy to rizatriptan, but a more prolonged duration of action.

Robert Bentley Todd, who is best remembered for &quot;Todd's paralysis,&quot; made many more important contributions to neurology and neuroscience, including the concept of brain electricity and electrical discharges in epilepsy. He was also a pioneering microscopist and we here review his neurohistological studies and his contributions to the application of Schwann's (1839) cell theory to the nervous system and the later neuron doctrine, as described in his textbook The Descriptive and Physiological Anatomy of the Brain, Spinal Cord and Ganglions (Todd, 1845), his Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology (1847) and his joint textbook with William Bowman The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man (1845). Writing in the mid-1840s, Todd acknowledged that the &quot;vesicles&quot; he observed corresponded to the earlier descriptions of &quot;globules&quot; or &quot;kugeln&quot; by Valentin and which Schwann first interpreted as cell bodies. Todd was among the first to recognize that nerve cell bodies were in continuity with axons (&quot;axis cylinders&quot;), sometimes associated with &quot;the white substance of Schwann&quot; (&quot;tubular&quot; fibers), or sometimes without (&quot;gelatinous&quot; fibers). He also described continuous nerve cell branching processes, later called dendrites. He was the first to recognize the insulating properties of Schwann's &quot;white substance&quot; (myelin) to facilitate conduction. Influenced by his contemporary, Faraday, Todd was also the first to develop the functional concept of dynamic polarization (&quot;nervous polarity&quot;) to explain nerve cell conduction.
In 1929, at the age of 82, the Swedish neurologist Salomon Henschen (1847-1930) planned an Academia Neurologica Internationalis. The exchanged letters with Cecile and Oskar Vogt suggest that there was a great number of neuroscientists internationally who approved of the project. However, during three months of preparation, the initial skepticism increased and, although the invitation to the conference had already been printed, it had to be revoked. The endeavors to revive the Brain Commission failed. Two other projects nonetheless did take shape: the founding of one of the largest and most modern brain research institutes in 1931 by the Vogts and the first International Neurological Congress in Berne that same year. For decades, the Brain Commission remained without successors until the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO) was founded in 1961.
Most humans are social beings and we express our thoughts and feelings through language. In contrast to the ease with which we speak, the underlying cognitive and neural processes of language production are fairly complex and still little understood. In the hereditary metabolic disease classic galactosemia, failures in language production processes are among the most reported difficulties. It is unclear, however, what the underlying neural cause of this cognitive problem is. Modern brain imaging techniques allow us to look into the brain of a thinking patient online - while she or he is performing a task, such as speaking. We can measure indirectly neural activity related to the output side of a process (e.g. articulation). But most importantly, we can look into the planning phase prior to an overt response, hence tapping into subcomponents of speech planning. These components include verbal memory, intention to speak, and the planning of meaning, syntax, and phonology. This paper briefly introduces cognitive theories on language production and methods used in cognitive neuroscience. It reviews the possibilities of applying them in experimental paradigms to investigate language production and verbal memory in galactosemia.
Undersampled spiral CSI (spCSI) using a free induction decay (FID) acquisition allows sub-second metabolic imaging of hyperpolarized C. Phase correction of the FID acquisition can be difficult, especially with contributions from aliased out-of-phase peaks. This work extends the spCSI sequence by incorporating double spin echo radiofrequency (RF) pulses to eliminate the need for phase correction and obtain high quality spectra in magnitude mode. The sequence also provides an added benefit of attenuating signal from flowing spins, which can otherwise contaminate signal in the organ of interest. The refocusing pulses can potentially lead to a loss of hyperpolarized magnetization in dynamic imaging due to flow of spins through the fringe field of the RF coil, where the refocusing pulses fail to provide complete refocusing. Care must be taken for dynamic imaging to ensure that the spins remain within the B-homogeneous sensitive volume of the RF coil.

According to contextual-variability theory, experiences encoded at different times tend to be associated with different contextual states. The gradual evolution of context implies that spaced items will be associated with more distinct contextual states, and thus have more unique retrieval cues, than items presented in proximity. Ross and Landauer (1978) tested this theory by examining whether the probability of recalling at least one of two studied items should increase as a function of the items' spacing. Their failure to observe this result was taken as strong evidence against contextual variability theory. We replicated their analysis on six recall datasets. For all of these datasets we found the pattern of results predicted by contextual-variability theory. These findings provide critical support for contextual-variability theories of episodic memory.
Adipocytes' biology and the mechanisms that control adipogenesis have gained importance because of the need to develop therapeutic strategies to control obesity and the related pathologies. Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), undifferentiated stem cells present in the bone marrow that are physiological precursors of adipocytes, were induced to adipogenic differentiation. The molecular mechanisms on the basis of the adipogenesis were evaluated, focusing on the MAPKinases ERK1 and ERK2, which are involved in many biological and cellular processes. ERK1 and ERK2 phosphorylation was reduced with different timing and intensity for the two isoforms in treated hMSCs in comparison with control cells until day 10 and then at 14-28 days, it reached the level of untreated cultures. The total amount of ERK1 was also decreased up to day 10 and then was induced to the level of untreated cultures, whereas the expression of ERK2 was not changed following adipogenic induction. Treatment with the specific ERK1/2 inhibitor U0126 during the whole differentiation period hampered hMSCs' adipogenic differentiation, as lipid droplets appeared in very few cells and were reduced in number and size. When U0126 was administered only during the initial phase of differentiation, the number of hMSCs recruited to adipogenesis was reduced while, when it was administered later, hMSCs did not acquire a mature adipocytic phenotype. ERK1 and ERK2 are important for hMSC adipogenic differentiation since any alteration to the correct timing of their phosphorylation affects either the recruitment into the differentiation program and the extent of their maturation.
Although shame and facets of neuroticism have independently been linked to hypersexuality, the present study extends these findings by exploring pathways among these variables, using structural equation modeling in a patient sample of hypersexual adult men (N = 95). Results suggested that the domain of neuroticism, as represented by the NEO Personality Inventory-Revised, was a significant direct predictor of hypersexuality, with specific variance from the facet of impulsivity adding additional predictive power. Shame's bivariate association with hypersexuality was also significant, but in a predictive path model the effect of shame on hypersexuality was indirectly mediated through neuroticism and was not an independently significant predictor. Implications for treatment suggest that clinicians working with this population should evaluate precipitating risk factors to consider whether shame is activating neurotic coping or if other stressors might be influencing emotional instability that can trigger hypersexuality. Independent of the general distress associated with neuroticism, the literature on impulsivity might provide other valuable insights and direction for working with hypersexual men.
Laplacian filters are widely used in neuroscience. In the context of brain-computer interfacing, they might be preferred to data-driven approaches such as common spatial patterns (CSP) in a variety of scenarios such as, e.g., when no or few user data are available or a calibration session with a multi-channel recording is not possible, which is the case in various applications. In this paper we propose the use of an ensemble of local CSP patches (CSPP) which can be considered as a compromise between Laplacian filters and CSP. Our CSPP only needs a very small number of trials to be optimized and significantly outperforms Laplacian filters in all settings studied. Additionally, CSPP also outperforms multi-channel CSP and a regularized version of CSP even when only very few calibration data are available, acting as a CSP regularizer without the need of additional hyperparameters and at a very low cost: 2-5 min of data recording, i.e. ten times less than CSP.
For the development of minimally invasive brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), it is important to accurately localize the area of implantation. Using fMRI, we investigated which brain areas are involved in motor imagery. Twelve healthy subjects performed a motor execution and imagery task during separate fMRI and EEG measurements. fMRI results showed that during imagery, premotor and parietal areas were most robustly activated in individual subjects, but surprisingly, no activation was found in the primary motor cortex. EEG results showed that spectral power decreases in contralateral sensorimotor rhythms (8-24 Hz) during both movement and imagery. To further verify the involvement of the motor imagery areas found with fMRI, one epilepsy patient performed the same task during both fMRI and ECoG recordings. Significant ECoG low (8-24 Hz) and high (65-95 Hz) frequency power changes were observed selectively on premotor cortex and these co-localized with fMRI. During a subsequent BCI task, excellent performance (91%) was obtained based on ECoG power changes from the localized premotor area. These results indicate that other areas than the primary motor area may be more reliably activated during motor imagery. Specifically, the premotor cortex may be a better area to implant an invasive BCI.
Arm end-point position, end-point velocity, and the intended final location or 'goal' of a reach have all been decoded from cortical signals for use in brain-machine interface (BMI) applications. These different aspects of arm movement can be decoded from the brain and used directly to control the position, velocity, or movement goal of a device. However, these decoded parameters can also be remapped to control different aspects of movement, such as using the decoded position of the hand to control the velocity of a device. People easily learn to use the position of a joystick to control the velocity of an object in a videogame. Similarly, in BMI systems, the position, velocity, or goal of a movement could be decoded from the brain and remapped to control some other aspect of device movement. This study evaluates how easily people make transformations between position, velocity, and reach goal in BMI systems. It also evaluates how different amounts of decoding error impact on device control with and without these transformations. Results suggest some remapping options can significantly improve BMI control. This study provides guidance on what remapping options to use when various amounts of decoding error are present.
Moving a brain-computer interface (BCI) system from a laboratory demonstration to real-life applications still poses severe challenges to the BCI community. This study aims to integrate a mobile and wireless electroencephalogram (EEG) system and a signal-processing platform based on a cell phone into a truly wearable and wireless online BCI. Its practicality and implications in a routine BCI are demonstrated through the realization and testing of a steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP)-based BCI. This study implemented and tested online signal processing methods in both time and frequency domains for detecting SSVEPs. The results of this study showed that the performance of the proposed cell-phone-based platform was comparable, in terms of the information transfer rate, with other BCI systems using bulky commercial EEG systems and personal computers. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate a truly portable, cost-effective and miniature cell-phone-based platform for online BCIs.
Recently, neuropathological studies have shown an important motor cortex involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD), even in its early stages, despite the lack of clinically evident motor deficit. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies have demonstrated that cortical excitability is enhanced in AD patients. This cortical hyperexcitability is believed to be a compensatory mechanism to execute voluntary movements, despite the progressive impairment of associative cortical areas. At present, it is not clear if these motor cortex excitability changes might be the expression of an involvement of intracortical excitatory glutamatergic circuits or an impairment of inhibitory cholinergic and, to a lesser extent, gabaergic activity. Although the main hypothesis for the pathogenesis of AD remains the degeneration of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, the development of specific TMS protocols, such as the paired-pulse TMS and the study of the short-latency afferent inhibition, points out the role of other neurotransmitters, such as gamma-amino-butyric acid, glutamate and dopamine. The potential therapeutic effect of repetitive TMS in restoring or compensating damaged cognitive functions, might become a possible rehabilitation tool in AD patients. Based on different patterns of cortical excitability, TMS may be useful in discriminating between physiological brain aging, mild cognitive impairment, AD and other dementing disorders. The present review provides a perspective of these TMS techniques by further understanding the role of different neurotransmission pathways and plastic remodelling of neuronal networks in the pathogenesis of AD.
Accumulating evidence supports neuroprotective role of trophic factors in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Previous studies from our laboratory report that the CSF of patients with sporadic ALS (ALS-CSF) induces degenerative changes in the rat spinal motor neurons and reactive astrogliosis in the surrounding gray matter. The present study was aimed to investigate if the ALS-CSF affected the expression of trophic factors namely, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) in the newborn rat spinal cords. ALS-CSF was intrathecally injected into the neonatal rats and the mRNA levels of the trophic factors were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Here, we report significant down regulation in the gene expression of trophic factors for BDNF, FGF2 and IGF1. BDNF mRNA levels were found to be reduced by 6.8-fold in the ALS-CSF injected group compared to control groups. The levels of IGF1 and FGF2 mRNA were also decreased by 3.91- and 2.13-fold, respectively, in the ALS group. We further found that exogenous supplementation of BDNF considerably reduced the aberrant phosphorylation of neurofilaments, complementing our earlier findings of restored expression of voltage gated sodium channel. Reduced expression of trophic factors indicates an altered microenvironment of the motor neurons and could possibly be one of the contributing factors in the degeneration process.
Hypoxic preconditioning (HPC) initiates intracellular signaling pathway to provide protection against subsequent cerebral ischemic injuries, and its mechanism may provide molecular targets for therapy in stroke. According to our study of conventional protein kinase C II (cPKCII) activation in HPC, the role of cPKCII in HPC-induced neuroprotection and its interacting proteins were determined in this study. The autohypoxia-induced HPC and middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO)-induced cerebral ischemia mouse models were prepared as reported. We found that HPC reduced 6 h MCAO-induced neurological deficits, infarct volume, edema ratio and cell apoptosis in peri-infarct region (penumbra), but cPKCII inhibitors Go6983 and LY333531 blocked HPC-induced neuroprotection. Proteomic analysis revealed that the expression of four proteins in cytosol and eight proteins in particulate fraction changed significantly among 49 identified cPKCII-interacting proteins in cortex of HPC mice. In addition, HPC could inhibit the decrease of phosphorylated collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) level and increase of CRMP-2 breakdown product. TAT-CRMP-2 peptide, which prevents the cleavage of endogenous CRMP-2, could inhibit CRMP-2 dephosphorylation and proteolysis as well as the infarct volume of 6 h MCAO mice. This study is the first to report multiple cPKCII-interacting proteins in HPC mouse brain and the role of cPKCII-CRMP-2 in HPC-induced neuroprotection against early stages of ischemic injuries in mice.
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) is a predominantly neuronal protein involved in the control of neurotransmitter release. The levels of SNCA expression are closely linked to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease; however, the biochemical pathways and transcriptional elements that control SNCA expression are not well understood. We previously used the model system of neurotrophin-mediated PC12 cell neuronal differentiation to examine these phenomena. Although these studies were informative, they were limited to the use of a cell line; therefore, in the current work, we have turned our attention to cultured primary rat cortical neurons. In these cultures, SNCA expression increased with time in culture, as the neurons mature. Luciferase assays based on transient transfections of fusion constructs encoding components of the transcriptional control region of SNCA identified various promoter areas that have a positive or negative effect on SNCA transcription. Intron 1, previously identified by us as an important regulatory region in the PC12 cell model, cooperates with regions 5' to exon 1 to mediate gene transcription. Using selective pharmacological tools, we find that tyrosine kinase receptors and the phosphatidyl-inositol 3 kinase signaling pathway are involved in mediating these effects. The exogenous application of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is sufficient on its own to promote the transcriptional activation of SNCA through this pathway, but a neutralizing antibody against BDNF failed to affect SNCA transcription in maturing cultures, suggesting that BDNF is not the main factor involved in maturation-induced SNCA transcription in this model. Further in vivo studies are needed to establish the role of neurotrophin signaling in the control of SNCA transcription.
We report a novel mechanism for dopamine D(1) receptor (D(1) R)-mediated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (Erk) activation in rat striatum. Erk signaling depends on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events mediated by specific kinases and phosphatases. The tyrosine phosphatase Shp-2, that is required for Erk activation by tyrosine kinase receptors, has been recently shown to regulate signaling downstream of few G protein-coupled receptors. We show that the D(1) R interacts with Shp-2, that D(1) R stimulation results in Shp-2 tyrosine phosphorylation and activation in primary striatal neuronal cultures and that D(1) R/Shp-2 interaction is required for transmitting D(1) R-dependent signaling to Erk1/2 activation. D(1) R-mediated Erk1/2 phosphorylation in cultured striatal neurons is in fact abolished by over-expression of the inactive Shp-2(C/S) mutant and by small interfering RNA-induced Shp-2 silencing. Moreover, by using selective inhibitors we show that both D(1) R-induced Shp-2 activation and Erk1/2 phosphorylation are dependent on the cyclic AMP/protein kinase A pathway and require Src. These results, which were substantiated also in transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells, provide a novel mechanism by which to converge D(1) R signaling to the Erk pathway and suggest that Shp-2 or the D(1) R/Shp-2 interface could represent a potential drug target for disorders of dopamine transmission involving malfunctioning of D(1) R signaling.
The blockade of adenosine A(2A) receptors (A2AR) affords a robust neuroprotection in different noxious brain conditions. However, the mechanisms underlying this general neuroprotection are unknown. One possible mechanism could be the control of neuroinflammation that is associated with brain damage, especially because A2AR efficiently control peripheral inflammation. Thus, we tested if the intracerebroventricular injection of a selective A2AR antagonist (SCH58261) would attenuate the changes in the hippocampus triggered by intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that induces neuroinflammation through microglia activation. LPS administration triggers an increase in inflammatory mediators like interleukin-1 that causes biochemical changes (p38 and c-jun N-terminal kinase phosphorylation and caspase 3 activation) contributing to neuronal dysfunction typified by decreased long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity. Long-term potentiation, measured 30 min after the tetanus, was significantly lower in LPS-treated rats compared with control-treated rats, while SCH58261 attenuated the LPS-induced change. The LPS-induced increases in phosphorylation of c-jun N-terminal kinase and p38 and activation of caspase 3 were also prevented by SCH58261. Significantly, SCH58261 also prevented the LPS-induced recruitment of activated microglial cells and the increase in interleukin-1 concentration in the hippocampus, indicating that A2AR activation is a pivotal step in mediating the neuroinflammation triggered by LPS. These results indicate that A2AR antagonists prevent neuroinflammation and support the hypothesis that this mechanism might contribute for the ability of A2AR antagonists to control different neurodegenerative diseases known to involve neuroinflammation.
Neuronal growth cone (GC) migration and targeting are essential processes for the formation of a neural network during embryonic development. Currently, the mechanisms that support directed motility of GCs are not fully defined. The large GTPase dynamin and an interacting actin-binding protein, cortactin, have been localized to GCs, although the function performed by this complex is unclear. We have found that cortactin and the ubiquitous form of dynamin (Dyn) 2 exhibit a striking co-localization at the base of the transition zone of advancing GCs of embryonic hippocampal neurons. Confocal and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopies demonstrate that this basal localization represents point contacts. Exogenous expression of wild-type Dyn2 and cortactin leads to large, exceptionally flat, and static GCs, whereas disrupting this complex has no such effect. We find that excessive GC spreading is induced by Dyn2 and cortactin over-expression and substantial recruitment of the point contact-associated, actin-binding protein -actinin1 to the ventral GC membrane. The distributions of other point contact proteins such as vinculin or paxillin appear unchanged. Immunoprecipitation experiments show that both Dyn2 and cortactin reside in a complex with -actinin1. These findings provide new insights into the role of Dyn2 and the actin cytoskeleton in GC adhesion and motility.
The American Society of Neurophysiologic Monitoring (ASNM) and American Society of Neuroimaging (ASN) Guidelines Committees formed a joint task force and developed guidelines to assist in the use of transcranial Doppler (TCD) monitoring in the surgical and intensive care settings. Specifically, these guidelines: (1) delineate the objectives of TCD monitoring; (2) characterize the responsibilities and behaviors of the sonographer during monitoring; (3) describe methodological and ethical issues uniquely relevant to monitoring. The ASNM and ASN strongly support the positions that (1) acquisition and interpretation of intraoperative TCD ultrasonograms be performed by qualified individuals, (2) service providers define their diagnostic criteria and develop on-going self-validation programs of these performance criteria in their practices. We agree with the guidelines of other professional societies regarding the technical and professional qualifications of individuals responsible for TCD signal acquisition and interpretation (Class III evidence, Type C recommendation). On the basis of current clinical literature and scientific evidence, TCD monitoring is an established monitoring modality for the: (1) assessment of cerebral vasomotor reactivity and autoregulation; (2) documentation of the circle of Willis functional status; (3) identification of cerebral hypo- and hyperperfusion, recanalization and re-occlusion; and (4) detection of cerebral emboli (Class II and III evidence, Type B recommendation).



Little is known on a putative effect of vitamin D on CD8+ T cells. Yet, these cells are involved in the immmunopathogenesis of MS. We assessed the cytokine profile of EBV-specific CD8+ T cells of 10 early MS patients and 10 healthy control subjects with or without 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and found that, with 1,25(OH)(2)D(3), these cells secreted less IFN- and TNF- and more IL-5 and TGF-. CD4+ T cell depletion or even culture with CD8+ T cells only did not abolish the immunomodulatory effect of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) on CD8+ T cells, suggesting that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) can act directly on CD8+ T cells.
JCV causes the CNS demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). After primary infection, JCV persists in a latent state, where viral protein expression and replication are not detectable. NF-B and C/EBP regulate the JCV promoter via a control element, B, suggesting proinflammatory cytokines may reactivate JCV to cause PML, e.g., in HIV-1/AIDS. Since HIV-1 induces cytokines in brain, including TNF-, we examined a role for TNF- in JCV regulation. TNF- stimulated both early and late JCV transcription. Further, the B element conferred TNF- response to a heterologous promoter. Immunohistochemistry of HIV+/PML revealed robust labeling for TNF- and TNFR-1. These data suggest TNF- stimulation of B may contribute to JCV reactivation in HIV+/PML.

Prospective comparative long-term data on the effect of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and continuous subcutaneous infusion of apomorphine (CSAI) in patients with advanced Parkinson disease (PD) are lacking. We report 5-year follow-up of 25 PD patients treated with either STN-DBS (n = 13) or CSAI (n = 12) who fulfilled CAPSIT-PD criteria. Cohorts were matched for disease duration and severity of motor complications. Baseline clinical and neuropsychological status did not differ among cohorts. Patients were assessed with the UPDRS, MMSE, HAMD-17 and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI).Twelve subjects reached the 5-year follow-up with STN-DBS (one was lost at follow-up) versus two in the CSAI cohort. Drop-outs with CSAI were due to subcutaneous nodules (n = 2), insufficient control of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia (n = 4), death for unrelated reasons (n = 3) and one was lost at follow-up. Average apomorphine dose at last visit was 83.4  19.2 mg/day and average treatment duration was 30 months. At 1-year as well as at last follow-up (intention-to-treat analysis), both therapies decreased daily off-time but only STN-DBS reduced dyskinesia duration and severity. Decrement of medications was greater with STN-DBS. There was a significant worsening of NPI after STN-DBS, primarily because four subjects developed apathy.


Cramp-fasciculation syndrome (cramp-FS) is an ill-defined condition with uncertain clinical limits. The authors studied a 55-year-old man with progressively more severe, widespread fasciculations and cramps during a 6-year-period. Mild progressive lower motor neuron loss, shown by motor unit number and multi-motor unit potential (MUP) analysis, developed during the 4 years after onset, which stabilised during a further 2-year follow-up. Cramp-FS is generally a benign syndrome, probably with several causations. Our patient developed a limited form of anterior horn cell degeneration perhaps representing a syndrome transitional with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Cramp-FS merits more detailed study.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a commonly employed therapeutic procedure for patients with Parkinson's disease uncontrolled by medical therapies. This series describes the outcomes of 79 consecutive patients that underwent bilateral STN DBS at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery between November 2002 and November 2008 using an MRI-guided surgical technique without microelectrode recording. Patients underwent immediate postoperative stereotactic MR imaging. The mean (SD) error in electrode placement was 1.3 (0.6)&amp;emsp14;mm. There were no haemorrhagic complications. At a median follow-up period of 12&amp;emsp14;months, there was a mean improvement in the off-medication motor part of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS III) of 27.7 points (SD 13.8) equivalent to a mean improvement of 52% (p&lt;0.0001). In addition, there were significant improvements in dyskinesia duration, disability and pain, with a mean reduction in on-medication dyskinesia severity (sum of dyskinesia duration, disability and pain from UPDRS IV) from 3.15 (SD 2.33) pre-operatively, to 1.56 (SD 1.92) post-operatively (p=0.0001). Quality of life improved by a mean of 5.5 points (median 7.9 points, SD 17.3) on the Parkinson's disease Questionnaire 39 summary index. This series confirms that image-guided STN DBS without microelectrode recording can lead to substantial improvements in motor disability of well-selected PD patients with accompanying improvements in quality of life and most importantly, with very low morbidity.
Epigenetic silencing of the MGMT gene through promoter methylation correlates with improved survival in Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) patients receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Although the clinical benefit is primarily seen in patients with methylated MGMT promoter, some unmethylated patients also respond to Temozolomide. One possible explanation may be intratumoral heterogeneity. This study was designed to assess the methylation status of the MGMT promoter in different areas of GBM and determine if methylation status varied depending on the fixation technique (paraffin-embedding versus fresh frozen) used to store tissue. Using intraoperative navigation, biopsies were obtained from three distinct regions: the enhancing outer area, the non-enhancing inner core, and an area immediately outside the enhancing region. Only patients with GBM were included for evaluation and analysis. Samples taken from each area were divided with half stored by flash freezing and the other half stored using paraffin fixation. Methylation Specific-PCR (MS-PCR) was used for analysis of MGMT promoter methylation. Thirteen patients were included. Ten were male with a median age of 62years. In each patient, samples were taken from the enhancing rim and the necrotic centre. However, it was not considered safe or feasible to obtain samples from the area immediately adjacent to the enhancing tumor rim in one case. All patients were homogeneous for methylation status throughout their tumor and tissue taken adjacent to it when frozen tissue was used. However, four patients had discrepancies in the MGMT promoter status between the frozen and paraffin-embedded blocks and one patient was not homogeneous within the tumor when paraffin-embedded tissue was used. MGMT promoter methylation status was homogeneous in all GBM tumors. Our observation that methylation status varied depending if the DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded versus frozen tissue is concerning. Although the reason for this is unclear, we postulate that the timing from resection to fixation or the process of fixation itself may potentially alter methylation status in paraffin-embedded tumors.
Mutations in dysferlin cause an inherited muscular dystrophy because of defective membrane repair. Three interacting partners of dysferlin are also implicated in membrane resealing: caveolin-3 (in limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1C), annexin A1, and the newly identified protein mitsugumin 53 (MG53). Mitsugumin 53 accumulates at sites of membrane damage, and MG53-knockout mice display a progressive muscular dystrophy. This study explored the expression and localization of MG53 in human skeletal muscle, how membrane repair proteins are modulated in various forms of muscular dystrophy, and whether MG53 is a primary cause of human muscle disease. Mitsugumin 53 showed variable sarcolemmal and/or cytoplasmic immunolabeling in control human muscle and elevated levels in dystrophic patients. No pathogenic MG53 mutations were identified in 50 muscular dystrophy patients, suggesting that MG53 is unlikely to be a common cause of muscular dystrophy in Australia. Western blot analysis confirmed upregulation of MG53, as well as of dysferlin, annexin A1, and caveolin-3 to different degrees, in different muscular dystrophies. Importantly, MG53, annexin A1, and dysferlin localize to the t-tubule network and show enriched labeling at longitudinal tubules of the t-system in overstretch. Our results suggest that longitudinal tubules of the t-system may represent sites of physiological membrane damage targeted by this membrane repair complex.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is involved in the generation and maintenance of waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, forming part of the reticular activating system. The PPN receives glutamatergic afferents from other mesopontine nuclei, and glutamatergic input is believed to be involved in the generation of arousal states. We tested the hypothesis that, from postnatal days 9 to 17 in the rat, there are developmental changes in the glutamate receptor subtypes that contribute to the responses of PPN neurons. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were conducted using brainstem slices from 9- to 17-day-old rats. All cells (types I, II, and III; randomly selected or thalamic-projecting) responded to bath application of the glutamate receptor agonists N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) and kainic acid (KA). A developmental decrease in the contribution of the NMDA receptor and developmental increase in the contribution of the KA receptor was observed following electrical stimulation-induced glutamate input. These changes were also observed following bath application in different cell types (randomly selected vs. thalamic-projecting). KA bath application produced an increase in the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) and a decrease in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), suggesting that presynaptic KA autoreceptors may decrease the probability of synaptic glutamate input. In contrast, NMDA application produced no changes in the PPR or mEPSCs. Changes in glutamatergic excitability of PPN cell types could underlie the developmental decrease in REM sleep.
Understanding how sensory neurons transmit information about relevant stimuli remains a major goal in neuroscience. Of particular relevance are the roles of neural variability and spike timing in neural coding. Peripheral vestibular afferents display differential variability that is correlated with the importance of spike timing; regular afferents display little variability and use a timing code to transmit information about sensory input. Irregular afferents, conversely, display greater variability and instead use a rate code. We studied how central neurons within the vestibular nuclei integrate information from both afferent classes by recording from a group of neurons termed vestibular only (VO) that are known to make contributions to vestibulospinal reflexes and project to higher-order centers. We found that, although individual central neurons had sensitivities that were greater than or equal to those of individual afferents, they transmitted less information. In addition, their velocity detection thresholds were significantly greater than those of individual afferents. This is because VO neurons display greater variability, which is detrimental to information transmission and signal detection. Combining activities from multiple VO neurons increased information transmission. However, the information rates were still much lower than those of equivalent afferent populations. Furthermore, combining responses from multiple VO neurons led to lower velocity detection threshold values approaching those measured from behavior ( 2.5 vs. 0.5-1/s). Our results suggest that the detailed time course of vestibular stimuli encoded by afferents is not transmitted by VO neurons. Instead, they suggest that higher vestibular pathways must integrate information from central vestibular neuron populations to give rise to behaviorally observed detection thresholds.
The rodent whisker system has become the leading experimental paradigm for the study of active sensing. Thanks to more sophisticated behavioral paradigms, progressively better neurophysiological methods, and improved video hardware/software, there is now the prospect of defining the precise connection between the sensory apparatus and brain activity in awake, exploring animals. Achieving this ambitious goal requires quantitative, objective characterization of head and whisker kinematics. This study presents the methodology and potential uses of a new automated motion analysis routine. The program provides full quantification of head orientation and translation, as well as the angle, frequency, amplitude, and bilateral symmetry of whisking. The system operates without any need for manual tracing by the user. Quantitative comparison to whisker detection by expert humans indicates that the program's correct detection rate is at &gt;95% even on animals with all whiskers intact. Particular attention has been paid to obtaining reliable performance under nonoptimal lighting or video conditions and at frame rates as low as 100. Variation of the zoom across time is compensated for without user intervention. The program adapts automatically to the size and shape of different species. The outcome of our testing indicates that the program can be a valuable tool in quantifying rodent sensorimotor behavior.
The parallel fibers (PFs) in the cerebellar cortex extend several millimeters along a folium in the mediolateral direction. The PFs are orthogonal to and cross several parasagittal zones defined by the olivocerebellar and corticonuclear pathways and the expression of molecular markers on Purkinje cells (PCs). The functions of these two organizations remain unclear, including whether the bands respond similarly or differentially to PF input. By using flavoprotein imaging in the anesthetized mouse in vivo, this study demonstrates that high-frequency PF stimulation, which activates a beamlike response at short latency, also evokes patches of activation at long latencies. These patches consist of increased fluorescence along the beam at latencies of 20-25 s with peak activation at 35 s. The long-latency patches are completely blocked by the type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR(1)) antagonist LY367385. Conversely, the AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists DNQX and APV have little effect. Organized in parasagittal bands, the long-latency patches align with zebrin II-positive PC stripes. Additional Ca(2+) imaging demonstrates that the patches reflect increases in intracellular Ca(2+). Both the PLC inhibitor U73122 and the ryanodine receptor inhibitor ryanodine completely block the long-latency patches, indicating that the patches are due to Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Robust, mGluR(1)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of the patches is induced using a high-frequency PF stimulation conditioning paradigm that generates LTP of PF-PC synapses. Therefore, the parasagittal bands, as defined by the molecular compartmentalization of PCs, respond differentially to PF inputs via mGluR(1)-mediated release of internal Ca(2+).
Previous rodent studies demonstrate movement-related increases in theta oscillations, and recent evidence suggests that multiple navigationally relevant variables are reflected in this activity. Human invasive recordings have revealed movement-related modulations in delta and theta activity, although it is unclear whether additional behavioral variables are responsible for modulating this neural activity during navigation. We tested the role of delta and theta oscillations during navigation by addressing whether spatial-related processing, in addition to speed and task variables, modulates delta and theta activity. Recording from 317 hippocampal intracranial electrodes in 10 patients undergoing seizure monitoring, we observed increasing delta and theta power with increasing virtual speed at significantly more electrodes than would be expected by chance, replicating previous findings in nonhuman mammals. Delta and theta power were more consistently modulated, however, as a function of spatial view, including when subjects looked at stores in the virtual environment both to find a relevant goal or for spatial updating. A significantly larger proportion of electrodes showed view-related effects than speed-related modulations. Although speed, task, and spatial view affected delta and theta activity, individual electrodes were most frequently modulated by only one variable, rather than a combination of variables. These electrodes likely sampled independent delta and theta generators, which reflected movement-related and allocentric processing, respectively. These results extend previous findings in nonhuman mammals and humans, expanding our knowledge of the role of human hippocampal low-frequency oscillations in navigation.
Insect pheromonal glomeruli are thought to track the fine spatiotemporal features of one or a few odorants to aid conspecific localization. However, it is not clear whether they function differently from generalist glomeruli, which respond to many odorants. In this study, we test how DA1, a model pheromonal glomerulus in the fruit fly, represents the spatial and temporal properties of its input, compared with other glomeruli. We combine calcium imaging and electrical stimulation in an isolated brain preparation for a simultaneous, unbiased comparison of the functional organization of many glomeruli. In contrast to what is found in other glomeruli, we find that ipsilateral and contralateral stimuli elicit distinct spatial patterns of activity within DA1. DA1's output shows a greater preference for ipsilateral stimuli in males than in females. DA1 experiences greater and more rapid inhibition than other glomeruli, allowing it to report slight interantennal delays in stimulus onset in a &quot;winner-take-all&quot; manner. DA1's ability to encode spatiotemporal input features distinguishes it from other glomeruli in the fruit fly antennal lobe but relates it to pheromonal glomeruli in other insect species. We propose that DA1 is specialized to help the fly localize and orient with respect to pheromone sources.
Many bilateral motor tasks engage simultaneous activation of distal and proximal arm muscles, but little is known about their physiological interactions. Here, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation to examine motor-evoked potentials (MEPs), interhemispheric inhibition at a conditioning-test interval of 10 (IHI(10)) and 40 ms (IHI(40)), and short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) in the left first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle during isometric index finger abduction. The right side remained at rest or performed isometric voluntary contraction with the FDI, biceps or triceps brachii, or the tibialis anterior. Left FDI MEPs were suppressed to a similar extent during contraction of the right FDI and biceps and triceps brachii but remained unchanged during contraction of the right tibialis anterior. IHI(10) and IHI(40) were decreased during contraction of the right biceps and triceps brachii compared with contraction of the right FDI. SICI was increased during activation of the right biceps and triceps brachii and decreased during activation of the right FDI. The present results indicate that an isometric voluntary contraction with either a distal or a proximal arm muscle, but not a foot dorsiflexor, decreases corticospinal output in a contralateral active finger muscle. Transcallosal inhibitory effects were strong during bilateral activation of distal hand muscles and weak during simultaneous activation of a distal and a proximal arm muscle, whereas GABAergic intracortical activity was modulated in the opposite manner. These findings suggest that in intact humans crossed interactions at the level of the motor cortex involved different physiological mechanisms when bilateral distal hand muscles are active and when a distal and a proximal arm muscle are simultaneously active.
A prominent feature of motor cortex field potentials during movement is a distinctive low-frequency local field potential (lf-LFP) (&lt;4 Hz), referred to as the movement event-related potential (mEP). The lf-LFP appears to be a global signal related to regional synaptic input, but its relationship to nearby output signaled by single unit spiking activity (SUA) or to movement remains to be established. Previous studies comparing information in primary motor cortex (MI) lf-LFPs and SUA in the context of planar reaching tasks concluded that lf-LFPs have more information than spikes about movement. However, the relative performance of these signals was based on a small number of simultaneously recorded channels and units, or for data averaged across sessions, which could miss information of larger-scale spiking populations. Here, we simultaneously recorded LFPs and SUA from two 96-microelectrode arrays implanted in two major motor cortical areas, MI and ventral premotor (PMv), while monkeys freely reached for and grasped objects swinging in front of them. We compared arm end point and grip aperture kinematics' decoding accuracy for lf-LFP and SUA ensembles. The results show that lf-LFPs provide enough information to reconstruct kinematics in both areas with little difference in decoding performance between MI and PMv. Individual lf-LFP channels often provided more accurate decoding of single kinematic variables than any one single unit. However, the decoding performance of the best single unit among the large population usually exceeded that of the best single lf-LFP channel. Furthermore, ensembles of SUA outperformed the pool of lf-LFP channels, in disagreement with the previously reported superiority of lf-LFP decoding. Decoding results suggest that information in lf-LFPs recorded from intracortical arrays may allow the reconstruction of reach and grasp for real-time neuroprosthetic applications, thus potentially supplementing the ability to decode these same features from spiking populations.
It has previously been established that ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurons and dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons located in Clarke's column (CC DSCT neurons) forward information on actions of premotor interneurons in reflex pathways from muscle afferents on -motoneurons. Whether DSCT neurons located in the dorsal horn (dh DSCT neurons) and spinocervical tract (SCT) neurons are involved in forwarding similar feedback information has not yet been investigated. The aim of the present study was therefore to examine the input from premotor interneurons to these neurons. Electrical stimuli were applied within major hindlimb motor nuclei to activate axon-collaterals of interneurons projecting to these nuclei, and intracellular records were obtained from dh DSCT and SCT neurons. Direct actions of the stimulated interneurons were differentiated from indirect actions by latencies of postsynaptic potentials evoked by intraspinal stimuli and by the absence or presence of temporal facilitation. Direct actions of premotor interneurons were found in a smaller proportion of dh DSCT than of CC DSCT neurons. However, they were evoked by both excitatory and inhibitory interneurons, whereas only inhibitory premotor interneurons were previously found to affect CC DSCT neurons [as indicated by monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in dh DSCT and only IPSPs in CC DSCT neurons]. No effects of premotor interneurons were found in SCT neurons, since monosynaptic EPSPs or IPSPs were only evoked in them by stimuli applied outside motor nuclei. The study thus reveals a considerable differentiation of feedback information provided by different populations of ascending tract neurons.
The process of associating items encountered over time and across variable time delays is fundamental for creating memories in daily life, such as for stories and episodes. Forming associative memory for temporally discontiguous items involves medial temporal lobe structures and additional neocortical processing regions, including prefrontal cortex, parietal lobe, and lateral occipital regions. However, most prior memory studies, using concurrently presented stimuli, have failed to examine the temporal aspect of successful associative memory formation to identify when activity in these brain regions is predictive of associative memory formation. In the current study, functional MRI data were acquired while subjects were shown pairs of sequentially presented visual images with a fixed interitem delay within pairs. This design allowed the entire time course of the trial to be analyzed, starting from onset of the first item, across the 5.5-s delay period, and through offset of the second item. Subjects then completed a postscan recognition test for the items and associations they encoded during the scan and their confidence for each. After controlling for item-memory strength, we isolated brain regions selectively involved in associative encoding. Consistent with prior findings, increased regional activity predicting subsequent associative memory success was found in anterior medial temporal lobe regions of left perirhinal and entorhinal cortices and in left prefrontal cortex and lateral occipital regions. The temporal separation within each pair, however, allowed extension of these findings by isolating the timing of regional involvement, showing that increased response in these regions occurs during binding but not during maintenance.
Individuals with schizophrenia have difficulties in recognizing facial emotions in others. This study investigated whether this impairment also exists for self-generated expressions. Nineteen patients with schizophrenia and 19 comparison subjects were filmed while producing facial expressions in response to a visual model or a written sentence. After 2 months, all subjects were asked to rate their own emotional expressions. These ratings were compared with the evaluations of 12 healthy independent raters. With respect to the comparison subjects, the patients produced less expressive responses and were less able to recognize their own expressions. Moreover, patients were totally unaware of these impairments.
Endocrine changes are reported in both epilepsy and depression. The interrelationships between mood, epilepsy, and endocrine changes are not well characterized. The authors included 40 epileptic patients (20 depressed, 20 nondepressed) and 20 healthy subjects. All patients had an electroencephalogram, and were given the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. All subjects were tested for serum levels of cortisol, prolactin, testosterone, and thyroid hormones. Patients were medication-free. Patients had elevated prolactin and cortisol and reduced serum testosterone relative to control subjects. Depressed patients had higher cortisol levels than nondepressed. Data suggest that the effects of epilepsy and depression on cortisol, but not other hormones, may be additive.
The corpus callosum (CC), has been hypothesized to be implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia; however, the findings from magnetic resonance imaging studies are conflicting. Moreover, the relationship between first-rank-symptoms (FRS) and CC abnormalities in schizophrenia is yet to be examined. The authors examined CC morphometry, based on Witelson's method, in antipsychotic-nave-schizophrenia patients in comparison with matched healthy-control subjects. Patients had significantly smaller CC, splenium, and isthmus areas than control subjects. A novel finding of the study is that only those without FRS differed from control subjects, but not those with FRS. Study findings support a neuro-developmental hypothesis and possible connectivity abnormalities in symptom-genesis.
Chronic pain, spasticity, and depression are three common secondary health problems experienced by persons living with traumatic spinal cord injury. Limited research exists related to the interaction of these symptoms and their cumulative effect on patient outcomes and quality of life. This article is a report of an exploratory literature review that uses the conceptual approach of symptom clustering to classify secondary health problems in spinal cord injury. CINAHL, MEDLINE, and PsycINFO databases were searched for studies published in English between 1990 and 2008. Eleven articles met the inclusion criteria for review. Studies were categorized by levels of evidence defined by the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses Clinical Practice Guidelines. Research on the interaction of the symptom pair chronic pain and depression was evident. Several surveys reported the occurrence of multiple symptoms, but none specifically addressed the management of the interactive effects of the symptom cluster chronic pain, spasticity, and depression. Increased disciplinary knowledge of symptom clusters in the spinal cord injury population is needed for research and practice. Furthermore, determining symptom clusters in this population may assist clinicians in providing targeted interventions to simultaneously treat multiple symptoms.
In idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs), extracellular inflammatory stimulation is considered to induce secondary intracellular inflammatory changes including expression of major histocompatibility complex class-I (MHC-I) and to produce a self-sustaining loop of inflammation. We hypothesize that activation of calpain, a Ca(2+) -sensitive protease, bridges between these extracellular inflammatory stress and intracellular secondary inflammatory changes in muscle cells. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment of rat L6 myoblast cells with interferon- (IFN-) caused expression of MHC-I and inflammation-related transcription factors (phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and nuclear factor-B). We also demonstrated that treatment with tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) induced apoptotic changes and activation of calpain and cyclooxygenase-2. Furthermore, we found that posttreatment with calpeptin attenuated the intracellular changes induced by IFN- or TNF-. Our results indicate that calpain inhibition attenuates apoptosis and secondary inflammatory changes induced by extracellular inflammatory stimulation in the muscle cells. These results suggest calpain as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of IIMs.

We provide a summary of the 2010 literature pertinent to the care of neurosurgical patients and those requiring neurocritical care. In addition, we address topics in the basic neurosciences as they relate to neuroanesthesiology. This review incorporates studies not only from both neuroanesthesiology and general anesthesiology-focused journals, but also from neurology, neurosurgery, critical care, and internal medicine journals and includes articles published after January 1, 2010, through those available on-line by November 31, 2010. We will review the broad categories of general neuroanesthesiology, with particular emphasis on cerebral physiology and pharmacology, intracranial hemorrhage, carotid artery disease, spine surgery, traumatic brain injury, neuroprotection, and neurotoxicity. When selecting articles for inclusion in this review, we gave priority to those publications that had: (1) new or novel information, (2) clinical utility, (3) a study design possessing appropriate statistical power, and/or (4) meaningful, unambiguous conclusions.
Concussive brain injury (CBI) accounts for approximately 75% of all brain-injured people in the United States each year and is particularly prevalent in contact sports. Concussion is the mildest form of diffuse traumatic brain injury (TBI) and results in transient cognitive dysfunction, the neuropathologic basis for which is traumatic axonal injury (TAI). To evaluate the structural and functional changes associated with concussion-induced cognitive deficits, adult mice were subjected to an impact on the intact skull over the midline suture that resulted in a brief apneic period and loss of the righting reflex. Closed head injury also resulted in an increase in the wet weight:dry weight ratio in the cortex suggestive of edema in the first 24 h, and the appearance of Fluoro-Jade-B-labeled degenerating neurons in the cortex and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus within the first 3 days post-injury. Compared to sham-injured mice, brain-injured mice exhibited significant deficits in spatial acquisition and working memory as measured using the Morris water maze over the first 3 days (p&lt;0.001), but not after the fourth day post-injury. At 1 and 3 days post-injury, intra-axonal accumulation of amyloid precursor protein in the corpus callosum and cingulum was accompanied by neurofilament dephosphorylation, impaired transport of Fluoro-Gold and synaptophysin, and deficits in axonal conductance. Importantly, deficits in retrograde transport and in action potential of myelinated axons continued to be observed until 14 days post-injury, at which time axonal degeneration was apparent. These data suggest that despite recovery from acute cognitive deficits, concussive brain trauma leads to axonal degeneration and a sustained perturbation of axonal function.
The rodent rubrospinal tract (RST) has been studied extensively to investigate regeneration and remodeling of central nervous system (CNS) axons. Currently no retrograde tracers can specifically label rubrospinal axons and neurons (RSNs). The RST can be anterogradely labeled by injecting tracers into the red nucleus (RN), but accurately locating the RN is a technical challenge. Here we developed a recombinant adenovirus carrying a green fluorescent protein reporter gene (Adv-GFP) which can preferentially, intensely, and bi-directionally label the RST. When Adv-GFP was injected into the second lumbar spinal cord, the GFP was specifically transported throughout the entire RST, with peak labeling seen at 2 weeks post-injection. When Adv-GFP was injected directly into the RN, GFP was anterogradely transported throughout the RST. Following spinal cord injury (SCI), injection of Adv-GFP resulted in visualization of GFP in transected, spared, or sprouted RST axons bi-directionally. Thus Adv-GFP could be used as a novel tool for monitoring and evaluating strategies designed to maximize RST axonal regeneration and remodeling following SCI.
Neurotropic viruses remain dormant in sensory neurons for years, but upon reactivation, they can produce multiple disease states including pain symptoms. Latent viral DNA is extrachromosomal, maintained as a circular episome bound to histones. Here, we show the regulation of an adenoviral genome by the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))-dependent histone deacetylator Sirt1 in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Pharmacological modulation of Sirt1 and Sirt1 overexpression both affected viral transgene expression. We propose that age or stress-related neuronal NAD(+) depletion may be a trigger for viral reactivation.



Children diagnosed with sickle cell disease (SCD) have an increased risk of stroke, often associated with white matter damage and neurocognitive morbidity. Growing evidence suggests that subtle changes in white matter integrity, which do not pass the threshold to be visible on a clinical magnetic resonance image and classified as stroke, may contribute to decreased cognitive performance. We used archived diffusion-weighted imaging and neurocognitive assessment data to identify associations between microstructural changes in normal-appearing white matter and cognitive performance in children with SCD. Study participants included 10 healthy children and 15 pediatric SCD patients (5 with identified lesions and 10 without lesion). After excluding lesioned tissue from analyses, we detected significant increases in apparent diffusion coefficient across the brains of patients in comparison with control children, suggesting compromise to the structure of normal-appearing white matter. Deficits in working memory and processing speed were also apparent in patients. Increased apparent diffusion coefficient and deficiencies in processing speed were again detected in a subanalysis including only the patients without lesion. Correlation analyses evidenced associations between the microstructure of the right frontal lobe and cerebellum, and processing speed. This outcome suggests a relationship between tissue integrity and cognitive morbidity in SCD patients.
Changes in synaptic strength allow synapses to regulate the flow of information in the neural circuits in which they operate. In particular, changes lasting from milliseconds to minutes (short-term changes') underlie a variety of computational operations and, ultimately, behaviours. Most studies thus far have attributed the short-term type of plasticity to activity-dependent changes in the dynamics of neurotransmitter release (a presynaptic mechanism) while largely dismissing the role of the loss of responsiveness of postsynaptic receptor channels to neurotransmitter owing to entry into desensitization. To better define the response of the different neurotransmitter-gated ion channels (NGICs) to repetitive stimulation without interference from presynaptic variables, we studied eight representative members of all three known superfamilies of NGICs in fast-perfused outside-out patches of membrane. We found that the responsiveness of all tested channels (two nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, two glycine receptors, one GABA receptor, two AMPA-type glutamate receptors and one purinergic receptor) declines along trains of brief neurotransmitter pulses delivered at physiologically relevant frequencies to an extent that suggests that the role of desensitization in the synaptic control of action-potential transmission may be more general than previously thought. Furthermore, our results indicate that a sizable fraction (and, for some NGICs, most) of this desensitization occurs during the neurotransmitter-free interpulse intervals. Clearly, an incomplete clearance of neurotransmitter from the synaptic cleft between vesicle-fusion events need not be invoked to account for NGIC desensitization upon repetitive stimulation.
Synchronous bursting of cortical GABAergic interneurons is important in epilepsies associated with excitatory GABAergic signalling. If electrical coupling was critical for the generation of this pathological activity, then the development of selective blockers of connexin36-based interneuronal gap junctions could be of therapeutic value. We have addressed this issue in the 4-aminopyridine model of epilepsy in vitro by comparing GABAergic epileptiform currents and their sensitivity to gap junction blockers in wild-type vs. connexin36 knockout mice. Although electrical coupling was abolished in stratum lacunosum-moleculare interneurons from knockout animals, epileptiform currents were not eliminated. Furthermore, epileptiform currents propagated similarly across hippocampal layers in the two genotypic groups. Blockade of electrical coupling with carbenoxolone suppressed amplitude, frequency and half-width of the epileptiform currents both in wild-type and in knockout animals, whereas mefloquine had no effects. Carbenoxolone also depressed responses to exogenous and synaptic GABA application onto interneurons. We conclude that, in the 4-aminopyridine model of epilepsy in vitro, connexin36 is not critical for the generation of epileptiform discharges in GABAergic networks and that the observed antiepileptic effects of carbenoxolone are likely to be due to blockade of GABAA receptors and not of connexin36-based gap junctions. Lastly, because of its chemical structure and its effects on amplitude and kinetics of GABAergic currents, we tested the hypothesis that carbenoxolone acted via specific sites on GABAA receptors, such as the one mediating the effects of the neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate, or the allosteric regulatory site of benzodiazepines/-carbolines. Our results suggest that neither of these is involved.
Synaptobrevin (Syb)/vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) is a small, integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. Two homologous isoforms of synaptobrevin, Syb1/VAMP1 and Syb2/VAMP2, exhibit distinct but partially overlapping patterns of expression in adult mammalian neurons: Syb1 is predominantly expressed in the spinal cord, especially in motor neurons and motor nerve terminals of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), whereas Syb2 is primarily expressed in central synapses in the brain. Whereas many studies have focused on the function of Syb2 in the brain, few studies have examined the role of Syb1. Here we report that Syb1 plays a critical role in neuromuscular synaptic transmission. A null mutation of Syb1 resulting from a spontaneous, nonsense mutation in mice significantly impairs the function, but not the structure, of the NMJ. In particular, both spontaneous and evoked synaptic activities in Syb1 mutant mice are reduced significantly relative to control mice. Short-term synaptic plasticity in Syb1-deficient NMJs is markedly altered: paired-pulse facilitation is significantly enhanced, suggesting a reduction in the initial release probability of synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, Syb1-deficient NMJs display a pronounced asynchrony in neurotransmitter release. These impairments are not due to an alteration of the size of the readily releasable pool of vesicles, but are attributable to reduced sensitivity and cooperativity to calcium (Ca2+) due to the absence of Syb1. Our findings demonstrate that Syb1 plays an essential, non-redundant role in Ca2+-triggered vesicle exocytosis at the mouse NMJ.
This study evaluated the efficacy of a school-based anxiety prevention program among urban children exposed to community violence. Students who attended Title 1 public elementary schools were screened. Ninety-eight 3rd-5th-grade students (ages 8-12; 48% female; 92% African American) were randomized into preventive intervention versus wait list comparison groups. Students attended 13 biweekly one-hour group sessions of a modified version of FRIENDS, a cognitive-behavioral anxiety intervention program. Results indicated that both intervention and control groups manifested significant reductions in anxiety symptomatology and total exposure to community violence, along with improved standardized reading achievement scores. Additional gains observed only in the intervention group were increased standardized mathematics achievement scores, decreased life stressors, and reduced victimization by community violence. The intervention was equally efficacious for both genders and for children exposed to higher, compared to lower, levels of community violence. Implications for comprehensive, culturally and contextually relevant prevention programs and research are discussed.
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is widely used in metabonomics studies, but optimal recovery of latent biological information requires increasingly sophisticated statistical methods to identify quantitative relationships within these often highly complex data sets. Statistical heterospectroscopy (SHY) extracts latent relationships between NMR and mass spectrometry (MS) data from the same samples. Here we extend this concept to identify novel metabolic correlations between different biofluids and tissues from the same individuals. We acquired NMR data from blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (N = 19) from HIV-1-infected individuals, who are known to be susceptible to neuropsychological dysfunction. We compared two computational approaches to SHY, namely the Pearson's product moment correlation and the Spearman's rank correlation. High correlations were observed for glutamine, valine, and polyethylene glycol, a drug delivery vehicle. Orthogonal projections to latent structures (OPLS) identified metabolites in blood plasma spectra that predicted the amounts of key CSF metabolites such as lactate, glutamine, and myo-inositol. Finally, brain metabolic data from magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) measurements in vivo were integrated with CSF data to identify an association between 3-hydroxyvalerate and frontal white matter N-acetyl aspartate levels. The results underscore the utility of tools such as SHY and OPLS for coanalysis of high dimensional data sets to recover biological information unobtainable when such data are analyzed in isolation.
Peptides have been proposed to function in intracellular signaling within the cytosol. Although cytosolic peptides are considered to be highly unstable, a large number of peptides have been detected in mouse brain and other biological samples. In the present study, we evaluated the peptidome of three diverse cell lines: SH-SY5Y, MCF7, and HEK293 cells. A comparison of the peptidomes revealed considerable overlap in the identity of the peptides found in each cell line. The majority of the observed peptides are not derived from the most abundant or least stable proteins in the cell, and approximately half of the cellular peptides correspond to the N- or C- termini of the precursor proteins. Cleavage site analysis revealed a preference for hydrophobic residues in the P1 position. Quantitative peptidomic analysis indicated that the levels of most cellular peptides are not altered in response to elevated intracellular calcium, suggesting that calpain is not responsible for their production. The similarity of the peptidomes of the three cell lines and the lack of correlation with the predicted cellular degradome implies the selective formation or retention of these peptides, consistent with the hypothesis that they are functional in the cells.
Because the majority of patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) exhibit long-lasting traumatic fear memory, we hypothesize that enhanced fear memory consolidation is closely involved in the pathophysiology of PTSD. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB), are crucial for hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. In particular, differential induction of BDNF gene transcripts mediated by histone acetylation plays a role in the consolidation of fear memory. In the present study, total and exon-specific mRNA and protein levels of BDNF and TrkB in the hippocampus after contextual fear conditioning (FC) were compared between rats subjected to single prolonged stress (SPS) and sham treatment. In addition, we examined the degree of histone acetylation at the promoter of each exon of the BDNF gene by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). We previously demonstrated a significant increase in contextual freezing in SPS rats. In the present study, SPS rats also showed increased total BDNF mRNA (including exons I, IV) and BDNF protein levels in the hippocampus after FC, accompanied by increased acetylation of histone H3 and H4 at the promoter of exon I and IV relative to sham-treated rats. Furthermore, the TrkB protein levels in the hippocampus of SPS rats were significantly higher than those in sham rats. These findings suggest that the enhanced levels of BDNF as well as TrkB along with epigenetic regulation of the BDNF gene during fear memory consolidation is, at least in part, associated with long-lasting fear memory in patients with PTSD.





This prospective longitudinal study aimed to examine posttraumatic stress in survivors 14 years after a ferry disaster, and estimate short- and long-term changes in stress associated with traumatic bereavement and acute dissociation. There were 852 people who perished in the disaster, 137 survived. The 51 Swedish survivors were surveyed with the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R) at 3 months, 1, 3, and 14 years (response rates 82%, 65%, 51%, and 69%). Symptoms decreased from 3 months to 1 year; no change was found thereafter. After 14 years, 27% reported significant symptoms. Traumatic bereavement, but not acute dissociation, was associated with long-term symptom elevation. Chronic posttraumatic stress can persist in a minority of survivors, and traumatic bereavement appears to hinder recovery.



As sponsors of a university Society for Neuroscience (SfN) organization, we and our student members are committed to neuroscience outreach but with limited resources, it is not feasible for us to host a week-long program during National Brain Awareness Week (BAW). Hence, we decided on a half-day program wherein attendees are provided with information about the workings of the nervous system and current research in the field in a fun and interactive environment. Our volunteers - mostly undergraduate students - select hands-on activities, gather required materials, and actively engage participants of all ages. We coined the event Brain Awareness Day (BAD) and organize the annual program on a budget between $100-$300.
In this paper the instructors describe a new team-taught transdisciplinary seminar, &quot;Music and Mind: The Science of Musical Experience.&quot; The instructors, with backgrounds in music and neuroscience, valued the interdisciplinary approach as a way to capture student interest and to reflect the inherent interconnectivity of neuroscience. The course covered foundational background information about the science of hearing and musical perception and about the phenomenology of musical creation and experience. This two-credit honors course, which attracted students from eleven majors, integrated experiential learning (active listening, journaling, conducting mini-experiments) with rigorous reflection and discussion of academic research. The course culminated in student-led discussions and presentations of final projects around hot topics in the science of music, such as the 'Mozart Effect,' music and religious experience, etc. Although this course was a two-credit seminar, it could easily be expanded to a four-credit lecture or laboratory course. Student evaluations reveal that the course was successful in meeting the learning objectives, that students were intrinsically motivated to learn more about the discipline, and that the team-taught, experiential learning approach was a success.
The journal IMPULSE offers undergraduates worldwide the opportunity to publish research and serve as peer reviewers for the submissions of others. Undergraduate faculty have recognized the journal's value in engaging students working in their labs in the publication process. However, integration of scientific publication into an undergraduate laboratory classroom setting has been lacking. We report here on a course at Ursinus College where 20 students taking Molecular Neurobiology were required to submit manuscripts to IMPULSE. The syllabus allowed for the laboratory research to coincide with the background research and writing of the manuscript. Students completed their projects on the impact of drugs on the Daphnia magna nervous system while producing manuscripts ready for submission by week 7 of the course. Findings from a survey completed by the students and perceptions of the faculty member teaching the course indicated that students spent much more time writing, were more focused on completing the assays, completed the assays with larger data sets, were more engaged in learning the scientific concepts and were more thorough with their revisions of the paper knowing that it might be published. Further, the professor found she was more thorough in critiquing students' papers knowing they would be externally reviewed. Incorporating journal submission into the course stimulated an in depth writing experience and allowed for a deeper exploration of the topic than students would have experienced otherwise. This case study provides evidence that IMPULSE can be successfully used as a means of incorporating scientific publication into an undergraduate laboratory science course. This approach to teaching undergraduate neuroscience allows for a larger number of students to have hands-on research and scientific publishing experience than would be possible with the current model of a few students in a faculty member's laboratory. This report illustrates that IMPULSE can be incorporated as an integral part of an academic curriculum with positive outcomes on student engagement and performance.
The Symposium for Young Neuroscientists and Professors of the Southeast (SYNAPSE; synapse.cofc.edu) was designed to encourage contacts among faculty and students interested in neuroscience. Since its inception in 2003, the SYNAPSE conference has consistently drawn faculty and undergraduate interest from the region. This unique meeting provides undergraduates with a valuable opportunity for neuroscience education; students interact with noted neuroscience faculty, present research results, obtain feedback from neuroscientists at other institutions, and form connections with other neuroscientists in the region. Additionally, SYNAPSE allows undergraduate students and faculty to attend workshops and panel discussions about issues related to professional skills and career options. The SYNAPSE conference currently travels among host institutions in the southeastern United States in two-year cycles. This article briefly describes the genesis of SYNAPSE and reviews SYNAPSE conferences from 2006 through 2010. The goal of this paper is to highlight key issues organizers have experienced launching, sustaining, and hosting this regional undergraduate neuroscience conference as well as assist faculty to develop similar conferences.
Despite an apparent increase in undergraduate neuroscience programs offered by colleges and universities, there has been little effort to document this growth. In the present report we describe our analysis of the expansion of undergraduate neuroscience programs of study over more than 20 years and detail a number of institutional characteristics of colleges and universities that offer undergraduate neuroscience programs. These data reveal more than 100 institutions with undergraduate neuroscience programs as well as over 2000 college graduates that majored in neuroscience in 2008-2009. Understanding the current number as well as growth trends of undergraduate neuroscience programs found in U.S. colleges and universities has implications for neuroscience educators as well as for the funding of neuroscience research and educational activities.
Weber's Law describes the relationship between actual and perceived differences in stimulus intensity. To observe the relationship described in this law, we developed an exercise for undergraduate students, as experiential learning is an integral part of scientific education. We describe the experimental methods used for determining the subject's discriminative capacity at multiple vibrotactile amplitudes. A novel four-point stimulator (designed and fabricated at the University of North Carolina) was used for the study. Features of the device, such as automated skin detection, make it feasible to perform this laboratory exercise in a reasonable lab period. At the conclusion of the lab exercise, students will thoroughly understand the principle of Weber's Law as well as fundamental quantitative sensory testing concepts. This introduction to sensory testing will provide a suitable foundation for the undergraduate neuroscience student to investigate other aspects of sensory information processing in subsequent lab exercises.
Dynamic changes in intracellular calcium concentration in response to various stimuli regulates many cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis(1). During apoptosis, calcium accumulation in mitochondria promotes the release of pro-apoptotic factors from the mitochondria into the cytosol(2). It is therefore of interest to directly measure mitochondrial calcium in living cells in situ during apoptosis. High-resolution fluorescent imaging of cells loaded with dual-excitation ratiometric and non-ratiometric synthetic calcium indicator dyes has been proven to be a reliable and versatile tool to study various aspects of intracellular calcium signaling. Measuring cytosolic calcium fluxes using these techniques is relatively straightforward. However, measuring intramitochondrial calcium levels in intact cells using synthetic calcium indicators such as rhod-2 and rhod-FF is more challenging. Synthetic indicators targeted to mitochondria have blunted responses to repetitive increases in mitochondrial calcium, and disrupt mitochondrial morphology(3). Additionally, synthetic indicators tend to leak out of mitochondria over several hours which makes them unsuitable for long-term experiments. Thus, genetically encoded calcium indicators based upon green fluorescent protein (GFP)(4) or aequorin(5) targeted to mitochondria have greatly facilitated measurement of mitochondrial calcium dynamics. Here, we describe a simple method for real-time measurement of mitochondrial calcium fluxes in response to different stimuli. The method is based on fluorescence microscopy of 'ratiometric-pericam' which is selectively targeted to mitochondria. Ratiometric pericam is a calcium indicator based on a fusion of circularly permuted yellow fluorescent protein and calmodulin(4). Binding of calcium to ratiometric pericam causes a shift of its excitation peak from 415 nm to 494 nm, while the emission spectrum, which peaks around 515 nm, remains unchanged. Ratiometric pericam binds a single calcium ion with a dissociation constant in vitro of ~1.7 M(4). These properties of ratiometric pericam allow the quantification of rapid and long-term changes in mitochondrial calcium concentration. Furthermore, we describe adaptation of this methodology to a standard wide-field calcium imaging microscope with commonly available filter sets. Using two distinct agonists, the purinergic agonist ATP and apoptosis-inducing drug staurosporine, we demonstrate that this method is appropriate for monitoring changes in mitochondrial calcium concentration with a temporal resolution of seconds to hours. Furthermore, we also demonstrate that ratiometric pericam is also useful for measuring mitochondrial fission/fragmentation during apoptosis. Thus, ratiometric pericam is particularly well suited for continuous long-term measurement of mitochondrial calcium dynamics during apoptosis.


More and more patients survive aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH), with case fatality decreasing by 17% in absolute terms over the past three decades and incidence remaining relatively stable at nine per 100,000 patient-years. The mean age at which aSAH occurs is reasonably young at 55 years, and people of this age in the general population have a good life expectancy. However, there are few data for life expectancy after aSAH, and the risks of late recurrent aSAH and other vascular diseases are unclear. The course of associated long-term physical and cognitive deficits after aSAH is not well established, leading to questions about potential outcomes to quality of life and working capacity, as well as best clinical practices.


There is growing interest in investigating the role of subtle changes in blood-brain barrier (BBB) function in common neurological disorders and the possible use of imaging techniques to assess these abnormalities. Some studies have used dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging (DCE-MRI) and these have demonstrated much smaller signal changes than obtained from more traditional applications of the technique, such as in intracranial tumors and multiple sclerosis. In this work, preliminary results are presented from a DCE-MRI study of patients with mild stroke classified according to the extent of visible underlying white matter abnormalities. These data are used to estimate typical signal enhancement profiles in different tissue types and by degrees of white matter abnormality. The effect of scanner noise, drift and different intrinsic tissue properties on signal enhancement data is also investigated and the likely implications for interpreting the enhancement profiles are discussed. No significant differences in average signal enhancement or contrast agent concentration were observed between patients with different degrees of white matter abnormality, although there was a trend towards greater signal enhancement with more abnormal white matter. Furthermore, the results suggest that many of the factors considered introduce uncertainty of a similar magnitude to expected effect sizes, making it unclear whether differences in signal enhancement are truly reflective of an underlying BBB abnormality or due to an unrelated effect. As the ultimate aim is to achieve a reliable quantification of BBB function in subtle disorders, this study highlights the factors which may influence signal enhancement and suggests that further work is required to address the challenging problems of quantifying contrast agent concentration in healthy and diseased living human tissue and of establishing a suitable model to enable quantification of relevant physiological parameters. Meanwhile, it is essential that future studies use an appropriate control group to minimize these influences.

Electrical stimulation of cutaneous tissue through surface electrodes is an often used method for evoking experimental pain. However, at painful intensities both non-nociceptive A-fibers and nociceptive A- and C-fibers may be activated by the electrical stimulation. This study proposes a finite element (FE) model of the extracellular potential and stochastic branching fiber model of the afferent fiber excitation thresholds. The FE model described four horizontal layers; stratum corneum, epidermis, dermis, and hypodermal used to estimate the excitation threshold of A-fibers terminating in dermis and A-fibers terminating in epidermis. The perception thresholds of 11 electrodes with diameters ranging from 0.2 to 20 mm were modeled and assessed on the volar forearm of healthy human volunteers by an adaptive two-alternative forced choice algorithm. The model showed that the magnitude of the current density was highest for smaller electrodes and decreased through the skin. The excitation thresholds of the A-fibers were lower than the excitation thresholds of A-fibers when current was applied through small, but not large electrodes. The experimentally assessed perception threshold followed the lowest excitation threshold of the modeled fibers. The model confirms that preferential excitation of A-fibers may be achieved by small electrode stimulation due to higher current density in the dermoepidermal junction.


This study examined how perceptual expertise facilitates encoding and recognition. The electroencephalogram of car experts and car novices was recorded in the study as well as test phases of a remember/know task with car and bird stimuli. Car expertise influenced performance and event-related potentials (ERPs) for cars but not birds. Experts recognized and &quot;recollected&quot; cars more accurately, while novices had more false alarms. The ERPs provided neural evidence for theoretical assumptions about expert memory. Memory encoding in the study phase was less effortful and more elaborate for experts than novices, as indicated by lower mean amplitudes for subsequently &quot;recollected&quot; cars and by indistinguishable differences due to memory for recollection and familiarity. The parietal old/new effect, a correlate of recollection measured during recognition testing, was only found for experts. The results show that refined perceptual and semantic processing, characteristics of perceptual expertise, facilitate both memory encoding and recognition memory.

The Solute Carriers (SLCs) are membrane proteins that regulate transport of many types of substances over the cell membrane. The SLCs are found in at least 46 gene families in the human genome. Here, we performed the first evolutionary analysis of the entire SLC family based on whole genome sequences. We systematically mined and analyzed the genomes of 17 species to identify SLC genes. In all, we identified 4,813 SLC sequences in these genomes, and we delineated the evolutionary history of each of the subgroups. Moreover, we also identified ten new human sequences not previously classified as SLCs, which most likely belong to the SLC family. We found that 43 of the 46 SLC families found in Homo sapiens were also found in Caenorhabditis elegans, whereas 42 of them were also found in insects. Mammals have a higher number of SLC genes in most families, perhaps reflecting important roles for these in central nervous system functions. This study provides a systematic analysis of the evolutionary history of the SLC families in Eukaryotes showing that the SLC superfamily is ancient with multiple branches that were present before early divergence of Bilateria. The results provide foundation for overall classification of SLC genes and are valuable for annotation and prediction of substrates for the many SLCs that have not been tested in experimental transport assays.
Ras homolog enriched in brain (Rheb) couples growth factor signaling to activation of the target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1). To study its role in mammals, we generated a Rheb knockout mouse. In contrast to mTOR or regulatory-associated protein of mTOR (Raptor) mutants, the inner cell mass of Rheb(-/-) embryos differentiated normally. Nevertheless, Rheb(-/-) embryos died around midgestation, most likely due to impaired development of the cardiovascular system. Rheb(-/-) embryonic fibroblasts showed decreased TORC1 activity, were smaller, and showed impaired proliferation. Rheb heterozygosity extended the life span of tuberous sclerosis complex 1-deficient (Tsc1(-/-)) embryos, indicating that there is a genetic interaction between the Tsc1 and Rheb genes in mouse.
Aberrant calcium signaling is a common feature of ischemia and multiple neurodegenerative diseases. While activation of calcium-calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a key event in calcium signaling, its role in excitotoxicity is controversial. Our findings demonstrate neuroprotection in neuronal cultures treated with the small molecule (KN-93) and peptide (tat-AIP and tat-CN21) inhibitors of CaMKII immediately prior to excitotoxic glutamate/glycine insult. Unlike KN-93 which blocks CaMKII activation, but not constitutively active forms of CaMKII, tat-CN21 and tat-AIP significantly reduced excitotoxicity in cultured neurons when applied post-insult. We observed that the neuroprotective effects of tat-CN21 are greatest when applied before the toxic glutamate challenge and diminish with time, with the neuroprotection associated with CaMKII inhibition diminishing back to control 3h post glutamate insult. Mechanistically, tat-CN21 inhibition of CaMKII resulted in an increase in CaMKII activity and the percentage of soluble CaMKII observed in neuronal lysates 24h following glutamate stimulation. To address the impact of prolonged CaMKII inhibition prior to excitotoxic insult, neuronal cultures were treated with CaMKII inhibitors overnight and then subjected to a sub-maximal excitotoxic insult. In this model, CaMKII inhibition prior to insult exacerbated neuronal death, suggesting that a loss of CaMKII enhances neuronal vulnerability to glutamate. Although changes in CaMKII or NR2B protein levels are not responsible for this enhanced glutamate vulnerability, this process is blocked by the protein translation inhibitor cycloheximide. In total, the neuroprotection afforded by CaMKII inhibition can be seen as neuroprotective immediately surrounding the excitotoxic insult, whereas sustained CaMKII inhibition produced by excitotoxicity leads to neuronal death by enhancing neuronal vulnerability to glutamate.
Ionizing radiation results in damage to neural stem cells and reduced neurogenesis. The aim of the present study was to determine intrinsic and extrinsic factors that influence neural stem cell survival following irradiation, using qPCR. Gene expression of hippocampal and SVZ neurospheres were analyzed following irradiation, and results demonstrated that irradiated hippocampal and SVZ stem cells displayed similar gene expression profiles for intrinsic genes. Irradiated microglia (extrinsic factor) isolated from the SVZ exhibited increased gene expression of growth factors involved in stem cell maintenance, proliferation, and survival. However, microglial genes in the irradiated hippocampus responded less favorably with respect to stem cell recovery. This might explain the superior recovery of SVZ compared to hippocampal stem cells following in vivo irradiation. In addition, our results show that a combination of growth factors, which were upregulated in SVZ microglia, increased the proliferation and decreased cell death of irradiated neurospheres in vitro.
The activity of neurons in the anterolateral cell group of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST(ALG)) plays a critical role in anxiety- and stress-related behaviors. Histochemical studies have suggested that multiple distinct neuronal phenotypes exist in the BNST(ALG). Consistent with this observation, the physiological properties of BNST(ALG) neurons are also heterogeneous, and three distinct cell types can be defined (Types I-III) based primarily on their expression of four key membrane currents, namely I(h), I(A), I(T), and I(K(IR)). Significantly, all four channels are multimeric proteins and can comprise of more than one pore-forming  subunit. Hence, differential expression of  subunits may further diversify the neuronal population. However, nothing is known about the relative expression of these ion channel  subunits in BNST(ALG) neurons. We have addressed this lacuna by combining whole-cell patch-clamp recording together with single-cell reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (scRT-PCR) to assess the mRNA transcript expression for each of the subunits for the four key ion channels in Type I-III neurons of the BNST(ALG.) Here, cytosolic mRNA from single neurons was probed for the expression of transcripts for each of the  subunits of I(h) (HCN1-HCN4), I(T) (Ca(v)3.1-Ca(v)3.3), I(A) (K(v)1.4, K(v)3.4, K(v)4.1-K(v) 4.3) and I(K(IR)) (Kir2.1-Kir2.4). An unbiased hierarchical cluster analysis followed by discriminant function analysis revealed that a positive correlation exists between the physiological and genetic phenotype of BNST(ALG) neurons. Thus, the analysis segregated BNST(ALG) neurons into 3 distinct groups, based on their  subunit mRNA expression profile, which positively correlated with our existing electrophysiological classification (Types I-III). Furthermore, analysis of mRNA transcript expression in Type I-Type III neurons suggested that, whereas Type I and III neurons appear to represent genetically homologous cell populations, Type II neurons may be further subdivided into three genetically distinct subgroups. These data not only validate our original classification scheme, but further refine the classification at the molecular level, and thus identifies novel targets for potential disruption and/or pharmacotherapeutic intervention in stress-related anxiety-like behaviors.

The mediator neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) is an enzymatic derivative of the omega-3 essential fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid. NPD1 stereoselectively and specifically binds to human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells and neutrophils. In turn, this lipid mediator induces dephosphorylation of Bcl-x(L) in a PP2A-dependent manner and induces PI3K/Akt and mTOR/p70S6K pathways leading to RPE cell survival during oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. As a proof of principle of its systemic in vivo bioactivity, NPD1 attenuates laser-induced choroidal neovascularization in mice. Using human neural cells transfected with amyloid precursor protein (APP)sw (Swedish double mutation APP695sw, K595N, M596L), NPD1 was shown to regulate secretase-mediated production of A peptide, downregulates pro-inflammatory gene expression, and promotes cell survival. In human neural cells overexpressing beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), the lipid mediator suppressed A42 shedding by downregulating -secretase (BACE1) while activating the -secretase (ADAM10), thus shifting the APP cleavage from the noxious amyloidogenic pathway into a non-amyloidogenic, neurotrophic pathway. Furthermore, downregulation of A42 peptide release by NPD1 may be dependent upon PPAR activation. In conclusion, NPD1 exhibits anti-inflammatory, anti-amyloidogenic, and anti-apoptotic bioactivities in human neural cells in part via PPAR signaling and through the targeting of - and -secretase systems.


Developmental dyslexia is a common specific childhood learning disorder with a strong heritable component. Previous studies using different genetic approaches have identified several genetic loci and candidate genes for dyslexia. In this article, we have integrated the current knowledge on 14 dyslexia candidate genes suggested by cytogenetic findings, linkage and association studies. We found that 10 of the 14 dyslexia candidate genes (ROBO1, KIAA0319, KIAA0319L, S100B, DOCK4, FMR1, DIP2A, GTF2I, DYX1C1 and DCDC2) fit into a theoretical molecular network involved in neuronal migration and neurite outgrowth. Based on this, we also propose three novel dyslexia candidate genes (SLIT2, HMGB1 and VAPA) from known linkage regions, and we discuss the possible involvement of genes emerging from the two reported genome-wide association studies for reading impairment-related phenotypes in the identified network.
Recent studies have shown that more than 10% of autism cases are caused by de novo structural genomic rearrangements. Given that some heritable copy number variants (CNVs) have been observed in patients as well as in healthy controls, to date little attention has been paid to the potential function of these non-de novo CNVs in causing autism. A normally intelligent patient with autism, with non-affected parents, was identified with a maternally inherited 10Mb deletion at 13q21.2. Sequencing of the genes within the deletion identified a paternally inherited nonsynonymous amino-acid substitution at position 614 of diaphanous homolog 3 (DIAPH3) (proline to threonine; Pro614Thr). This variant, present in a highly conserved domain, was not found in 328 healthy subjects. Experiments showed a transient expression of Diaph3 in the developing murine cerebral cortex, indicating it has a function in brain development. Transfection of Pro614Thr in murine fibroblasts showed a significant reduction in the number of induced filopodia in comparison to the wild-type gene. DIAPH3 is involved in cell migration, axon guidance and neuritogenesis, and is suggested to function downstream of SHANK3. Our findings strongly suggest DIAPH3 as a novel autism susceptibility gene. Moreover, this report of a 'double-hit' compound heterozygote for a large, maternally inherited, genomic deletion and a paternally inherited rare missense mutation shows that not only de novo genomic variants in patients should be taken seriously in further study but that inherited CNVs may also provide valuable information.
Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) can present with a large variety of noncerebellar symptoms, including movement disorders. In fact, movement disorders are frequent in many of the various SCA subtypes, and they can be the presenting, dominant, or even isolated disease feature. When combined with cerebellar ataxia, the occurrence of a specific movement disorder can provide a clue toward the underlying genotype. There are reasons to believe that for some coexisting movement disorders, the cerebellar pathology itself is the culprit, for example, in the case of cortical myoclonus and perhaps dystonia. However, movement disorders in SCAs are more likely related to extracerebellar pathology, and imaging and neuropathological data indeed show involvement of other parts of the motor system (substantia nigra, striatum, pallidum, motor cortex) in some SCA subtypes. When confronted with a patient with an isolated movement disorder, that is, without ataxia, there is currently no reason to routinely screen for SCA gene mutations, the only exceptions being SCA2 in autosomal dominant parkinsonism (particularly in Asian patients) and SCA17 in the case of a Huntington's disease-like presentation without an HTT mutation.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with documented impairments in various visual functions. However, there have been only a limited number of studies that have reported on the brain regions responsible for impairment of visual recognition in PD. In our study, we evaluated the performance of PD patients and 24 healthy controls on the Poppelreuter-type overlapping figure identification test to investigate the impairment of visual recognition. We also measured the PD patients' resting cerebral glucose metabolism using (18) F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and investigated the relationship between the impairment of visual recognition and cortical hypometabolism. The PD patients had substantial and frequent illusory responses in the overlapping figure identification test, and their illusory misidentifications were correlated with hypometabolism in the visual cortices, including the right inferior temporal gyrus and the bilateral temporo-parieto-occipital junction. These findings suggest that PD patients have impaired visual recognition characterized by illusory misidentifications of visual stimuli, which could be attributed to dysfunction of the visual cortices.





Hypofunction of the N-methyl D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor (NMDAR) is hypothesized to be a mechanism underlying cognitive dysfunction in individuals with schizophrenia. For the schizophrenia-linked genes NRG1 and ERBB4, NMDAR hypofunction is thus considered a key detrimental consequence of the excessive NRG1-ErbB4 signaling found in people with schizophrenia. However, we show here that neuregulin 1-ErbB4 (NRG1-ErbB4) signaling does not cause general hypofunction of NMDARs. Rather, we find that, in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, NRG1-ErbB4 signaling suppresses the enhancement of synaptic NMDAR currents by the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. NRG1-ErbB4 signaling prevented induction of long-term potentiation at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses and suppressed Src-dependent enhancement of NMDAR responses during theta-burst stimulation. Moreover, NRG1-ErbB4 signaling prevented theta burst-induced phosphorylation of GluN2B by inhibiting Src kinase activity. We propose that NRG1-ErbB4 signaling participates in cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia by aberrantly suppressing Src-mediated enhancement of synaptic NMDAR function.
In multiple sclerosis, activated CD4(+) T cells initiate an immune response in the brain and spinal cord, resulting in demyelination, degeneration and progressive paralysis. Repulsive guidance molecule-a (RGMa) is an axon guidance molecule that has a role in the visual system and in neural tube closure. Our study shows that RGMa is expressed in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) and that CD4(+) T cells express neogenin, a receptor for RGMa. Binding of RGMa to CD4(+) T cells led to activation of the small GTPase Rap1 and increased adhesion of T cells to intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Neutralizing antibodies to RGMa attenuated clinical symptoms of mouse myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and reduced invasion of inflammatory cells into the CNS. Silencing of RGMa in MOG-pulsed BMDCs reduced their capacity to induce EAE following adoptive transfer to naive C57BL/6 mice. CD4(+) T cells isolated from mice treated with an RGMa-specific antibody showed diminished proliferative responses and reduced interferon- (IFN-), interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4 and IL-17 secretion. Incubation of PBMCs from patients with multiple sclerosis with an RGMa-specific antibody reduced proliferative responses and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. These results demonstrate that an RGMa-specific antibody suppresses T cell responses, and suggest that RGMa could be a promising molecular target for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
The intracellular levels and spatial localizations of metabolites and peptides reflect the state of a cell and its relationship to its surrounding environment. Moreover, the amounts and dynamics of metabolites and peptides are indicative of normal or pathological cellular conditions. Here we highlight established and evolving strategies for characterizing the metabolome and peptidome of single cells. Focused studies of the chemical composition of individual cells and functionally defined groups of cells promise to provide a greater understanding of cell fate, function and homeostatic balance. Single-cell bioanalytical microanalysis has also become increasingly valuable for examining cellular heterogeneity, particularly in the fields of neuroscience, stem cell biology and developmental biology.
Positron emission tomography (PET) neuroimaging and behavioral assays in rodents are widely used in neuroscience. PET gives insights into the molecular processes of neuronal communication, and behavioral methods analyze the actions that are associated with such processes. These methods have not been directly integrated, because PET studies in animals have until now required general anesthesia to immobilize the subject, which precludes behavioral studies. We present a method for imaging awake, behaving rats with PET that allows the simultaneous study of behavior. Key components include the 'rat conscious animal PET' or RatCAP, a miniature portable PET scanner that is mounted on the rat's head, a mobility system that allows considerable freedom of movement, radiotracer administration techniques and methods for quantifying behavior and correlating the two data sets. The simultaneity of the PET and behavioral data provides a multidimensional tool for studying the functions of different brain regions and their molecular constituents.
Schwann cell myelination is tightly regulated by timely expression of key transcriptional regulators that respond to specific environmental cues, but the molecular mechanisms underlying such a process are poorly understood. We found that the acetylation state of NF-B, which is regulated by histone deacetylases (HDACs) 1 and 2, is critical for orchestrating the myelination program. Mice lacking both HDACs 1 and 2 (HDAC1/2) exhibited severe myelin deficiency with Schwann cell development arrested at the immature stage. NF-B p65 became heavily acetylated in HDAC1/2 mutants, inhibiting the expression of positive regulators of myelination and inducing the expression of differentiation inhibitors. We observed that the NF-B protein complex switched from associating with p300 to associating with HDAC1/2 as Schwann cells differentiated. NF-B and HDAC1/2 acted in a coordinated fashion to regulate the transcriptionally linked chromatin state for Schwann cell myelination. Thus, our results reveal an HDAC-mediated developmental switch for controlling myelination in the peripheral nervous system.
The light-gated cation channel channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) has rapidly become an important tool in neuroscience, and its use is being considered in therapeutic interventions. Although wild-type and known variant ChR2s are able to drive light-activated spike trains, their use in potential clinical applications is limited by either low light sensitivity or slow channel kinetics. We present a new variant, calcium translocating channelrhodopsin (CatCh), which mediates an accelerated response time and a voltage response that is ~70-fold more light sensitive than that of wild-type ChR2. CatCh's superior properties stem from its enhanced Ca(+) permeability. An increase in [Ca(+)](i) elevates the internal surface potential, facilitating activation of voltage-gated Na(+) channels and indirectly increasing light sensitivity. Repolarization following light-stimulation is markedly accelerated by Ca(+)-dependent BK channel activation. Our results demonstrate a previously unknown principle: shifting permeability from monovalent to divalent cations to increase sensitivity without compromising fast kinetics of neuronal activation. This paves the way for clinical use of light-gated channels.
Natural sounds are characterized by their spectral content and the modulation of energy over time. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging in awake macaques, we observed topographical representations of these spectral and temporal dimensions in a single structure, the inferior colliculus, the principal auditory nucleus in the midbrain. These representations are organized as a map with two approximately perpendicular axes: one representing increasing temporal rate and the other increasing spectral frequency.
Polyamines are endogenous molecules involved in cell damage following neurological insults, although it is unclear whether polyamines reduce or exacerbate this damage. We used a developmental seizure model in which we exposed Xenopus laevis tadpoles to pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), a known convulsant. We found that, after an initial PTZ exposure, seizure onset times were delayed in response to a second PTZ exposure 4 h later. This protective effect was a result of activity-dependent increases in synthesis of putrescine, the simplest polyamine. Unlike more complex polyamines that directly modulate ion channels, putrescine exerted its effect by altering the balance of excitation to inhibition. Tectal neuron recordings, 4 h after the initial seizure, revealed an elevated frequency of GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Our data suggest that this effect is mediated by an atypical pathway that converts putrescine into GABA, which then activates presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Our data suggest that polyamines have a previously unknown neuroprotective role in the developing brain.
The extent to which individual neurons are interconnected selectively within brain circuits is an unresolved problem in neuroscience. Neurons can be organized into preferentially interconnected microcircuits, but whether this reflects genetically defined subpopulations is unclear. We found that the principal neurons in the main subdivisions of the hippocampus consist of distinct subpopulations that are generated during distinct time windows and that interconnect selectively across subdivisions. In two mouse lines in which transgene expression was driven by the neuron-specific Thy1 promoter, transgene expression allowed us to visualize distinct populations of principal neurons with unique and matched patterns of gene expression, shared distinct neurogenesis and synaptogenesis time windows, and selective connectivity at dentate gyrus-CA3 and CA3-CA1 synapses. Matched subpopulation marker genes and neuronal subtype markers mapped near clusters of olfactory receptor genes. The nonoverlapping matched timings of synaptogenesis accounted for the selective connectivities of these neurons in CA3. Therefore, the hippocampus contains parallel connectivity channels assembled from distinct principal neuron subpopulations through matched schedules of synaptogenesis.
Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) molecules modulate activity-dependent refinement and plasticity. We found that MHCI also negatively regulates the density and function of cortical synapses during their initial establishment both in vitro and in vivo. MHCI molecules are expressed on cortical neurons before and during synaptogenesis. In vitro, decreasing surface MHCI (sMHCI) on neurons increased glutamatergic and GABAergic synapse density, whereas overexpression decreased it. In vivo, synapse density was higher throughout development in 2m(-/-) mice. MHCI also negatively regulated the strength of excitatory, but not inhibitory, synapses and controlled the balance of excitation and inhibition onto cortical neurons. sMHCI levels were modulated by activity and were necessary for activity to negatively regulate glutamatergic synapse density. Finally, acute changes in sMHCI and activity altered synapse density exclusively during early postnatal development. These results identify a previously unknown function for immune proteins in the negative regulation of the initial establishment and function of cortical connections.
In a rat model of context-induced relapse to heroin, we identified sparsely distributed ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons that were activated by the heroin-associated context. Selective pharmacogenetic inactivation of these neurons inhibited context-induced drug relapse. A small subset of ventral mPFC neurons formed neuronal ensembles that encode the learned associations between heroin reward and heroin-associated contexts; re-activation of these neuronal ensembles by drug-associated contexts during abstinence provoked drug relapse.
Single-cell genetic manipulation is expected to substantially advance the field of systems neuroscience. However, existing gene delivery techniques do not allow researchers to electrophysiologically characterize cells and to thereby establish an experimental link between physiology and genetics for understanding neuronal function. In the mouse brain in vivo, we found that neurons remained intact after 'blind' whole-cell recording, that DNA vectors could be delivered through the patch-pipette during such recordings and that these vectors drove protein expression in recorded cells for at least 7 d. To illustrate the utility of this approach, we recorded visually evoked synaptic responses in primary visual cortical cells while delivering DNA plasmids that allowed retrograde, monosynaptic tracing of each neuron's presynaptic inputs. By providing a biophysical profile of a cell before its specific genetic perturbation, this combinatorial method captures the synaptic and anatomical receptive field of a neuron.
The manner in which drug-evoked synaptic plasticity affects reward circuits remains largely elusive. We found that cocaine reduced NMDA receptor excitatory postsynaptic currents and inserted GluA2-lacking AMPA receptors in dopamine neurons of mice. Consequently, a stimulation protocol pairing glutamate release with hyperpolarizing current injections further strengthened synapses after cocaine treatment. Our data suggest that early cocaine-evoked plasticity in the ventral tegmental area inverts the rules for activity-dependent plasticity, eventually leading to addictive behavior.
Exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) is associated with dysfunctions of metabolism, energy balance, thyroid function and reproduction, and an increased risk of endocrine cancers. These multifactorial disorders can be 'programmed' through molecular epigenetic changes induced by exposure to EDCs early in life, the expression of which may not manifest until adulthood. In some cases, EDCs have detrimental effects on subsequent generations, which indicates that traits for disease predisposition may be passed to future generations by nongenomic inheritance. This Review discusses current understanding of the epigenetic mechanisms that underlie sexual differentiation of reproductive neuroendocrine systems in mammals and summarizes the literature on transgenerational epigenetic effects of representative EDCs: vinclozolin, diethylstilbesterol, bisphenol A and polychlorinated biphenyls. The article differentiates between context-dependent epigenetic transgenerational changes--namely, those that require environmental exposure, either via the EDC itself or through behavioral or physiological differences in parents--and germline-dependent epigenetic mechanisms. These processes, albeit discrete, are not mutually exclusive and can involve similar molecular mechanisms including DNA methylation and histone modifications and may predispose exposed individuals to transgenerational disruption of reproductive processes. New insights stress the crucial need to develop a clear understanding of how EDCs may program the epigenome of exposed individuals and their descendants.
The division of cortical visual processing into distinct dorsal and ventral streams is a key framework that has guided visual neuroscience. The characterization of the ventral stream as a 'What' pathway is relatively uncontroversial, but the nature of dorsal stream processing is less clear. Originally proposed as mediating spatial perception ('Where'), more recent accounts suggest it primarily serves non-conscious visually guided action ('How'). Here, we identify three pathways emerging from the dorsal stream that consist of projections to the prefrontal and premotor cortices, and a major projection to the medial temporal lobe that courses both directly and indirectly through the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortices. These three pathways support both conscious and non-conscious visuospatial processing, including spatial working memory, visually guided action and navigation, respectively.
Inter-individual variability in perception, thought and action is frequently treated as a source of 'noise' in scientific investigations of the neural mechanisms that underlie these processes, and discarded by averaging data from a group of participants. However, recent MRI studies in the human brain show that inter-individual variability in a wide range of basic and higher cognitive functions - including perception, motor control, memory, aspects of consciousness and the ability to introspect - can be predicted from the local structure of grey and white matter as assessed by voxel-based morphometry or diffusion tensor imaging. We propose that inter-individual differences can be used as a source of information to link human behaviour and cognition to brain anatomy.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a highly familial neurodegenerative disease. It has been claimed that homozygosity of the SNP rs5848 located in the 3'UTR of progranulin increases risk for FTLD. We have attempted to replicate the association of rs5848 in three independent FTLD cohorts. No association of rs5848 with FTLD was observed in any individual cohort nor was any observed when the data was combined. These data argue that rs5848 is not a risk factor for FTLD.
Abnormal phosphorylation of tau protein is a common event in many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. We investigated the relationship between hyperphosphorylated tau in brain extracts and mnemonic functions in rTg4510 mouse model of tauopathy. We report that rTg4510 mice showed rapid deterioration in spatial learning and memory, which paralleled a significant increase of hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain between 3 and 5.5 months of age. At 5.5 months, rTg4510 females showed significantly higher levels of hyperphosphorylated tau than males, with no evidence of differential tau transgene expression between the sexes. The increased levels of hyperphosphorylated tau in females were associated with more severe impairment in spatial learning and memory as compared to transgenic males. We also showed that within studied age range, the decrease in memory performance was accompanied by other behavioral disturbances in the water maze related to search strategy, like thigmotaxic swim and cue response. These findings suggest that the onset of abnormal tau biochemistry and coincident cognitive deficits in the rTg4510 mouse model is sex-dependent with females being affected earlier and more aggressively than males.
Eye movement recordings are useful for assessing neurological disorders, the prevalence of which increases with age. However, there is little rigorous quantitative data on describing oculomotor changes that occur during healthy aging. Here, we measured the ability of 81 normal elderly subjects (60-85 years) to perform two saccadic eye movement tasks: a pro-saccade task, requiring an automatic response to look towards a stimulus and an anti-saccade task, requiring inhibition of the automatic response to instead initiate a voluntary saccade away from the stimulus. Saccadic ability decreased with age: the oldest subjects were slower to initiate saccades and they made more direction errors (i.e., erroneous pro-saccades) in the anti-saccade task. Intra-subject variability in reaction time also correlated positively with age in both saccade tasks. Voluntary saccade control, as assessed by the anti-saccade task, was far more affected by aging than automatic control, as assessed by the pro-saccade task, suggesting that the mechanisms driving voluntary and automatic saccade performance deteriorate at different rates in the aging brain, and therefore likely involves different neural substrates. Our data provide insight into deficits due to normal brain changes in aging as well as a baseline to evaluate deficits caused by neurological disorders common in this age range.
Aged rodents exhibit memory and attention dysfunctions. Environmental enrichment (EE) attenuates memory impairments. Whether it may reduce attention deficits is not known. At the age of 1 month, Long-Evans female rats were placed in standard or EE conditions and tested after 3 (young), 12 (middle-aged) or 24 (aged) months of differential housing. Spatial reference memory was assessed in a water-maze task. Attention performance was evaluated in the five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task. EE improved spatial memory at all ages, but did not ameliorate 5-CSRT performance in young and middle-aged rats; it prevented, however, the degradation of attention performances detected in aged rats. The number of ChAT (+30 to +64%)- and p75(NTR)-positive (+35 to +44%) neurons was higher in the basal forebrain of aged enriched vs. standard rats, suggesting their EE-mediated protection. The weaker deficit of attention found in aged EE rats might be linked to a better survival in the very long term of neurons in the basalo-cortical system.
Recent evidence suggests that cyclooxygenases COX1 and COX2 differentially affect brain immunity. Limited data exist about their expressional changes in neurodegenerative diseases such as neuro-AIDS. Here, we analyzed the regulation of non-neuronal COX1/2 expression in rhesus macaque brain during infection with SIV(670) and antiretroviral treatment. COX1 was constitutively expressed in microglia and endothelial cells and was not changed in early SIV infection. Late stage of disease was characterized by increased COX1 expression in globally activated microglia, macrophage nodules, infiltrates, and multinucleated giant cells. Endothelial COX1 expression was unaltered. In contrast, COX2 was not expressed in non-neuronal cells in the brain of uninfected and asymptomatically SIV-infected monkeys but was induced in nodule- and syncytium-forming macrophages and in endothelial cells in areas with infiltrates and SIV in monkeys with AIDS. Antiretroviral treatment of AIDS-diseased monkeys with 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine markedly reduced SIV burden, appearance of COX1-positive macrophage nodules, giant cells, and infiltrates, and COX2 induction in the brain. However, the number of COX1-positive diffuse microglia was still increased in antiretrovirally treated animals as compared to uninfected or asymptomatic SIV-infected monkeys. Our data imply that both COX isoforms are differentially regulated and may distinctly modulate local immune responses in the brain during lentiviral disease.
Mesio-temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), the most common drug-resistant epilepsy syndrome, is characterized by the recurrence of spontaneous focal seizures after a latent period that follows, in most patients, an initial insult during early childhood. Many of the mechanisms that have been associated with the pathophysiology of MTLE are known to be regulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the healthy brain and an excess of this neurotrophin could therefore play a critical role in MTLE development. However, such a function remains controversial as other studies revealed that BDNF could, on the contrary, exert protective effects regarding epilepsy development. In the present study, we further addressed the role of increased BDNF/TrkB signaling on the progressive development of hippocampal seizures in the mouse model of MTLE obtained by intrahippocampal injection of kainate. We show that hippocampal seizures progressively developed in the injected hippocampus during the first two weeks following kainate treatment, within the same time-frame as a long-lasting and significant increase of BDNF expression in dentate granule cells. To determine whether such a BDNF increase could influence hippocampal epileptogenesis via its TrkB receptors, we examined the consequences of (i) increased or (ii) decreased TrkB signaling on epileptogenesis, in transgenic mice overexpressing the (i) TrkB full-length or (ii) truncated TrkB-T1 receptors of BDNF. Epileptogenesis was significantly facilitated in mice with increased TrkB signaling but delayed in mutants with reduced TrkB signaling. In contrast, TrkB signaling did not influence granule cell dispersion, an important feature of this mouse model which is also observed in most MTLE patients. These results suggest that an increase in TrkB signaling, mediated by a long-lasting BDNF overexpression in the hippocampus, promotes epileptogenesis in MTLE.




Acute liver failure (ALF) is uncommon in the United States, but presents acutely and catastrophically, often with deadly consequences. Hepatic encephalopathy, cerebral edema, elevated intracranial pressure, and intracranial hemorrhage due to coagulopathy are common occurrences in patients with ALF. Appropriate management of multi-system organ failure and neurological complications are essential in bridging patients to transplant and ensuring satisfactory outcomes.




Advanced age is associated with declines in brain structure and in cognitive performance, but it is unclear which aspects of brain aging mediate cognitive declines. We inquired if individual differences in white matter integrity contribute to age differences in two cognitive domains with established vulnerability to aging: executive functioning and speed of processing. The participants were healthy volunteers aged 50-81, some of whom had elevated blood pressure, a known vascular risk factor. Using latent variable analyses, we examined whether age differences in regional white matter integrity mediated age-related differences in executive functions and speed of processing. Although diffusion-related latent variables showed stronger age differences than white matter volumes and white matter hyperintensity volumes, only one of them was significantly associated with cognitive performance. Smaller linear anisotropy partially mediated age-related reduction in speed of processing. The effect was significant in posterior (temporal-parietal-occipital) but not anterior (frontal) region, and appeared stronger for cognitive rather than reaction time measures of processing speed. The presence of hypertensive participants did not affect the results. We conclude that in healthy adults, deterioration of axonal integrity and ensuing breech of connectivity may underpin age-related slowing of information processing.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we identified cortical regions mediating interpretive processes that take place during language comprehension. We manipulated participants' interpretation of texts by asking them to focus on action-, space-, or time-related features while listening to identical short stories. We identify several cortical regions where activity varied significantly in response to this attention manipulation, even though the content being processed was exactly the same. Activity in the posterior and anterior sections of the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), which are thought to have different sensitivities to high-level language processing, was modulated by the listeners' attentional focus, but in ways that were quite different. The posterior left IFG (Pars Opercularis) showed different activity levels for the three conditions. However, a population coding analysis demonstrated similar distributions of activity across conditions. This suggests that while the gain of the response in the Pars Opercularis was modulated, its core organization was relatively invariant across the experimental conditions. In the anterior left IFG (Pars Triangularis), the analysis of population codes revealed different activity patterns between conditions: there was little similarity between activity during time-attention and action- and space-attention, however there were similar activity patterns while attending to space and action information. In addition, both the left superior temporal gyrus and sulcus showed greater activity in the space and action attention conditions when contrasted with time attention. We discuss these findings in light of work on the role of left IFG in processing semantic information in language, and in light of theories suggesting that temporal information in language is processed in the brain using similar mechanisms as spatial information. Our findings suggest that a substantial source of variance in neural activity during language comprehension emerges from the internally-driven, information-seeking preferences of listeners rather than the syntactic or semantic properties of a text.
Although its precise functional contribution to reading remains unclear, there is broad consensus that an activity in the left mid-fusiform gyrus is highly sensitive to written words and word-like stimuli. In the current study, we take advantage of a particularity of the Chinese writing system in order to manipulate word-likeness parametrically, from real characters, to pseudo-characters that vary in whether they contain phonological and semantic cues, to artificial stimuli with varying surface similarity to real characters. In a one-back task, BOLD activity in the left mid-fusiform was inversely related to word-likeness, such that the least activity was observed in response to real characters, and the greatest to artificial stimuli that violate the orthotactic constraints of the writing system. One possible explanation for this surprising result is that the short-term memory demands of the one-back task put more pressure on the visual system when other sources of information cannot be used to aid in detecting repeated stimuli. For real characters and, to a lesser extent for pseudo-characters, information about meaning and pronunciation can contribute to performance, whereas artificial stimuli are entirely dependent on visual information. Consistent with this view, functional connectivity analyses revealed a strong positive relationship between left mid-fusiform and other visual areas, whereas areas typically involved in phonological and semantic processing for text were negatively correlated with this region.
There are increasing reports about stress related cognitive and psychic declines in subjects who have no psychiatric premorbidity, depression, or major life trauma. Yet, little is known about the underlying neurobiology. Based on the typical symptomatology, fMRI data suggesting that stress activates the limbic circuits, and animal data showing a major involvement of the 5-HT(1A) receptor in stress regulation, we hypothesized that enduring daily stress causes widespread limbic dysfunctions, and specific changes of the 5-HT(1A) receptor. To test these hypotheses combined PET studies were carried out in 16 chronically stressed, and 16 non-stressed subjects. Limbic function was tested by measuring cerebral blood flow during rest, and when using an odor activation paradigm. 5-HT(1A) receptor binding potential (BP) was assessed with [(11)C]WAY100635. All subjects went through a battery of neuropsychological tests. Stressed subjects showed a functional disconnection between the amygdala and ACC/medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and an impaired odor activation of the ACC. They also displayed a reduced 5-HT(1A) receptor BP in the anterior cingulate (ACC), the insular-cortex, and the hippocampus. Their performance in attention-, odor discrimination-, and semantic memory tasks was impaired, and correlated with the BP-values in the respective region. The degree of reported stress was inversely correlated with activation of ACC, and the 5-HT(1A) receptor BP in the amygdala and hippocampus. Enduring every day psychosocial stress seems to be associated with a limbic reduction of 5-HT(1A) receptor binding and functional disintegration of ACC/mPFC. These changes support the notion of an impaired top-down regulation of stress stimuli, and identify potential targets for early treatment.
Recovery after brain injury is an excellent platform to study the mechanism underlying brain plasticity, the reorganization of networks. Do complex network measures capture the physiological and cognitive alterations that occurred after a traumatic brain injury and its recovery? Patients as well as control subjects underwent resting-state MEG recording following injury and after neurorehabilitation. Next, network measures such as network strength, path length, efficiency, clustering and energetic cost were calculated. We show that these parameters restore, in many cases, to control ones after recovery, specifically in delta and alpha bands, and we design a model that gives some hints about how the functional networks modify their weights in the recovery process. Positive correlations between complex network measures and some of the general index of the WAIS-III test were found: changes in delta-based path-length and those in Performance IQ score, and alpha-based normalized global efficiency and Perceptual Organization Index. These results indicate that: 1) the principle of recovery depends on the spectral band, 2) the structure of the functional networks evolves in parallel to brain recovery with correlations with neuropsychological scales, and 3) energetic cost reveals an optimal principle of recovery.

Neuronal oscillations are assumed to play a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Neurons in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) generate oscillations which are coupled to rhythmic population activity both in other basal ganglia nuclei and cortical areas. In order to localize these cortical areas, we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) simultaneously in PD patients undergoing surgery for deep brain stimulation (DBS). Patients were withdrawn from antiparkinsonian medication and recorded at rest. We scanned the entire brain for oscillations coherent with LFPs recorded from the STN with a frequency domain beamformer. Coherent activity in the low (12-20 Hz) and high (20-35 Hz) beta range was found in the ipsilateral sensorimotor and the premotor cortex. Coherence in the alpha range (7-12 Hz) was observed at various locations in the ipsilateral temporal lobe. In a subset of subjects, the superior temporal gyrus consistently showed coherent alpha oscillations. Our findings provide new insights into patterns of frequency-specific functional connectivity between basal ganglia and cortex and suggest that simultaneous inter-regional interactions may be segregated in the frequency domain. Furthermore, they demonstrate that simultaneous MEG-LFP recordings are a powerful tool to study interactions between brain areas in PD patients undergoing surgery for DBS.
We describe the case of a 22-year-old male affected by NFLE reporting paroxysmal RLS-like symptoms. The patient was referred to our Sleep Center due to nocturnal paresthesias and cramps involving the left leg and leading to sleep fragmentation. At age 4, the patient presented with secondary generalized seizures preceded by left leg discomfort, controlled on CBZ. After successive therapy discontinuation, leg symptoms built up in frequency and duration until a secondary generalized seizure re-occurred. On CBZ prompt resumption no further GM seizures occurred albeit persistence of night-time frequent cramps and paraesthesia. Sleep EEG demonstrated asymmetric interictal sharp theta on the right posterior frontal areas, whereas brain MRI results were consistent with a Taylor type right frontal cortical dysplasia. CBZ augmentation and add on therapy with LEV led to further frequency reduction of sensory symptoms.

The review provides an update on the diagnosis of the main subtypes of inflammatory myopathies including dermatomyositis (DM), polymyositis (PM), necrotizing autoimmune myositis (NAM) and sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM). The fundamental aspects on muscle pathology and the unique pathomechanisms of each subset are outlined and the diagnostic dilemmas concerning the distinction of PM from sIBM and NAM are addressed. Dermatomyositis is a complement-mediated microangiopathy leading to destruction of capillaries, hypoperfusion and inflammatory cell stress on the perifascicular regions. NAM, is an increasingly recognized subacute myopathy triggered by statins, viral infections, cancer or autoimmuity with macrophages as the final effector cells causing fibre injury. In PM and sIBM cytotoxic CD8-positive T cells clonally expand in situ and invade major histocompatibility-I-expressing muscle fibres. The pathology of sporadic inclusion body myositis is complex because, in addition to the inflammatory mechanisms, there are degenerative features characterized by vacuolization and the accumulation of stressor and amyloid-related misfolded proteins. Inducible pro-inflammatory molecules, such as interleukin 1-, may enhance the accumulation of stressor proteins. The principles for more effective treatment strategies are discussed.

It is important to find biomarkers for autoimmune inflammation and demyelination in the CNS to monitor disease status in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). For this purpose, we determined the titers of antibodies (Ab) reacting with native myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-expressing cells to evaluate the disease activity of chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats and the relationship between anti-MOGcme (cell membrane-expressed MOG), Ab titers and clinical and pathological parameters were evaluated. Consequently, we found that elevation of anti-MOGcme Ab titers was associated with clinical severity, except for some cases in very late stages and with severe and widespread demyelination but with dominant inflammation. In contrast, antibodies detected by standard ELISA using recombinant MOG were elevated in both symptomatic and asymptomatic rats and were not associated with parameters such as inflammation and demyelination. Longitudinal examination of anti-MOGcme Ab titers in individual rats revealed that Ab titers accurately reflect disease activity. Furthermore, anti-MOGcme Ab titer was not elevated in acute EAE without demyelination. These findings suggest that autoantibodies reacting with native and glycosylated MOG play an important role in the progression of demyelinating diseases and could be biomarkers for monitoring the status of patients with MS.
Growing evidence indicates that neuromedin U (NmU) neuropeptide system plays an integral role in mediating the stress response through the corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) pathways. Stress is often associated with alteration in sleep-wake architecture both in human and laboratory animals. Here, we investigated whether activation of the NmU receptor, a major high affinity receptor for NmU predominantly expressed in the brain, affects sleep behavior in rats. Effects of single (acute) intracebroventricular (icv) infusion of 2.5 nmol of the full agonists porcine NmU8 and rat NmU23 were assessed on sleep-wake architecture in freely moving rats, which were chronically implanted with EEG and EMG electrodes. In addition, repeated once daily administration of NmU8 at 2.5 nmol during 8 consecutive days (sub-chronic) was studied. Acute icv infusion of NmU23 elicited a robust alteration in sleep-wake architecture, namely enhanced wakefulness and suppressed sleep during the first 4h after administration. Acute infusion NmU8 had no effect on spontaneous sleep-wake architecture. However, sub-chronic icv infusion of NmU8 increased the amount of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and intermediate stage (IS), while decreased light sleep. Additionally, NmU8 increased transitions from sleep states towards wakefulness suggesting a disruption in sleep continuity. The present results show that central-activation of NmU receptor markedly reduced sleep duration and disrupted the mechanisms underlying NREM-REM sleep transitions. Given that sleep-wakefulness cycle is strongly influenced by stress and the role of NmU/NmU receptor signaling in stress response, the disruption in sleep pattern associated with peptides species may support at least some signs of stress.
NK-1 receptor antagonists have shown potential for the clinical treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, depression and alcoholism. In a recent study, we disclosed the potential for the NK-1 antagonist, LY686017, to treat alcoholism in a clinical population. To assess whether this compound could be utilized as a platform for a brain imaging ligand, we evaluated the binding of [H]-LY686017 to sections of guinea pig in vitro. In these studies, [H]-LY686017 bound with a distribution and pharmacology consistent with the NK-1 receptor. Using sections through the region of the caudate nucleus, we obtained a K(d) of 0.34 nM and a B(max) of 31.37 fmoles/mg tissue. Based on its high potency and low nonspecific binding in vitro, we initiated studies to evaluate the radioligand as a tool to measure in vivo receptor occupancy. In initial studies, 25 microCi of [H]-LY686017 was administered via an indwelling jugular catheter and accumulation of radioactivity in the caudate (NK-1 containing tissue) and cerebellum (low NK-1 expression) were assessed. The ratios of caudate to cerebellum radioactivity were optimal 2 h after radioligand administration so this time point was used for subsequent studies. To assess the pharmacological specificity of the radioactivity accumulation, we administered various doses of Aprepitant, a potent NK-1 antagonists 1h prior to intravenous administration of [H]-LY686017. Aprepitant produced a dose-dependent reduction in radioactivity in the caudate with an approximate 70% reduction at 10 mg/kg. To image NK-1 receptors, 100 microCi of [H]-LY686017 was administered and the brains sectioned for autoradiography. In these studies, a characteristic distribution on NK-1 receptors was observed. Based on these results, LY686017 should serve as a suitable chemical platform for future imaging ligand development.
Spinal cord injury induces maladaptive synaptic transmission in the somatosensory system that results in chronic central neuropathic pain. Recent literature suggests that glial-neuronal interactions are important modulators in synaptic transmission following spinal cord injury. Neuronal hyperexcitability is one of the predominant phenomenon caused by maladaptive synaptic transmission via altered glial-neuronal interactions after spinal cord injury. In the somatosensory system, spinal inhibitory neurons counter balance the enhanced synaptic transmission from peripheral input. For a decade, the literature suggests that hypofunction of GABAergic inhibitory tone is an important factor in the enhanced synaptic transmission that often results in neuronal hyperexcitability in dorsal horn neurons following spinal cord injury. Neurons and glial cells synergistically control intracellular chloride ion gradients via modulation of chloride transporters, extracellular glutamate and GABA concentrations via uptake mechanisms. Thus, the intracellular &quot;GABA-glutamate-glutamine cycle&quot; is maintained for normal physiological homeostasis. However, hyperexcitable neurons and glial activation after spinal cord injury disrupts the balance of chloride ions, glutamate and GABA distribution in the spinal dorsal horn and results in chronic neuropathic pain. In this review, we address spinal cord injury induced mechanisms in hypofunction of GABAergic tone that results in chronic central neuropathic pain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Synaptic Plasticity &amp; Interneurons'.
There is an important link between pain, regulation of body temperature, and body ownership. For example, an altered feeling of body ownership - due to either chronic pain or &quot;rubber-hand illusions&quot; (RHI) - is associated with reduced temperature of the affected limb. However, the causal relationships within this triad are not well understood. We therefore investigated whether external manipulation of body temperature can influence body ownership. We used a thermode to make the right hand of healthy participants either painfully cold, cool, neutral, warm or painfully hot. Next, we induced the RHI and investigated its effects on the perceived position of the hand, on the subjective feeling of body ownership, and on physical changes in hand temperature. We replicate previous reports that inducing the RHI produces a decrease in limb temperature. Importantly, we demonstrate for the first time a causal effect in the opposite direction. Cooling down the participant's hand increased the strength of the RHI, while warming the hand externally decreased the strength of the RHI. Finally, we show that the painful extremes of these temperatures do not modulate the RHI. Hence, while thermosensation is an important driver of body ownership, pain seems to bypass the multisensory mechanisms of embodiment.
Glucose enhances memory in a variety of species. In humans, glucose administration enhances episodic memory encoding, although little is known regarding the neural mechanisms underlying these effects. Here we examined whether elevating blood glucose would enhance functional MRI (fMRI) activation and connectivity in brain regions associated with episodic memory encoding and whether these effects would differ depending on the emotional valence of the material. We used a double-blind, within-participants, crossover design in which either glucose (50g) or a saccharin placebo were administered before scanning, on days approximately 1 week apart. We scanned healthy young male participants with fMRI as they viewed emotionally arousing negative pictures and emotionally neutral pictures, intermixed with baseline fixation. Free recall was tested at 5 min after scanning and again after 1 day. Glucose administration increased activation in brain regions associated with successful episodic memory encoding. Glucose also enhanced activation in regions whose activity was correlated with subsequent successful recall, including the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and other regions, and these effects differed for negative vs. neutral stimuli. Finally, glucose substantially increased functional connectivity between the hippocampus and amygdala and a network of regions previously implicated in successful episodic memory encoding. These findings fit with evidence from nonhuman animals indicating glucose modulates memory by selectively enhancing neural activity in brain regions engaged during memory tasks. Our results highlight the modulatory effects of glucose and the importance of examining both regional changes in activity and functional connectivity to fully characterize the effects of glucose on brain function and memory.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is attracting increasing interest as a therapeutic tool for neurorehabilitation, particularly after stroke, because of its potential to modulate local excitability and therefore promote functional plasticity. Previous studies suggest that timing is important in determining the behavioural effects of brain stimulation. Regulatory metaplastic mechanisms exist to modulate the effects of a stimulation intervention in a manner dependent on prior cortical excitability, thereby preventing destabilization of existing cortical networks. The importance of such timing dependence has not yet been fully explored for tDCS. Here, we describe the results of a series of behavioural experiments in healthy controls to determine the importance of the relative timing of tDCS for motor performance. Application of tDCS during an explicit sequence-learning task led to modulation of behaviour in a polarity specific manner: relative to sham stimulation, anodal tDCS was associated with faster learning and cathodal tDCS with slower learning. Application of tDCS prior to performance of the sequence-learning task led to slower learning after both anodal and cathodal tDCS. By contrast, regardless of the polarity of stimulation, tDCS had no significant effect on performance of a simple reaction time task. These results are consistent with the idea that anodal tDCS interacts with subsequent motor learning in a metaplastic manner and suggest that anodal stimulation modulates cortical excitability in a manner similar to motor learning.
Although vision is the primary sensory modality that humans and other primates use to identify objects in the environment, we can recognize crucial object features (e.g., shape, size) using the somatic modality. Previous studies have shown that the occipito-temporal areas dedicated to the visual processing of object forms, faces and bodies also show category-selective responses when the preferred stimuli are haptically explored out of view. Visual processing of human bodies engages specific areas in lateral (extrastriate body area, EBA) and medial (fusiform body area, FBA) occipito-temporal cortex. This study aimed at exploring the relative involvement of EBA and FBA in the haptic exploration of body parts. During fMRI scanning, participants were asked to haptically explore either real-size fake body parts or objects. We found a selective activation of right and left EBA, but not of right FBA, while participants haptically explored body parts as compared to real objects. This suggests that EBA may integrate visual body representations with somatosensory information regarding body parts and form a multimodal representation of the body. Furthermore, both left and right EBA showed a comparable level of body selectivity during haptic perception and visual imagery. However, right but not left EBA was more activated during haptic exploration than visual imagery of body parts, ruling out that the response to haptic body exploration was entirely due to the use of visual imagery. Overall, the results point to the existence of different multimodal body representations in the occipito-temporal cortex which are activated during perception and imagery of human body parts.
The pathophysiology of migraine includes a heightened excitability of visual cortex that persists between headache events and that has been linked to impaired inhibitory intracortical processes. Here we examined the hypothesis that this cortical pathophysiology would affect the top-down attentional control of visual cortex. We asked two groups of participants-migraineurs (N=29) and non-migraine controls (N=29)-to perform a probabilistic spatial orienting task as we measured visual sensory cortical responses via event-related potentials (ERPs). Data were then analyzed as a function of whether the ERP-eliciting stimulus was in the fovea vs. parafovea, and whether the stimulus' location was attended or unattended. In this regard, we found two key between-groups differences in the effect of attention on sensory-evoked visual-cortical activity. First, relative to controls, migraineurs showed a larger attention effect in the visual N1 ERP component for events at the fovea. Second, unlike controls, migraineurs showed no early-phase attention effect in the P1 ERP component for events in the parafovea. Despite these altered ERP responses in migraineurs, however, corresponding behavioral data indicated that they also had heightened response performance. Taken together, our results support the hypothesis that migraineurs have an altered top-down attentional control of visual cortex, with the data suggesting that the effect may be tied to a reduced ability to suppress sensory-evoked activity for unattended events in the visual periphery.
Previous studies have shown a motor recruitment during the observation of graspable objects. This recruitment has been considered crucial in encoding the observed objects in terms of one or more potential motor acts. However, an agent can actually act upon an object only when the latter is close enough to be reached. Thus, the question we deal with in this paper is whether the motor system is always activated whenever a graspable object comes into view or whether it requires the object to be located within the reachable space of the perceiver. The left primary motor cortex was magnetically stimulated and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded while participants observed graspable and non graspable objects located within or outside their own reachable space. We found higher MEPs during the observation of graspable objects falling within the reachable space compared to the observation of either a non graspable object or a graspable object falling outside the reachable space. Our results shed new light on the functional role of the motor system in encoding visually presented objects. Indeed, they clearly indicate that its recruitment is spatially constrained, as it depends on whether the object falls within the actual reaching space of the onlooker.
We explored the extent to which biological motion perception depends on ventral stream integration by studying LG, an unusual case of developmental visual agnosia. LG has significant ventral stream processing deficits but no discernable structural cortical abnormality. LG's intermediate visual areas and object-sensitive regions exhibit abnormal activation during visual object perception, in contrast to area V5/MT+ which responds normally to visual motion (Gilaie-Dotan, Perry, Bonneh, Malach, &amp; Bentin, 2009). Here, in three studies we used point light displays, which require visual integration, in adaptive threshold experiments to examine LG's ability to detect form from biological and non-biological motion cues. LG's ability to detect and discriminate form from biological motion was similar to healthy controls. In contrast, he was significantly deficient in processing form from non-biological motion. Thus, LG can rely on biological motion cues to perceive human forms, but is considerably impaired in extracting form from non-biological motion. Finally, we found that while LG viewed biological motion, activity in a network of brain regions associated with processing biological motion was functionally correlated with his V5/MT+ activity, indicating that normal inputs from V5/MT+ might suffice to activate his action perception system. These results indicate that processing of biologically moving form can dissociate from other form processing in the ventral pathway. Furthermore, the present results indicate that integrative ventral stream processing is necessary for uncompromised processing of non-biological form from motion.
The ability to accurately localize both tactile and painful sensations on the body is one of the most important functions of the somatosensory system. Most accounts of localization refer to the systematic spatial relation between skin receptors and cortical neurons. The topographic organization of somatosensory neurons in the brain provides a map of the sensory surface. However, systematic distortions in perceptual localization tasks suggest that localizing a somatosensory stimulus involves more than simply identifying specific active neural populations within a somatotopic map. Thus, perceptual localization may depend on both afferent inputs and other unknown factors. In four experiments, we investigated whether localization biases vary according to the specific skin regions and subset of afferent fibers stimulated. We represented localization errors as a 'perceptual map' of skin locations. We compared the perceptual maps of stimuli that activate A (innocuous touch), A (pinprick pain), and C fibers (non-painful heat) on both the hairy and glabrous skin of the left hand. Perceptual maps exhibited systematic distortions that strongly depended on the skin region stimulated. We found systematic distal and radial (i.e., towards the thumb) biases in localization of touch, pain, and heat on the hand dorsum. A less consistent proximal bias was found on the palm. These distortions were independent of the population of afferent fibers stimulated, and also independent of the response modality used to report localization. We argue that these biases are likely to have a central origin, and result from a supramodal representation of the body surface.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) refers to the reduction in the startle response when a startling stimulus is preceded by a weak prestimulus, and is an endophenotype of deficient sensorimotor gating in several neuropsychiatric disorders. Emerging evidence suggests that norepinephrine (NE) regulates PPI, however, the circuitry involved is unknown. We found recently that stimulation of the locus coeruleus (LC), the primary source of NE to the forebrain, induces a PPI deficit that is a result of downstream NE release. Hence, this study sought to identify LC-innervated forebrain regions that mediate this effect. Separate groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats received a cocktail solution of the 1-NE receptor agonist phenylephrine plus the -receptor agonist isoproterenol (equal parts of each; 0, 3, 10, and 30g) into subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), nucleus accumbens (NAcc), extended amygdala, mediodorsal thalamus (MD-thalamus), or the dorsal hippocampus (DH) before PPI testing. NE agonist infusion into the posterior mPFC, NAcc shell, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, basolateral amygdala, and the MD-thalamus disrupted PPI, with particularly strong effects in MD-thalamus. Sites in which NE receptor stimulation did not disrupt PPI (anterior mPFC, NAcc core, central amygdala, and DH) did support PPI disruptions with the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0, 10g). This pattern reveals new pathways in the regulation of PPI, and suggests that NE transmission within distinct thalamocortical and ventral forebrain networks may subserve the sensorimotor gating deficits that are seen in disorders such as schizophrenia, Tourette syndrome, and post-traumatic stress disorder.
With the steadily increasing number of publications in the field of stress research it has become evident that the conventional usage of the stress concept bears considerable problems. The use of the term 'stress' to conditions ranging from even the mildest challenging stimulation to severely aversive conditions, is in our view inappropriate. Review of the literature reveals that the physiological 'stress' response to appetitive, rewarding stimuli that are often not considered to be stressors can be as large as the response to negative stimuli. Analysis of the physiological response during exercise supports the view that the magnitude of the neuroendocrine response reflects the metabolic and physiological demands required for behavioural activity. We propose that the term 'stress' should be restricted to conditions where an environmental demand exceeds the natural regulatory capacity of an organism, in particular situations that include unpredictability and uncontrollability. Physiologically, stress seems to be characterized by either the absence of an anticipatory response (unpredictable) or a reduced recovery (uncontrollable) of the neuroendocrine reaction. The consequences of this restricted definition for stress research and the interpretation of results in terms of the adaptive and/or maladaptive nature of the response are discussed.
Examining the role of the offspring in early social dynamics is especially difficult. Human developmental psychology has found infant behavior to be a vital part of the early environmental setting. In the rodent model, the different ways that a rodent neonate or pup can influence social dynamics are not well known. Typically, litters of neonates or pups offer complex social interactions dominated by behavior seemingly initiated and maintained by the primary caregiver (e.g., the dam). Despite this strong role for the caregiver, the young most likely influence the litter dynamics in many powerful ways including communication signals, discrimination abilities and early approach behavior. Nelson and Panksepp (1996) developed a preference task to examine early rodent pup social motivation. We have used the same task to examine how variations in maternal care or different environmental perturbations could alter the rat pup preferences for social-related stimuli. Rat pups receiving low levels of maternal licking and grooming were impaired in maternal odor cue learning and emitted lower levels of 22kHz ultrasounds compared to pups from the high licking and grooming cohort. Prenatal stress or early exposure to a toxicant (polychlorinated biphenyl) altered early social preferences in the rat pup in different ways indicating that diverse strategies are expressed and specific to the type of perturbation exposure. A greater focus on the offspring motivation following early 'stressors' will allow for more complete understanding of the dynamics in behavior during early social development.
An increasing number of human electroencephalography (EEG) studies examining the earliest component of the visual evoked potential, the so-called C1, have cast doubts on the previously prevalent notion that this component is impermeable to top-down effects. This article reviews the original studies that (i) described the C1, (ii) linked it to primary visual cortex (V1) activity, and (iii) suggested that its electrophysiological characteristics are exclusively determined by low-level stimulus attributes, particularly the spatial position of the stimulus within the visual field. We then describe conflicting evidence from animal studies and human neuroimaging experiments and provide an overview of recent EEG and magnetoencephalography (MEG) work showing that initial V1 activity in humans may be strongly modulated by higher-level cognitive factors. Finally, we formulate a theoretical framework for understanding top-down effects on early visual processing in terms of predictive coding.

Gallup (this issue) believes that our recent review on the function of yawning (Guggisberg et al., 2010) is unbalanced and that it ignores evidence for his thermoregulation hypothesis. Here we address these criticisms and show them to be untenable. While we never claimed that the social hypothesis of yawning has &quot;definite experimental support&quot;, we emphasize the importance of experimental evidence for specific effects of yawns when considering why we yawn. The only specific effect of yawning that could be demonstrated so far is its contagiousness in humans, some non-human primates, and possibly dogs, whereas all studies investigating physiological consequences of yawns were unable to observe specific yawn-induced effects in the individual of any species. The argument that from an evolutionary perspective, yawns must have a &quot;primitive&quot; physiological function arises from imprecise reasoning.
Genome-wide association study (GWAS) can be used to identify genes that increase the risk of psychiatric diseases. However, much of the disease heritability is still unexplained, suggesting that there are genes to be discovered. Functional annotation of the genetic variants may increase the power of GWAS to identify disease genes, by providing prior information that can be used in Bayesian analysis or in reducing the number of tests. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) are genomic loci that regulate gene expression. Genetic mapping of eQTLs can help reveal novel functional effects of thousands of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The present review mainly focused on the current knowledge on brain eQTL mapping, and discussed some major methodological issues and their possible solutions. The frequently ignored problems of batch effects, covariates, and multiple testing were emphasized, since they can lead to false positives and false negatives. The future application of eQTL data in GWAS analysis was also discussed.
Recently, neural substrates of the Big Five personality model were investigated using neuroimaging. We examined the relationships between the amplitude of spontaneous low-frequency oscillations (LFO) and the Big Five traits using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (R-fMRI). Twenty-four healthy right-handed undergraduates (23.131.87 years, 9 males and 15 females) participated in 5-min R-fMRI and completed the NEO Five-Factor Inventory. We observed that Neuroticism correlated negatively with regional activity of the middle frontal gyrus and precuneus; Extraversion correlated positively with regional activity of the striatum, precuneus, and superior frontal gyrus; Openness correlated positively with the thalamus and amygdala, and negatively with the superior frontal gyrus; Conscientiousness correlated positively with regional activity of the middle frontal gyrus and correlated negatively with the cerebellum. Our results revealed the neural substrates of Extraversion, Neuroticism, Openness, and Conscientiousness in the amplitude of spontaneous LFO.
Several studies on humans have shown a recruitment of the sensory-motor system in the perception of action-related visual and verbal material, suggesting that actions are represented through sensory-motor processes. To date, these studies have not disentangled whether such a recruitment is epiphenomenal or necessary to action representation. Here we took advantage of repetition priming as a tool to investigate the cognitive representation of actions, and systematically looked whether a concurrent motor or verbal task had a detrimental effect on this representation. In a first experiment participants discriminated images depicting meaningless and meaningful actions, while performing either a concurrent sensory-motor or an articulatory suppression task. Images were classified as depicting a repeated or a new action, relative to the previous image in the trial series. We found a facilitation by repetition priming, that was unaffected by the articulatory task but was completely abolished by the sensory-motor task. In a second experiment, we investigated whether the sensory-motor system is also causally involved in processing action-related verbs. In this experiment actions were presented as written infinitive verbs rather than as images. The facilitation by repetition priming was again unaffected by the concurrent articulatory task, while the sensory-motor concurrent task, although reducing the facilitation, did not abolish it. Our data provide evidence that the sensory-motor system is differentially involved during visual processing of actions and during processing of action-related verbs. Results are discussed within the theoretical frame of embodied cognition.
We previously showed that our neural stem sphere (NSS) method promotes the neuronal differentiation of mouse, monkey and human embryonic stem (ES) cells. Here we analyzed changes in expression of marker genes and proteins during neuronal differentiation. When cultured in astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) under free-floating conditions, colonies of ES cells formed floating cell spheres, which, within 4 days, gave rise to NSSs. In the spheres, the expression of ES cell marker genes was consistently down-regulated, while expression of an epiblast marker was transiently up-regulated, beginning on day 2, and the expression of neuroectoderm, neural stem cell and neuron markers was up-regulated, beginning on days 3, 4 and 6, respectively. The expression of the marker genes was consistent with that of marker proteins. The time course of expression of these markers in the spheres resembled that of neuronal differentiation from the inner cell mass (ICM) cells of blastula. In contrast, the expression of endoderm, mesoderm, epidermis, astrocyte and oligodendrocyte markers was low and not up-regulated during differentiation. Only a small number of apoptotic cells were present in the spheres. These results suggest that mouse ES cells uni-directionally differentiate into neurons via epiblast cells, neuroectodermal cells and neural stem cells.






We report a unique case of a 37-year-old female suffering from hemangiopericytoma of the pineal region, successfully excised by surgery. Hemangiopericytomas are rare malignant vascular tumors arising from mesenchymal cells with pericytic differentiation. These tumors usually develop in the limbs, pelvis, head, neck, and mostly in the muscle tissue. They are aggressive lesions that tend to occur at an earlier age than other meningeal tumors, recur with high frequency, and metastasize extracranially. Hemangiopericytomas represent less than 1% of all CNS tumors. Surgery remains the mainstay treatment. Radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy are the other treatment options.
We report 2 immunocompetent patients with myelitis. The first was a 55-year old man who developed myelitis after intercostal herpes zoster. The second was a 19-year-old boy who presented with myelopathy after varicella infection. Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) myelitis was diagnosed based on the close temporal relationship between rash and onset of clinical symptoms, and by the elevated rate of anti-VZV IgG in the CSF without oligoclonal bands in the first case, and presence of VZV DNA in the second. The course was favorable after a 3-day course of corticosteroids and 3 weeks of acyclovir. Varicella-zoster virus myelitis is uncommon; it affects essentially immunodepressed patients. We highlight the importance of considering the possibility of VZV myelitis, even in immunocompetent patients. The combination of corticoids and acyclovir must be instituted, quickly, to improve functional outcome.
Intracranial dermoid tumors represent a rare clinical entity accounting for 0.1-0.7% of all intracranial tumors. Their location in the posterior fossa is uncommon. We report a 16-year-old male patient who presented with clinical signs of increased intracranial pressure and cerebellar symptoms. The CT scan revealed a median cystic lesion of the fourth ventricle causing an active triventicular hydrocephalus. The MRI showed a median well shaped cystic lesion, of low signal intensity compared to the CSF, with capsular contrast enhancement. He underwent endoscopic third ventriculostomy before subtotal removal of the lesion. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the histological diagnosis was a dermoid cyst. Through this observation, we aim to discuss the clinical, and radiological aspects of the posterior fossa dermoid cyst, and to review the therapeutic strategies.
Hemangioblastomas are extremely rare in supratentorial locations, and to date, approximately 128 cases of supratentorial hemangioblastoma have been reported in the literature. Here, we report a female case of supratentorial hemangioblastoma, not associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease. We describe its clinical, neuropathological, and neuroradiological characteristics, elaborate the surgical protocols, and follow-up methods, and review the pertinent literature.






Multiple sclerosis (MS) has a major negative impact on patients` health-related quality of life (QoL). A group of MS experts in the Middle East met to develop recommendations for the routine assessment of QoL in patients with MS. The group recommended that patients need to be assessed once a year using the multiple sclerosis international QoL questionnaire (MusiQoL), which is available in Arabic. Assessments should be made when patients are relapse-free to avoid confounding factors. At other clinic visits, patients` QoL should also be monitored, alongside their physical assessment, using open and structured questions on disease features that are likely to affect their QoL. This approach should allow long-term monitoring of key features of MS that are important to patients` well being, and aid decision-making regarding their management, including the use of disease-modifying drugs.
Structural imaging is turning our attention regarding the effects of chronic pain on the brain as a possible source of chronicity. Several independent studies have suggested a decrease in gray matter in pain-transmitting areas in patients with constant pain. Most of these data are discussed as representing damage or loss of brain gray matter, reinforcing the idea of chronic pain as a progressive disease. However, any data of an increase or decrease in gray matter in pain syndromes need to be considered in light of all observations gathered in the past 10 years and probably do not justify a discussion of brain damage or consideration of whether the disease is progressive. It is likely that these changes are the consequence and not the cause of the respective pain syndromes as they may reverse once the pain is adequately treated. Moreover, structural changes of the brain may not be specific to a particular pain syndrome and for the moment only mirror the magnitude or duration of pain suffered. The topographical distributions of gray matter changes may well be the consequence of cortical regions having varying susceptibilities. We need to better understand the behavioral consequences and cellular mechanisms underlying these neuroanatomic changes.
Neurosurgical treatment of psychiatric disorders has been influenced by evolving neurobiological models of symptom generation. The advent of functional neuroimaging and advances in the neurosciences have revolutionized understanding of the functional neuroanatomy of psychiatric disorders. This article reviews neuroimaging studies of depression from the last 3 decades and describes an emerging neurocircuitry model of mood disorders, focusing on critical circuits of cognition and emotion, particularly those networks involved in the regulation of evaluative, expressive and experiential aspects of emotion. The relevance of this model for neurotherapeutics is discussed, as well as the role of functional neuroimaging of psychiatric disorders.
Noninvasive brain stimulation is a valuable investigative tool and has potential therapeutic applications in cognitive neuroscience, neurophysiology, psychiatry, and neurology. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is particularly useful to establish and map causal brain-behavior relations in motor and nonmotor cortical areas. Neuronavigated TMS is able to provide precise information related to the individual's functional anatomy that can be visualized and used during surgical interventions and critically aid in presurgical planning, reducing the need for riskier and more cumbersome intraoperative or invasive mapping procedures. This article reviews methodological aspects, clinical applications, and future directions of TMS-based mapping.





Experimental evidence and clinical observations indicate that brain inflammation is an important factor in epilepsy. In particular, induction of interleukin-converting enzyme (ICE)/caspase-1 and activation of interleukin (IL)-1/IL-1 receptor type 1 axis both occur in human epilepsy, and contribute to experimentally induced acute seizures. In this study, the anticonvulsant activity of VX-765 (a selective ICE/caspase-1 inhibitor) was examined in a mouse model of chronic epilepsy with spontaneous recurrent epileptic activity refractory to some common anticonvulsant drugs. Moreover, the effects of this drug were studied in one acute model of seizures in mice, previously shown to involve activation of ICE/caspase-1. Quantitative analysis of electroencephalogram activity was done in mice exposed to acute seizures or those developing chronic epileptic activity after status epilepticus to assess the anticonvulsant effects of systemic administration of VX-765. Histological and immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue was carried out at the end of pharmacological experiments in epileptic mice to evaluate neuropathology, glia activation and IL-1 expression, and the effect of treatment. Repeated systemic administration of VX-765 significantly reduced chronic epileptic activity in mice in a dose-dependent fashion (12.5-200 mg/kg). This effect was observed at doses 50 mg/kg, and was reversible with discontinuation of the drug. Maximal drug effect was associated with inhibition of IL-1 synthesis in activated astrocytes. The same dose regimen of VX-765 also reduced acute seizures in mice and delayed their onset time. These results support a new target system for anticonvulsant pharmacological intervention to control epileptic activity that does not respond to some common anticonvulsant drugs.
Oligodendrocytes (OLs) are particularly susceptible to the toxicity of the acute lesion environment after spinal cord injury (SCI). They undergo both necrosis and apoptosis acutely, with apoptosis continuing at chronic time points. Loss of OLs causes demyelination and impairs axon function and survival. In parallel, a rapid and protracted OL progenitor cell proliferative response occurs, especially at the lesion borders. Proliferating and migrating OL progenitor cells differentiate into myelinating OLs, which remyelinate demyelinated axons starting at 2 weeks post-injury. The progression of OL lineage cells into mature OLs in the adult after injury recapitulates development to some degree, owing to the plethora of factors within the injury milieu. Although robust, this endogenous oligogenic response is insufficient against OL loss and demyelination. First, in this review we analyze the major spatial-temporal mechanisms of OL loss, replacement, and myelination, with the purpose of highlighting potential areas of intervention after SCI. We then discuss studies on OL protection and replacement. Growth factors have been used both to boost the endogenous progenitor response, and in conjunction with progenitor transplantation to facilitate survival and OL fate. Considerable progress has been made with embryonic stem cell-derived cells and adult neural progenitor cells. For therapies targeting oligogenesis to be successful, endogenous responses and the effects of the acute and chronic lesion environment on OL lineage cells must be understood in detail, and in relation, the optimal therapeutic window for such strategies must also be determined.
Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) affects the activation, migration, and function of microglia, neutrophils and monocyte/macrophages. Because these myeloid cells can positively and negatively affect survival of neurons and glia, they are among the most commonly studied immune cells. However, the mechanisms that regulate myeloid cell activation and recruitment after SCI have not been adequately defined. In general, the dynamics and composition of myeloid cell recruitment to the injured spinal cord are consistent between mammalian species; only the onset, duration, and magnitude of the response vary. Emerging data, mostly from rat and mouse SCI models, indicate that resident and recruited myeloid cells are derived from multiple sources, including the yolk sac during development and the bone marrow and spleen in adulthood. After SCI, a complex array of chemokines and cytokines regulate myelopoiesis and intraspinal trafficking of myeloid cells. As these cells accumulate in the injured spinal cord, the collective actions of diverse cues in the lesion environment help to create an inflammatory response marked by tremendous phenotypic and functional heterogeneity. Indeed, it is difficult to attribute specific reparative or injurious functions to one or more myeloid cells because of convergence of cell function and difficulties in using specific molecular markers to distinguish between subsets of myeloid cell populations. Here we review each of these concepts and include a discussion of future challenges that will need to be overcome to develop newer and improved immune modulatory therapies for the injured brain or spinal cord.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) are organic surfactants widely used in various industrial and consumer applications. Due to their chemical properties, these perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) have also become persistent contaminants. The risk of possible intrauterine and lactational exposure to these chemicals poses a significant health concern for potential developmental effects. In the present study we have found that dietary exposure of mice to 0.3mg/kg of PFOS or PFOA throughout pregnancy results in different distribution pattern in the offspring brain and liver. In particular, exposure to PFOS led to four times higher accumulation of the chemical in the brains of newborn mice than PFOA. We have used a battery of behavioral tests to evaluate motor function, circadian activity, and emotion-related behavior in the exposed offspring. Exposure to PFOS resulted in decreased locomotion in a novel environment and reduced muscle strength only in male offspring. Prenatal exposure to PFOA was associated with changes in exploratory behavior in male and female offspring, as well as with increased global activity in males in their home cage. The neurobehavioral outcome of prenatal exposure to PFCs in mice is characterized by mild alterations in motor function and it appears to be sex-related.
In this paper we present a model of creativity captured as exploration and production of novel and functionally efficient behaviors, based on the statistical mechanics of disordered systems. In support of the modelling, we highlight examples of creative behaviors from our research in sports like boxing and rugby union. Our experimental results show how manipulation of practice task constraints changes the exploratory breadth of the hierarchically soft-assembled action landscape. Because of action metastability and differing task constraints, the specificity of each assembled movement configuration is unique. Empirically, a movement pattern's degree of novelty may be assessed by the value of the order parameter describing action. We show that creative and adaptive movement behavior may be induced by at least two types of interven-tions, based on relaxing task constraints which we term direct and indirect. Direct relaxing is typically a function of changing task constraints so that the number of affordances that can satisfy goal constraints increases. Indirect relaxing of constraints occurs when a habitual action is suppressed by, for example, stringent instructional constraints during sports training. That suppression simultaneously relaxes other correlated constraints that enable larger exploratory capacity and new affordances to emerge for the athlete or team.

Recently, 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) was identified in mammalian genomic DNA. The biological role of this modification remains unclear; however, identifying the genomic location of this modified base will assist in elucidating its function. We describe a method for the rapid and inexpensive identification of genomic regions containing 5hmC. This method involves the selective glucosylation of 5hmC residues by the -glucosyltransferase from T4 bacteriophage creating -glucosyl-5-hydroxymethylcytosine (-glu-5hmC). The -glu-5hmC modification provides a target that can be efficiently and selectively pulled down by J-binding protein 1 coupled to magnetic beads. DNA that is precipitated is suitable for analysis by quantitative PCR, microarray or sequencing. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the J-binding protein 1 pull down assay identifies 5hmC at the promoters of developmentally regulated genes in human embryonic stem cells. The method described here will allow for a greater understanding of the temporal and spatial effects that 5hmC may have on epigenetic regulation at the single gene level.


Neuropathic pain is associated with reorganization of spinal synaptic circuits, implying that adhesion proteins that normally build and modify synapses must be involved. The adhesion proteins E- and N-cadherin delineate different synapses furnished by nociceptive primary afferents, but dynamic aspects of cadherin localization in relationship to onset, maintenance or reversibility of neuropathic pain are uncharacterized. Here, we find very different responses of these cadherins to L5 spinal nerve transection (SNT)-induced mechanical allodynia and to intrathecal glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), which has potent analgesic effects in this pain model. In L5, E-cadherin is rapidly eliminated in patches within lamina IIi contemporaneously with the onset of mechanical allodynia. Intrathecal GDNF in conjunction with, or at 7 days after, L5 SNT prevents or reverses both the loss of E-cadherin and abnormal pain sensation. In contrast, N-cadherin undergoes a delayed and transient increase uniformly across lamina I-II that is insensitive to GDNF. Some N-cadherin-labeled profiles codistribute with GAP-43, suggesting a role in axon sprouting. Patterns of immunolabeling for GDNF receptor components GFR1, NCAM, and RET after L5 SNT suggest that GFR1 and NCAM are the principal receptors operative in this model. In addition, GFR1 codistributes with E-cadherin, but not N-cadherin, profiles. Together, these data indicate strikingly divergent patterns of temporal and molecular regulation of different cadherins at distinct nociceptive circuits in response to spinal nerve injury, suggesting that the two cadherins and the circuits with which they are affiliated participate in different aspects of synaptic and circuit reorganization associated with neuropathic pain.
The search for the mechanism of action of improgan (a nonopioid analgesic) led to the recent discovery of CC12, a compound that blocks improgan antinociception. Because CC12 is a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, and brain P450 mechanisms were recently shown to be required in opioid analgesic signaling, pharmacological and transgenic studies were performed in rodents to test the hypothesis that improgan antinociception requires brain P450 epoxygenase activity. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of the P450 inhibitors miconazole and fluconazole, and the arachidonic acid (AA) epoxygenase inhibitor N-methylsulfonyl-6-(2-propargyloxyphenyl)hexanamide (MS-PPOH) potently inhibited improgan antinociception in rats at doses that were inactive alone. MW06-25, a new P450 inhibitor that combines chemical features of CC12 and miconazole, also potently blocked improgan antinociception. Although miconazole and CC12 were weakly active at opioid and histamine H(3) receptors, MW06-25 showed no activity at these sites, yet retained potent P450-inhibiting properties. The P450 hypothesis was also tested in Cpr(low) mice, a viable knock-in model with dramatically reduced brain P450 activity. Improgan (145 nmol, i.c.v.) antinociception was reduced by 37% to 59% in Cpr(low) mice, as compared with control mice. Moreover, CC12 pretreatment (200 nmol, i.c.v.) abolished improgan action (70% to 91%) in control mice, but had no significant effect in Cpr(low) mice. Thus, improgan's activation of bulbospinal nonopioid analgesic circuits requires brain P450 epoxygenase activity. A model is proposed in which (1) improgan activates an unknown receptor to trigger downstream P450 activity, and (2) brainstem epoxygenase activity is a point of convergence for opioid and nonopioid analgesic signaling.
Although both a loss of spinal inhibitory neurotransmission and the involvement of oxidative stress have been regarded as important mechanisms in the pathogenesis of pain, the relationship between these 2 mechanisms has not been studied. To determine whether reactive oxygen species (ROS) involvement in pain mechanisms is related to the diminished inhibitory transmission in the substantia gelatinosa (SG) of the spinal dorsal horn, behavioral studies and whole-cell recordings were performed in FVB/NJ mice. Neuropathic pain was induced by a tight ligation of the L5 spinal nerve (SNL). Pain behaviors in the affected foot were assessed by behavioral testing for mechanical hyperalgesia. Pain behaviors developed by 3 days and lasted more than 8 weeks. Both systemic and intrathecal administration of an ROS scavenger, phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN), temporarily reversed mechanical hyperalgesia up to 2 hours, 1 week after SNL. In nonligated mice, an intrathecal injection of an ROS donor, tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH), dose-dependently induced mechanical hyperalgesia for 1.5 hours. In whole-cell voltage clamp recordings of SG neurons, perfusion with t-BOOH significantly decreased the frequency of mIPSCs, and this effect was reversed by PBN. Furthermore, t-BOOH decreased the frequency of GABA(A) receptor-mediated mIPSCs without altering their amplitudes but did not affect glycine receptor-mediated mIPSCs. In SNL mice, mIPSC frequency in SG neurons was significantly reduced as compared with that of normal mice, which was restored by PBN. The antihyperalgesic effect of PBN on mechanical hyperalgesia was attenuated by intrathecal bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor blocker. Our results indicate that the increased ROS in spinal cord may induce pain by reducing GABA inhibitory influence on SG neurons that are involved in pain transmission.

Alleviating opiate withdrawal syndrome in addicts is a critical precondition to break away from drug and further to prevent reuse. Electroacupuncture (EA) was claimed to be effective for alleviating withdrawal syndrome, but the optimal protocol remained unclear. In the present study we found that (1) 100 Hz EA administered 12-24h after the last morphine injection suppressed the withdrawal syndrome in rats, multiple sessions of EA were more effective than single session, with the after-effect lasting for at least 7 days. (2) A down-regulation of preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA level was observed in spinal cord, PAG and hypothalamus 60 h after the last morphine injection, which could be reversed by multiple sessions, but not a single session of EA. (3) Accompanied with the decrease of PPD mRNA level, there was an up-regulation of p-CREB in the three CNS regions, which was abolished by 100 Hz EA treatment. The findings suggest that down-regulation of p-CREB and acceleration of dynorphin synthesis in spinal cord, PAG and hypothalamus may be implicated in the cumulative effect of multiple 100Hz EA treatment for opioid detoxification.
Regulation of presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels is critical for depolarization-evoked neurotransmitter release. Various studies attempted to determine the functional implication of Rim1, a component of the vesicle release machinery. Besides to couple voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels to the presynaptic vesicle release machinery, it was evidenced that Rim1 also prevents voltage-dependent inactivation of the channels through a direct interaction with the ancillary -subunits, thus facilitating neurotransmitter release. However, facilitation of synaptic activity may also be caused by a reduction of the inhibitory pathway carried by G-protein-coupled receptors. Here, we explored the functional implication of Rim1 in G-protein regulation of Ca(v)2.2 channels. Activation of -opioid receptors expressed in HEK-293 cells along with Ca(v)2.2 channels produced a drastic current inhibition both in control and Rim1-expressing cells. In contrast, Rim1 considerably promoted the extent of current deinhibition following channel activation, favoring sustained Ca(2+) influx under prolonged activity. Our data suggest that Rim1-induced facilitation of neurotransmitter release may come as a consequence of a decrease in the inhibitory pathway carried by G-proteins that contributes, together with the slowing of channel inactivation, to maintain Ca(2+) influx under prolonged activity. The present study also furthers functional insights in the importance of proteins from the presynaptic vesicle complex in the regulation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels by G-proteins.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of tamoxifen (TMX) on locomotor behavior and on the activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes and creatine kinase (CK) in the brain of rats subjected to an animal model of mania induced by d-amphetamine (D-AMPH)-reversion and prevention protocols. The D-AMPH administration increased locomotor activity in saline-treated rats under prevention and reversion treatment; furthermore, there was evident reduction in the locomotion in the D-amphetamine group treated with TMX. D-AMPH significantly decreased the activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes in saline-treated rats in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and amygdala in both prevention and reversion treatment. Depending on the cerebral area and evaluated complex, TMX was able to prevent and reverse this impairment. A decrease in CK activity was also verified in the brain of rats when D-AMPH was administrated in both experiments; the administration of TMX reversed but not prevented the decrease in CK activity induced by D-AMPH. The present study demonstrated that TMX reversed and prevented the alterations in behavioral and energy metabolism induced by D-AMPH (alterations were also observed in bipolar disorder), reinforcing the need for more studies about inhibitors of PKC as possible targets for new medications in the treatment of bipolar disorder.
One of the central challenges facing modern neuroscience is to explain the ability of the nervous system to coherently integrate information across distinct functional modules in the absence of a central executive. To this end, Tononi et al. [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 91, 5033 (1994)] proposed a measure of neural complexity that purports to capture this property based on mutual information between complementary subsets of a system. Neural complexity, so defined, is one of a family of information theoretic metrics developed to measure the balance between the segregation and integration of a system's dynamics. One key question arising for such measures involves understanding how they are influenced by network topology. Sporns et al. [Cereb. Cortex 10, 127 (2000)] employed numerical models in order to determine the dependence of neural complexity on the topological features of a network. However, a complete picture has yet to be established. While De Lucia et al. [Phys. Rev. E 71, 016114 (2005)] made the first attempts at an analytical account of this relationship, their work utilized a formulation of neural complexity that, we argue, did not reflect the intuitions of the original work. In this paper we start by describing weighted connection matrices formed by applying a random continuous weight distribution to binary adjacency matrices. This allows us to derive an approximation for neural complexity in terms of the moments of the weight distribution and elementary graph motifs. In particular, we explicitly establish a dependency of neural complexity on cyclic graph motifs.

In all sensory modalities, the data acquired by the nervous system is shaped by the biomechanics, material properties, and the morphology of the peripheral sensory organs. The rat vibrissal (whisker) system is one of the premier models in neuroscience to study the relationship between physical embodiment of the sensor array and the neural circuits underlying perception. To date, however, the three-dimensional morphology of the vibrissal array has not been characterized. Quantifying array morphology is important because it directly constrains the mechanosensory inputs that will be generated during behavior. These inputs in turn shape all subsequent neural processing in the vibrissal-trigeminal system, from the trigeminal ganglion to primary somatosensory (&quot;barrel&quot;) cortex. Here we develop a set of equations for the morphology of the vibrissal array that accurately describes the location of every point on every whisker to within 5% of the whisker length. Given only a whisker's identity (row and column location within the array), the equations establish the whisker's two-dimensional (2D) shape as well as three-dimensional (3D) position and orientation. The equations were developed via parameterization of 2D and 3D scans of six rat vibrissal arrays, and the parameters were specifically chosen to be consistent with those commonly measured in behavioral studies. The final morphological model was used to simulate the contact patterns that would be generated as a rat uses its whiskers to tactually explore objects with varying curvatures. The simulations demonstrate that altering the morphology of the array changes the relationship between the sensory signals acquired and the curvature of the object. The morphology of the vibrissal array thus directly constrains the nature of the neural computations that can be associated with extraction of a particular object feature. These results illustrate the key role that the physical embodiment of the sensor array plays in the sensing process.
Persons have different value preferences. Neuroimaging studies where value-based decisions in actual conflict situations were investigated suggest an important role of prefrontal and cingulate brain regions. General preferences, however, reflect a superordinate moral concept independent of actual situations as proposed in psychological and socioeconomic research. Here, the specific brain response would be influenced by abstract value systems and moral concepts. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying such responses are largely unknown. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a forced-choice paradigm on word pairs representing abstract values, we show that the brain handles such decisions depending on the person's superordinate moral concept. Persons with a predominant collectivistic (altruistic) value system applied a &quot;balancing and weighing&quot; strategy, recruiting brain regions of rostral inferior and intraparietal, and midcingulate and frontal cortex. Conversely, subjects with mainly individualistic (egocentric) value preferences applied a &quot;fight-and-flight&quot; strategy by recruiting the left amygdala. Finally, if subjects experience a value conflict when rejecting an alternative congruent to their own predominant value preference, comparable brain regions are activated as found in actual moral dilemma situations, i.e., midcingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Our results demonstrate that superordinate moral concepts influence the strategy and the neural mechanisms in decision processes, independent of actual situations, showing that decisions are based on general neural principles. These findings provide a novel perspective to future sociological and economic research as well as to the analysis of social relations by focusing on abstract value systems as triggers of specific brain responses.
This study examines the cognitive and affective factors of candidate appraisal by manipulating candidate attractiveness and levels of issue agreement with voters. Drawing upon research in evolutionary psychology and cognitive neuroscience, this analysis proposes that automatic processing of physical appearance predisposes affective disposition toward more attractive candidates, thereby influencing cognitive processing of issue information. An experimental design presented attractive and unattractive candidates who were either liberal or conservative in a mock primary election. The data show strong partial effects for appearance on vote intention, an interaction between appearance and issue agreement, and a tendency for voters to assimilate the dissimilar views of attractive candidates. We argue that physical appearance is important in primary elections when the differences in issue positions and ideology between candidates is small.




Our sense of hearing depends on precisely organized circuits that allow us to sense, perceive, and respond to complex sounds in our environment, from music and language to simple warning signals. Auditory processing begins in the cochlea of the inner ear, where sounds are detected by sensory hair cells and then transmitted to the central nervous system by spiral ganglion neurons, which faithfully preserve the frequency, intensity, and timing of each stimulus. During the assembly of auditory circuits, spiral ganglion neurons establish precise connections that link hair cells in the cochlea to target neurons in the auditory brainstem, develop specific firing properties, and elaborate unusual synapses both in the periphery and in the CNS. Understanding how spiral ganglion neurons acquire these unique properties is a key goal in auditory neuroscience, as these neurons represent the sole input of auditory information to the brain. In addition, the best currently available treatment for many forms of deafness is the cochlear implant, which compensates for lost hair cell function by directly stimulating the auditory nerve. Historically, studies of the auditory system have lagged behind other sensory systems due to the small size and inaccessibility of the inner ear. With the advent of new molecular genetic tools, this gap is narrowing. Here, we summarize recent insights into the cellular and molecular cues that guide the development of spiral ganglion neurons, from their origin in the proneurosensory domain of the otic vesicle to the formation of specialized synapses that ensure rapid and reliable transmission of sound information from the ear to the brain.




Testosterone is positively associated with risk-taking behavior in social domains (e.g., crime, physical aggression). However, the scant research linking testosterone to economic risk preferences presents inconsistent findings. We examined the relationship between endogenous testosterone and individuals' economic preferences (i.e., risk preference, ambiguity preference, and loss aversion) in a large sample (N = 298) of men and women. We found that endogenous testosterone levels have a significant U-shaped association with individuals' risk and ambiguity preferences, but not loss aversion. Specifically, individuals with low or high levels of testosterone (more than 1.5 SD from the mean for their gender) were risk and ambiguity neutral, whereas individuals with intermediate levels of testosterone were risk and ambiguity averse. This relationship was highly similar in men and women. In contrast to received wisdom regarding testosterone and risk, the present data provide the first robust evidence for a nonlinear association between economic preferences and levels of endogenous testosterone.
Coupling between EEG delta and beta oscillations is enhanced among anxious and healthy individuals during anticipatory anxiety. EEG coupling patterns associated with psychotherapy have not yet been quantified in socially anxious individuals. In this study, we used a double baseline, repeated measures design, in which 25 adults with a principal diagnosis of social anxiety disorder completed 12 weekly sessions of standardized group cognitive behavioral therapy and four EEG assessments: two at pretreatment, one at midtreatment, and one at posttreatment. Treatment was associated with reductions in symptom severity across multiple measures and informants, as well as reductions in delta-beta coupling at rest and during speech anticipation. Moreover, the clinical group exhibited greater coupling at pretreatment than did post hoc control participants with low social anxiety. The EEG cross-frequency profiles in the clinical group normalized by the posttreatment assessment. These findings provide evidence of concomitant improvement in neural and behavioral functioning among socially anxious adults undergoing psychotherapy.
Brain oscillations in various frequency bands have been shown to be an important means of enabling interarea communication for high-level cognitive performance. Interestingly, perturbation to such oscillations in the form of weak noise has been shown to benefit perception in tasks such as the attentional blink (AB). Here, we investigated perturbation intrinsic to the AB task in two conditions in which noise arose from either temporal or spatial discontinuity. Consistent with theoretical predictions, temporal discontinuity resulted in a reduced AB, whereas spatial discontinuity resulted in an increased AB. The results are discussed in the framework of both stochastic resonance theory and pretarget alpha oscillations, two neurally based accounts of perceptual processing.
We examined whether different types of brain images affect readers' evaluations of scientific reports. Five different brain images were selected from the neuroscience literature: a whole brain, an inflated brain, a cross-sectional brain slice, a glass brain, and a topographic map. First, the images were subjectively rated by 31 nonexperts for qualities associated with realism and perceived complexity. Each of the five images was later presented alongside one of five fictitious neuroscience articles (image-text pairings counterbalanced), and a different group of 122 novices rated the accompanying articles for scientific reasoning. They also separately reported their familiarity with each image type. Brain images previously rated as more three-dimensional produced more positive evaluations of the articles with which they were presented. Perceived image complexity also showed a marginal nonlinear relationship with article credibility ratings. Our findings suggest that choice of image format matters when disseminating neuroscience research to the general public.
In the present study, we investigated, using language, which motor information is automatically activated by observing 3-D objects (i.e., manipulation vs. function) and whether this information is modulated by the objects' location in space. Participants were shown 3-D pictures of objects located in peripersonal versus extrapersonal space. Immediately after, they were presented with function, manipulation, or observation verbs (e.g., &quot;to drink,&quot; &quot;to grasp,&quot; &quot;to look at&quot;) and were required to judge whether the verb was compatible with the presented object. We found that participants were slower with observation verbs than with manipulation and function verbs. With both function and manipulation verbs, participants were faster when objects were presented in reachable space. Interestingly, the fastest response times were recorded when participants read function verbs while objects were presented in the accessible space. Results suggest that artifacts are first conceived in terms of affordances linked to manipulation and use, and that affordances are differently activated, depending on context.
Based on genetic variation, there is accumulating evidence that altered function of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2), the enzyme critical for synthesis of serotonin (5-HT) in the brain, plays a role in anxiety-, aggression- and depression-related personality traits and in the pathogenesis of disorders featuring deficits in cognitive control and emotion regulation. Here, we appraise the genetic and neurobiological evidence to illustrate the critical role of TPH2 in central 5-HT system function and in the pathophysiology of a wide spectrum of disorders of cognitive control and emotion regulation, ranging from depression to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), a phenotype commonly associated with difficulties in the control of emotion and with a high co-morbidity of depression. Findings from psychophysiological and functional imaging studies are indicative of various TPH2 polymorphisms directly influencing serotonergic function and thus impacting on mood disorders and on the response to antidepressant treatment. Especially a combination with uncontrollable stress seems to potentiate these effects linking gene-environment interaction directly with behavioral dysfunction in human and animal models. TPH2-deficient mice display alterations in anxiety-like behavior which is accompanied by adaptational changes of 5-HT(1A) receptors and its associated signaling pathway. Mouse models in conjunction with cognitive neuroscience approaches in humans are providing unexpected results and it may well be that future research on TPH2 will provide an entirely new view of 5-HT in brain development and function related to neuropsychiatric disorders.
Early stressful events can increase vulnerability for psychopathology, although knowledge on the effectors is still limited. In this report we describe the characterization of a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in rhesus macaques, which results in a Val to Met transition in the pro-BDNF domain, similar to a well described variant in the human gene. Further, we tested the hypothesis that peripheral levels of BDNF, which is involved in the response to stress and in the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression, might be differentially affected in a non-human primate model of early adverse rearing in a genotype-dependent manner. Males and females rhesus macaques reared either with their mothers (MR), in peer-only groups (PR), or in a &quot;surrogate/peer-reared&quot; (SPR) condition with limited peer interactions, were used as experimental subjects. BDNF levels were determined at baseline on postnatal days (PND) 14, 30 and 60 by means of specific ELISA procedure. Data indicate that BDNF levels were increased as a result of peer-rearing and that this increase was moderated by the presence of the SNP. Overall these data indicate that a SNP, which results in a Val to Met transition in the pro-BDNF domain, is present in rhesus macaques and is able to affect BDNF peripheral levels, thus making this primate model a fundamental tool to study gene by environment interactions involving the BDNF gene.
Major depression is a chronic, recurring and potentially life-threatening illness that affects up to 10% of the population worldwide. Pharmacological and genetic studies highlight the serotonergic system as being a key player in the disorder. However, despite drugs designed to boost serotonin transmission represent the first line of therapy for depression, the role of this system still remains elusive. Here, I propose a new theoretical framework, the undirected susceptibility to change model, potentially accounting for the experimental and clinical results concerning the role of this neurotransmitter in depression. Since the capacity of the individual to change its physiology and behavior according to the environment is dependent on neural plasticity which, in turn, is controlled by serotonin, I assume that changes in the levels of serotonin affect the sensitivity to the environment. Consequently, the undirected susceptibility to change model predicts that an increase of serotonin levels, for instance induced through selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) administration, does not affect mood per se, but--acting as a catalyzer--enhances neural plasticity and, thus, the effects of the environment on mood. However, since the environment can be either supportive or adverse, its effects can be beneficial or detrimental. Therefore enhancing the serotonin system can increase the likelihood both of developing the psychopathology and recovering from it. This model, on the one hand, suggests an explanation for the limited SSRI efficacy described in clinical studies and allows apparently contradictory data to be reconciled; on the other, it describes neural plasticity as a double edged sword that, according to the quality of the environment, may have either positive or negative consequences.
The quality of the social environment can have profound influences on the development and activity of neural systems with implications for numerous behavioral and physiological responses, including the expression of emotionality. Though social experiences occurring early in development may be particularly influential on the developing brain, there is continued plasticity within these neural circuits amongst juveniles and into early adulthood. In this review, we explore the evidence derived from studies in rodents which illustrates the social modulation during development of neural systems, with a particular emphasis on those systems in which a long-term effect is observed. One possible explanation for the persistence of dynamic changes in these systems in response to the environment is the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms, and here we discuss recent studies which support the role of these mechanisms in mediating the link between social experiences, gene expression, neurobiological changes, and behavioral variation. This literature raises critical questions about the interaction between neural systems, the concordance between neural and behavioral changes, sexual dimorphism in effects, the importance of considering individual differences in response to the social environment, and the potential of an epigenetic perspective in advancing our understanding of the pathways leading to variations in mental health.
Exposure to stressful situations activates two hormonal systems that help the organism to adapt. On the one hand stress hormones achieve adaptation by affecting peripheral organs, on the other hand by altering brain function such that appropriate behavioral strategies are selected for optimal performance at the short term, while relevant information is stored for reference in the future. In this chapter we describe how cellular effects induced by stress hormones--in particular by glucocorticoids--may contribute to the behavioral outcome after a single stressor. In addition to situations of acute stress, chronic uncontrollable and unpredictable stress also exerts profound effects on structure and function of limbic neurons. The impact of chronic stress is not a mere cumulative effect of what is seen after acute stress exposure. Dendritic trees are expanded in some regions but reduced in others. In general, cells are exposed to a higher calcium load upon depolarization, but show attenuated responses to serotonin. Synaptic strengthening is largely impaired. In this viewpoint we speculate how cellular effects after chronic stress may be maladaptive and could contribute to the development of psychopathology in genetically vulnerable individuals.









Studies regarding the interrelation of perceived and physiological stress indices have shown diverging results. Using a population sample of adolescents (N=715, 50.9% girls, mean age 16.11 years, SD=0.59), we tested three hypotheses: (1) perceived responses during social stress covary with concurrent physiological stress responses; (2) high pretest levels of perceived stress predict large physiological responses; and (3) large physiological responses to social stress predict low posttest perceived stress levels. Perceived arousal, unpleasantness, and dominance were related to heart rate, respiratory sinus arrhythmia, and cortisol responses to a laboratory social stress test. Although effect sizes were small, the results suggest covariation of perceived stress and concurrent physiological stress responses in both the ANS and the HPA axis, as well as inverse associations between heart rate responsiveness and the subsequent appraisal of stress.
Selecting the adequate alternative in choice situations may involve an inhibition process. Here we assessed response implementation during the reaction time of a between-hand choice task with single- or paired-pulse (3 or 15 ms interstimulus intervals [ISIs]) transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex. The amplitude of the single-pulse motor evoked potential (MEP) initially increased for both hands. At around 130 ms, the single-pulse MEP kept increasing for the responding hand and decreased for the nonresponding hand. The paired-pulse MEP revealed a similar pattern for both ISIs with no effect on short intracortical inhibition and intracortical facilitation measures. The results suggest that the incorrect response implementation was selectively suppressed before execution of the correct response, preventing errors in choice context. The results favor models assuming that decision making involves an inhibition process.
The present study captures the dynamics of neural processing across positively contingent, negatively contingent, and noncontingent relations. In the setting of a hypothetical chat room conversation, participants rated the contingency of emotional response between two individuals. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were time-locked to the onset of each emotional event. Although each event alone was ambiguous regarding contingency, its neural response was characteristic of the overall contingent relation and the subsequent contingency rating. Very early displays of contingency modified the ERP anterior N1 (AN1) component amplitude. In contrast, the ERP selection negativity (SN) component amplitude seemed to be more sensitive to display properties than contingency. Our results point to the recruitment of early attentional processes for contingency judgement and highlight the efficiency of statistical information processing.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a potent and widely consumed psychostimulant drug that causes brain functional and structural abnormalities. However, there is little information regarding METH impact on adult neurogenic niches and, indeed, nothing is known about its consequences on the subventricular zone (SVZ). Thus, this work aims to clarify the effect of METH on SVZ stem/progenitor cells dynamics and neurogenesis. For that purpose, SVZ neurospheres were obtained from early postnatal mice and treated with increasing concentrations of METH (1 M to 500 M). Exposure to 100, 250, or 500 M METH for 24 h triggered cell death both by necrosis and apoptosis, as assessed by propidium iodide uptake, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining, and quantification of the proapoptotic caspase-3 activity. Furthermore, we showed that METH inhibited SVZ progenitor cells proliferation as it decreased BrdU incorporation. Interestingly, at non-toxic concentrations (1 and 10 M), METH decreased neuronal differentiation and maturation, which were evaluated by quantification of the number of neuronal nuclei-positive neurons and measurements of phospho-c-Jun-NH(2)-terminal kinase signal in growing axons, respectively. Altogether, our data demonstrate that METH has a negative impact on SVZ stem/progenitor cells, inducing cell death and inhibiting neurogenesis, effects that in vivo may challenge the cell replacement capacities displayed by endogenous populations of brain stem/progenitor cells.




The review discusses various mechanisms of the rapidly growing problem of Sleep Medicine. The &quot;Sleep-wakefulness&quot; cycle is a continuum of different functional states and the diseases that these states might prompt to manifest themselves in various ways. In these cases, we must say that change produces the conditions of disease manifestation rather than the disease itself. The paper describes the dynamics of the autonomous parameters during sleep, emphasizes the role and importance of chronobiological aspects of the &quot;sleep-wakefulness&quot; cycle. The holographic principle of the operation I sleep cycle is described which persists even in the cerebral stroke. From the standpoint of neurochemistry, modern hypnotics and drugs of the nearest future can be divided into 2 groups: proS (pro sleep)--for sleeping, and antiW (anti-wakefulness)--vs. wakefulness.
Data on interactions between the paradoxical sleep (PS) and thermoregulation under thermo-comfortable and extreme conditions (in high and low temperatures, forced and spontaneous fasting, acclimation to cold and acclimation to natural winter conditions) are reviewed. The hypothesis of the PS role in synchronising and endogenous &quot;kindling&quot; of the visceral function ultradian rhythms is substantiated. Some new data are presented on entering torpor as a phenomenon of the &quot;dramatic&quot; neuronal plasticity.
The current construct of schizophrenia as a unitary disease is far from satisfactory, and is in need of reconceptualization. The first five papers in our &quot;facts&quot; series reviewed what is known about schizophrenia to date, and a limited number of key facts appear to stand out. Schizophrenia is characterized by persistent cognitive deficits, positive and negative symptoms typically beginning in youth, substantive heritability, and brain structural, functional and neurochemical alterations including dopaminergic dysregulation. Several pathophysiological models have been proposed with differing interpretations of the illness, like the fabled six blind Indian men groping different parts of an elephant coming up with different conclusions. However, accumulating knowledge is integrating the several extant models of schizophrenia etiopathogenesis into unifying constructs; we discuss an example, involving a neurodevelopmental imbalance in excitatory/inhibitory neural systems leading to impaired neural plasticity. This imbalance, which may be proximal to clinical manifestations, could result from a variety of genetic, epigenetic and environmental causes, as well as pathophysiological processes such as inflammation and oxidative stress. Such efforts to &quot;connect the dots&quot; (and visualizing the elephant) are still limited by the substantial clinical, pathological, and etiological heterogeneity of schizophrenia and its blurred boundaries with several other psychiatric disorders leading to a &quot;fuzzy cluster&quot; of overlapping syndromes, thereby reducing the content, discriminant and predictive validity of a unitary construct of this illness. The way ahead involves several key directions: a) choosing valid phenotype definitions increasingly derived from translational neuroscience; b) addressing clinical heterogeneity by a cross-diagnostic dimensional and a staging approach to psychopathology; c) addressing pathophysiological heterogeneity by elucidating independent families of &quot;extended&quot; intermediate phenotypes and pathophysiological processes (e.g. altered excitatory/inhibitory, salience or executive circuitries, oxidative stress systems) that traverse structural, functional, neurochemical and molecular domains; d) resolving etiologic heterogeneity by mapping genomic and environmental factors and their interactions to syndromal and specific pathophysiological signatures; e) separating causal factors from consequences and compensatory phenomena; and f) formulating or reformulating hypotheses that can be refuted/tested, perhaps in the mouse or other experimental models. These steps will likely lead to the current entity of schizophrenia being usefully deconstructed and reconfigured into phenotypically overlapping, but etiopathologically unique and empirically testable component entities (similar to mental retardation, epilepsy or cancer syndromes). The mouse may be the way to rescue the trapped elephant!
Despite an increasing number of published voxel based morphometry studies of schizophrenia, there has been no adequate attempt to examine gray (GM) and white matter (WM) abnormalities and the heterogeneity of published findings. In the current article, we used a coordinate based meta-analysis technique to simultaneously examine GM and WM abnormalities in schizophrenia and to assess the effects of gender, chronicity, negative symptoms and other clinical variables. 79 studies meeting our inclusion criteria were included in the meta-analysis. Schizophrenia was associated with GM reductions in the bilateral insula/inferior frontal cortex, superior temporal gyrus, anterior cingulate gyrus/medial frontal cortex, thalamus and left amygdala. In WM analyses of volumetric and diffusion-weighted images, schizophrenia was associated with decreased FA and/or WM in interhemispheric fibers, anterior thalamic radiation, inferior longitudinal fasciculi, inferior frontal occipital fasciculi, cingulum and fornix. Male gender, chronic illness and negative symptoms were associated with more severe GM abnormalities and illness chronicity was associated with more severe WM deficits. The meta-analyses revealed overlapping GM and WM structural findings in schizophrenia, characterized by bilateral anterior cortical, limbic and subcortical GM abnormalities, and WM changes in regions including tracts that connect these structures within and between hemispheres. However, the available findings are biased towards characteristics of schizophrenia samples with poor prognosis.
The simultaneous prescription of two or more antipsychotic drugs in combination is a common treatment strategy for those patients who have demonstrated a suboptimal response to clozapine; nevertheless, evidence suggesting potential advantages of combination treatment with clozapine plus one antipsychotic in terms of efficacy and tolerability are still sparse. The present 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of adjunctive aripiprazole to clozapine therapy in schizophrenia was aimed to explore the efficacy of aripiprazole add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptomatology and cognitive functioning in a sample of patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia receiving clozapine. After clinical and neurocognitive assessments patients were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind design, either up to 15 mg/day of aripiprazole or a placebo. A final sample of thirty-one patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that aripiprazole added to stable clozapine treatment showed a beneficial effect on the positive and general psychopathological symptomatology in a sample of treatment-resistant schizophrenia patients. Regarding executive cognitive functions, aripiprazole augmentation of clozapine had no significant effects. The findings provide evidence that aripiprazole augmentation of clozapine treatment is well-tolerated and may be of benefit for patients who are partially responsive to clozapine monotherapy; further double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in a larger number of patients are required to evaluate the therapeutic potential of aripiprazole augmentation of clozapine.
Diminished functional lateralization in language-related areas is found in chronic schizophrenia. It is not clear at what stage of illness these abnormalities in lateralization arise, or whether they are affected by medication. In addition, it is hypothesized that reduced language lateralization is related to positive symptoms of schizophrenia, but studies addressing this issue have yielded contradictory results. In this study we used functional MRI to measure language lateralization in 35 first-episode medication-naive schizophrenia patients and 43 matched healthy controls. Subjects performed three language tasks: a paced verb generation task, an antonym generation task, and a semantic decision task. Lateralization Index (LI) was calculated, using a relative threshold technique, in seven Regions of Interest (ROIs), including the main language-related areas and their contralateral homologues. In addition, we investigated whether language lateralization was correlated with psychotic symptoms. Across all ROIs, LI was significantly reduced in patients (p&lt;0.001) compared to controls. Post-hoc tests revealed that this reduction was most prominent in the inferior frontal gyrus (part of Broca's area) (p=0.003) and the superior temporal gyrus (part of Wernicke's area) (p&lt;0.001). LI was not correlated with the positive subscale of the PANSS, nor with hallucinations or disorganization. This is the first study to report reduced LI at the onset of schizophrenia, before medical treatment is initiated.
Subjective quality-of-life (SQOL) has been recognized as a crucial domain of outcome in schizophrenia treatment, and yet its determinants are not well understood. In a recent meta-analytic investigation of 10 studies of neurocognition and SQOL in schizophrenia (Tolman and Kurtz, Scz Bull, 2010) measures of crystallized verbal ability and processing speed were moderately negatively correlated with SQOL. One potential explanation for inverse relationships between measures of elementary neurocognition and SQOL is that higher levels of cognition may serve as a proxy for better insight into the illness, and better consequent recognition of illness-related functional impairment. This study sought to determine whether: (1) symptoms, neurocognitive variables, and insight into illness influence SQOL; and, (2) whether insight mediated or moderated a relationship between elementary neurocognitive function and SQOL. Seventy-one stabilized clients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were administered a neuropsychological test battery, symptom and subjective quality-of-life measures. Elementary neuropsychological measures of crystallized verbal ability, attention and working memory, and problem-solving were all inversely related to SQOL. Insight into illness and depression severity, but not positive and negative symptoms, was also inversely related to SQOL. Insight was not found to mediate or moderate any of the relationships between elementary neurocognition and SQOL. Taken together, these findings suggest that neurocognition and insight into illness have inverse relationships to SQOL and that elementary neurocognition does not influence SQOL through its link with illness insight.



Extracellular purine and pyrimidine compounds induce a multiplicity of cellular signal pathways that can induce multiple trophic functions. They interact with other low molecular weight messengers, growth factors, and extracellular matrix components. An increasing number of studies now provide evidence for a role of purinergic signaling in neural development, including progenitor cell proliferation, cell migration, neuronal and glial maturation and differentiation, and cell death and survival. This brief overview highlights recent developments supporting a contribution of purinergic signaling to embryonic and adult neurogenesis.
Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 (encoded by KCNQ2 and KCNQ3) are homologous subunits forming a widely expressed neuronal voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channel. Hypomorphic mutations in either KCNQ2 or KCNQ3 cause a highly penetrant, though transient, human phenotype-epilepsy during the first months of life. Some KCNQ2 mutations also cause involuntary muscle rippling, or myokymia, which is indicative of motoneuron axon hyperexcitability. Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 are concentrated at axonal initial segments (AISs), and at nodes of Ranvier in the central and peripheral nervous system. Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 share a novel 80 residue C-terminal domain bearing an &quot;anchor&quot; motif, which interacts with ankyrin-G and is required for channel AIS (and likely, nodal) localization. This domain includes the sequence IAEGES/TDTD, which is analogous (not homologous) to the ankyrin-G interaction motif of voltage-gated Na(+) (Na(V)) channels. The KCNQ subfamily is evolutionarily ancient, with two genes (KCNQ1 and KCNQ5) persisting as orthologues in extant bilaterian animals from worm to man. However, KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 arose much more recently, in the interval between the divergence of extant jawless and jawed vertebrates. This is precisely the interval during which myelin and saltatory conduction evolved. The natural selection for KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 appears to hinge on these subunits' unique ability to be coordinately localized with Na(V) channels by ankyrin-G, and the resulting enhancement in the reliability of neuronal excitability.
Neurons have many specialized membrane domains with diverse functions responsible for receiving, integrating, and transmitting electrical signals between cells in a circuit. Both the locations and protein compositions of these domains defines their functions. In axons, two of the most important membrane domains are the axon initial segment and the nodes of Ranvier. Proper assembly and maintenance of these domains is necessary for action potential generation and propagation, and the overall function of the neuron.


This article introduces the special issue of 'Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience' on Aging Research, and offers a broad conceptual and methodological framework for considering advances in life course research in social neuroscience and neuroeconomics. The authors highlight key areas of inquiry where aging research is raising new insights about how to conceptualize and examine critical questions about the links between cognition, emotion and motivation in social and economic behavior, as well as challenges that need to be addressed when taking a life course perspective in these fields. They also point to several emerging approaches that hold the potential for addressing these challenges, through bridging approaches from laboratory and population-based science, bridging inquiry across life stages and expanding measurement of core psychological phenotypes.
Ostracism is ubiquitous across the lifespan. From social exclusion on the playground, to romantic rejection, to workplace expulsion, to social disregard for the aged, ostracism threatens a fundamental human need to belong that reflexively elicits social pain and sadness. Older adults may be particularly vulnerable to ostracism because of loss of network members and meaningful societal roles. On the other hand, socioemotional selectivity theory suggests that older adults may be less impacted by ostracism because of an age-related positivity bias. We examined these hypotheses in two independent studies, and tested mechanisms that may account for age differences in the affective experience of ostracism. A study of 18- to 86-year-old participants in the Time-Sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences program showed an age-related decrease in the impact of ostracism on needs satisfaction and negative affectivity. A study of 53- to 71-year-old participants in the Chicago Health, Aging, and Social Relations Study (CHASRS) showed that ostracism diminished positive affectivity in younger (&lt;60 years) but not older adults. Age group differences in response to ostracism were consistent with the positivity bias hypothesis, were partly explained by age differences in the impact of physical pain, but were not explained by autonomic nervous system activity, computer experience, or intimate social loss or stressful life experiences.
Studies on aging and emotion suggest an increase in reported positive affect, a processing bias of positive over negative information, as well as increasingly adaptive regulation in response to negative events with advancing age. These findings imply that older individuals evaluate information differently, resulting in lowered reactivity to, and/or faster recovery from, negative information, while maintaining more positive responding to positive information. We examined this hypothesis in an ongoing study on Midlife in the US (MIDUS II) where emotional reactivity and recovery were assessed in a large number of respondents (N = 159) from a wide age range (36-84 years). We recorded eye-blink startle magnitudes and corrugator activity during and after the presentation of positive, neutral and negative pictures. The most robust age effect was found in response to neutral stimuli, where increasing age is associated with a decreased corrugator and eyeblink startle response to neutral stimuli. These data suggest that an age-related positivity effect does not essentially alter the response to emotion-laden information, but is reflected in a more positive interpretation of affectively ambiguous information. Furthermore, older women showed reduced corrugator recovery from negative pictures relative to the younger women and men, suggesting that an age-related prioritization of well-being is not necessarily reflected in adaptive regulation of negative affect.
Older adults, compared to younger adults, focus on emotional well-being. While the lifespan trajectory of emotional processing and its regulation has been characterized behaviorally, few studies have investigated the underlying neural mechanisms. Here, older adults (range: 59-73 years) and younger adults (range: 19-33 years) participated in a cognitive reappraisal task during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning. On each trial, participants viewed positive, negative or neutral pictures and either naturally experienced the image ('Experience' condition) or attempted to detach themselves from the image ('Reappraise' condition). Across both age groups, cognitive reappraisal activated prefrontal regions similar to those reported in prior studies of emotion regulation, while emotional experience activated the bilateral amygdala. Psychophysiological interaction analyses revealed that the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and amygdala demonstrated greater inverse connectivity during the 'Reappraise' condition relative to the 'Experience' condition. The only regions exhibiting significant age differences were the left IFG and the left superior temporal gyrus, for which greater regulation-related activation was observed in younger adults. Controlling for age, increased performance on measures of cognition predicted greater regulation-related decreases in amygdala activation. Thus, while older and younger adults use similar brain structures for emotion regulation and experience, the functional efficacy of those structures depends on underlying cognitive ability.
There are complex reciprocal relationships between health and social, emotional and economic factors in aging populations. Social and affective neurosciences are rapidly developing an understanding of the mechanisms underlying these phenomena using sophisticated behavioural, neuroimaging and psychophysiological methods. These techniques are often complex and expensive, so are generally used in relatively small selected samples rather than in large-scale cohort studies. However, an understanding of the significance of these processes in health and well-being depends on integrating findings from social and affective neuroscience into population-level studies. The aim of this article is to describe how a population perspective on the determinants of health and well-being in old age articulates with the agenda of social, affective and economic neuroscience, particularly through the application of psychosocial biomarker research. Social and affective neuroscience and epidemiological approaches provide complementary research strategies for understanding the mechanisms linking social, emotional and economic factors with health risk. This will be illustrated primarily from findings from two studies conducted at University College London, the Whitehall II Study and the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing.


Empathy is more important than ever to a national population worried about difficult political and socioeconomic situations. During the last 10 years, an enormous amount of research has been carried out to elucidate the nature, mechanism, and function of empathy. New research from social-cognitive neuroscience and related fields indicates that, like language or eye-hand coordination, empathy is an innate human capability that can be greatly enhanced by purposeful and informed guidance. Empathy is particularly important to social work practice. Clients experiencing empathy through treatment have improved outcomes. Empathic social work practitioners are more effective and can balance their roles better. Social work practitioners can and should learn about emerging research on empathy and use that information to better serve their client populations. This article, emphasizing research of the past decade, focuses on empathy and its benefits as an asset to social work practitioners.

Muscle physiologists often describe fatigue simply as a decline of muscle force and infer this causes an athlete to slow down. In contrast, exercise scientists describe fatigue during sport competition more holistically as an exercise-induced impairment of performance. The aim of this review is to reconcile the different views by evaluating the many performance symptoms/measures and mechanisms of fatigue. We describe how fatigue is assessed with muscle, exercise or competition performance measures. Muscle performance (single muscle test measures) declines due to peripheral fatigue (reduced muscle cell force) and/or central fatigue (reduced motor drive from the CNS). Peak muscle force seldom falls by &gt;30% during sport but is often exacerbated during electrical stimulation and laboratory exercise tasks. Exercise performance (whole-body exercise test measures) reveals impaired physical/technical abilities and subjective fatigue sensations. Exercise intensity is initially sustained by recruitment of new motor units and help from synergistic muscles before it declines. Technique/motor skill execution deviates as exercise proceeds to maintain outcomes before they deteriorate, e.g. reduced accuracy or velocity. The sensation of fatigue incorporates an elevated rating of perceived exertion (RPE) during submaximal tasks, due to a combination of peripheral and higher CNS inputs. Competition performance (sport symptoms) is affected more by decision-making and psychological aspects, since there are opponents and a greater importance on the result. Laboratory based decision making is generally faster or unimpaired. Motivation, self-efficacy and anxiety can change during exercise to modify RPE and, hence, alter physical performance. Symptoms of fatigue during racing, team-game or racquet sports are largely anecdotal, but sometimes assessed with time-motion analysis. Fatigue during brief all-out racing is described biomechanically as a decline of peak velocity, along with altered kinematic components. Longer sport events involve pacing strategies, central and peripheral fatigue contributions and elevated RPE. During match play, the work rate can decline late in a match (or tournament) and/or transiently after intense exercise bursts. Repeated sprint ability, agility and leg strength become slightly impaired. Technique outcomes, such as velocity and accuracy for throwing, passing, hitting and kicking, can deteriorate. Physical and subjective changes are both less severe in real rather than simulated sport activities. Little objective evidence exists to support exercise-induced mental lapses during sport. A model depicting mind-body interactions during sport competition shows that the RPE centre-motor cortex-working muscle sequence drives overall performance levels and, hence, fatigue symptoms. The sporting outputs from this sequence can be modulated by interactions with muscle afferent and circulatory feedback, psychological and decision-making inputs. Importantly, compensatory processes exist at many levels to protect against performance decrements. Small changes of putative fatigue factors can also be protective. We show that individual fatigue factors including diminished carbohydrate availability, elevated serotonin, hypoxia, acidosis, hyperkalaemia, hyperthermia, dehydration and reactive oxygen species, each contribute to several fatigue symptoms. Thus, multiple symptoms of fatigue can occur simultaneously and the underlying mechanisms overlap and interact. Based on this understanding, we reinforce the proposal that fatigue is best described globally as an exercise-induced decline of performance as this is inclusive of all viewpoints.
Transplantation of exogenous stem cells has been proposed as a treatment to prevent or reverse sensorineural hearing loss. Here, we investigate the effects of transplantation of adult human olfactory mucosa-derived stem cells on auditory function in A/J mice, a strain exhibiting early-onset progressive sensorineural hearing loss. Recent evidence indicates that these stem cells exhibit multipotency in transplantation settings and may represent a subtype of mesenchymal stem cell. Olfactory stem cells were injected into the cochleae of A/J mice via a lateral wall cochleostomy during the time period in which hearing loss first becomes apparent. Changes in auditory function were assessed 1 month after transplantation and compared against animals that received sham injections. Hearing threshold levels in stem cell-transplanted mice were found to be significantly lower than those of sham-injected mice (p &lt; .05) for both click and pure tone stimuli. Transplanted cells survived within the perilymphatic compartments but did not integrate into cochlear tissues. These results indicate that transplantation of adult human olfactory mucosa-derived stem cells can help preserve auditory function during early-onset progressive sensorineural hearing loss.


We report on one case of variant origin of right ophthalmic artery (OA) from C4 choroidal segment of the right supraclinoid internal carotid artery. A 41-year-old woman affected by bitemporal hemianopsia performed Magnetic Resonance Imaging with gadolinium showing tuberculum sellae meningioma. During angiography we observed this variant of origin of OA. At surgical dissection, we observed this variant in carotid cistern.
Neurons in the hippocampus exhibit subpopulations of dendritic spines that contain endoplasmic reticulum (ER). ER in spines is important for synaptic activity and its associated Ca(2+) signaling. The dynamic distribution of ER to spines is regulated by diacylglycerol and partly mediated by protein kinase C, metalloproteinases and -secretase. In this study, we explored whether pharmacological activation of type I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) known to activate phospholipase C would have any effect on spine ER content. We found that DHPG (100 M) but not carbachol (10 M) caused a reduction in the number of spines with ER. We further found that ER Ca(2+) depletion triggered by thapsigargin (200 nM) had no effect on ER localization in spines.
The critical brain areas and molecular mechanisms involved in drug abuse and dependence have been extensively studied. Drug-induced persistent behaviors such as sensitization, tolerance, or relapse, however, far outlast any previously reported mechanisms. A challenge in the field of addiction, therefore, has been to identify drug-induced changes in brain circuitry that may subserve long-lasting changes in behavior. This study examined behavioral changes and electron microscopic evidence of altered synaptic connectivity within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) following repeated administration of cocaine or morphine. The unbiased quantitative stereological physical disector method was used to estimate the number of synapses per neuron. Increases in the synapse-to-neuron ratio were found in the NAc shell of cocaine-treated (49.1%) and morphine-treated (55.1%) rats and in the NAc core of cocaine-treated animals (49.1%). This study provides direct ultrastructural evidence of drug-induced synaptic plasticity and identifies synaptic remodeling as a potential neural substrate underlying drug-induced behavioral sensitization.

The major toxicological concern associated with nanomaterials is the fact that some manufactured nanomaterials are redox active, and some particles transport across cell membranes, especially into mitochondria. Thus, evaluation of their toxicity upon acute exposure is essential. In this work, we evaluated the toxicity of silver nanoparticles (40 and 80 nm) and their effects in rat liver mitochondria bioenergetics. Wistar rat liver mitochondria demonstrate alterations in respiration and membrane potential capacities in the presence of either 40 or 80 nm silver nanoparticles. Our data demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, ADP-induced depolarization, and respiratory control ratio (RCR) upon exposure to silver nanoparticles. Our results show that silver nanoparticles cause impairment of mitochondrial function, due mainly to alterations of mitochondrial membrane permeability. This results in an uncoupling effect on the oxidative phosphorylation system. Thus, mitochondrial toxicity may have a central role in the toxicity resulting from exposure to silver nanoparticles.
The therapeutic potential of botulinum neurotoxin type A (BoNT/A) has recently been widely recognized. BoNT/A acts to silence synaptic transmission via specific proteolytic cleavage of an essential neuronal protein, SNAP25. The advantages of BoNT/A-mediated synaptic silencing include very long duration, high potency and localized action. However, there is a fear of possible side-effects of BoNT/A due to its diffusible nature which may lead to neuromuscular blockade away from the injection site. We recently developed a &quot;protein-stapling&quot; technology which allows re-assembly of BoNT/A from two separate fragments. This technology allowed, for the first time, safe production of this popular neuronal silencing agent. Here we evaluated the re-assembled toxin in several CNS assays and assessed its systemic effects in an animal model. Our results show that the re-assembled toxin is potent in inhibiting CNS function at 1 nM concentration but surprisingly does not exhibit systemic toxicity after intraperitoneal injection even at 200 ng/kg dose. This shows that the re-assembled toxin represents a uniquely safe tool for neuroscience research and future medical applications.
Considerable neuroimaging research in humans indicates that the frontal pole cortex (FPC), also known as Brodmann area 10, contributes to many aspects of cognition. Despite these findings, however, its fundamental function and mechanism remain unclear. Recent neurophysiological results from the FPC of monkeys have implications about both. Neurons in the FPC seem to encode chosen goals at feedback time and nothing else. Goals, the places and objects that serve as targets for action, come in many forms and arise from many cognitive processes. The FPC's signal, although surprisingly simple for neurons at the apex of a prefrontal hierarchy, could promote learning about which kinds of goals and goal-generating processes produce particular costs and benefits, thereby improving future choices.
The recent development of light-activated optogenetic probes allows for the identification and manipulation of specific neural populations and their connections in awake animals with unprecedented spatial and temporal precision. This review describes the use of optogenetic tools to investigate neurons and neural circuits in vivo. We describe the current panel of optogenetic probes, methods of targeting these probes to specific cell types in the nervous system, and strategies of photostimulating cells in awake, behaving animals. Finally, we survey the application of optogenetic tools to studying functional neuroanatomy, behavior and the etiology and treatment of various neurological disorders.
Adenosine receptor agonists have potent antinociceptive effects in diverse preclinical models of chronic pain. By contrast, the efficacy of adenosine and adenosine receptor agonists in treating pain in humans is unclear. Two ectonucleotidases that generate adenosine in nociceptive neurons were recently identified. When injected spinally, these enzymes have long-lasting adenosine A(1) receptor-dependent antinociceptive effects in inflammatory and neuropathic pain models. Furthermore, recent findings indicate that spinal adenosine A(2A) receptor activation can enduringly inhibit neuropathic pain symptoms. Collectively, these studies suggest the possibility of treating chronic pain in humans by targeting specific adenosine receptor subtypes in anatomically defined regions with agonists or with ectonucleotidases that generate adenosine.
Attention exhibits characteristic neural signatures in brain regions that process sensory signals. An important area of future research is to understand the nature of top-down signals that facilitate attentional guidance towards behaviorally relevant locations and features. In this review, we discuss recent studies that have made progress towards understanding: (i) the brain structures and circuits involved in attentional allocation; (ii) top-down attention pathways, particularly as elucidated by microstimulation and lesion studies; (iii) top-down modulatory influences involving subcortical structures and reward systems; (iv) plausible substrates and embodiments of top-down signals; and (v) information processing and theoretical constraints that might be helpful in guiding future experiments. Understanding top-down attention is crucial for elucidating the mechanisms by which we can filter sensory information to pay attention to the most behaviorally relevant events.
Benzodiazepines are widely used clinically to treat anxiety and insomnia. They also induce muscle relaxation, control epileptic seizures, and can produce amnesia. Moreover, benzodiazepines are often abused after chronic clinical treatment and also for recreational purposes. Within weeks, tolerance to the pharmacological effects can develop as a sign of dependence. In vulnerable individuals with compulsive drug use, addiction will be diagnosed. Here we review recent observations from animal models regarding the cellular and molecular basis that might underlie the addictive properties of benzodiazepines. These data reveal how benzodiazepines, acting through specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes, activate midbrain dopamine neurons, and how this could hijack the mesolimbic reward system. Such findings have important implications for the future design of benzodiazepines with reduced or even absent addiction liability.
A case of psoriasiform dermatitis in an adult male rhesus macaque is reported. Appearing spontaneously, the condition presented the clinical and histopathological features of human palmoplantar nonpustular psoriasis. The animal developed multiple scaly plaques on his palms and soles, as well as nail hyperkeratosis and widening of the nail root. Microscopically, the skin lesions showed epidermal hyperkeratosis with multifocal parakeratosis, neutrophil microabscesses in the stratum corneum, a loss of granule cell layer under the microabscesses, acanthosis, and elongation of the rete ridges; the superficial dermis showed a dense inflammatory infiltrate containing lymphocytes, macrophages and neutrophils, as well as dilated and tortuous blood vessels. The lesions improved for 15 days after intramuscular corticosteroid depot therapy and worsened slightly afterwards. Later, a spontaneous, progressive remission coincided with the beginning of spring and lasted until the end of summer; the skin lesions practically disappeared during this period, and the nails looked nearly normal. During the next autumn and winter only nail hyperkeratosis was present. Serum analyses showed hyperproteinaemia and hyperglobulinaemia during the outbreak phase and normal values during remission. The clinical and histopathological features of this case, as well as its evolution, are compared with the three other reported cases of psoriasiform skin lesions in nonhuman primates. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a definite palmoplantar nonpustular psoriasiform dermatitis in a rhesus macaque.


The aim of this article is to argue, by example, for neuroethics as a new way of doing ethics. Rather than simply giving us a new subject matter-the ethical issues arising from neuroscience-to attend to, neuroethics offers us the opportunity to refine the tools we use. Ethicists often need to appeal to the intuitions provoked by consideration of cases to evaluate the permissibility of types of actions; data from the sciences of the mind give us reason to believe that some of these intuitions are less reliable than others. I focus on the doctrine of double effect to illustrate my case, arguing that experimental results suggest that appeal to it might be question-begging. The doctrine of double effect is supposed to show that there is a moral difference between effects that are brought about intentionally and those that are merely foreseen; I argue that the data suggest that we regard some effects as merely foreseen only because we regard bringing them about as permissible. Appeal to the doctrine of double effect therefore cannot establish that there are such moral differences.

Chronic neuropathic pain that may arise from various nerve injuries or insults remains notoriously difficult to manage. The neuronal isoform of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) has been shown to be involved in the spinal transmission of nociception in animal models of chronic pain. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of single dose and repeated administration of a selective nNOS inhibitor. Rats were unilaterally implanted with a 2-mm polyethylene cuff around the sciatic nerve. Paw withdrawal thresholds were measured using von Frey filament stimulation. Rats were given 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg of 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), or vehicle, on days 2, 5, and 7 after model induction, respectively. Paw withdrawal thresholds were measured before and at 30 and 60 min after injection. 7-NI significantly increased paw withdrawal thresholds at 60 min at the 20 and 30 mg/kg dosages. In the second part of this study, rats were given 20 mg/kg 7-NI daily for five days starting immediately after cuff implantation (days 0 to 4), and the cuff was removed on day 4. Withdrawal thresholds were measured intermittently over a 24-day observation period. No differences in withdrawal thresholds were observed between drug and vehicle-treated rats. Therefore, early and repeated administration of 7-NI did not affect the development or progression of the model. In conclusion, inhibition of nNOS had an analgesic but not a pre-emptive effect in this model of peripheral neuropathic pain.
We measure rats' ability to detect an oriented visual target grating located between two flanking stimuli (&quot;flankers&quot;). Flankers varied in contrast, orientation, angular position, and sign. Rats are impaired at detecting visual targets with collinear flankers, compared to configurations where flankers differ from the target in orientation or angular position. In particular, rats are more likely to miss the target when flankers are collinear. The same impairment is found even when the flanker luminance was sign-reversed relative to the target. These findings suggest that contour alignment alters visual processing in rats, despite their lack of orientation columns in the visual cortex. This is the first report that the arrangement of visual features relative to each other affects visual behavior in rats. To provide a conceptual framework for our findings, we relate our stimuli to a contrast normalization model of early visual processing. We suggest a pattern-sensitive generalization of the model that could account for a collinear deficit. These experiments were performed using a novel method for automated high-throughput training and testing of visual behavior in rodents.
Genetic variation in CHRNA5, the gene encoding the 5 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit, increases vulnerability to tobacco addiction and lung cancer, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Here we report markedly increased nicotine intake in mice with a null mutation in Chrna5. This effect was 'rescued' in knockout mice by re-expressing 5 subunits in the medial habenula (MHb), and recapitulated in rats through 5 subunit knockdown in MHb. Remarkably, 5 subunit knockdown in MHb did not alter the rewarding effects of nicotine but abolished the inhibitory effects of higher nicotine doses on brain reward systems. The MHb extends projections almost exclusively to the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN). We found diminished IPN activation in response to nicotine in 5 knockout mice. Further, disruption of IPN signalling increased nicotine intake in rats. Our findings indicate that nicotine activates the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway through 5-containing nAChRs, triggering an inhibitory motivational signal that acts to limit nicotine intake.
When comparing a cumulative dose-response curve for endothelin-1 (ET-1)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia to the effect of individual doses (1 ng, 10 ng, 100 ng, and 1 g) administered in separate groups of rats, a marked difference was observed in the peak magnitude of hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia was measured as decrease in the threshold for mechanically-induced withdrawal of the hind paw. The cumulative dosing protocol produced markedly greater maximum hyperalgesia. To determine whether this was due to the cumulative dosing protocol or to the repeated exposure to the mechanical test stimulus, we evaluated the impact of repeated testing on ET-1-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. While ET-1-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was dose- and time-dependent, repeated testing of nociceptive threshold, at 5 min intervals, following a single dose of ET-1, produced further decrease in nociceptive threshold. This mechanical stimulation-induced enhancement of ET-1 hyperalgesia lasted only 3-4 h, while the hyperalgesia lasted in excess of 5 days. The stimulation-enhanced hyperalgesia also occurred after a second injection of ET-1, administered 24 h after the initial dose. That this phenomenon is unique to ET-1 is suggested by the observation that while five additional, direct-acting hyperalgesic agents-prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), nerve growth factor (NGF), glia-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF)-induced robust mechanical hyperalgesia, none produced mechanical stimulation-enhanced hyperalgesia.
The effects of a mild traumatic brain injury range from white matter disruption to affective disorders. We set out to determine the response to restraint-induced stress after a mild fluid-percussion injury (FPI), an experimental model for brain injury. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulation of corticosterone (CORT) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was determined during the first post-injury weeks, which corresponds to the same time period when rehabilitative exercise has been shown to be ineffective after a mild FPI. Adult male rats underwent either an FPI or sham injury. Additional rats were only exposed to anesthesia. HPA regulation was evaluated by measuring the effects of dexamethasone (DEX) treatment on CORT and ACTH. Tail vein blood was collected following 30-min restraint stress, at post-injury days (PID) 1, 7 and 14, prior to (0 min) and at 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after stress onset. Results from these studies indicate that the stress response was significantly more pronounced after FPI in that CORT and ACTH restraint-induced increases were more pronounced and longer lasting compared to controls. DEX suppression of CORT and ACTH was observed in all groups, suggesting that stress hyper-responsiveness after mild FPI is not attributable to reduced sensitivity of CORT feedback regulation. The increased sensitivity to stressful events in the first two post-injury weeks after a mild FPI may have a negative impact on early rehabilitative therapies.
Although skeletal pain is a leading cause of chronic pain and disability, relatively little is known about the specific populations of nerve fibers that innervate the skeleton. Recent studies have reported that therapies blocking nerve growth factor (NGF) or its cognate receptor, tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA) are efficacious in attenuating skeletal pain. A potential factor to consider when assessing the analgesic efficacy of targeting NGF-TrkA signaling in a pain state is the fraction of NGF-responsive TrkA+ nociceptors that innervate the tissue from which the pain is arising, as this innervation and the analgesic efficacy of targeting NGF-TrkA signaling may vary considerably from tissue to tissue. To explore this in the skeleton, tissue slices and whole mount preparations of the normal, adult mouse femur were analyzed using immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy. Analysis of these preparations revealed that 80% of the unmyelinated/thinly myelinated sensory nerve fibers that express calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and innervate the periosteum, mineralized bone and bone marrow also express TrkA. Similarly, the majority of myelinated sensory nerve fibers that express neurofilament 200 kDa (NF200) which innervate the periosteum, mineralized bone and bone marrow also co-express TrkA. In the normal femur, the relative density of CGRP+, NF200+ and TrkA+ sensory nerve fibers per unit volume is: periosteum&gt;bone marrow&gt;mineralized bone&gt;cartilage with the respective relative densities being 100:2:0.1:0. The observation that the majority of sensory nerve fibers innervating the skeleton express TrkA+, may in part explain why therapies that block NGF/TrkA pathway are highly efficacious in attenuating skeletal pain.
A number of recent studies have indicated that accumulation of  amyloid (A) peptides within neurons is an early event which may trigger degeneration of neurons and subsequent development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. However, very little is known about the internalization and/or subcellular sites involved in trafficking of A peptides into the neurons that are vulnerable in AD pathology. To address this issue we evaluated internalization of fluoroscein conjugated A1-42 (FA1-42) and subsequent alteration of endosomal-lysosomal (EL) markers such as cathepsin D, Rab5 and Rab7 in rat cortical cultured neurons. It is evident from our results that internalization of FA1-42, which occurred in a dose- and time-dependent manner, triggered degeneration of neurons along with increased levels and/or altered distribution of cathepsin D, Rab5 and Rab7. Our results further revealed that FA1-42 internalization was attenuated by phenylarsine oxide (a general inhibitor of endocytosis) and sucrose (an inhibitor of clathrin-mediated endocytosis) but not by antagonists of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. Additionally, inhibition of FA1-42 endocytosis not only protected neurons against toxicity but also reversed the altered levels/distributions of EL markers. These results, taken together, suggest that internalization of exogenous A1-42, which is partly mediated via a clathrin-dependent process, can lead to degeneration of neurons, possibly by activating the EL system. Inhibition of FA endocytosis attenuated toxicity, thus suggesting a potential strategy for preventing loss of neurons in AD pathology.
Aging is associated with many physiological alterations-such as changes in sleep patterns, metabolism and food intake-suggestive of hypothalamic dysfunction, but the effects of senescence on specific hypothalamic nuclei and neuronal groups that mediate these alterations is unclear. The lateral hypothalamus and contiguous perifornical area (LH/PFA) contains several populations of neurons, including those that express the neuropeptides orexin (hypocretin) or melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). Collectively, orexin and MCH neurons influence many integrative homeostatic processes related to wakefulness and energy balance. Here, we determined the effect of aging on numbers of orexin and MCH neurons in young adult (3-4 months) and old (26-28 months) Fisher 344/Brown Norway F1 hybrid rats. Aged rats exhibited a loss of greater than 40% of orexin-immunoreactive neurons in both the medial and lateral (relative to the fornix) sectors of the LH/PFA. MCH-immunoreactive neurons were also lost in aged rats, primarily in the medial LH/PFA. Neuronal loss in this area was not global as no change in cells immunoreactive for the pan-neuronal marker, NeuN, was observed in aged rats. Combined with other reports of altered receptor expression or behavioral responses to exogenously-administered neuropeptide, these data suggest that compromised orexin (and, perhaps, MCH) function is an important mediator of age-related homeostatic disturbances of hypothalamic origin. The orexin system may represent a crucial substrate linking homeostatic and cognitive dysfunction in aging, as well as a novel therapeutic target for pharmacological or genetic restoration approaches to preventing or ameliorating these disturbances.
Two neuronal populations of the lateral hypothalamus that, respectively, produce melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and orexin peptides are crucially involved in control of metabolism, feeding and related goal-oriented behaviors. In contrast to orexin neurons, mainly involved in short-term regulation of feeding, MCH neurons participate in long-term control of energy storage and body weight. Beyond its effect on feeding, MCH has also been shown to be involved in regulation of seeking behavior and addiction through modulation of dopamine (DA) metabolism. This regulation is essential for reinforcement-associated behaviors. Moreover, drugs of abuse, which increase extracellular DA levels, are known to decrease food intake. Consistent with this observation, DA has been shown to modulate orexin neurons of the lateral hypothalamus. However, no study is available concerning the effects of DA on MCH neurons. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were done in hypothalamic mouse brain slices. MCH neurons were identified by Tau-Cyan-GFP labeling using a transgenic mouse model (MCH-GFP). First, we show that DA (10-200 M) induces an outward current in MCH neurons. However, this current is not due to activation of DA receptors, but mediated through activation of 2-noradrenergic receptors and subsequent opening of G-protein activated inward rectifier K+ (GIRK) channels. Current-clamp experiments revealed that this GIRK-activation leads to hyperpolarization, thus decreasing excitability of MCH neurons. Furthermore, we confirm that MCH neurons receive mainly GABAergic inputs rather than glutamatergic ones. We show that DA modulates these inputs in a complex manner: at low concentrations, DA activates D1-like receptors, promoting presynaptic activity, whereas, at higher concentrations (100 M), D2-like receptor activation inhibits presynaptic activity. Overall, DA should lead to a decrease in MCH neuron excitability, likely resulting in down-regulation of MCH release and feeding behavior.
The reactivity of physiological systems and behavior to psychological stress is reduced with increasing familiarity with a repeated stressor. This reduced reactivity, termed habituation, is a crucial adaptation limiting negative health consequences of stress and can be disrupted in psychopathology. We hypothesized that the ability to habituate physiologically and behaviorally to previously experienced stressors depends on -adrenergic receptor activation (-AR) in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), a specific neural substrate important for the consolidation of multiple types of memories. We observed that administration of the -AR antagonist propranolol into the BLA after each of four daily exposures to restraint stress prevented the normal development of neuroendocrine and behavioral habituation measured during the fifth restraint in adult male rats. In contrast, the -AR agonist clenbuterol administered into the BLA after each restraint on days 1-4 enhanced neuroendocrine habituation at the lowest dose but attenuated behavioral habituation at high doses. We then explored intracellular signaling mechanisms in the BLA that might be a target of -AR activation during stress. -AR activation post restraint is necessary for the alteration in basal phosphorylated ERK (pERK) levels, as daily post-stress -AR blockade on days 1-4 prevented repeated stress from leading to decreased pERK in the BLA on day 5. Finally, we examined the effect of blocking ERK phosphorylation in the BLA after each restraint on days 1-4 with the MEK (MAPK/ERK kinase) inhibitor U0126, and found that this was sufficient to both mimic neuroendocrine habituation in stress-naive animals and to enhance it in repeatedly stressed animals during restraint on day 5. Together, the results suggest that an individual's ability to habituate to repeated stress is regulated by activation of BLA -AR, which may have these effects by transducing subsequent reductions in pERK. Individual variations in -AR activation and intracellular signaling in the BLA may contribute significantly to adaptation to psychological stress and consequent resilience to stress-related psychopathology.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a powerful and highly addictive psychostimulant. However, the neural substrate mediating MA-induced conditioned effects, an essential part of addiction, remain unclear. The present study investigated the involvement of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), the lateral nucleus of amygdala (LNA), and the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) in MA-conditioned place preference (CPP). Rats underwent bilateral radio-frequency lesions of the ACC, LNA, or MD followed by MA CPP training. Lesions of the MD, but not the ACC or LNA, disrupted MA CPP learning. To clarify the role of the MD on the different stages of the MA CPP memory process, bilateral microinfusions of lidocaine into the MD were performed 5 min prior to each conditioning trial, immediately after the conditioning trial, or 5 min before the testing phase. Pretesting, but not pre- or post-conditioning, infusions of lidocaine into the MD impaired MA CPP. Furthermore, a clear preference for the previously conditioned MA paired cues was expressed when the rats were tested again 24 h after infusions of lidocaine. These results are interpreted as indicating that the MD is specifically involved in the memory retrieval process of MA associated memory which suggests the MD could have an important role in relapse in individuals suffering from MA addiction.
The present study examined the association between serum insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) concentrations and cognitive function in a sample of healthy, fit older adults (age: 70.89.3 years, body mass index (BMI): 27.35.7). Participants reported to the laboratory and basic anthropometric data were collected, followed by a fasted blood draw to quantify serum IGF-1. Participants then underwent cognitive testing that included the Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE), Trail Making Test A and B, Ruff's 2 and 7 test of selective attention and Letter Number Sequencing. Results showed the participants were generally cognitively intact (MMSE 27.61.8). Significant partial correlations (controlled for age, gender and years of education) emerged between serum IGF-1 concentrations and the total (r=0.381, P=0.030) and longest trial (r=0.455, P=0.011) on Letter Number Sequencing. Similar partial correlations yielded significant relationships between serum IGF-1 and Ruff's Automatic Detection Errors (r=-0.495, P=0.006), Controlled Speed Errors (r=-0.598, P=0.002) and errors made on the Trial Making Test part B (r=-0.466, P=0.010). These findings suggest that fasting levels of serum IGF-1 are related to higher levels of cognitive performance in healthy older adults, including working memory, selective attention and executive function. Further work is needed to more clearly determine possible mechanisms.
Changes in AMPA receptors have been proposed to underlie changes in synaptic efficacy in hippocampus and other brain structures. Calpain activation has also been discussed as a potential mechanism to produce lasting modifications of synaptic structure and function. Stargazin is a member of the family of transmembrane AMPA receptor associated proteins (TARPs), which participates in trafficking of AMPA receptors and regulates their kinetic properties. We report here that preincubation of thin (20 m) frozen rat brain sections with calcium changes the immunological properties of stargazin, an effect totally blocked by a calpain inhibitor. Immunocytochemistry indicates that in situ calpain activation produces a decreased immunoreactivity for stargazin in the neuropil throughout the brain, and Western blots confirmed that a similar treatment decreased stargazin levels. Interestingly, the same treatment did not modify the immunoreactivity for another TARP member, -8, although it increased immunoreactivity in cell bodies in hippocampus, an effect that was not blocked by calpain inhibition. These results strongly suggest the involvement of calpain in the regulation of AMPA receptor targeting and function through truncation of stargazin.
Calmodulin (CaM) and neurogranin (Ng) are two abundant neuronal proteins in the forebrain whose interactions are implicated in the enhancement of synaptic plasticity. To gain further insight into the actions of these two proteins we investigated whether they co-localize in principle neurons and whether they respond to high frequency stimulation in a coordinated fashion. Immunohistochemical staining of CaM and Ng in mouse hippocampal slices revealed that CaM was highly concentrated in the nucleus of CA1 pyramidal neurons, whereas Ng was more broadly localized throughout the soma and dendrites. The asymmetrical localization of CaM in the nucleus of pyramidal neurons was in sharp contrast to the distribution observed in pyramidal cells of the neighboring subiculum, where CaM was uniformly localized throughout the soma and dendrites. The somatic concentrations of CaM and Ng in CA1 pyramidal neurons were approximately 10- and two-fold greater than observed in the dendrites, respectively. High frequency stimulation (HFS) of hippocampal slices promoted mobilization of CaM and Ng from soma to dendrites. These responses were spatially restricted to the area close to the site of stimulation and were inhibited by the N-methyl-D-asparate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. Furthermore, HFS failed to promote translocation of CaM from soma to dendrites of slices from Ng knockout mice, which also exhibited deficits in HFS-induced long-term potentiation. Translocated CaM and Ng exhibited distinct puncta decorating the apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons and appeared to be concentrated in dendritic spines. These findings suggest that mobilization of CaM and Ng to stimulated dendritic spines may enhance synaptic efficacy by increasing and prolonging the Ca2+ transients and activation of Ca2+/CaM-dependent enzymes.
The pathways by which painful stimuli are signaled within the human medial temporal lobe are unknown. Rodent studies have shown that nociceptive inputs are transmitted from the brainstem or thalamus through one of two pathways to the central nucleus of the amygdala. The indirect pathway projects from the basal and lateral nuclei of the amygdala to the central nucleus, while the direct pathway projects directly to the central nucleus. We now test the hypothesis that the human ventral amygdala (putative basal and lateral nuclei) exerts a causal influence upon the dorsal amygdala (putative central nucleus), during the application of a painful laser stimulus. Local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded from depth electrode contacts implanted in the medial temporal lobe for the treatment of epilepsy, and causal influences were analyzed by Granger causality (GRC). This analysis indicates that the dorsal amygdala exerts a pre-stimulus causal influence upon the hippocampus, consistent with an attention-related response to the painful laser. Within the amygdala, the analysis indicates that the ventral contacts exert a causal influence upon dorsal contacts, consistent with the human (putative) indirect pathway. Potentials evoked by the laser (LEPs) were not recorded in the ventral nuclei, but were recorded at dorsal amygdala contacts which were not preferentially those receiving causal influences from the ventral contacts. Therefore, it seems likely that the putative indirect pathway is associated with causal influences from the ventral to the dorsal amygdala, and is distinct from the human (putative) indirect pathway which mediates LEPs in the dorsal amygdala.
During retinal development, the cell-fate of photoreceptors is committed long before maturation, which entails the expression of opsins and functional transduction of light. The mechanisms that delay the maturation of photoreceptors remain unknown. We have recently reported that immature photoreceptors express the LIM domain transcription factors Islet2 and Lim3, as well as the cell-surface glycoprotein axonin1 [Fischer et al., (2008a) J Comp Neurol 506:584-603]. As the photoreceptors mature to form outer segments and express photopigments, the expression of the Islet2, Lim3 and axonin1 is diminished. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether thyroid hormone (TH) influences the maturation of photoreceptors. We studied the maturation of photoreceptors across the gradient of maturity that exists in far peripheral regions of the post-natal chicken retina [Ghai et al., (2008) Brain Res 1192:76-89]. We found that intraocular injections of TH down-regulated Islet2, Lim3 and axonin1 in photoreceptors in far peripheral regions of the retina. By contrast, TH stimulated the up-regulation of red-green opsin, violet opsin, rhodopsin and calbindin in photoreceptors. We found a correlation between the onset of RLIM (RING finger LIM-domain binding protein) and down-regulation of Islet2 and Lim3 in maturing photoreceptors; RLIM is known to interfere with the transcriptional activity of LIM-domain transcription factors. We conclude that TH stimulates the maturation of photoreceptors in the avian retina. We propose that TH inhibits the expression of Islet2 and Lim3, which thereby permits photoreceptor maturation and the onset of photopigment-expression.
While endocannabinoid modulation of both GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic transmission and plasticity has been extensively investigated, our understanding of the role of endocannabinoids in protecting neurons from harmful insults remains limited. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endogenous ligand and a full agonist for cannabinoid receptors, exhibits anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects via a CB1 receptor (CB1R)-mediated mechanism. However, it is still not clear whether 2-AG is also able to protect neurons from -amyloid (A)-induced neurodegeneration. Here, we demonstrate that exogenous application of 2-AG significantly protected hippocampal neurons in culture against A-induced neurodegeneration and apoptosis. This neuroprotective effect was blocked by SR141716 (SR-1), a selective CB1R antagonist, but not by SR144528 (SR-2), a selective CB2R antagonist, or capsazepine (CAP), a selective transient receptor potential cation channels, subfamily V, member 1 (TRPV1) receptor antagonist. To determine whether endogenous 2-AG is capable of protecting neurons from A insults, hippocampal neurons in culture were treated with URB602 or JZL184, selective inhibitors of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), the enzyme hydrolyzing 2-AG. MAGL inhibition that elevates endogenous levels of 2-AG also significantly reduced A-induced neurodegeneration and apoptosis. The 2-AG-produced neuroprotective effects appear to be mediated via CB1R-dependent suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and nuclear factor-B (NF-B) phosphorylation and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. Our results suggest that elevation of endogenous 2-AG by inhibiting its hydrolysis has potential as a novel efficacious therapeutic approach for preventing, ameliorating or treating Alzheimer's disease.
The aim of the present study was to investigate a causal relationship between low-dose methamphetamine-induced (METH; 2 mg/kg, i.p. once every other day for 7 days) behavioral sensitization and memory function. We first investigated the spatial working memory (short-term memory) and long-term memory in mice behaviorally sensitized by repeated METH treatments. We also assessed changes in NMDA receptor binding in METH-treated mice. Acute METH administration induces hyperlocomotion but do not induce memory impairment of changes in NMDA receptor binding. However, repeated METH treatment in mice produced behavioral sensitization and showed memory impairment and a decrease in NMDA receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex, as well as in the CA1, CA2, and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. These results suggest that repeated METH-induced behavioral sensitization may be accompanied by memory impairment, characterized by decreased NMDA receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Our study shows clearly that repeated but not acute low dose METH treatment induces memory impairment in mice and the possible mechanism involves reduction of NMDA receptor binding in specific brain regions associated with learning and memory.
Mice deficient in the water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) demonstrate increased seizure duration in response to hippocampal stimulation as well as impaired extracellular K+ clearance. However, the expression of AQP4 in the hippocampus is not well described. In this study, we investigated (i) the developmental, laminar and cell-type specificity of AQP4 expression in the hippocampus; (ii) the effect of Kir4.1 deletion on AQP4 expression; and (iii) performed Western blot and RT-PCR analyses. AQP4 immunohistochemistry on coronal sections from wild-type (WT) or Kir4.1-/- mice revealed a developmentally-regulated and laminar-specific pattern, with highest expression in the CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare (SLM) and the molecular layer (ML) of the dentate gyrus (DG). AQP4 was colocalized with the glial markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and S100 in the hippocampus, and was also ubiquitously expressed on astrocytic endfeet around blood vessels. No difference in AQP4 immunoreactivity was observed in Kir4.1-/- mice. Electrophysiological and postrecording RT-PCR analyses of individual cells revealed that AQP4 and Kir4.1 were co-expressed in nearly all CA1 astrocytes. In NG2 cells, AQP4 was also expressed at the transcript level. This study is the first to examine subregional AQP4 expression during development of the hippocampus. The strikingly high expression of AQP4 in the CA1 SLM and DG ML identifies these regions as potential sites of astrocytic K+ and H2O regulation. These results begin to delineate the functional capabilities of hippocampal subregions and cell types for K+ and H2O homeostasis, which is critical to excitability and serves as a potential target for modulation in diverse diseases.
Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS), a condition associated with mutations in the PHOX2B gene, is characterized by loss of breathing drive during sleep, insensitivity to CO2 and O2, and multiple somatomotor, autonomic, neuropsychological, and ophthalmologic deficits, including impaired intrinsic and extrinsic eye muscle control. Brain structural studies show injury in peri-callosal regions and the corpus callosum (CC), which has the potential to affect functions disturbed in the syndrome; however, the extent of CC injury in CCHS is unclear. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-based fiber tractography procedures display fiber directional information and allow quantification of fiber integrity. We performed DTI in 13 CCHS children (age, 18.24.7 years; eight male) and 31 control (17.44.9 years; 18 male) subjects using a 3.0-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging scanner; CC fibers were assessed globally and regionally with tractography procedures, and fiber counts and densities compared between groups using analysis-of-covariance (covariates; age and sex). Global CC evaluation showed reduced fiber counts and densities in CCHS over control subjects (CCHS vs. controls; fiber-counts, 4490854 vs. 5232777, P&lt;0.001; fiber-density, 10.01.5 vs. 10.80.9 fibers/mm2, P&lt;0.020), and regional examination revealed that these changes are localized to callosal axons projecting to prefrontal (21747 vs. 24832, P&lt;0.005), premotor (20151 vs. 24147, P&lt;0.012), parietal (17964 vs. 23854, P&lt;0.002), and occipital regions (36346 vs. 43182, P&lt;0.004). Corpus callosum fibers in CCHS are compromised in motor, cognitive, speech, and ophthalmologic regulatory areas. The mechanisms of fiber injury are unclear, but may result from hypoxia or perfusion deficits accompanying the syndrome, or from consequences of PHOX2B action.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) play a major role in various forms of developmental and adult synaptic plasticity (Lopez de Armentia M, Sah P (2003) J Neurosci 23:6876-6883). Activity-dependent shifts in NR2 subunits of the NMDARs have been proposed to be the molecular basis of critical period plasticity. Several supporting examples have been reported; however it is not clear whether the relationship between NMDAR subunit changes and neural plasticity are correlative or causal, nor whether such a relationship is universal across all sensory pathways with developmental plasticity. In the present study, we used voltage-clamp recording techniques to investigate whether subunit composition of NMDARs changes during development and after neonatal denervation in the principal sensory nucleus (PrV) of the trigeminal nerve. Relative AMPA receptor contribution to synaptic transmission increased linearly by the second postnatal week in the normal PrV. Denervation by peripheral nerve damage did not alter this process. We took the weighted decay time constant (w) of NMDAR-mediated EPSCs as an index for NMDAR subunit composition. The w measurement and Western blot analysis revealed that NMDARs contained both NR2A and NR2B subunits. The NR2A/NR2B ratio did not change during postnatal development or after neonatal denervation. Thus, critical period plasticity-related pattern formation in the PrV does not depend on changes in subunit composition of NMDARs. The mechanism underlying developmental synaptic plasticity in the PrV differs from those in higher trigeminal centers and other brain structures.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a major cause of disability to which there are not yet effective treatments. We previously reported that degeneration of oligodendrocytes and neurons that occurs after SCI is associated with the development of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the progressive accumulation of the pro-apoptotic factor CHOP. Since following ER stress, the balance between the pro-survival chaperone BiP and CHOP drives the cell destiny, we aimed to find drugs that modulate this ratio in favour of the former. We found that valproate (VPA) induced a significant reduction of CHOP levels after ER stress in an organotypic-based culture of spinal cord in vitro. We then administered different doses of VPA to rats following spinal cord contusion, and found that the treatment caused a marked reduction of CHOP levels early after the lesion. In addition, VPA administration partially prevented cord tissue, myelin and axonal loss, and significantly increased the relative number of surviving oligodendrocytes in the damaged spinal cord. Besides, VPA-treated rats showed better recovery of the locomotor activity than vehicle-treated rats after SCI. Since VPA is a drug already in clinical use, these results open the avenue for its therapeutical use in SCI as well as in demyelinating disorders.
The heptapeptide Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 (MERF) with the sequence of YGGFMRF is a potent endogenous opioid located at the C-terminus of proenkephalin-A (PENK), the common polypeptide precursor of Met- and Leu-enkephalin. Our systematic bioinformatic survey revealed considerable sequence polymorphism at the heptapeptide region of different PENK prepropeptides among 56 vertebrate animals. Four orthologous heptapeptides with single or double amino acid replacements were identified among 15 animals, such as YGGFMGY (zebrafish), YGGFMRY (newt), YGGFMKF (hedgehog tenrek) and YGGFMRI (mudpuppy). Each novel heptapeptide, together with the mammalian consensus MERF and Met-enkephalin, were chemically synthesized and subjected to functionality studies, using radioligand binding competition and G-protein activation assays in rat brain membranes. Equilibrium binding affinities changed from good to modest as measured by receptor type selective [3H]opioid radioligands. The relative affinities of the heptapeptides reveal slight mu-receptor (MOP) preference over the delta-receptors (DOP). [35S]GTPS assay, which measures the agonist-mediated G-protein activation, has demonstrated that all the novel heptapeptides were also potent in stimulating the regulatory G-proteins. All peptides were effective in promoting the agonist induced internalization of the green fluorescence protein-tagged human mu-opioid receptor (hMOP-EGFP) stably expressed in HEK293 cells. Thus, the C-terminally processed PENK heptapeptide orthologs exhibited satisfactory bioactivities, moreover they represent further members of the so-called &quot;natural combinatorial neuropeptide library&quot; emerged by evolution.
Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) facilitates phrenic motor output by a mechanism that requires spinal serotonin (type 2) receptor activation, NADPH oxidase activity and formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Episodic spinal serotonin (5-HT) receptor activation alone, without changes in oxygenation, is sufficient to elicit NADPH oxidase-dependent phrenic motor facilitation (pMF). Here we investigated: (1) whether serotonin 2A and/or 2B (5-HT2A/B) receptors are expressed in identified phrenic motor neurons, and (2) which receptor subtype is capable of eliciting NADPH-oxidase-dependent pMF. In anesthetized, artificially ventilated adult rats, episodic C4 intrathecal injections (36 l injections, 5 min intervals) of a 5-HT2A (DOI) or 5-HT2B (BW723C86) receptor agonist elicited progressive and sustained increases in integrated phrenic nerve burst amplitude (i.e. pMF), an effect lasting at least 90 min post-injection for both receptor subtypes. 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B receptor agonist-induced pMF were both blocked by selective antagonists (ketanserin and SB206553, respectively), but not by antagonists to the other receptor subtype. Single injections of either agonist failed to elicit pMF, demonstrating a need for episodic receptor activation. Phrenic motor neurons retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin B fragment expressed both 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B receptors. Pre-treatment with NADPH oxidase inhibitors (apocynin and diphenylenodium (DPI)) blocked 5-HT2B, but not 5-HT2A-induced pMF. Thus, multiple spinal type 2 serotonin receptors elicit pMF, but they act via distinct mechanisms that differ in their requirement for NADPH oxidase activity.
We previously found that ginsenoside Rd (Rd), one of the major active ingredients in Panax ginseng, protects neuronal cells from hydrogen peroxide and oxygen-glucose deprivation, an in vitro model of cerebral ischemia. In this study, we examined the protective effects of Rd in an animal model of focal cerebral ischemia. Rats administered with Rd or vehicle were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Rd (50 mg/kg) significantly reduced the infarct volume by 52.8%. This reduction of injury volume was associated with an improvement in neurological function and was sustained for at least 2 weeks after the induction of ischemia. To evaluate the underlying mechanisms of Rd against stroke, brain tissues were assayed for mitochondrial enzyme activities, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), energy metabolites, and apoptosis. Rd markedly protected mitochondria as indicated by preserved respiratory chain complex activities and aconitase activity, lowered mitochondrial hydrogen peroxide production, and hyperpolarized MMP. Microdialysis results illustrated that Rd significantly decreased the accumulation of lactate, the end product of anaerobic glycolysis, and increased pyruvate, the end product of aerobic glycolysis, hence inducing a lower lactate/pyruvate ratio. Additionally, in vitro studies further exhibited that Rd protected isolated mitochondria from calcium-induced damage by attenuating mitochondrial swelling, preserving MMP and decreasing ROS production. Moreover, Rd treatment reduced mitochondrial release of cytochrome c (CytoC) and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), thereby minimizing mitochondria-mediated apoptosis following ischemia. In conclusion, these findings demonstrated that Rd exerts neuroprotective effects in transient focal ischemia, which may involve an integrated process of the mitochondrial protection, energy restoration and inhibition of apoptosis.
The amygdala is widely recognized to play a central role in emotional processing. In nonhuman primates, the amygdala appears to be critical for generating appropriate behavioral responses in emotionally salient contexts. One common finding is that macaque monkeys that receive amygdala lesions as adults are behaviorally uninhibited in the presence of potentially dangerous objects. While control animals avoid these objects, amygdala-lesioned animals readily interact with them. Despite a large literature documenting the role of the amygdala in emotional processing in adult rhesus macaques, little research has assessed the role of the amygdala across the macaque neurodevelopmental trajectory. We assessed the behavioral responses of 3-year-old (juvenile) rhesus macaques that received bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the amygdala or hippocampus at 2 weeks of age. Animals were presented with salient objects known to produce robust fear-related responses in macaques (e.g., snakes and reptile-like objects), mammal-like objects that included animal-like features (e.g., eyes and mouths) but not reptile-like features (e.g., scales), and non-animal objects. The visual complexity of objects was scaled to vary the objects' salience. In contrast to control and hippocampus-lesioned animals, amygdala-lesioned animals were uninhibited in the presence of potentially dangerous objects. They readily retrieved food rewards placed near these objects and physically explored the objects. Furthermore, while control and hippocampus-lesioned animals differentiated between levels of object complexity, amygdala-lesioned animals did not. Taken together, these findings suggest that early damage to the amygdala, like damage sustained during adulthood, permanently compromises emotional processing.
An immunocytochemical comparison of vGluT1 and vGluT3 in the cochlear nucleus (CN) of deafened versus normal hearing rats showed the first example of vGluT3 immunostaining in the dorsal and ventral CN and revealed temporal and spatial changes in vGluT1 localization in the CN after cochlear injury. In normal hearing rats vGluT1 immunostaining was restricted to terminals on CN neurons while vGluT3 immunolabeled the somata of the neurons. This changed in the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) 3 days following deafness, where vGluT1 immunostaining was no longer seen in large auditory nerve terminals but was instead found in somata of VCN neurons. In the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN), while vGluT1 labeling of terminals decreased, there was no labeling of neuronal somata. Therefore, loss of peripheral excitatory input results in co-localization of vGluT1 and vGluT3 in VCN neuronal somata. Postsynaptic glutamatergic neurons can use retrograde signaling to control their presynaptic inputs and these results suggest vGluTs could play a role in regulating retrograde signaling in the CN under different conditions of excitatory input. Changes in vGluT gene expression in CN neurons were found 3 weeks following deafness using qRT-PCR with significant increases in vGluT1 gene expression in both ventral and dorsal CN while vGluT3 gene expression decreased in VCN but increased in DCN.
Transient outward rectifying conductances or A-like conductances in sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) are prolonged, lasting for hundreds of milliseconds to seconds and are thought to play a key role in the regulation of SPN firing frequency. Here, a multidisciplinary electrophysiological, pharmacological and molecular single-cell rt-PCR approach was used to investigate the kinetics, pharmacological profile and putative K+ channel subunits underlying the transient outward rectifying conductance expressed in SPN. SPN expressed a 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) sensitive transient outward rectification with significantly longer decay kinetics than reported for many other central neurons. The conductance and corresponding current in voltage-clamp conditions was also sensitive to the Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 blocker phrixotoxin-2 (1-10 M) and the blocker of rapidly inactivating Kv channels, pandinotoxin-K (50 nM). The conductance and corresponding current was only weakly sensitive to the Kv1 channel blocker tityustoxin-K and insensitive to dendrotoxin I (200 nM) and the Kv3.4 channel blocker BDS-II (1 M). Single-cell RT-PCR revealed mRNA expression for the -subunits Kv4.1 and Kv4.3 in the majority and Kv1.5 in less than half of SPN. mRNA for accessory -subunits was detected for Kv2 in all SPN with differential expression of mRNA for KChIP1, Kv1 and Kv3 and the peptidase homologue DPP6. These data together suggest that the transient outwardly rectifying conductance in SPN is mediated by members of the Kv4 subfamily (Kv4.1 and Kv4.3) in association with the -subunit Kv2. Differential expression of the accessory  subunits, which may act to modulate channel density and kinetics in SPN, may underlie the prolonged and variable time-course of this conductance in these neurons.
A polyclonal antibody against the Drosophila distal-less (DLL) protein, cross-reactive with cognate vertebrate proteins, was employed to map DLL-like expression in the midlarval lamprey forebrain. This work aimed to characterize in detail the separate diencephalic and telencephalic DLL expression domains, in order to test our previous modified definition of the lamprey prethalamus [Pombal and Puelles (1999) J Comp Neurol 414:391-422], adapt our earlier schema of prosomeric subdivisions in the lamprey forebrain to more recent versions of this model [Pombal et al. (2009) Brain Behav Evol 74:7-19] and reexamine the pallio-subpallial regionalization of the lamprey telencephalon. We observed a large-scale conservation of the topologic distribution of the DLL protein, in consonance with patterns of Dlx expression present in other vertebrates studied. Moreover, evidence was obtained of substantial numbers of DLL-positive neurons in the olfactory bulb and the cerebral hemispheres, in a pattern consistent with possible tangential migration out of the subpallium into the overlying pallium, as occurs in mammals, birds, frogs and teleost fishes.
During development, precise temporal and spatial gradients are responsible for guiding axons to their appropriate targets. Within the developing ventral midbrain (VM) the cues that guide dopaminergic (DA) axons to their forebrain targets remain to be fully elucidated. Wnts are morphogens that have been identified as axon guidance molecules. Several Wnts are expressed in the VM where they regulate the birth of DA neurons. Here, we describe that a precise temporo-spatial expression of Wnt5a accompanies the development of nigrostriatal projections by VM DA neurons. In mice at E11.5, Wnt5a is expressed in the VM where it was found to promote DA neurite and axonal growth in VM primary cultures. By E14.5, when DA axons are approaching their striatal target, Wnt5a causes DA neurite retraction in primary cultures. Co-culture of VM explants with Wnt5a-overexpressing cell aggregates revealed that Wnt5a is capable of repelling DA neurites. Antagonism experiments revealed that the effects of Wnt5a are mediated by the Frizzled receptors and by the small GTPase, Rac1 (a component of the non-canonical Wnt planar cell polarity pathway). Moreover, the effects were specific as they could be blocked by Wnt5a antibody, sFRPs and RYK-Fc. The importance of Wnt5a in DA axon morphogenesis was further verified in Wnt5a-/- mice, where fasciculation of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) as well as the density of DA neurites in the MFB and striatal terminals were disrupted. Thus, our results identify a novel role of Wnt5a in DA axon growth and guidance.
Ascl1 (Mash1) is a bHLH transcription factor essential for neural differentiation during embryogenesis but its role in adult neurogenesis is less clear. Here we show that in the adult brain Ascl1 is dynamically expressed during neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus subgranular zone (SGZ) and more rostral subventricular zone (SVZ). Specifically, we find Ascl1 levels low in SGZ Type-1 cells and SVZ B cells but increasing as the cells transition to intermediate progenitor stages. In vivo genetic lineage tracing with a tamoxifen (TAM) inducible Ascl1CreERT2 knock-in mouse strain shows that Ascl1 lineage cells continuously generate new neurons over extended periods of time. There is a regionally-specific difference in neuron generation, with mice given TAM at postnatal day 50 showing new dentate gyrus neurons through 30 days post-TAM, but showing new olfactory bulb neurons even 180 days post-TAM. These results show that Ascl1 is not restricted to transit amplifying populations but is also found in a subset of neural stem cells with long-term neurogenic potential in the adult brain.

Reciprocal interactions between glia and neurons are essential for the proper organization and function of the nervous system. Recently, the interaction between ErbB receptors (ErbB2 and ErbB3) on the surface of Schwann cells and neuronal Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) has emerged as the pivotal signal that controls Schwann cell development, association with axons, and myelination. To understand the function of NRG1-ErbB2/3 signaling axis in adult Schwann cell biology, we are studying the specific role of ErbB3 receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) since it is the receptor for NRG1 on the surface of Schwann cells. Here, we show that alternative transcription initiation results in the formation of a nuclear variant of ErbB3 (nuc-ErbB3) in rat primary Schwann cells. nuc-ErbB3 possesses a functional nuclear localization signal sequence and binds to chromatin. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-chip arrays, we identified the promoters that associate with nuc-ErbB3 and clustered the active promoters in Schwann cell gene expression. nuc-ErbB3 regulates the transcriptional activity of ezrin and HMGB1 promoters, whereas inhibition of nuc-ErbB3 expression results in reduced myelination and altered distribution of ezrin in the nodes of Ranvier. Finally, we reveal that NRG1 regulates the translation of nuc-ErbB3 in rat Schwann cells. For the first time, to our knowledge, we show that alternative transcription initiation from a gene that encodes a RTK is capable to generate a protein variant of the receptor with a distinct role in molecular and cellular regulation. We propose a new concept for the molecular regulation of myelination through the expression and distinct role of nuc-ErbB3.
Blood flow to glabrous skin such as the rat's tail determines heat dissipation from the body and is regulated by sympathetic vasoconstrictor nerves. Tail vasoconstrictor activity is tonically inhibited by neurons in two distinct preoptic regions, rostromedial (RMPO) and caudolateral (CLPO) regions, whose actions may be via direct projections to medullary raph premotor neurons. In urethane-anesthetized rats, we sought single preoptic neurons that were antidromically activated from the medullary raph and could subserve this function. Nine of 45 raph-projecting preoptic neurons, predominantly in the CLPO, showed spontaneous activity under warm conditions and were inhibited by cooling the trunk skin (warm-responsive). Unexpectedly, 14 raph-projecting preoptic neurons (mostly in the RMPO) were activated by skin cooling (cold-responsive), suggesting that an excitatory pathway from this region could contribute to tail vasoconstriction. Supporting this, neuronal disinhibition in the RMPO by microinjecting the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (0.5 mm, 15 nl) caused a rapid increase in tail sympathetic nerve activity (SNA). Similar injections into the CLPO were without effect. Electrical stimulation of the RMPO also activated tail SNA, with a latency 25 ms longer than to stimulation of the medullary raph. Injection of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate (50 mm, 120 nl) into the medullary raph suppressed tail SNA responses to both RMPO bicuculline and skin cooling. These findings suggest that both inhibitory and excitatory descending drives regulate tail vasoconstriction in the cold and that warm- and cold-responsive raph-projecting preoptic neurons may mediate these actions.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) comprise a family of developmental regulators implicated in a wide variety of neurological functions. FGF receptors 1, 2, and 3 (Fgfrs) are expressed in the embryonic forebrain, including regions overlapping with ventral sites of oligodendrocyte progenitor (OLP) generation. Although FGF signaling is known to influence the proliferation of OLPs in vitro, functions of different Fgfrs in vivo are lacking. Here, we examined single and double mutants with conditional disruption of Fgfrs, specifically in the embryonic forebrain, to investigate the effect of FGFs on the generation and proliferation of OLPs in vivo. FGF signaling, through cooperation between Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 but not Fgfr3, is required for the initial generation of OLPs in the mouse ventral forebrain, with Fgfr1 being a stronger inducer than Fgfr2. In cultures derived from embryonic mutant forebrains or from normal forebrains grown in the presence of Fgfr inhibitor, a strong attenuation of OLP generation was observed, supporting the role of FGF signaling in vivo. Contrary to in vitro findings, Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 signaling is not required for the proliferation of OLPs in vivo. Finally, failure of OLP generation in the Fgfr mutants occurred without loss of sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling; and pharmacological inhibition of either Fgfr or hedgehog signaling in parallel cultures strongly inhibited OLP generation, suggesting that Fgfrs cooperate with Shh to generate OLPs. Overall, our results reveal for the first time an essential role of FGF signaling in vivo, where the three Fgfrs differentially control the normal generation of OLPs from the embryonic ventral forebrain.
Several studies show that the amplitudes of human brain oscillations are modulated during the performance of visual working memory (VWM) tasks in a load-dependent manner. Less is known about the dynamics and identities of the cortical regions in which these modulations take place, and hence their functional significance has remained unclear. We used magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography together with minimum norm estimate-based source modeling to study the dynamics of ongoing brain activity during a parametric VWM task. Early stimulus processing and memory encoding were associated with a memory load-dependent spread of neuronal activity from occipital to temporal, parietal, and frontal cortical regions. During the VWM retention period, the amplitudes of oscillations in theta/alpha- (5-9 Hz), high-alpha- (10-14 Hz), beta- (15-30 Hz), gamma- (30-50 Hz), and high-gamma- (50-150 Hz) frequency bands were suppressed below baseline levels, and yet, in frontoparietal regions, load dependently strengthened. However, in occipital and occipitotemporal structures, only beta, gamma, and high-gamma amplitudes were robustly strengthened by memory load. Individual behavioral VWM capacity was predicted by both the magnitude of the N1 evoked response component in early visual regions and by the amplitudes of frontoparietal high-alpha and high-gamma band oscillations. Thus, both early stimulus processing and late retention period activities may influence the behavioral outcome in VWM tasks. These data support the notion that beta- and gamma-band oscillations support the maintenance of object representations in VWM whereas alpha-, beta-, and gamma-band oscillations together contribute to attentional and executive processing.
The loss of photoreceptors during retinal degeneration (RD) is known to lead to an increase in basal activity in remnant neural networks. To identify the source of activity, we combined two-photon imaging with patch-clamp techniques to examine the physiological properties of morphologically identified retinal neurons in a mouse model of RD (rd1). Analysis of activity in rd1 ganglion cells revealed sustained oscillatory (10 Hz) synaptic activity in 30% of all classes of cells. Oscillatory activity persisted after putative inputs from residual photoreceptor, rod bipolar cell, and inhibitory amacrine cell synapses were pharmacologically blocked, suggesting that presynaptic cone bipolar cells were intrinsically active. Examination of presynaptic rd1 ON and OFF bipolar cells indicated that they rested at relatively negative potentials (less than -50 mV). However, in approximately half the cone bipolar cells, low-amplitude membrane oscillation (5 mV, 10 Hz) were apparent. Such oscillations were also observed in AII amacrine cells. Oscillations in ON cone bipolar and AII amacrine cells exhibited a weak apparent voltage dependence and were resistant to blockade of synaptic receptors, suggesting that, as in wild-type retina, they form an electrically coupled network. In addition, oscillations were insensitive to blockers of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (0.5 mm Cd(2+) and 0.5 mm Ni(2+)), ruling out known mechanisms that underlie oscillatory behavior in bipolar cells. Together, these results indicate that an electrically coupled network of ON cone bipolar/AII amacrine cells constitutes an intrinsic oscillator in the rd1 retina that is likely to drive synaptic activity in downstream circuits.
Synapse-to-nucleus signaling triggered by synaptic NMDA receptors can lead to the buildup of a neuroprotective shield. Nuclear calcium activating the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) plays a key role in neuroprotection acquired by synaptic activity. Here we show that in mouse hippocampal neurons, the transcription factor Atf3 (activating transcription factor 3) is a direct target of CREB. Induction of ATF3 expression by CREB in hippocampal neurons was initiated by calcium entry through synaptic NMDA receptors and required nuclear calcium transients and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV activity. Acting as a transcriptional repressor, ATF3 protects cultured hippocampal neurons from apoptosis and extrasynaptic NMDA receptor-induced cell death triggered by bath application of NMDA or oxygen-glucose deprivation. Expression of ATF3 in vivo using stereotaxic delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus reduces brain damage following a cerebral ischemic insult in mice. Conversion of ATF3 to a transcriptional activator transforms ATF3 into a potent prodeath protein that kills neurons in cell culture and, when expressed in vivo in the hippocampus, ablates the neuronal cell layer. These results link nuclear calcium-CREB signaling to an ATF3-mediated neuroprotective gene repression program, indicating that activity-dependent shutoff of genes is an important process for survival. ATF3 supplementation may counteract age- and disease-related neuronal cell loss caused by a reduction in synaptic activity, malfunctioning of calcium signaling toward and within the nucleus (&quot;nuclear calciopathy&quot;), or increases in death signaling by extrasynaptic NMDA receptors.
Cocaine users display a wide range of cognitive impairments. Because treatment outcome is dependent on baseline cognitive ability, it is clinically important to understand the underlying neurobiology of these deficits. Therefore, it is crucial to determine whether cocaine exposure by itself is an etiological factor and, if so, to determine the overall nature of cognitive deficits associated with cocaine use. This will help to guide therapeutic approaches that address cognitive components of cocaine use to improve treatment outcome. We used rhesus monkeys in a longitudinal study in which 14 animals were characterized before assignment to matched control (n = 6) and cocaine self-administration (n = 8) groups. Self-administration took place on 4 consecutive days/week over 9 months, with a maximum (and typical) daily cumulative intake of 3.0 mg/kg. Weekly cognitive assessments (total of 36) were conducted after a 72 h drug-free period. We used a stimulus discrimination task with reversal to evaluate associative learning and the cognitive control/flexibility needed to adapt to changes in reward contingencies. After extended self-administration, initial accuracy on the stimulus discrimination indicated intact associative learning. However, animals were impaired at maintaining high levels of accuracy needed to reach criterion and initiate the reversal. Increasing the reward contrast between stimuli permitted evaluation of reversal performance and revealed striking deficits in the cocaine group. Impairments in visual working memory were also observed using a delayed match-to-sample task. These results suggest a combination of generalized, possibly attentional, impairments, along with a more specific cognitive control impairment implicating orbitofrontal cortex dysfunction.
The brain estimates visual motion by decoding the responses of populations of neurons. Extracting unbiased motion estimates from early visual cortical neurons is challenging because each neuron contributes an ambiguous (local) representation of the visual environment and inherently variable neural response. To mitigate these sources of noise, the brain can pool across large populations of neurons, pool the response of each neuron over time, or a combination of the two. Recent psychophysical and physiological work points to a flexible motion pooling system that arrives at different computational solutions over time and for different stimuli. Here we ask whether a single, likelihood-based computation can accommodate the flexible nature of spatiotemporal motion pooling in humans. We examined the contribution of different computations to human observers' performance on two global visual motion discriminations tasks, one requiring the combination of motion directions over time and another requiring their combination in different relative proportions over space and time. Observers' perceived direction of global motion was accurately predicted by a vector average readout of direction signals accumulated over time and a maximum likelihood readout of direction signals combined over space, consistent with the notion of a flexible motion pooling system that uses different computations over space and time. Additional simulations of observers' performance with a population decoding model revealed a more parsimonious solution: flexible spatiotemporal pooling could be accommodated by a single computation that optimally pools motion signals across a population of neurons that accumulate local motion signals on their receptive fields at a fixed rate over time.
Mammalian retinas display an astonishing diversity in the spatial arrangement of their spectral cone photoreceptors, probably in adaptation to different visual environments. Opsin expression patterns like the dorsoventral gradients of short-wave-sensitive (S) and middle- to long-wave-sensitive (M) cone opsin found in many species are established early in development and thought to be stable thereafter throughout life. In mouse early development, thyroid hormone (TH), through its receptor TR2, is an important regulator of cone spectral identity. However, the role of TH in the maintenance of the mature cone photoreceptor pattern is unclear. We here show that TH also controls adult cone opsin expression. Methimazole-induced suppression of serum TH in adult mice and rats yielded no changes in cone numbers but reversibly altered cone patterns by activating the expression of S-cone opsin and repressing the expression of M-cone opsin. Furthermore, treatment of athyroid Pax8(-/-) mice with TH restored a wild-type pattern of cone opsin expression that reverted back to the mutant S-opsin-dominated pattern after termination of treatment. No evidence for cone death or the generation of new cones from retinal progenitors was found in retinas that shifted opsin expression patterns. Together, this suggests that opsin expression in terminally differentiated mammalian cones remains subject to control by TH, a finding that is in contradiction to previous work and challenges the current view that opsin identity in mature mammalian cones is fixed by permanent gene silencing.
Commissural inhibitory interneurons (INs) are integral components of the locomotor circuitry that coordinate left-right motor activity during movements. We have shown that GABA-mediated synaptic transmission plays a key role in generating alternating locomotor-like activity in the mouse spinal cord (Hinckley et al., 2005a). The primary objective of our study was to determine whether properties of lamina VIII (LVIII) GABAergic INs in the spinal cord of GAD67::GFP transgenic mice fit the classification of rhythm-coordinating neurons in the locomotor circuitry. The relatively large green fluorescent protein-expressing (GFP(+)) INs had comparable morphological and electrophysiological properties, suggesting that they comprised a homogenous neuronal population. They displayed multipolar and complex dendritic arbors in ipsilateral LVII-LVIII, and their axonal projections crossed the ventral commissure and branched into contralateral ventral, medial, and dorsal laminae. Putative synaptic contacts evident as bouton-like varicosities were detected in close apposition to lateral motoneurons, Renshaw cells, other GFP(+) INs, and unidentified neurons. Exposure to a rhythmogenic mixture triggered locomotor-like rhythmic firing in the majority of LVIII GFP(+) INs. Their induced oscillatory activity was out-of-phase with bursts of contralateral motoneurons and in-phase with bouts of ipsilateral motor activity. Membrane voltage oscillations were elicited by rhythmic increases in excitatory synaptic drive and might have been augmented by three types of voltage-activated cationic currents known to increase neuronal excitability. Based on their axonal projections and activity pattern, we propose that this population of GABAergic INs forms a class of local commissural inhibitory interneurons that are integral component of the locomotor circuitry.

The dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) is a key regulator of dopaminergic signaling as it mediates the reuptake of extrasynaptic DA and thereby terminates dopaminergic signaling. Emerging evidence indicates that DAT function is influenced through interactions with other proteins. The current report describes a method to identify such interactions following DAT immunoprecipitation from a rat striatal synaptosomal preparation. This subcellular fraction was selected since DAT function is often determined ex vivo by measuring DA uptake in this preparation and few reports investigating DAT-protein interactions have utilized this preparation. Following SDS-PAGE and colloidal Coomassie staining, selected protein bands from a DAT-immunoprecipitate were excised, digested with trypsin, extracted, and analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). From the analysis of the tryptic peptides, several proteins were identified including DAT, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) , CaMKII , protein kinase C (PKC) , and PKC . Co-immunoprecipitation of PKC, CaMKII, and protein interacting with C kinase-1 with DAT was confirmed by Western blotting. Thus, the present study highlights a method to immunoprecipitate DAT and to identify co-immunoprecipitating proteins using LC/MS/MS and Western blotting. This method can be utilized to evaluate DAT protein-protein interactions but also to assess interactions involving other synaptic proteins. Ex vivo identification of protein-protein interactions will provide new insight into the function and regulation of a variety of synaptic, membrane-associated proteins, including DAT.
We introduce a new approach, the cross-phaseogram, that captures the brain's ability to discriminate between spectrotemporally dynamic speech sounds, such as stop consonants. The goal was to develop an analysis technique for auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) that taps into the sub-millisecond temporal precision of the response but does not rely on subjective identification of individual response peaks. Using the cross-phaseogram technique, we show that time-varying frequency differences in speech stimuli manifest as phase differences in ABRs. By applying this automated and objective technique to a large dataset, we found these phase differences to be less pronounced in children who perform below average on a standardized test of listening to speech in noise. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of our results, and the extension of the cross-phaseogram method to a wider range of stimuli and populations.
Physical organization of the nervous system is a topic of perpetual interest in neuroscience. Despite significant achievements here in the past, many details of the nervous system organization and its role in animals' behavior remain obscure, while the problem of complete connectivity reconstructions has recently re-emerged as one of the major directions in neuroscience research (i.e. connectomics). We describe a novel paradigm for connectomics reconstructions that can yield connectivity maps with high resolution, high speed of imaging and data analysis, and significant robustness to errors. In essence, we propose that physical connectivity in a neural circuit can be sampled using anatomical fluorescent synaptic markers localized to different parts of the neural circuit with a technique for randomized genetic targeting, and that high-resolution connectivity maps can be extracted from such datasets. We describe how such an approach can be implemented and how neural connectivity matrix can be reconstructed statistically using the methods of Compressive Sensing. Use of Compressive Sensing is the key to allow accurate neural connectivity reconstructions with orders-of-magnitude smaller volumes of experimental data. We test described approach on simulations of neural connectivity reconstruction experiments in C. elegans, where real neural wiring diagram is available from past electron microscopy studies. We show that such wiring diagram can be in principle re-obtained using described approach in 1-7 days of imaging and data analysis. Alternative approaches would require currently at least 1-2 years to produce a single comparable reconstruction. We discuss possible applications of described approach in larger organisms such as Drosophila.
The simultaneous localization of several anatomical markers is often required to understand and analyze the organization of complex brain nuclei or identify neuronal networks recruited during a specific biological stimulus. Gathering such information is usually achieved by the combined detection of both mRNA and proteins. Staining techniques using fluorescence have progressively overtaken the use of radioactive tissue labeling and immunostaining based on the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex. Despite the promise offered by the combination of fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunofluorescence (IF), in terms of reduced bench time and easy visualization of multiple labels at once, some technical hurdles have to be overcome to produce reliable data from these state-of-the-art neuroanatomy techniques. Here, we have adapted a combination of FISH and IF for slices mounted on a microscope slide, using mRNA (GAD65 mRNA) and proteins (NeuN, FosB or TH) widely studied in neuroanatomy, to validate this method. Proteinase K (PK), which is often used to optimize riboprobe penetration, is a major limiting factor in obtaining successful IF labeling. This study demonstrates the inaccuracy of PK and provides appropriate tools to improve the efficiency of the combined FISH-IF procedure to obtain high quality fluorescent multi-labeling.
Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rats is a well-studied experimental model for ischemic stroke leading to brain infarction and functional deficits. Many preclinical studies have focused on a small time window after the ischemic episode to evaluate functional outcome for screening therapeutic candidates. Short evaluation periods following injury have led to significant setbacks due to lack of information on the delayed effects of treatments, as well as short-lived and reversible neuroprotection, so called false-positive results. In this report, we evaluated long-term functional deficit for 90 days after MCAO in two rat strains with two durations of ischemic insult, in order to identify the best experimental paradigm to assess injury and subsequent recovery. Behavioral outcomes were measured pre-MCAO followed by weekly assessment post-stroke. Behavioral tests included the 18-point composite neurological score, 28-point neuroscore, rearing test, vibrissae-evoked forelimb placing test, foot fault test and the CatWalk. Brain lesions were assessed to correlate injury to behavior outcomes at the end of study. Our results indicate that infarction volume in Sprague-Dawley rats was dependent on occlusion duration. In contrast, the infarction volume in Wistar rats did not correlate with the duration of ischemic episode. Functional outcomes were not dependent on occlusion time in either strain; however, measurable deficits were detectable long-term in limb asymmetry, 18- and 28-point neuroscores, forelimb placing, paw swing speed, and gait coordination. In conclusion, these behavioral assays, in combination with an extended long-term assessment period, can be used for evaluating therapeutic candidates in preclinical models of ischemic stroke.
Huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1) is an essential component of the stigmoid body (STB) and known as a possible neuroprotective interactor with causative proteins for Huntington's disease, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 (SCA17), and Joubert syndrome. To clarify what other causative molecules HAP1/STB could interact with, we cloned normal causative genes for several neural disorders from human brain RNA library and evaluated their subcellular interaction with HAP1/STB by immunocytochemistry and immunoprecipitation after cotransfection into Neuro2a cells. The results clearly showed that HAP1/STB interacts with the normal ataxin-3 through Josephin domain and polyglutamine-expanded mutants derived from SCA3 as well. The findings suggest that HAP1/STB could modify the physiological function of normal ataxin-3 and pathogenesis of SCA3 attributable to the mutant ataxin-3.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal X-linked disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene, which encodes a cytoskeletal protein, dystrophin. Creatine kinase (CK) is generally used as a blood-based biomarker for muscular disease including DMD, but it is not always reliable since it is easily affected by stress to the body, such as exercise. Therefore, more reliable biomarkers of muscular dystrophy have long been desired. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, 22 nucleotide, noncoding RNAs which play important roles in the regulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Recently, it has been reported that miRNAs exist in blood. In this study, we hypothesized that the expression levels of specific serum circulating miRNAs may be useful to monitor the pathological progression of muscular diseases, and therefore explored the possibility of these miRNAs as new biomarkers for muscular diseases. To confirm this hypothesis, we quantified the expression levels of miRNAs in serum of the dystrophin-deficient muscular dystrophy mouse model, mdx, and the canine X-linked muscular dystrophy in Japan dog model (CXMD(J)), by real-time PCR. We found that the serum levels of several muscle-specific miRNAs (miR-1, miR-133a and miR-206) are increased in both mdx and CXMD(J). Interestingly, unlike CK levels, expression levels of these miRNAs in mdx serum are little influenced by exercise using treadmill. These results suggest that serum miRNAs are useful and reliable biomarkers for muscular dystrophy.
Nocturnal rodents show diurnal food anticipatory activity when food access is restricted to a few hours in daytime. Timed food access also results in reduced food intake, but the role of food intake in circadian organization per se has not been described. By simulating natural food shortage in mice that work for food we show that reduced food intake alone shifts the activity phase from the night into the day and eventually causes nocturnal torpor (natural hypothermia). Release into continuous darkness with ad libitum food, elicits immediate reversal of activity to the previous nocturnal phase, indicating that the classical circadian pacemaker maintained its phase to the light-dark cycle. This flexibility in behavioral timing would allow mice to exploit the diurnal temporal niche while minimizing energy expenditure under poor feeding conditions in nature. This study reveals an intimate link between metabolism and mammalian circadian organization.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) have emerged as a promising model organism to study development, toxicology, pharmacology, and neuroscience, among other areas. Despite the increasing number of studies using zebrafish, behavioral studies with this species are still elementary when compared to rodents. The aim of this study was to develop a model of unpredictable chronic stress (UCS) in zebrafish. We evaluated the effects of UCS protocol during 7 or 14 days on behavioral and physiological parameters. The effects of stress were evaluated in relation to anxiety and exploratory behavior, memory, expression of corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and cortisol levels. As expected, UCS protocol increased the anxiety levels, impaired cognitive function, and increased CRF while decreased GR expression. Moreover, zebrafish submitted to 7 or 14 days of UCS protocol presented increased cortisol levels. The protocol developed here is a complementary model for studying the neurobiology and the effects of chronic stress in behavioral and physiological parameters. In addition, this protocol is less time consuming than standard rodent models commonly used to study chronic stress. These results confirm UCS in zebrafish as an adequate model to preclinical studies of stress, although further studies are warranted to determine its predictive validity.

Pre-clinical and clinical studies on dimebon (dimebolin or latrepirdine) have demonstrated its use as a cognitive enhancer. Here, we show that dimebon administered to 3-month-old C57BL6N mice 15 min prior to training in both appetitive and inhibitory learning tasks via repeated (0.1 mg/kg) and acute (0.5 mg/kg) i.p. injections, respectively, increases memory scores. Acute treatment with dimebon was found to enhance inhibitory learning, as also shown in the step-down avoidance paradigm in 7-month-old mice. Bolus administration of dimebon did not affect the animals' locomotion, exploration or anxiety-like behaviour, with the exception of exploratory behaviour in older mice in the novel cage test. In a model of appetitive learning, a spatial version of the Y-maze, dimebon increased the rate of correct choices and decreased the latency of accessing a water reward after water deprivation, and increased the duration of drinking behaviour during training/testing procedures. Repeated treatment with dimebon did not alter the behaviours in other tests or water consumption. Acute treatment of water-deprived and non-water-deprived mice with dimebon also did not affect their water intake. Our data suggest that dimebon enhances hippocampus-dependent learning in both appetitive and inhibitory tasks in mice.
Neurodegenerative disorders are a subset of disabling pathologies characterized, in part, by a progressive and specific loss of certain brain cell populations. Current therapeutic approaches for the treatment of these disorders are mainly designed towards symptom management and do not manifestly block their typified neuronal loss. However, research conducted over the past decade has reflected the increasing interest and need to find disease-modifying molecules. Among the several neuroprotective agents emerging from experimental animal work, cystamine, as well as its reduced form cysteamine, have been identified as potential candidate drugs. Given the significant benefits observed in a Huntington's disease (HD) model, cysteamine has recently leaped to clinical trial. Here, we review the beneficial properties of these compounds as reported in animal studies, their mechanistic underpinnings, and their potential implications for the future treatment of patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, and more specifically for HD and Parkinson's disease (PD).
For the vast majority of cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) the etiology remains unknown. After the discovery of missense mutations in the gene coding for the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in subsets of familial ALS, several transgenic mouse lines have been generated with various forms of SOD1 mutants overexpressed at different levels. Studies with these mice yielded complex results with multiple targets of damage in disease including mitochondria, proteasomes, and secretory pathways. Many unexpected discoveries were made. For instance, the toxicity of mutant SOD1 seems unrelated to copper-mediated catalysis but rather to formation of misfolded SOD1 species and aggregates. Transgenic studies revealed a potential role of wtSOD1 in exacerbating mutant SOD1-mediated disease. Another key finding came from chimeric mouse studies and from Cre-lox mediated gene deletion experiments which have highlighted the importance of non-neuronal cells in the disease progression. Involvement of cytoskeletal components in ALS pathogenesis is supported by several mouse models of motor neuron disease with neurofilament abnormalities and with genetic defects in microtubule-based transport. Recently, the generation of new animal models of ALS has been made possible with the discovery of ALS-linked mutations in other genes encoding for alsin, dynactin, senataxin, VAPB, TDP-43 and FUS. Following the discovery of mutations in the TARDBP gene linked to ALS, there have been some reports of transgenic mice with high level overexpression of WT or mutant forms of TDP-43 under strong gene promoters. However, these TDP-43 transgenic mice do not exhibit all pathological features the human ALS disease. Here, we will describe these new TDP-43 transgenic mice and discuss their validity as animal models of human ALS.
Potentiation of fear-related defense behaviours coordinated by the amygdala in response to environmental threat characterizes several anxiety disorders. We compared eye-blink startle responses to startle probes delivered during the presentation of emotional and neutral social cues in high and low generalized social anxiety. Socially anxious individuals exhibited larger startle responses to emotional (positive and negative) relative to neutral social cues, compared to non-anxious individuals.
To investigate whether addition of EEG would improve accuracy of a logistic model that uses neuropsychological assessment and cardiovascular history to identify dementia and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as a single group, we collected data and constructed logistic models from a sample of 78 normal adults and 33 patients (aged 50-85 years). To determine accuracy, we compared logistic regression results to a geriatrician's diagnosis of MCI or dementia that included Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia or mixed dementia. We found that the addition of EEG (non-linear complexity) to a logistic model that included both neuropsychological assessment (ADAS-Cog) and cardiovascular history increased overall accuracy from 80% to 92%. The logistic model identified dementia and MCI as a single group comprised of the following subgroups (with accuracies): Alzheimer's disease (92%; 12/13), vascular dementia (73%; 8/11), mixed dementia (100%; 4/4), and mild cognitive impairment (80%; 4/5). Whereas the analysis is limited by small sample sizes and mixing of diverse pathologies, the findings do provide support that the subgroups may share changes in neuropsychological, cardiovascular, and electroencephalographic factors (specifically ADAS-Cog total score, cardiovascular history, and EEG complexity). Taken together, the study results provide support that EEG might complement the clinician's evaluation of dementia and MCI.
The current study aimed to determine whether there is a specific neurocognitive deficit in individuals with schizotypal personality features. One hundred and fifty-nine healthy participants and 62 schizotypal individuals completed a comprehensive battery of cognitive tests. The cognitive functions captured by the battery could be reduced to 6 factors. Significant difference was found between participants with schizotypal features and healthy controls in allocation, verbal memory and marginally in working memory. Schizotypal traits tended to correlate with some of the cognitive factors, especially allocation, verbal memory and working memory.
Mitochondrial function is of particular importance in brain because of its high demand for energy (ATP) and efficient removal of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We developed rat mitochondrion-neuron focused microarray (rMNChip) and integrated bioinformatics tools for rapid identification of differential pathways in brain tissues. rMNChip contains 1,500 genes involved in mitochondrial functions, stress response, circadian rhythms and signal transduction. The bioinformatics tool includes an algorithm for computing of differentially expressed genes, and a database for straightforward and intuitive interpretation for microarray results. Our application of these tools to RNA samples derived from rat frontal cortex (FC), hippocampus (HC) and hypothalamus (HT) led to the identification of differentially-expressed signal-transduction-bioenergenesis and neurotransmitter-synthesis pathways with a dominant number of genes (FC/HC = 55/6; FC/HT = 55/4) having significantly (p&lt;0.05, FDR&lt;10.70%) higher (1.25 fold) RNA levels in the frontal cortex than the others, strongly suggesting active generation of ATP and neurotransmitters and efficient removal of ROS. Thus, these tools for rapid and efficient identification of differential pathways in brain regions will greatly facilitate our systems-biological study and understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying complex and multifactorial neurodegenerative diseases.
Depth estimates from disparity are most precise when the visual input stimulates corresponding retinal points or points close to them. Corresponding points have uncrossed disparities in the upper visual field and crossed disparities in the lower visual field. Due to these disparities, the vertical part of the horopter--the positions in space that stimulate corresponding points--is pitched top-back. Many have suggested that this pitch is advantageous for discriminating depth in the natural environment, particularly relative to the ground. We asked whether the vertical horopter is adaptive (suited for perception of the ground) and adaptable (changeable by experience). Experiment 1 measured the disparities between corresponding points in 28 observers. We confirmed that the horopter is pitched. However, it is also typically convex making it ill-suited for depth perception relative to the ground. Experiment 2 tracked locations of corresponding points while observers wore lenses for 7 days that distorted binocular disparities. We observed no change in the horopter, suggesting that it is not adaptable. We also showed that the horopter is not adaptive for long viewing distances because at such distances uncrossed disparities between corresponding points cannot be stimulated. The vertical horopter seems to be adaptive for perceiving convex, slanted surfaces at short distances.
For many purposes, the cultivation of mouse embryos ex vivo as organotypic slices is desirable. For example, we employ a transgenic mouse line (tauGFP) in which the enhanced version of the green fluorescent protein (EGFP) is exclusively expressed in all neurons of the developing central and peripheral nervous system(1), allowing the possibility to both film the innervation of the forelimb and to manipulate this process with pharmacological and genetic techniques(2). The most critical parameter in the successful cultivation of such slice cultures is the method by which the slices are prepared. After extensive testing of a variety of methods, we have found that a vibratome is the best possible device to slice the embryos such that they routinely result in a culture that demonstrates viability over a period of several days, and most importantly, develops in an age-specific manner. For mid-gestation embryos, this includes the normal outgrowth of spinal nerves from the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglia to their targets in the periphery and the proper determination of skeletal and muscle tissue. In this work, we present a method for processing whole embryos of embryonic day (E) E10 to E12 into 300 - 400 micrometer slices for cultivation in a standard tissue culture incubator, which can be studied for up to two days after slice preparation. Critical for the success of this approach is the use of a vibratome to slice each agarose-embedded embryo. This is followed by the cultivation of the slices upon Millicell culture membrane inserts placed upon a small volume of medium, resulting in an interface culture technique. One litter with an average of 7 embryos routinely produces at least 14 slices (2-3 slices of the forelimb region per embryo), which varies slightly due to the age of the embryos as well as to the thickness of the slices. About 80% of the cultured slices show nerve outgrowth, which can be measured througout the culturing period(2). Representative results using the tauGFP mouse line are demonstrated.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) may provide modulatory signals that, respectively, influence hippocampal (HPC)- and striatal-dependent memory. Electrophysiological studies investigating neural correlates of learning and memory of dopamine (DA) neurons during classical conditioning tasks have found DA neural activity in VTA and SNc to be tightly coupled with reinforcement expectations. Also, VTA integrity and DA in HPC have been found to regulate the encoding of HPC-dependent memories. Therefore, to determine the nature of the neural code HPC may receive from midbrain DA regions, the present study investigated VTA and SNc neural activity as navigating rats engaged in new spatial learning and experienced changes in expected goal locations. VTA and SNc cells were differentially engaged during training to a series of three novel goal locations. During task acquisition, the peak firing rates of VTA neurons decreased at the time of reward and shifted to time points before reward retrieval, whereas the peak firing rates of SNc neurons remained elevated at the time of reward during training to all three goal locations. Both VTA and SNc egocentric coding was strongest during training to the first goal location, which coincided with the time subjects learned the behavioral rules specific to the task. These data imply that VTA and SNc play complementary yet distinct roles in spatial learning to optimize adaptive behavior.


Audition is accepted as more reliable (thus dominant) than vision when temporal discrimination is required by the task. However, it is not known whether the characteristics of the visual stimulus, for example its familiarity to the perceiver, affect auditory dominance. In this study we manipulated familiarity of the visual stimulus in a well-established multisensory phenomenon, i.e., the sound-induced flash illusion. This illusion occurs when, for example, one brief visual stimulus (e.g., a flash) is presented in close temporal proximity with two brief sounds; participants perceive two flashes instead of one. We found that when the visual stimuli (faces or buildings) were familiar, participants were less susceptible to the illusion than when they were unfamiliar. As the illusion has been ascribed to early cross-sensory interactions between vision and audition, the present work offers behavioural evidence that high level processing of objects' characteristics such as familiarity, affects early temporal multisensory integration. Possible mechanisms underlying the effect of familiarity are discussed.
Unique in the insect world for their extremely sedentary predatory behavior, pit-dwelling larval antlions dig pits, and then sit at the bottom and wait, sometimes for months, for prey to fall inside. This sedentary predation strategy, combined with their seemingly innate ability to detect approaching prey, make antlions unlikely candidates for learning. That is, although scientists have demonstrated that many species of insects possess the capacity to learn, each of these species, which together represent multiple families from every major insect order, utilizes this ability as a means of navigating the environment, using learned cues to guide an active search for food and hosts, or to avoid noxious events. Nonetheless, we demonstrate not only that sedentary antlions can learn, but also, more importantly, that learning provides an important fitness benefit, namely decreasing the time to pupate, a benefit not yet demonstrated in any other species. Compared to a control group in which an environmental cue was presented randomly vis--vis daily prey arrival, antlions given the opportunity to associate the cue with prey were able to make more efficient use of prey and pupate significantly sooner, thus shortening their long, highly vulnerable larval stage. Whereas &quot;median survival time,&quot; the point at which half of the animals in each group had pupated, was 46 days for antlions receiving the Learning treatment, that point never was reached in antlions receiving the Random treatment, even by the end of the experiment on Day 70. In addition, we demonstrate a novel manifestation of antlions' learned response to cues predicting prey arrival, behavior that does not match the typical &quot;learning curve&quot; but which is well-adapted to their sedentary predation strategy. Finally, we suggest that what has long appeared to be instinctive predatory behavior is likely to be highly modified and shaped by learning.




Here we investigated how the tactile modality is used along with muscle proprioception in hand movement perception, whether these two sensory inputs are centrally integrated and whether they work complementarily or concurrently. The illusory right hand rotations induced in eleven volunteers by a textured disk scrolling under their hand in two directions at three velocities and/or by mechanical vibration applied to their wrist muscles at three frequencies were compared. The kinesthetic illusions were copied by the subjects on-line with their left hand. Results: 1) in all the subjects, tactile stimulation alone induced an illusory hand rotation in the opposite direction to that of the disk, and the velocity of the illusion increased non-linearly with the disk velocity: the highest gain (the illusion velocity to disk velocity ratio) occurred at the slowest disk rotation; 2) adding a consistent proprioceptive stimulus increased the perceptual effects, whereas adding a conflicting proprioceptive stimulus of increasing frequency gradually decreased the tactile illusions and reversed their initial direction; 3) under both consistent and conflicting conditions, only strong proprioceptive stimulation significantly affected the gain of the resulting illusions, whereas the largest gain always occurred at low tactile stimulation levels when the illusory movements were in the same direction as the tactile-induced illusion. Tactile information may equal or even override muscle proprioceptive information in the perception of relatively small, slow hand movements. These two somatosensory inputs may be integrated complementarily, depending on their respective relevance to the task of accurately perceiving one's own hand movements.
The present study investigated the effect of Chronic Immobilization Stress (CIS) on theta oscillations in the hippocampus and amygdala during Rapid Eye Movement (REM) sleep. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to 2h of CIS daily for 10days. Polysomnographic recordings with electroencephalogram (EEG) from hippocampus (CA3 and CA1 subregion) and lateral nucleus of amygdala (LA) were carried out after termination of CIS protocol on the 7th, 14th and 21st day. The results showed a bimodal distribution on the total REM sleep duration in CIS rats: group of rats exhibited increased REM sleep duration considered as a stress-enhanced REM (SER) and rats with reduced REM sleep as stress-reduced REM sleep (SRR) group. The bimodal distribution in REM sleep was continued to exhibit even after 21 days of termination of stress, showing increased REM sleep in SER and reversible REM sleep in SRR rats. In addition to changes in sleep, increased REM sleep in SER rats was associated with attenuated theta activity in the hippocampus and amygdala, while the SRR rats did not show attenuated theta activities during the stress recovery period. Thus, the study demonstrates the dependence of synchronized amygdalo-hippocampal theta activity with the CIS-induced enhanced REM sleep duration. This raises the possibility that CIS-induced manifestations of the anxiety may be associated with synchronized theta oscillations in the hippocampus and amygdala.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays a major yet complex role in modulating spinal nociceptive transmission as a consequence of the number of 5-HT receptor subtypes. These include the 5-HT2 receptor, which is further sub classified into 5-HT2A, B and C. Studies have described both a pro- and antinociceptive action following 5-HT2A-receptor activation; therefore, to shed light on the directional nature of spinal 5-HT2A receptor activity, we investigated the effects of spinal administration of the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, ketanserin, on the evoked responses of dorsal horn neurones to electrical, mechanical and thermal stimulation. We also assessed the effects of systemic administration of ritanserin, a 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonist and spinal application of ()-2,5-Dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride (DOI) (3.6 and 17.8g/50l), a 5-HT2A/2C agonist, on the same evoked neuronal responses. Ketanserin (1, 10 and 100g/50l) produced a dose related inhibition of the evoked responses to noxious mechanical punctate and thermal stimuli only. Ritanserin (2mg/kg) replicated the inhibitory effects seen with ketanserin on the natural evoked neuronal responses and also potently inhibited the C-fibre, post discharge, input and wind-up evoked responses. DOI increased the mechanical and thermal evoked responses, an effect reversed by ketanserin. Thus, our findings show that spinal ketanserin (1-100g/50l) and systemic ritanserin (2mg/kg), at these doses, have similar antinociceptive effects, whereas the agonist, DOI, produced excitatory effects, on spinal neuronal activity. Our data, therefore, supports a pronociceptive role for 5-HT2 receptors, most likely through modulation of 5-HT2A receptor activity, on spinal nociceptive transmission under normal conditions.
Sophocarpine, one of the major alkaloid compounds isolated from Sophora pachycarpa, is highly valued and important in traditional Chinese medicine. In the present study, we aimed to explore the possible mechanisms underlying sophocarpine-mediated neuroprotection against transient focal cerebral ischemia. Sophocarpine (5, 10, or 20mg/kg) was given 30min before focal ischemia was induced in rats by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. After sophocarpine treatment, the total infarct volume was significantly decreased in comparison to the ischemia-reperfusion values. The results of a neurological evaluation were significantly improved in the sophocarpine treated group when compared to controls. The number of TUNEL-positive cells was significantly reduced compared to the untreated ischemic group. Results of Western blotting and immunohistochemical staining indicated that pretreatment with sophocarpine down-regulated the expression of acid-sensing ion channel 1 (ASIC1) in the ischemic cortex. These results suggest that sophocarpine ameliorated the ischemic injury induced by transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats and that this neuroprotective effect might be related to the anti-ASIC1 channel and anti-apoptotic action of sophocarpine.
Milnacipran, a serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), has shown efficacy against several chronic pain conditions, including fibromyalgia. Here, we evaluated, in rats, its anti-allodynic effects following acute or sub-chronic treatment in a model of neuropathic pain (chronic constriction injury, CCI, of the sciatic nerve). Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant active pre-clinically and clinically against neuropathic pains, was added as a comparison compound. Upon acute i.p. administration, milnacipran was potently efficacious in the CCI model. It significantly reduced thermal allodynia in the cold (4C) plate test (MED=2.5mg/kg), and attenuated mechanical allodynia in the von Frey filaments test (MED=10mg/kg). Given sub-chronically (7day, b.i.d.), milnacipran was effective at 10mg/kgi.p. in both tests. Acute amitriptyline (10mg/kgi.p.) was efficacious against mechanical, but less so against cold allodynia; under sub-chronic conditions, it was only active against mechanical allodynia. These data show that milnacipran is as efficacious as the reference compound amitriptyline in a pre-clinical model of injury-induced neuropathy, and demonstrate for the first time that it is active acutely and sub-chronically against cold allodynia. They also suggest that milnacipran has the potential to alleviate allodynia associated with nerve compression-induced neuropathic pain in the clinic (for example following discal hernia, avulsion or cancer-induced tissue damage).

Accumulating evidence suggests that the brain can efficiently process both external and internal information. The processing of internal information is a distinct &quot;offline&quot; cognitive mode that requires not only spontaneously generated mental activity; it has also been hypothesized to require a decoupling of attention from perception in order to separate competing streams of internal and external information. This process of decoupling is potentially adaptive because it could prevent unimportant external events from disrupting an internal train of thought. Here, we use measurements of pupil diameter (PD) to provide concrete evidence for the role of decoupling during spontaneous cognitive activity. First, during periods conducive to offline thought but not during periods of task focus, PD exhibited spontaneous activity decoupled from task events. Second, periods requiring external task focus were characterized by large task evoked changes in PD; in contrast, encoding failures were preceded by episodes of high spontaneous baseline PD activity. Finally, high spontaneous PD activity also occurred prior to only the slowest 20% of correct responses, suggesting high baseline PD indexes a distinct mode of cognitive functioning. Together, these data are consistent with the decoupling hypothesis, which suggests that the capacity for spontaneous cognitive activity depends upon minimizing disruptions from the external world.
Previous studies demonstrated the human ability to implicitly recognize their own body. When submitted to a visual matching task, participants showed the so-called self-advantage, that is, a better performance with self rather than others' body or body parts. Here, we investigated whether the body self-advantage relies upon a motor representation of one's body. Participants were submitted to a laterality judgment of self and others' hands (Experiment 1 and 3), which involves a sensory-motor mental simulation. Moreover, to investigate whether the self-advantage emerges also when an explicit self processing is required, the same participants were submitted to an explicit self-body recognition task (Experiment 2). Participants showed the self-advantage when performing the laterality judgment, but not when self-recognition was explicitly required. Thus, implicit and explicit recognition of the bodily self dissociate and only an implicit recognition of the bodily self, mapped in motor terms, allows the self-advantage to emerge.
This paper investigates how the visual areas of the brain may learn to segment the bodies of humans and other animals into separate parts. A neural network model of the ventral visual pathway, VisNet, was used to study this problem. In particular, the current work investigates whether independent motion of body parts can be sufficient to enable the visual system to learn separate representations of them even when the body parts are never seen in isolation. The network was shown to be able to separate out the independently moving body parts because the independent motion created statistical decoupling between them.
Aged male rats at 10, 20, and 30 mo of age were trained on a 2.0 vs. 8.0-s duration bisection procedure using both auditory and visual signals and were then tested with visual signal durations in which the spacing of the intermediate signal durations was held constant as the short (S) and long (L) anchor durations were moved progressively closer to each other across blocks of sessions. Auditory clicks also preceded some trials in order to determine the potential effects of arousal and/or distraction on the timing of visual signals. The consequences of aging, reducing the S:L ratio, and auditory clicks were to increase the likelihood of observing reversals in response classifications around the geometric mean of the anchor durations. Taken together, these results suggest that the bisection &quot;reversal effect&quot; is dependent upon the calculation of the subjective mid-point between the two anchor durations and the differential setting of response thresholds around this category boundary as a function of temporal context.
Focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) are associated with neurological disorders and cognitive impairments in humans. Molecular layer ectopia, clusters of misplaced cells in layer I of the neocortex, have been identified in patients with developmental dyslexia and psychomotor retardation. Mouse models of this developmental disorder display behavioral impairments and increased seizure susceptibility. Although there is a correlation between cortical malformations and neurological dysfunction, little is known about the morphological and physiological properties of cells within cortical malformations. In the present study we used electrophysiological and immunocytochemical analyses to examine the distribution of neuronal and non-neuronal cell types within and surrounding layer I neocortical ectopia in NXSMD/EiJ mice. We show that cells within ectopia have membrane properties of both pyramidal and a variety of non-pyramidal cell types, including fast-spiking cells. Immunocytochemical analysis for different interneuronal subtypes demonstrates that ectopia contain nonpyramidal cells immunoreactive for calbindin-D28K (CALB), parvalbumin (PARV), and calretinin (CR). Ectopia also contains astrocytes, positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and oligodendrocyte precursor cells positive for NG2 proteoglycan (NG2). Lastly, we provide electrophysiological and morphological evidence to demonstrate that cells within ectopia receive input from cells within layers I, upper and deeper II/III, and V and provide outputs to cells within deep layer II/III and layer V, but not layers I and upper II/III. These results indicate that ectopia contain cells of different lineages with diverse morphological and physiological properties, and appear to cause disruptions in local cortical circuitry.
Female mice are more susceptible to radiation-induced cognitive changes than male mice. Previously, we showed that, in female mice, androgens antagonize age-related cognitive decline in aged wild-type mice and androgens and selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs) antagonize cognitive changes induced by human apolipoprotein E4, a risk factor for developing age-related cognitive decline. In this study, the potential effects of the SARM ACP-105 were assessed in female mice that were either sham-irradiated or irradiated with Cesium at a dose of 10Gy. Behavioral testing started 2 weeks following irradiation. Irradiation impaired sensorimotor function in vehicle-treated mice but not in ACP-105-treated mice. Irradiation impaired cued fear conditioning and ACP-105 enhanced fear conditioning in sham-irradiated and irradiated mice. When immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 was assessed in the cortex of sham-irradiated mice, there was a brain area  ACP-105 interaction. While ACP-105 reduced MAP-2 immunoreactivity in the sensorimotor cortex, there was a trend towards increased MAP-2 immunoreactivity in the enthorhinal cortex. No effect on MAP-2 immunoreactivity was seen in the irradiated cortex or sham-irradiated or irradiated hippocampus. Thus, there are relatively early radiation-induced behavioral changes in female mice and reduced MAP-2 levels in the sensorimotor cortex following ACP-105 treatment might contribute to enhanced rotorod performance.

Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) are essential for filling synaptic vesicles with glutamate and mammals express three VGLUT isoforms (VGLUT1-3) with distinct spatiotemporal expression patterns. Here, we find that neurons expressing VGLUT1 have lower release probability and less short-term depression than neurons expressing VGLUT2 or VGLUT3. Investigation of the underlying mechanism identified endophilin A1 as a positive regulator of exocytosis whose expression levels are positively correlated with release efficiency and showed that the differences in release efficiency between VGLUT1- and VGLUT2-expressing neurons are due to VGLUT1's ability to bind endophilin A1 and inhibit endophilin-induced enhancement of release probability.
Mammalian brains generate internal activity independent of environmental stimuli. Internally generated states may bring about distinct cortical processing modes. To investigate how brain state impacts cortical circuitry, we recorded intracellularly from the same neurons, under anesthesia and subsequent wakefulness, in rat barrel cortex. In every cell examined throughout layers 2-6, wakefulness produced a temporal pattern of synaptic inputsdiffering markedly from those under anesthesia. Recurring periods of synaptic quiescence, prominent under anesthesia, were abolished by wakefulness, which produced instead a persistently depolarized state. This switch in dynamics was unaffected by elimination of afferent synaptic input from thalamus, suggesting that arousal alters cortical dynamics by neuromodulators acting directly on cortex. Indeed, blockade of noradrenergic, but not cholinergic, pathways induced synaptic quiescence during wakefulness. We conclude that global brain states can switch local recurrent networks into different regimes via direct neuromodulation.
In this issue of Neuron, two studies by Pielage etal. and Bednarek and Caroni suggest that the cytoskeleton regulator -Adducin provides an activity-dependent switch controlling synapse disassembly and assembly at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and the mouse hippocampus. In mice, the -Adducin switch is required for the improvement of learning and memory induced by enriched environments.
The neuropathological abnormalities of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 patients abusing illicit drugs suggest extensive interactions between the two agents, thereby leading to increased rate of progression to neurodegeneration. The role of HIV-1 transactivating protein, Tat has been elucidated in mediating neuronal damage via apoptosis, a hallmark of HIV-associated dementia (HAD), however the underlying mechanisms involved in enhanced neurodegeneration by illicit drugs remain elusive. In this study, we demonstrated that morphine enhances HIV-Tat induced toxicity in human neurons and neuroblastoma cells. Enhanced toxicity by Tat and morphine was accompanied by increased numbers of TUNEL positive apoptotic neurons, elevated caspase-3 levels and decreased ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic proteins, Bcl2/Bax. Tat and morphine together elicited high levels of reactive oxygen species that were NADPH dependent. Significant alterations in mitochondrial membrane homeostasis were also observed with co-exposure of these agents. Extensive studies of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways revealed the involvement of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) pathways in enhanced toxicity of Tat and morphine. In addition to this, we found that pre-treatment of cells with platelet derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) protected neurons from HIV-Tat and morphine induced damage. PDGF-BB alleviated ROS production, maintained mitochondrial membrane potential, decreased caspase-3 activation and hence protected the cells from undergoing apoptosis. PDGF-BB mediated protection against Tat and morphine involved the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) pathway, as specific inhibitor of PI3K abrogated the protection conferred by PDGF-BB. This study demonstrates the mechanism of enhanced toxicity in human neurons subjected to co-exposure of HIV protein Tat and morphine, thus implying its importance in HIV positive drug abusers, where damage to the brain is reported to be more severe than non-drug abusers. We have also showed for the first time that PDGF-BB can protect against simultaneous exposure of Tat and morphine, strengthening its role as a neuroprotective agent that could be considered for therapeutic intervention.
NG2 cells, the fourth type of glia in the mammalian CNS, receive synaptic input from neurons. The function of this innervation is unknown yet. Postsynaptic changes in intracellular Ca(2+)-concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) might be a possible consequence. We employed transgenic mice with fluorescently labeled NG2 cells to address this issue. To identify Ca(2+)-signaling pathways we combined patch-clamp recordings, Ca(2+)-imaging, mRNA-transcript analysis and focal pressure-application of various substances to identified NG2-cells in acute hippocampal slices. We show that activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+)-channels, Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA-receptors, and group I metabotropic glutamate-receptors provoke [Ca(2+)](i)-elevations in NG2 cells. The Ca(2+)-influx is amplified by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-release. Minimal electrical stimulation of presynaptic neurons caused postsynaptic currents but no somatic [Ca(2+)](i) elevations, suggesting that [Ca(2+)](i) elevations in NG2 cells might be restricted to their processes. Local Ca(2+)-signaling might provoke transmitter release or changes in cell motility. To identify structural prerequisites for such a scenario, we used electron microscopy, immunostaining, mRNA-transcript analysis, and time lapse imaging. We found that NG2 cells form symmetric and asymmetric synapses with presynaptic neurons and show immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporter 1. The processes are actin-based, contain ezrin but not glial filaments, microtubules or endoplasmic reticulum. Furthermore, we demonstrate that NG2 cell processes in situ are highly motile. Our findings demonstrate that gray matter NG2 cells are endowed with the cellular machinery for two-way communication with neighboring cells.
C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) are two of the most commonly used inbred mouse strains in neuroscience research. However, the only currently available mouse genome is based entirely on the B6 strain sequence. Subsequently, oligonucleotide microarray probes are based solely on this B6 reference sequence, making their application for gene expression profiling comparisons across mouse strains dubious due to their allelic sequence differences, including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The emergence of next-generation sequencing (NGS) and the RNA-Seq application provides a clear alternative to oligonucleotide arrays for detecting differential gene expression without the problems inherent to hybridization-based technologies. Using RNA-Seq, an average of 22 million short sequencing reads were generated per sample for 21 samples (10 B6 and 11 D2), and these reads were aligned to the mouse reference genome, allowing 16,183 Ensembl genes to be queried in striatum for both strains. To determine differential expression, 'digital mRNA counting' is applied based on reads that map to exons. The current study compares RNA-Seq (Illumina GA IIx) with two microarray platforms (Illumina MouseRef-8 v2.0 and Affymetrix MOE 430 2.0) to detect differential striatal gene expression between the B6 and D2 inbred mouse strains. We show that by using stringent data processing requirements differential expression as determined by RNA-Seq is concordant with both the Affymetrix and Illumina platforms in more instances than it is concordant with only a single platform, and that instances of discordance with respect to direction of fold change were rare. Finally, we show that additional information is gained from RNA-Seq compared to hybridization-based techniques as RNA-Seq detects more genes than either microarray platform. The majority of genes differentially expressed in RNA-Seq were only detected as present in RNA-Seq, which is important for studies with smaller effect sizes where the sensitivity of hybridization-based techniques could bias interpretation.
Cones function in constant light and are responsible for mediating daytime human vision. Like rods, cones use the photosensitive molecule 11-cis-retinal to detect light, and in constant illumination, a continuous supply of 11-cis-retinal is needed. A retina visual cycle is thought to provide a privileged supply of 11-cis-retinal to cones by using 11-cis-retinol generated in Mller cells. In the cycle, 11-cis-retinol is transported from Mller cells to cone inner segments, where it is oxidized to 11-cis-retinal. This oxidation step is only performed in cones, thus rendering the cycle cone-specific. Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) is a retinoid-binding protein in the subretinal space that binds 11-cis-retinol endogenously. Cones in Irbp(-/-) mice are retinoid-deficient under photopic conditions, and it is possible that 11-cis-retinol supplies are disrupted in the absence of IRBP. We tested the hypothesis that IRBP facilitates the delivery of 11-cis-retinol to cones by preserving the isomeric state of 11-cis-retinol in light. With electrophysiology, we show that the cone-like photoreceptors of Nrl(-/-) mice use the cone visual cycle similarly to wild-type cones. Then, using oxidation assays in isolated Nrl(-/-)Rpe65(-/-) retinas, we show that IRBP delivers 11-cis-retinol for oxidation in cones and improves the efficiency of the oxidation reaction. Finally, we show that IRBP protects the isomeric state of 11-cis-retinol in the presence of light. Together, these findings suggest that IRBP plays an important role in the delivery of 11-cis-retinol to cones and can facilitate cone function in the presence of light.
During locomotion, neurons in motor cortex exhibit profound step-related frequency modulation. The source of this modulation is unclear. The aim of this study was to reveal the contribution of different limb controllers (locomotor mechanisms of individual limbs) to the periodic modulation of motor cortex neurons during locomotion. Experiments were conducted in chronically instrumented cats. The activity of single neurons was recorded during regular quadrupedal locomotion (control), as well as when only one pair of limbs (fore, hind, right, or left) was walking while another pair was standing. Comparison of the modulation patterns in these neurons (their discharge profile with respect to the step cycle) during control and different bipedal locomotor tasks revealed several groups of neurons that receive distinct combinations of inputs from different limb controllers. In the majority (73%) of neurons from the forelimb area of motor cortex, modulation during control was determined exclusively by forelimb controllers (right, left, or both), while in the minority (27%), hindlimb controllers also contributed. By contrast, only in 30% of neurons from the hindlimb area was modulation determined exclusively by hindlimb controllers (right or both), while in 70% of them, the controllers of forelimbs also contributed. We suggest that such organization of inputs allows the motor cortex to contribute to the right-left limbs' coordination within each of the girdles during locomotion, and that it also allows hindlimb neurons to participate in coordination of the movements of the hindlimbs with those of the forelimbs.
GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the CNS and changes in GABAergic neurotransmission affect the overall activity of neuronal networks. The uptake of GABA into synaptic vesicles is mediated by the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT), and changes in the expression of the transporter directly regulate neurotransmitter release. In this work we investigated the changes in VGAT protein levels during ischemia and in excitotoxic conditions, which may affect the demise process. We found that VGAT is cleaved by calpains following excitotoxic stimulation of hippocampal neurons with glutamate, giving rise to a stable truncated cleavage product (tVGAT). VGAT cleavage was also observed after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice, a cerebral ischemia model, and following intrahippocampal injection of kainate, but no effect was observed in transgenic mice overexpressing calpastatin, a calpain inhibitor. Incubation of isolated cerebrocortical synaptic vesicles with recombinant calpain also induced the cleavage of VGAT and formation of stable tVGAT. Immunoblot experiments using antibodies targeting different regions of VGAT and N-terminal sequencing analysis showed that calpain cleaves the transporter in the N-terminal region, at amino acids 52 and 60. Immunocytochemistry of GABAergic striatal neurons expressing GFP fusion proteins with the full-length VGAT or tVGAT showed that cleavage of the transporter induces a loss of synaptic delivery, leading to a homogeneous distribution of the protein along neurites. Our results show that excitotoxicity downregulates full-length VGAT, with a concomitant generation of tVGAT, which is likely to affect GABAergic neurotransmission and may influence cell death during ischemia.
Planning spatial paths through our environment is an important part of everyday life and is supported by a neural system including the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Here we investigated the precise functional roles of the components of this system in humans by using fMRI as participants performed a simple goal-directed route-planning task. Participants had to choose the shorter of two routes to a goal in a visual scene that might contain a barrier blocking the most direct route, requiring a detour, or might be obscured by a curtain, requiring memory for the scene. The participant's start position was varied to parametrically manipulate their proximity to the goal and the difference in length of the two routes. Activity in medial prefrontal cortex, precuneus, and left posterior parietal cortex was associated with detour planning, regardless of difficulty, whereas activity in parahippocampal gyrus was associated with remembering the spatial layout of the visual scene. Activity in bilateral anterior hippocampal formation showed a strong increase the closer the start position was to the goal, together with medial prefrontal, medial and posterior parietal cortices. Our results are consistent with computational models in which goal proximity is used to guide subsequent navigation and with the association of anterior hippocampal areas with nonspatial functions such as arousal and reward expectancy. They illustrate how spatial and nonspatial functions combine within the anterior hippocampus, and how these functions interact with parahippocampal, parietal, and prefrontal areas in decision making and mnemonic function.
Abstract behavior-guiding rules and strategies allow monkeys to avoid errors in rarely encountered situations. In the present study, we contrasted strategy-related neuronal activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFdl) and the orbital prefrontal cortex (PFo) of rhesus monkeys. On each trial of their behavioral task, the monkeys responded to a foveal visual cue by making a saccade to one of two spatial targets. One response required a leftward saccade, the other required a saccade of equal magnitude to the right. The cues instructed the monkeys to follow one of two response strategies: to stay with their most recent successful response or to shift to the alternative response. Neurons in both areas encoded the stay and shift strategies after the cue appeared, but there were three major differences between the PFo and the PFdl: (1) many strategy-encoding cells in PFdl also encoded the response (left or right), but few, if any, PFo cells did so; (2) strategy selectivity appeared earlier in PFo than in PFdl; and (3) on error trials, PFo neurons encoded the correct strategy-the one that had been cued but not implemented-whereas in PFdl the strategy signals were weak or absent on error trials. These findings indicate that PFo and PFdl both contribute to behaviors guided by abstract response strategies, but do so differently, with PFo encoding a strategy and PFdl encoding a response based on a strategy.
Remyelination of the CNS involves the regeneration of mature oligodendrocytes by endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Previous studies have shown that bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) inhibit the production of oligodendrocytes in the healthy CNS. However, there is currently no information on the influence of BMP signaling in vivo within demyelinated lesions of the brain or on subsequent remyelination. Here, we determine a role for BMP signaling in modulating oligodendrogliogenesis and remyelination in the brain following cuprizone-induced demyelination. We identified that BMP signaling is active in oligodendroglia and astrocytes within the demyelinated corpus callosum. Intraventricular infusion of BMP4 into the brains of mice during demyelination increased the proliferation of OPCs and, to a lesser extent, microglia and astrocytes in the corpus callosum. In contrast, infusion of Noggin, an extracellular antagonist of BMP4, increased the density of mature oligodendrocytes in the remyelinating corpus callosum. Additional evidence from myelin staining and electron microscopy indicates there is an increase in remyelinated axons in the corpus callosum of Noggin-infused mice. Thus, inhibition of endogenous BMP signaling during demyelination promotes mature oligodendrocyte regeneration and remyelination.
Appropriate interpretation of pleasurable, rewarding experiences favors decisions that enhance survival. Conversely, dysfunctional affective brain processing can lead to life-threatening risk behaviors (e.g., addiction) and emotion imbalance (e.g., mood disorders). The state of sleep deprivation continues to be associated with maladaptive emotional regulation, leading to exaggerated neural and behavioral reactivity to negative, aversive experiences. However, such detrimental consequences are paradoxically aligned with the perplexing antidepressant benefit of sleep deprivation, elevating mood in a proportion of patients with major depression. Nevertheless, it remains unknown how sleep loss alters the dynamics of brain and behavioral reactivity to rewarding, positive emotional experiences. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), here we demonstrate that sleep deprivation amplifies reactivity throughout human mesolimbic reward brain networks in response to pleasure-evoking stimuli. In addition, this amplified reactivity was associated with enhanced connectivity in early primary visual processing pathways and extended limbic regions, yet with a reduction in coupling with medial frontal and orbitofrontal regions. These neural changes were accompanied by a biased increase in the number of emotional stimuli judged as pleasant in the sleep-deprived group, the extent of which exclusively correlated with activity in mesolimbic regions. Together, these data support a view that sleep deprivation not only is associated with enhanced reactivity toward negative stimuli, but imposes a bidirectional nature of affective imbalance, associated with amplified reward-relevant reactivity toward pleasure-evoking stimuli also. Such findings may offer a neural foundation on which to consider interactions between sleep loss and emotional reactivity in a variety of clinical mood disorders.
The multiprotein complexes that receive and transmit axon pathfinding cues during development are essential to circuit generation. Here, we identify and characterize the Drosophila sterile -motif (SAM) domain-containing protein Caskin, which shares homology with vertebrate Caskin, a CASK [calcium/calmodulin-(CaM)-activated serine-threonine kinase]-interacting protein. Drosophila caskin (ckn) is necessary for embryonic motor axon pathfinding and interacts genetically and physically with the leukocyte common antigen-related (Lar) receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase. In vivo and in vitro analyses of a panel of ckn loss-of-function alleles indicate that the N-terminal SAM domain of Ckn mediates its interaction with Lar. Like Caskin, Liprin- is a neuronal adaptor protein that interacts with Lar via a SAM domain-mediated interaction. We present evidence that Lar does not bind Caskin and Liprin- concurrently, suggesting they may assemble functionally distinct signaling complexes on Lar. Furthermore, a vertebrate Caskin homolog interacts with LAR family members, arguing that the role of ckn in Lar signal transduction is evolutionarily conserved. Last, we characterize several ckn mutants that retain Lar binding yet display guidance defects, implying the existence of additional Ckn binding partners. Indeed, we identify the SH2/SH3 adaptor protein Dock as a second Caskin-binding protein and find that Caskin binds Lar and Dock through distinct domains. Furthermore, whereas ckn has a nonredundant function in Lar-dependent signaling during motor axon targeting, ckn and dock have overlapping roles in axon outgrowth in the CNS. Together, these studies identify caskin as a neuronal adaptor protein required for axon growth and guidance.


Silencing of a single gene, FMR1, is linked to a highly prevalent form of mental retardation, characterized by social and cognitive impairments, known as fragile X syndrome (FXS). The FMR1 gene encodes fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), which negatively regulates translation. Knockout of Fmr1 in mice results in enhanced long-term depression (LTD) induced by metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation. Despite the evidence implicating FMRP in LTD, the role of FMRP in long-term potentiation (LTP) is less clear. Synaptic strength can be augmented heterosynaptically through the generation and sequestration of plasticity-related proteins, in a cell-wide manner. If heterosynaptic plasticity is altered in Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice, this may explain the cognitive deficits associated with FXS. We induced homosynaptic plasticity using the -adrenergic receptor (-AR) agonist, isoproterenol (ISO), which facilitated heterosynaptic LTP that was enhanced in Fmr1 KO mice relative to wild-type (WT) controls. To determine if enhanced heterosynaptic LTP in Fmr1 KO mouse hippocampus requires protein synthesis, we applied a translation inhibitor, emetine (EME). EME blocked homo- and heterosynaptic LTP in both genotypes. We also probed the roles of mTOR and ERK in boosting heterosynaptic LTP in Fmr1 KO mice. Although heterosynaptic LTP was blocked in both WT and KOs by inhibitors of mTOR and ERK, homosynaptic LTP was still enhanced following mTOR inhibition in slices from Fmr1 KO mice. Because mTOR will normally stimulate translation initiation, our results suggest that -AR stimulation paired with derepression of translation results in enhanced heterosynaptic plasticity.
Nowadays depression and suicide are two of the most important worldwide public health problems. Although their specific molecular mechanisms are still largely unknown, glycosides can play a fundamental role in their pathogenesis. These molecules act presumably through the up-regulation of plasticity-related proteins: probably they can have a presynaptic facilitatory effect, through the activation of several intracellular signaling pathways that include molecules like protein kinase A, Rap-1, cAMP, cADPR and G proteins. These proteins take part in a myriad of brain functions such as cell survival and synaptic plasticity. In depressed suicide victims, it has been found that their activity is strongly decreased, primarily in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. These studies suggest that glycosides can regulate neuroprotection through Rap-1 and other molecules, and may play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression and suicide.
Human sperm samples are very heterogeneous and include a low amount of truly functional gametes. Distinct strategies have been developed to characterize and isolate this specific subpopulation. In this study we have used fluorescence microscopy and fluorescence-activated cell sorting to determine if mitochondrial function, as assessed using mitochondrial-sensitive probes, could be employed as a criterion to obtain more functional sperm from a given ejaculate. We first determined that mitochondrial activity correlated with the quality of distinct human samples, from healthy donors to patients with decreased semen quality. Furthermore, using fluorescence-activated cell sorting to separate sperm with active and inactive mitochondria we found that this was also true within samples. Indeed, sperm with active mitochondria defined a more functional subpopulation, which contained more capacitated and acrosome intact cells, sperm with lower chromatin damage, and, crucially, sperm more able to decondense and participate in early development using both chemical induction and injection into mature bovine oocytes. Furthermore, cell sorting using mitochondrial activity produced a more functional sperm subpopulation than classic swim-up, both in terms of improvement in a variety of functional sperm parameters and in statistical significance. In conclusion, whatever the true biological role of sperm mitochondria in fertilization, mitochondrial activity is a clear hallmark of human sperm functionality.
The peptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) was initially identified as a critical component of the stress response. CRF exerts its cellular effects by binding to one of two cognate G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), CRF receptor 1 (CRFR1) or 2 (CRFR2). While these GPCRs were originally characterized as being coupled to G(s), leading to downstream activation of adenylyl cyclase (AC) and subsequent increases in cAMP, it has since become clear that CRFRs couple to and activate numerous other downstream signaling cascades. In addition, CRF signaling influences the activity of many diverse brain regions, affecting a variety of behaviors. One of these regions is the striatum, including the nucleus accumbens (NAc). CRF exerts profound effects on striatal-dependent behaviors such as drug addiction, pair-bonding, and natural reward. Recent data indicate that at least some of these behaviors regulated by CRF are mediated through CRF activation of the transcription factor CREB. Thus, we aimed to elucidate the signaling pathway by which CRF activates CREB in striatal neurons. Here we describe a novel neuronal signaling pathway whereby CRF leads to a rapid G- and MEK-dependent increase in CREB phosphorylation. These data are the first descriptions of CRF leading to activation of a G-dependent signaling pathway in neurons, as well as the first description of G activation leading to downstream CREB phosphorylation in any cellular system. Additionally, these data provide additional insight into the mechanisms by which CRF can regulate neuronal function.
Inspired by the basic concepts of neuroscience, neuropsychiatry is a discipline at the interface between psychiatry, psychology, neurology and neuropathology. Interestingly, neuropsychiatry can also include specialized disciplines, such as developmental psychology, endocrinology and sexology. In this article, we describe the neuropsychiatric approach and present how it may be related to social neuroscience, and apply to sexual medicine by describing its importance for sexual dysfunctions and sexual desire.



The last decade has seen an enormous growth in the quantity of research directed at understanding the biological underpinnings of autism spectrum disorders. This increase has been spurred on, in part, by research funding provided through private, parent advocacy groups. While increased funding and entry into autism research by scientists from many disciplines has facilitated the speed of discoveries germane to establishing the etiologies of autism, there remain a number of roadblocks to understanding autism sufficiently well to foster new treatments. This short article provides a brief overview of some of the achievements and some of the difficulties in conducting autism research.
Autism is marked by overgrowth of the brain at the earliest ages but not at older ages when decreases in structural volumes and neuron numbers are observed instead. This has led to the theory of age-specific anatomic abnormalities in autism. Here we report age-related changes in brain size in autistic and typical subjects from 12 months to 50 years of age based on analyses of 586 longitudinal and cross-sectional MRI scans. This dataset is several times larger than the largest autism study to date. Results demonstrate early brain overgrowth during infancy and the toddler years in autistic boys and girls, followed by an accelerated rate of decline in size and perhaps degeneration from adolescence to late middle age in this disorder. We theorize that underlying these age-specific changes in anatomic abnormalities in autism, there may also be age-specific changes in gene expression, molecular, synaptic, cellular, and circuit abnormalities. A peak age for detecting and studying the earliest fundamental biological underpinnings of autism is prenatal life and the first three postnatal years. Studies of the older autistic brain may not address original causes but are essential to discovering how best to help the older aging autistic person. Lastly, the theory of age-specific anatomic abnormalities in autism has broad implications for a wide range of work on the disorder including the design, validation, and interpretation of animal model, lymphocyte gene expression, brain gene expression, and genotype/CNV-anatomic phenotype studies.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a powerful tool for examining brain function but has yet to be systematically applied to the study of brain development in autism. Recently, however, scientists have begun to apply fMRI during natural sleep as a mechanism to study function in the developing brain. When considering the study of autism, this method opens considerable doors because it eliminates biases of past studies which only sampled from high-functioning, older populations. This paper describes the application of sleep fMRI as a way to study both extrinsic and intrinsic brain functions in autism between 12 and 36 months. Preliminary studies that use sleep fMRI method show that defects in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) in response to language are early emerging in autism and can be found in as young as 14 months in age. As such indices of abnormal early development of the STG may prove useful in the search for a biomarker of autism detectable during the infancy period. From a theoretical standpoint, examining sleep fMRI studies in autism gains some clarity when placed in context of the more established literature on structural brain development of autism which suggests that autism involves early brain overgrowth. Studies of plasticity in autism have yet to be done, but it is likely that the window of opportunity for altering the course of brain development in autism begins within the first year of life. The ability to do so relies on improving and streamlining early identification and thus early treatment efforts.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by aberrant reciprocal social interactions, impaired communication, and repetitive behaviors. While the etiology remains unclear, strong evidence exists for a genetic component, and several synaptic genes have been implicated. SHANK genes encode a family of synaptic scaffolding proteins located postsynaptically on excitatory synapses. Mutations in SHANK genes have been detected in several autistic individuals. To understand the consequences of SHANK mutations relevant to the diagnostic and associated symptoms of autism, comprehensive behavioral phenotyping on a line of Shank1 mutant mice was conducted on multiple measures of social interactions, social olfaction, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-related behaviors, motor functions, and a series of control measures for physical abilities. Results from our comprehensive behavioral phenotyping battery indicated that adult Shank1 null mutant mice were similar to their wildtype and heterozygous littermates on standardized measures of general health, neurological reflexes and sensory skills. Motor functions were reduced in the null mutants on open field activity, rotarod, and wire hang, replicating and extending previous findings (Hung et al., 2008). A partial anxiety-like phenotype was detected in the null mutants in some components of the light  dark task, as previously reported (Hung et al., 2008) but not in the elevated plus-maze. Juvenile reciprocal social interactions did not differ across genotypes. Interpretation of adult social approach was confounded by a lack of normal sociability in wildtype and heterozygous littermates. All genotypes were able to discriminate social odors on an olfactory habituation/dishabituation task. All genotypes displayed relatively high levels of repetitive self-grooming. Our findings support the interpretation that Shank1 null mice do not demonstrate autism-relevant social interaction deficits, but confirm and extend a role for Shank1 in motor functions.
Children with Asperger's Disorder or High Functioning Autism are included in regular education classes but find themselves excluded from the social lives of their classmates. This paper briefly reviews studies which attempt to provide them with training to overcome their social difficulties. These interventions have had limited success and have not systematically incorporated the child's parents into the intervention. Children's Friendship Training is a manualized parent-assisted group treatment which teaches social skill through learning and practicing sets of rules of etiquette for key social situations. The treatment approach has been demonstrated to have success in improving friendships of children with autism spectrum disorders. The content of Children's Friendship Training is briefly described and results of controlled studies are reviewed. Limitations of previous research and future directions are also described.
The presence of von Economo neurons (VENs) in the frontoinsular cortex (FI) has been linked to a possible role in the integration of bodily feelings, emotional regulation, and goal-directed behaviors. They have also been implicated in fast intuitive evaluation of complex social situations. Several studies reported a decreased number of VENs in neuropsychiatric diseases in which the &quot;embodied&quot; dimension of social cognition is markedly affected. Neuropathological analyses of VENs in patients with autism are few and did not report alterations in VEN numbers. In this study we re-evaluated the possible presence of changes in VEN numbers and their relationship with the diagnosis of autism. Using a stereologic approach we quantified VENs and pyramidal neurons in layer V of FI in postmortem brains of four young patients with autism and three comparably aged controls. We also investigated possible autism-related differences in FI layer V volume. Patients with autism consistently had a significantly higher ratio of VENs to pyramidal neurons (p=0.020) than control subjects. This result may reflect the presence of neuronal overgrowth in young patients with autism and may also be related to alterations in migration, cortical lamination, and apoptosis. Higher numbers of VENs in the FI of patients with autism may also underlie a heightened interoception, described in some clinical observations.

GABA modification plays an important role in motor cortical plasticity. We therefore hypothesized that interindividual variation in the responsiveness of the GABA system to modification influences learning capacity in healthy adults. We assessed GABA responsiveness by transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), an intervention known to decrease GABA. The magnitude of M1 GABA decrease induced by anodal tDCS correlated positively with both the degree of motor learning and the degree of fMRI signal change within the left M1 during learning. This study therefore suggests that the responsiveness of the GABAergic system to modification may be relevant to short-term motor learning behavior and learning-related brain activity.


This article has been withdrawn at the request of the editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
Mutations in the PARK7 gene, DJ-1, have been reported to cause early-onset and familial Parkinson's disease (PD). The function of DJ-1 and how it contributes to the development of the disease is not clear today, but several studies report that DJ-1 is responsive to oxidative stress and important for the maintenance of mitochondria. We have screened three coding regions of DJ-1 (exon 2, 5 and 7) in a Swedish Parkinson cohort. The Swedish PD material consisted of 67 patients with a self reported positive family history of PD and 77 patients with early-onset of disease (50 years old). We detected two patients with the previously reported synonymous mutation, Ala167Ala (c.501A&gt;G, rs71653621), in exon 7. No Ala167Ala carriers were identified among 213 neurologically healthy Swedish controls. Mechanisms by which the synonymous Ala167Ala mutation can have consequences are unknown. It may affect the mRNA stability, secondary structure of mRNA, synthesis, turnover, protein folding and function. We could show a 1.3% decrease in DJ-1 mRNA folding energy in the A&lt;G substituted sequence compared to the wild type sequence in silico, suggesting a possible small effect of Ala167Ala on DJ-1 gene function. This is the first report on an identified DJ-1 mutation in Swedish PD patients. Our results, in combination with those of previous studies, strengthen the hypothesis that alterations in DJ-1 are not a common cause of familial and early-onset PD world-wide.
Until the advent of modern neuroscience, free will used to be a theological and a metaphysical concept, debated with little reference to brain function. Today, with ever increasing understanding of neurons, circuits and cognition, this concept has become outdated and any metaphysical account of free will is rightfully rejected. The consequence is not, however, that we become mindless automata responding predictably to external stimuli. On the contrary, accumulating evidence also from brains much smaller than ours points towards a general organization of brain function that incorporates flexible decision-making on the basis of complex computations negotiating internal and external processing. The adaptive value of such an organization consists of being unpredictable for competitors, prey or predators, as well as being able to explore the hidden resource deterministic automats would never find. At the same time, this organization allows all animals to respond efficiently with tried-and-tested behaviours to predictable and reliable stimuli. As has been the case so many times in the history of neuroscience, invertebrate model systems are spearheading these research efforts. This comparatively recent evidence indicates that one common ability of most if not all brains is to choose among different behavioural options even in the absence of differences in the environment and perform genuinely novel acts. Therefore, it seems a reasonable effort for any neurobiologist to join and support a rather illustrious list of scholars who are trying to wrestle the term 'free will' from its metaphysical ancestry. The goal is to arrive at a scientific concept of free will, starting from these recently discovered processes with a strong emphasis on the neurobiological mechanisms underlying them.
Although the neural and genetic pathways underlying learning and memory formation seem strikingly similar among species of distant animal phyla, several more subtle inter- and intraspecific differences become evident from studies on model organisms. The true significance of such variation can only be understood when integrating this with information on the ecological relevance. Here, we argue that parasitoid wasps provide an excellent opportunity for multi-disciplinary studies that integrate ultimate and proximate approaches. These insects display interspecific variation in learning rate and memory dynamics that reflects natural variation in a daunting foraging task that largely determines their fitness: finding the inconspicuous hosts to which they will assign their offspring to develop. We review bioassays used for oviposition learning, the ecological factors that are considered to underlie the observed differences in learning rate and memory dynamics, and the opportunities for convergence of ecology and neuroscience that are offered by using parasitoid wasps as model species. We advocate that variation in learning and memory traits has evolved to suit an insect's lifestyle within its ecological niche.
Increasing evidence indicates that cerebrovascular dysfunction plays a pathogenic role in Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Amyloid- (A), a peptide central to the pathogenesis of AD, has profound vascular effects mediated, for the most part, by reactive oxygen species produced by the enzyme NADPH oxidase. The mechanisms linking A to NADPH oxidase-dependent vascular oxidative stress have not been identified, however. We report that the scavenger receptor CD36, a membrane glycoprotein that binds A, is essential for the vascular oxidative stress and neurovascular dysfunction induced by A1-40. Thus, topical application of A1-40 onto the somatosensory cortex attenuates the increase in cerebral blood flow elicited by neural activity or by endothelium-dependent vasodilators in WT mice but not in CD36-null mice (CD36(0/0)). The cerebrovascular effects of infusion of A1-40 into cerebral arteries are not observed in mice pretreated with CD36 blocking antibodies or in CD36(0/0) mice. Furthermore, CD36 deficiency prevents the neurovascular dysfunction observed in transgenic mice overexpressing the Swedish mutation of the amyloid precursor protein Tg2576 despite elevated levels of brain A1-40. CD36 is also required for the vascular oxidative stress induced by exogenous A1-40 or observed in Tg2576 mice. These observations establish CD36 as a key link between A1-40 and the NADPH oxidase-dependent vascular oxidative stress underlying the neurovascular dysfunction and suggest that CD36 is a potential therapeutical target to counteract the cerebrovascular dysfunction associated with A.



Macroautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) are the two main mammalian lysosomal proteolytic systems. In macroautophagy, double-membrane structures engulf organelles and other intracellular constituents through a highly regulated process that involves the formation of autophagic vacuoles and their fusion with lysosomes. In CMA, selected proteins are targeted through a nonvesicular pathway to a transport complex at the lysosomal membrane, through which they are threaded into the lysosomes and degraded. Autophagy is important in development, differentiation, cellular remodelling and survival during nutrient starvation. Increasing evidence suggests that autophagic dysregulation causes accumulation of abnormal proteins or damaged organelles, which is a characteristic of chronic neurodegenerative conditions, such as Parkinson disease (PD). Evidence from post-mortem material, transgenic mice, and animal and cellular models of PD suggests that both major autophagic pathways are malfunctioning. Numerous connections exist between proteins genetically linked to autosomal dominant PD, in particular -synuclein and LRRK2, and autophagic pathways. However, proteins involved in recessive PD, such as PINK1 and Parkin (PINK2), function in the process of mitophagy, whereby damaged mitochondria are selectively engulfed by macroautophagy. This wealth of new data suggests that both autophagic pathways are potential targets for therapeutic intervention in PD and other related neurodegenerative conditions.
Patient motion during positron emission tomography scans leads to significant resolution loss and image degradation. Motion-compensated image reconstruction (MCIR) algorithms have proven to be reliable correction methods given accurate deformation fields. However, although ordered subsets (OS) are widely used to speed up the convergence, OS-MCIR algorithms are still computationally expensive. This study concentrates on acceleration of OS-MCIR algorithms through two methods: combining OS with motion subsets and use of an initial estimate based on reference gate data. These approaches were compared to two existing OS-MCIR algorithms and post-reconstruction registration using data from the NCAT phantom. The methods were evaluated in terms of noise, lesion bias and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR). The straightforward combination of motion subsets with projection subsets (OSGEM) produced inferior results (lower CNR, p &lt; 0.01) to existing OS-MCIR algorithms. The addition of a spacer step using data from all gates to OSGEM resulted in an algorithm (SS-OSGEM) that generated images that were statistically consistent with those from existing OS-MCIR algorithms (no significant difference in CNR, p &gt; 0.05) at one third of the computational expense. The use of a reference gate initial estimate (MCDOi) resulted in comparable image quality in terms of bias and CNR (p &gt; 0.05) at half the computational burden. This study indicates that MCDOi and SS-OSGEM in particular are attractive accelerated OS-MCIR approaches.
This article reviews basic concepts, general applications, and the potential impact of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies on genomics, with particular reference to currently available and possible future platforms and bioinformatics. NGS technologies have demonstrated the capacity to sequence DNA at unprecedented speed, thereby enabling previously unimaginable scientific achievements and novel biological applications. But, the massive data produced by NGS also presents a significant challenge for data storage, analyses, and management solutions. Advanced bioinformatic tools are essential for the successful application of NGS technology. As evidenced throughout this review, NGS technologies will have a striking impact on genomic research and the entire biological field. With its ability to tackle the unsolved challenges unconquered by previous genomic technologies, NGS is likely to unravel the complexity of the human genome in terms of genetic variations, some of which may be confined to susceptible loci for some common human conditions. The impact of NGS technologies on genomics will be far reaching and likely change the field for years to come.
There is a recognized demand for in vitro models that can replace or reduce animal experiments. Porcine retina has a similar neuronal structure to human retina and is therefore a valuable species for studying mechanisms of human retinal injury and degenerative disease. Here we describe a cost-effective technique for organotypic culture of adult porcine retina isolated from eyes obtained from an abattoir. After removing the anterior segment, a trephine blade was used to create multiple neural retina-Bruch's membrane-RPE-choroid-sclera explants from the posterior segment of adult porcine eyes. A piece of sterile filter paper was used to lift the neural retina off from each explant. The filter paper-retina complex was cultured (photoreceptor side up) atop an insert, which was held away from the bottom of the culture dish by a custom-made stand. The stand allows for good circulation of the culture medium to both sides of the retina. Overall, this procedure is simple, reproducible, and permits preservation of native retinal structure for at least seven days, making it a useful model for a variety of morphological, pharmacological, and biochemical studies on mammalian retina.

DNA methylation is a major epigenetic modification that regulates gene expression. Dnmt1, the maintenance DNA methylation enzyme, is abundantly expressed in the adult brain and is mainly located in the nuclear compartment, where it has access to chromatin. Hypomethylation of CpG islands at intron 1 of the SNCA gene has recently been reported to result in overexpression of -synuclein in Parkinson disease (PD) and related disorders. We therefore investigated the mechanisms underlying altered DNA methylation in PD and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We present evidence of reduction of nuclear Dnmt1 levels in human postmortem brain samples from PD and DLB patients as well as in the brains of -synuclein transgenic mice models. Furthermore, sequestration of Dnmt1 in the cytoplasm results in global DNA hypomethylation in human and mouse brains, involving CpG islands upstream of SNCA, SEPW1, and PRKAR2A genes. We report that association of Dnmt1 and -synuclein might mediate aberrant subcellular localization of Dnmt1. Nuclear Dnmt1 levels were partially rescued by overexpression of Dnmt1 in neuronal cell cultures and in -synuclein transgenic mice brains. Our results underscore a novel mechanism for epigenetic dysregulation in Lewy body diseases, which might underlie the decrease in DNA methylation reported for PD and DLB.
The -subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels regulate their functional expression and properties. Two mechanisms have been proposed for this, an effect on gating and an enhancement of expression. With respect to the effect on expression, -subunits have been suggested to enhance trafficking by masking an unidentified endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal. Here we have investigated whether, and how, -subunits affect the level of Ca(V)2.2 channels within somata and neurites of cultured sympathetic neurons. We have used YFP-Ca(V)2.2 containing a mutation (W391A), that prevents binding of -subunits to its I-II linker and found that expression of this channel was much reduced compared with WT CFP-Ca(V)2.2 when both were expressed in the same neuron. This effect was particularly evident in neurites and growth cones. The difference between the levels of YFP-Ca(V)2.2(W391A) and CFP-Ca(V)2.2(WT) was lost in the absence of co-expressed -subunits. Furthermore, the relative reduction of expression of Ca(V)2.2(W391A) compared with the WT channel was reversed by exposure to two proteasome inhibitors, MG132 and lactacystin, particularly in the somata. In further experiments in tsA-201 cells, we found that proteasome inhibition did not augment the cell surface Ca(V)2.2(W391A) level but resulted in the observation of increased ubiquitination, particularly of mutant channels. In contrast, we found no evidence for selective retention of Ca(V)2.2(W391A) in the ER, in either the soma or growth cones. In conclusion, there is a marked effect of -subunits on Ca(V)2.2 expression, particularly in neurites, but our results point to protection from proteasomal degradation rather than masking of an ER retention signal.
Disposal of damaged proteins and protein aggregates is a prerequisite for the maintenance of cellular homeostasis and impairment of this disposal can lead to a broad range of pathological conditions, most notably in brain-associated disorders including Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases, and cancer. In this respect, the Protein Quality Control (PQC) pathway plays a central role in the clearance of damaged proteins. The Hsc/Hsp70-co-chaperone BAG3 has been described as a new and critical component of the PQC in several cellular contexts. For example, the expression of BAG3 in the rodent brain correlates with the engagement of protein degradation machineries in response to proteotoxic stress. Nevertheless, little is known about the molecular events assisted by BAG3. Here we show that ectopic expression of BAG3 in glioblastoma cells leads to the activation of an HSF1-driven stress response, as attested by transcriptional activation of BAG3 and Hsp70. BAG3 overexpression determines an accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins and this event requires the N-terminal region, WW domain of BAG3 and the association of BAG3 with Hsp70. The ubiquitination mainly occurs on BAG3-client proteins and the inhibition of proteasomal activity results in a further accumulation of ubiquitinated clients. At the cellular level, overexpression of BAG3 in glioblastoma cell lines, but not in non-glial cells, results in a remarkable decrease in colony formation capacity and this effect is reverted when the binding of BAG3 to Hsp70 is impaired. These observations provide the first evidence for an involvement of BAG3 in the ubiquitination and turnover of its partners.
Neuronal precursor cell-expressed developmentally down-regulated 4 (Nedd4) proteins are ubiquitin ligases, which attach ubiquitin moieties to their target proteins, a post-translational modification that is most commonly associated with protein degradation. Nedd4 ubiquitin ligases have been shown to down-regulate both potassium and sodium channels. In this study, we investigated whether Nedd4 ubiquitin ligases also regulate Ca(v) calcium channels. We expressed three Nedd4 family members, Nedd4-1, Nedd4-2, and WWP2, together with Ca(v)1.2 channels in tsA-201 cells. We found that Nedd4-1 dramatically decreased Ca(v) whole-cell currents, whereas Nedd4-2 and WWP2 failed to regulate the current. Surface biotinylation assays revealed that Nedd4-1 decreased the number of channels inserted at the plasma membrane. Western blots also showed a concomitant decrease in the total expression of the channels. Surprisingly, however, neither the Ca(v) pore-forming 1 subunit nor the associated Ca(v) and Ca(v)(2) subunits were ubiquitylated by Nedd4-1. The proteasome inhibitor MG132 prevented the degradation of Ca(v) channels, whereas monodansylcadaverine and chloroquine partially antagonized the Nedd4-1-induced regulation of Ca(v) currents. Remarkably, the effect of Nedd4-1 was fully prevented by brefeldin A. These data suggest that Nedd4-1 promotes the sorting of newly synthesized Ca(v) channels for degradation by both the proteasome and the lysosome. Most importantly, Nedd4-1-induced regulation required the co-expression of Ca(v) subunits, known to antagonize the retention of the channels in the endoplasmic reticulum. Altogether, our results suggest that Nedd4-1 interferes with the chaperon role of Ca(v) at the endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi level to prevent the delivery of Ca(v) channels at the plasma membrane.
Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) will inevitably develop Alzheimer disease (AD) neuropathology sometime after middle age, which may be attributable to genes triplicated in individuals with DS. The characteristics of AD neuropathology include neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss in various brain regions. The mechanism underlying neurodegeneration in AD and DS remains elusive. Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of DS. Our data show that RCAN1 expression is elevated in the cortex of DS and AD patients. RCAN1 expression can be activated by the stress hormone dexamethasone. A functional glucocorticoid response element was identified in the RCAN1 isoform 1 (RCAN1-1) promoter region, which is able to mediate the up-regulation of RCAN1 expression. Here we show that overexpression of RCAN1-1 in primary neurons activates caspase-9 and caspase-3 and subsequently induces neuronal apoptosis. Furthermore, we found that the neurotoxicity of RCAN1-1 is inhibited by knock-out of caspase-3 in caspase-3(-/-) neurons. Our study provides a novel mechanism by which RCAN1 functions as a mediator of stress- and A-induced neuronal death, and overexpression of RCAN1 due to an extra copy of the RCAN1 gene on chromosome 21 contributes to AD pathogenesis in DS.
Precise trafficking, localization, and activity of inward rectifier potassium Kir2 channels are important for shaping the electrical response of skeletal muscle. However, how coordinated trafficking occurs to target sites remains unclear. Kir2 channels are tetrameric assemblies of Kir2.x subunits. By immunocytochemistry we show that endogenous Kir2.1 and Kir2.2 are localized at the plasma membrane and T-tubules in rodent skeletal muscle. Recently, a new subunit, Kir2.6, present in human skeletal muscle, was identified as a gene in which mutations confer susceptibility to thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis. Here we characterize the trafficking and interaction of wild type Kir2.6 with other Kir2.x in COS-1 cells and skeletal muscle in vivo. Immunocytochemical and electrophysiological data demonstrate that Kir2.6 is largely retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, despite high sequence identity with Kir2.2 and conserved endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi trafficking motifs shared with Kir2.1 and Kir2.2. We identify amino acids responsible for the trafficking differences of Kir2.6. Significantly, we show that Kir2.6 subunits can coassemble with Kir2.1 and Kir2.2 in vitro and in vivo. Notably, this interaction limits the surface expression of both Kir2.1 and Kir2.2. We provide evidence that Kir2.6 functions as a dominant negative, in which incorporation of Kir2.6 as a subunit in a Kir2 channel heterotetramer reduces the abundance of Kir2 channels on the plasma membrane.

Recent progress in neuroscience has yielded major findings regarding brain maturation during adolescence. Unlike the body, which reaches adult size and morphology during this period, the adolescent brain is still maturing. The prefrontal cortex appears to be an important locus of maturational change subserving executive functions that may regulate emotional and motivational issues. The recent expansion of the adolescent period has increased the lag between the onset of emotional and motivational changes activated by puberty and the completion of cognitive development-the maturation of self-regulatory capacities and skills that are continuing to develop long after puberty has occurred. This &quot;disconnect&quot; predicts risk for a broad set of behavioral and emotional problems. Adolescence is a critical period for high-level cognitive functions such as socialization that rely on maturation of the prefrontal cortex. Intervention during the period of adolescent brain development provides opportunities and requires an interdisciplinary approach.

The use of narcotics by adolescent females is a growing problem, yet very little is known about the long-term consequences for either the user or her future offspring. In the current study, we utilized an animal model to examine the transgenerational consequences of opiate exposure occurring during this sensitive period. Female rats were exposed to increasing doses of morphine or its saline vehicle twice daily during adolescent development (postnatal days 30-40), after which they remained drug free. At 60 days of age, all females were mated and their adult offspring were tested for anxiety-like behavior and sensitivity to morphine. Specifically, offspring of adolescent morphine (MOR-F1)- or saline (SAL-F1)-exposed mothers were tested for acute locomotor responses in an open field, followed by testing of acute or chronic morphine analgesia on the hot plate. Open field testing indicated alterations in anxiety-like behavior in MOR-F1 female offspring, with effects dependent upon the stage of the estrus cycle. Hot plate testing revealed sex differences in baseline pain threshold and morphine sensitivity in all offspring, regardless of maternal exposure. However, when compared to their SAL-F1 counterparts, MOR-F1 male offspring demonstrated significantly increased sensitivity to the analgesic effects of acute morphine, and developed analgesic tolerance more rapidly following chronic morphine treatment. The findings indicate that prior opiate exposure during early adolescence in females produces sex-specific alterations of both emotionality and morphine sensitivity in their progeny.
Social defeat is an ethologically relevant stress inducing neuroadaptive changes in the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system. Three weeks after 10 days of daily defeat salient behaviors and in vivo dopamine (DA) neuron firing were evaluated in mice. Prior defeat induced social avoidance and hyperphagia and increased ventral tegmental area (VTA) DA neuron bursting activity. These data extend previous studies and suggest that increased phasic DA neuron firing in the VTA could be considered amongst the features defining the lasting imprint of social defeat stress.
Despite huge advances on Alzheimer's disease (AD) etiology, the clinical diagnosis remains the unique commonly used tool to detect the onset of the disease. For instance, epidemiological studies report that the combination of episodic and working memory disorders represents the most consistent sign of progression from mild cognitive impairment to AD. However, such working memory disorders failed to be observed early in transgenic mouse models of AD because the behavioral procedures used do not tackle properly crucial components of working memory. The aim of the present work was to assess early occurrence of working memory impairments in APP(751SL) mice. Therefore, we designed a new behavioral task in the water-maze, based on the principle of a delayed matching to place task, where spatial recognition was assessed for four different platform locations within a single session. First, we showed that dorsal hippocampal but not medial prefrontal cortex lesions in C57Bl6 mice induced a time-dependent impairment of spatial recognition. Then, the hippocampal-like memory alterations were reproduced in 7-8-month-old APP(751SL) mice but not in younger animals (5-6-month-old). We also demonstrated that these working memory deficits are related to progressive A accumulation in the hippocampus, but not in the other selected brain structures.
Anxiety disorders affect approximately 20% of the population, and women are twice as likely as men to develop anxiety disorders. Despite these findings, little is known about the effects of gender on tolerability and therapeutic efficacy of anxiolytic drugs. Sex differences are also observed in rodents, even though the majority of preclinical behavioral studies are conducted on males. The aim of this study was to investigate sex differences in anxiety-like behavior using the Vogel conflict test and the pharmacological responsiveness to a variety of psychoactive drugs in rats. Pharmacological treatments clinically used for the treatment of anxiety were tested in male and female rats. Overall, female rats accepted fewer punished responses, had lower levels of water intake even when matched for weight, and had a lower pain threshold for electrical footshock than males. Diazepam and chlordiazepoxide displayed anxiolytic-like effects in both genders. In contrast, buspirone, propranolol, fluoxetine and paroxetine showed activity only in male rats. Morphine had no anxiolytic-like activity in either gender. Analysis of the estrous cycle did not reveal any effect of cycle stage on behavioral or drug responses. This investigation highlights the importance of using female subjects in the preclinical research of anxiety and the screening of anxiolytic compounds in the drug development process.
To explore spatial cognition in rodents, research uses maze tasks, which differ in complexity, number of goals and pathways, behavioural flexibility, memory duration, but also in the experimenter's control over the strategy developed to reach a goal (e.g., allocentric vs. egocentric). This study aimed at validating a novel spatial memory test: the double-H maze test. The transparent device made of an alley with two opposite arms at each extremity and two in its centre is flooded. An escape platform is submerged in one arm. For experiments 1-3, rats were released in unpredictable sequences from one of both central arms to favour an allocentric approach of the task. Experiment 1 (3 trials/day over 6 days) demonstrated classical learning curves and evidence for recent and nondegraded remote memory performance. Experiment 2 (2 days, 3 trials/day) showed a dose-dependent alteration of task acquisition/consolidation by muscarinic or NMDA receptor blockade; these drug effects vanished with sustained training (experiment 3; 4 days, 3 trials/day). Experiment 4 oriented rats towards a procedural (egocentric) approach of the task. Memory was tested in a misleading probe trial. Most rats immediately switched from response learning-based to place learning-based behaviour, but only when their initial view on environmental cues markedly differed between training and probe trials. Because this simple task enables the formation of a relatively stable memory trace, it could be particularly adapted to study consolidation processes at a system level or/and the interplay between procedural and declarative-like memory systems.
Ethologically based animal models are widely used; however, results from different laboratories vary significantly which may partly be due to the lack of standardization. Here, we examined the effects of circadian rhythm, lighting condition and mouse strain (BALB/c and C57BL/6, known to differ in measures of avoidance and risk assessment behavior) on two well established behavioral tests in mice: the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and the Open Field (OF). Parameters from both paradigms are commonly used as indices of anxiety-like behavior. BALB/c mice and C57BL/6 mice were independently tested in the morning and at night, in regular laboratory lighting and in the dark. We developed a novel method based on infrared lighting from below, coupled to respective video-tracking equipment, which facilitates standard testing of behavior interference-free in complete darkness. The two mouse strains differed in anxiety-related variables for the EPM in the dark, and for the OF in regular laboratory lighting. Moreover, BALB/c displayed greater anxiety-like behavior than C57BL/6 in the OF but less anxiety-like behavior than C57BL/6 in the EPM. Lighting condition has a major influence on both behavioral tests and this to a considerably larger extent than circadian rhythm. In addition, the lighting condition interacts strongly with the genetic background, producing discriminative differences in the anxiety-related variables depending on mouse strain and lighting condition. These results challenge the comparability of not sufficiently standardized tests of anxiety-like behavior and emphasize the need for controlling environmental variables in behavioral phenotyping.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnoses are behaviorally based with no defined universal biomarkers, occur at a 1:110 ratio in the population, and predominantly affect males compared to females at approximately a 4:1 ratio. One approach to investigate and identify causes of ASD is to use organisms that display abnormal behavioral responses that model ASD-related impairments. This study describes a novel transgenic mouse, MALTT, which was generated using a forward genetics approach. It was determined that the transgene integrated within a non-coding region on the X chromosome. The MALTT line exhibited a complete repertoire of ASD-like behavioral deficits in all three domains required for an ASD diagnosis: reciprocal social interaction, communication, and repetitive or inflexible behaviors. Specifically, MALTT male mice showed deficits in social interaction and interest, abnormalities in pup and juvenile ultrasonic vocalization communications, and exhibited a repetitive stereotypy. Abnormalities were also observed in the domain of sensory function, a secondary phenotype prevalently associated with ASD. Mapping and expression studies suggested that the Fam46 gene family may be linked to the observed ASD-related behaviors. The MALTT line provides a unique genetic model for examining the underlying biological mechanisms involved in ASD-related behaviors.

Recent studies have explored the implication of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) in the process of vigilance states. The current experiments were carried out in mice lacking the MCH(1) receptor (-/-) and wild-type (WT) littermates, to assess the role of MCH(1) receptor in the regulation of sleep architecture, body temperature (BT) and locomotor activity (LMA) under normal condition and following a 1h restraint stress at lights onset. Under baseline conditions, MCH(1) (-/-) mice exhibited consistent changes in waking and sleeping time across the 24-h recording period. We found an increase in the amount of wakefulness (MCH(1) (-/-) 680.1  15.3 min vs. WT, 601.9  18.1, p&lt;0.05) at the expense of total duration of non rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep (MCH(1) (-/-) 664.1  13.9 min vs. WT 750.1  18.5, p&lt;0.05). Additionally, MCH(1) (-/-) mice had a higher mean basal body temperature (MCH(1) (-/-), 36.6  0.1C vs. WT, 36.0  0.1C, p&lt;0.05), particularly during the light-resting period. Restraint stress resulted in an immediate increase in wakefulness with a concomitant reduction in NREM sleep and REM sleep in both genotypes, followed by a homeostatic rebound sleep. A concomitant long lasting increase in BT, independently of the behavioural state accompanied those changes in both genotypes. The elevated basal body temperature and reduction in NREM sleep time resulting from shorter NREM episode durations observed in MCH(1) (-/-) suggests that central MCH(1) receptor has a role in thermoregulation and presumably stabilization of NREM sleep.
Remodeling of the remnant neuronal network after brain injury possibly mediates spontaneous functional recovery; however, the mechanisms inducing axonal remodeling during spontaneous recovery remain unclear. Here, we show that altered -aminobutyric acid (GABA) signaling is crucial for axonal remodeling of the contralesional cortex after traumatic brain injury. After injury to the sensorimotor cortex in mice, we found a significant decrease in the expression of GABA(A)R-1 subunits in the intact sensorimotor cortex for 2 weeks. Motor functions, assessed by grid walk and cylinder tests, spontaneously improved in 4 weeks after the injury to the sensorimotor cortex. With motor recovery, corticospinal tract (CST) axons from the contralesional cortex sprouted into the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord at 2 and 4 weeks after the injury. To determine the functional implications of the changes in the expression of GABA(A)R-1 subunits, we infused muscimol, a GABA R agonist, into the contralesional cortex for a week after the injury. Compared with the vehicle-treated mice, we noted significantly inhibited recovery in the muscimol-treated mice. Further, muscimol infusion greatly suppressed the axonal sprouting into the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord. In conclusion, recovery of motor function and axonal remodeling of the CST following cortical injury requires suppressed GABA(A)R subunit expression and decreased GABAergic signaling.
It has been suggested that glucose metabolism within the brain's default network is directly associated with-and may even cause-the amyloid pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we performed 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and [(11)C]-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) positron emission tomography (PET) on cognitively normal elderly subjects and on AD patients and conducted quantitative regional analysis of FDG- and PIB-PET images using an automated region of interest technique. We confirmed that resting glucose metabolism within the posterior components of the brain's default network is high in normal elderly subjects and low in AD patients, which is partially in agreement with the regional pattern of PIB uptake within the default network of AD patients. However, in several regions outside the default network, glucose metabolism was high in normal elderly subjects but was not depressed in AD patients, who exhibited significantly increased PIB uptakes in these regions. In contrast, the level of resting glucose metabolism in the default network and in regions outside the default network in normal elderly subjects was significantly correlated with the level of regional PIB uptake in AD patients. These results are discussed with experimental evidence suggesting that beta amyloid production and amyloid precursor protein regulation are dependent on neuronal activity.
The motile tips of growing axons are called growth cones. Growth cones lead navigating axons through developing tissues by interacting with locally expressed molecular guidance cues that bind growth cone receptors and regulate the dynamics and organization of the growth cone cytoskeleton. The main target of these navigational signals is the actin filament meshwork that fills the growth cone periphery and that drives growth cone motility through continual actin polymerization and dynamic remodeling. Positive or attractive guidance cues induce growth cone turning by stimulating actin filament (F-actin) polymerization in the region of the growth cone periphery that is nearer the source of the attractant cue. This actin polymerization drives local growth cone protrusion, adhesion of the leading margin and axonal elongation toward the attractant. Actin filament polymerization depends on the availability of sufficient actin monomer and on polymerization nuclei or actin filament barbed ends for the addition of monomer. Actin monomer is abundantly available in chick retinal and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) growth cones. Consequently, polymerization increases rapidly when free F-actin barbed ends become available for monomer addition. This occurs in chick DRG and retinal growth cones via the local activation of the F-actin severing protein actin depolymerizing factor (ADF/cofilin) in the growth cone region closer to an attractant. This heightened ADF/cofilin activity severs actin filaments to create new F-actin barbed ends for polymerization. The following method demonstrates this mechanism. Total content of F-actin is visualized by staining with fluorescent phalloidin. F-actin barbed ends are visualized by the incorporation of rhodamine-actin within growth cones that are permeabilized with the procedure described in the following, which is adapted from previous studies of other motile cells. When rhodamine-actin is added at a concentration above the critical concentration for actin monomer addition to barbed ends, rhodamine-actin assembles onto free barbed ends. If the attractive cue is presented in a gradient, such as being released from a micropipette positioned to one side of a growth cone, the incorporation of rhodamine-actin onto F-actin barbed ends will be greater in the growth cone side toward the micropipette. Growth cones are small and delicate cell structures. The procedures of permeabilization, rhodamine-actin incorporation, fixation and fluorescence visualization are all carefully done and can be conducted on the stage of an inverted microscope. These methods can be applied to studying local actin polymerization in migrating neurons, other primary tissue cells or cell lines.
This study examined the photoperiodic regulation of energy balance and cannabinoid receptor expression in the Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus) hypothalamus. Short day lengths, beginning at weaning, reduced food intake, body mass and fat pad masses and also decreased cannabinoid receptor immunostaining in the anterior and lateral hypothalamic nuclei of male hamsters. These data suggest a potential role for reduced cannabinoid drive in mediating short day-induced alterations in energy balance.
Spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) extend processes that interact with Schwann cells (SCs) and with oligodendrocytes (OLs) and astrocytes (ACs). We investigated the ability of these glial cells to support SGN neurite growth. In the presence of cultured ACs, OLs and SCs, SGN neurites tended to follow SCs and OLs and cross-over ACs. Most neurites initially followed the type of glial cell on which the neuronal cell body was found. To determine the influence of homogeneous populations of glia on neurite growth, SG explants were plated on cultured SCs, ACs or OLs. The number of neurites/explant extending onto SCs (463.8916.25) was significantly greater than the number extending onto ACs (111.3838.73) or OLs (6.752.21), indicating that populations of central glia inhibit SGN neurite growth. Treatment with cell-permeant cpt-cAMP or forskolin (FSK) each significantly increased the number of neurites on OLs (133.5425.59 and 292.2583.57, respectively). cpt-cAMP and FSK each also increased the number of neurites on ACs (213.1936.06 and 208.6459.25, respectively), however the difference was not significant compared with control. The neurites on ACs and OLs failed to grow radially in a well-fasciculated pattern as on SCs. In explants plated on the borders of cultured OL-SC or AC-SC groups, more neurites extended onto SCs compared with OLs and ACs. Conditioned media (CM) from OL or AC cultures did not reduce neurite length, implying that the inhibition of neurite growth by central glia is not due to soluble factors. Taken together, these results demonstrate that homogeneous populations of central glia inhibit SGN neurite growth.
DYT1 dystonia is caused by a GAG deletion in TOR1A, the gene which encodes torsinA. Gene expression studies in rodents and functional imaging studies in humans suggest that DYT1 dystonia may be a network disorder of neurodevelopmental origin. To generate high resolution metabolic maps of DYT1 dystonia and pinpoint dysregulated network elements, we performed 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography and cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry in transgenic mice expressing human mutant (hMT1) torsinA and wild-type littermates. In comparison with controls, hMT1 mice showed increased glucose utilization (GU) in the inferior olive (IO) medial nucleus (IOM), IO dorsal accessory nucleus and substantia nigra compacta, and decreased GU in the medial globus pallidus (MGP) and lateral globus pallidus. The hMT1 mice showed increased CO activity in the IOM and Purkinje cell layer of cerebellar cortex, and decreased CO activity in the caudal caudate-putamen, substantia nigra reticulata and MGP. These findings suggest that (1) the DYT1 carrier state increases energy demand in the olivocerebellar network and (2) the IO may be a pivotal node for abnormal basal ganglia-cerebellar interactions in dystonia.
Parosmia is a common olfactory disorder. In this condition, odors are perceived in a different quality than usual. This distorted olfactory percept is typically reported to be unpleasant. Little is known about the pathophysiology of this phenomenon. Previous studies demonstrated smaller volumes of the olfactory bulbs in patients with parosmia compared to subjects without parosmia. In order to investigate structural brain alterations in areas beyond the olfactory bulb, in the current study voxel-based morphometry was applied. A group of 22 parosmic patients was compared with control subjects matched for age- and sex, who exhibited a similar performance in olfactory tests. Performing a whole brain analysis, we found profound gray matter volume loss in the left anterior insula in parosmic patients. In an additional volume of interest analysis including primary and secondary olfactory areas, we also found volume loss in the right anterior insula, the anterior cingulate cortex, the hippocampus bilaterally, and the left medial orbitofrontal cortex. Many of these areas are critically involved in olfactory quality discrimination and odor memory. The present results indicate that reduced gray matter volume in brain regions supporting odor discrimination and memory is related to disturbed olfactory sensation in parosmia.
It is well established that physical exercise can exert neuroprotection both in clinical settings and animal experiments. A series of studies have demonstrated that physical exercise may be a promising preconditioning method to induce brain ischemic tolerance through the promotion of angiogenesis, mediation of the inflammatory response, inhibition of glutamate over-activation, protection of the blood brain barrier (BBB) and inhibition of apoptosis. Through these mechanisms, exercise preconditioning may reduce the neural deficits associated with ischemia and the development of brain infarction and thus provide brain ischemic tolerance. An awareness of the benefits of exercise preconditioning may lead more patients to accept exercise therapy in cases of ischemic stroke.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a powerful neuroprotective molecule in the brain and spinal cord. We have previously shown that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) IGF-I gene therapy is an effective strategy to increase IGF-I levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Since aging in rats is associated with severe motor function deterioration, we implemented i.c.v. IGF-I gene therapy in very old rats (30-31 months) and assessed the beneficial impact on motor performance. We used recombinant adenovectors (RAds) expressing either green fluorescent protein (GFP) or rat IGF-I. Injection in the lateral or fourth ventricle led to high transgene expression in the ependymal cell layer in the brain and cervical spinal cord. RAd-IGF-I-injected rats but not RAd-GFP-injected controls, showed significantly increased levels of CSF IGF-I. Motor tests showed the expected age-related decline in aged rats. Seventeen-day IGF-I gene therapy induced a significant improvement in motor performance in the aged but not in the young animals. These results show that IGF-I is an effective restorative molecule in the aging brain and spinal cord. The data also reveal that the ependymal route constitutes a promising approach for implementing protective IGF-I gene therapy in the aging CNS.
Presenilin 1 (PS1), a causative molecule of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD), is known to be an unprimed substrate of glycogen synthase kinase 3  (GSK3) [Twomey and McCarthy (2006) FEBS Lett 580:4015-4020] and is phosphorylated at serine 353, 357 residues in its cytoplasmic loop region [Kirschenbaum et al. (2001) J Biol Chem 276:7366-7375]. In this report, we investigated the effect of PS1 phosphorylation on AD pathophysiology and obtained two important results--PS1 phosphorylation increased amyloid  (A) 42/40 ratio, and PS1 phosphorylation was enhanced in the human AD brains. Interestingly, we demonstrated that PS1 phosphorylation promoted insulin receptor (IR) cleavage and the IR intracellular domain (IR ICD) generated by -secretase led to a marked transactivation of Akt (PKB), which down-regulated GSK3 activity. Thus, the cleavage of IR by -secretase can inhibit PS1 phosphorylation in the long run. Taken together, our findings indicate that PS1 phosphorylation at serine 353, 357 residues can play a pivotal role in the pathology of AD and that the dysregulation of this mechanism may be causally associated with its pathology.
Neonatal maternal separation alters adult learning and memory. Previously, we showed that neonatal separation impaired eyeblink conditioning in adult rats and increased glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the cerebellar interpositus nucleus, a critical site of learning-related plasticity. Daily neonatal separation (1 h/day on postnatal days 2-14) increases neonatal plasma corticosterone levels. Therefore, effects of separation on GR expression in the interpositus and consequently adult eyeblink conditioning may be mediated by neonatal increases in corticosterone. As a first step in exploring a potential role for corticosterone in the neonatal separation effects we observed, we assessed whether systemic daily (postnatal days 2-14) corticosterone injections mimic neonatal separation effects on adult eyeblink conditioning and GR expression in the interpositus. Control uninjected animals were compared to animals receiving either daily corticosterone injections or daily injections of an equal volume of vehicle. Plasma corticosterone values were measured in a separate group of control, neonatally separated, vehicle injected, or corticosterone injected pups. In adulthood, rats underwent surgery for implantation of recording and stimulating electrodes. After recovery from surgery, rats underwent 10 daily sessions of eyeblink conditioning. Then, brains were processed for GR immunohistochemistry and GR expression in the interpositus nucleus was assessed. Vehicle and corticosterone injections both produced much larger increases in neonatal plasma corticosterone than did daily maternal separation, with the largest increases occurring in the corticosterone-injected group. Neonatal corticosterone injections impaired adult eyeblink conditioning and decreased GR expression in the interpositus nucleus, while the effects of vehicle injections were intermediate. Thus, while neonatal injections and maternal separation both produce adult impairments in learning and memory, these manipulations produce opposite changes in GR expression. This suggests an inverted U-shaped relationship may exist between both neonatal corticosterone levels and adult GR expression in the interpositus nucleus, and adult GR expression in the interpositus and eyeblink conditioning.
Among the pathological factors known to be associated with Alzheimer disease (AD), oxidative stress induced by the amyloid- peptide (A) has been demonstrated to play a key role in human brain and animal models of AD. Recently, we reported elevated levels of oxidative damage in the brain of a transgenic (Tg) AD mouse model with Swedish and Indiana familial AD mutations in human amyloid precursor protein (APP) [PDAPP mice, line J20], as evidenced by increased levels of protein carbonyls, 3-nitrotyrosine, and protein-bound 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal. This oxidative damage was dependent on the methionine 35 residue within the A peptide. Further insight into the molecular pathways affected in this Tg model of AD may be gained with discovery-based proteomics studies; therefore, two-dimensional gel-based expression proteomics was performed to compare differences in brain protein levels of J20 Tg mice with non-transgenic (NTg) littermate controls. Based on our studies, we identified six proteins that had significantly increased levels in J20 Tg relative to NTg mice: calcineurin subunit B type 1,  GDP-dissociation inhibitor 1, T-complex protein 1 subunit  A, -enolase, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (Pin-1), and ATP synthase subunit  mitochondrial. Several of these proteins have previously been implicated in in vitro and in vivo models and subjects with AD. Additionally, using redox proteomics analyses we identified two oxidatively-modified proteins: phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein 1 and Pin-1 with decreased levels of protein 3-nitrotyrosine in J20 Tg mice relative to NTg. Western blotting and immunoprecipitation analyses were used to validate proteomics results. Overall, these studies provide information about changes in the brain proteome as a result of A deposition and clues with which to further direct studies on elucidating AD pathogenesis.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) causes a palatability shift of a taste stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS) from ingestive to aversive. We previously found that the ventral pallidum (VP) mediates the palatability shift in CTA. Because the VP receives major projections from the nucleus accumbens (NAc), we examined whether the presentation of CS activates the NAc-VP projective neurons after the establishment of CTA, using a manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging technique. Rats were implanted with a guide cannula in the NAc and an intraoral cannula. After the surgery, they received a pairing of 5 mM saccharin solution with an i.p. injection of 0.15 M lithium chloride (CTA group) or saline (sham group). Two days after the conditioning, rats were microinjected with manganese chloride (MnCl2) into the NAc. Thirty minutes later, the rats were presented with saccharin (CTA-CS and sham-CS groups) or water (CTA-DW and sham-DW groups) via the intraoral cannula. Only the CTA-CS group showed a robust aversion to the CS. At 1 and 2 h after the MnCl2 injection, T1-weighted MR images were acquired using an 11.7 T MRI. Imaging analysis showed that significantly more manganese moved toward the VP in the CTA-CS group than in the other groups. These results indicate that the conditioned aversive taste enhanced the activities of the projective NAc-VP neurons and suggest specific involvement of the NAc-VP pathway in the rejection of CS in retrieval of CTA.
Methionine sulfoxide reductase A knockout (MsrA-/-) mice, which serve as a potential model for neurodegeneration, suffer from increased oxidative stress and have previously been found to have chronically elevated brain dopamine (DA) content levels relative to control mice. Additionally, these high levels parallel the increased presynaptic DA release. In this study, fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at carbon-fiber microelectrodes was used to quantify striatal reserve pool DA in knockout mice and wild-type control mice. Reserve pool DA efflux, induced by amphetamine (AMPH), was measured in brain slices from knockout and wild type (WT) mice in the presence of -methyl-p-tyrosine, a DA synthesis inhibitor. Additionally, the stimulated release of reserve pool DA, mobilized by cocaine (COC), was measured. Both efflux and stimulated release measurements were enhanced in slices from knockout mice, suggesting that these mice have greater reserve pool DA stores than wild-type and that these stores are effectively mobilized. Moreover, dopamine transporter (DAT) labeling data indicate that the difference in measured DA efflux was likely not caused by altered DAT protein expression. Additionally, slices from MsrA-/- and wild-type mice were equally responsive to increasing extracellular calcium concentrations, suggesting that potential differences in either calcium entry or intracellular calcium handling are not responsible for increased reserve pool DA release. Collectively, these results demonstrate that MsrA-/- knockout mice maintain a larger DA reserve pool than wild-type control mice, and that this pool is readily mobilized.
Non-motor symptoms, such as fear of falling and anxiety, are frequently reported in Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent evidence of anxiety and fear directly influencing balance control in healthy young and older adults, raises the question whether fear of falling and anxiety also directly contribute to the balance deficits observed in PD. The goal of the current study was to examine whether PD patients and controls responded similarly or differently to experimentally induced increases in anxiety. For this purpose, 14 PD patients (tested during a subjective optimal ON state) and 16 healthy age-matched control subjects stood in three conditions of different levels of postural threat: normal threat (quiet standing at ground level); medium threat (standing at the edge of a surface elevated to 80 cm); and high threat (same, but to 160 cm). Outcome measures included mean position, mean power of frequency (MPF) and root mean square (RMS) of centre of pressure (COP) displacements in the anterior-posterior (AP) and medial-lateral (ML) directions. Physiological and psychosocial measures of fear and anxiety were also recorded. Increased threat changed postural control similarly in PD patients and controls; MPF of AP and ML COP increased and the mean COP position was shifted backward in both groups. These results indicate that during the ON state, static balance in PD patients and controls is equally susceptible to the influence of anxiety. Significant correlations observed between COP changes and measures of fear and anxiety provide evidence to support the proposed neural links between structures controlling emotion and postural control. Future studies should further address this issue by including more severely affected patients, by testing the influence of dopaminergic medication, by including more anxious patients, and by using dynamic measures of balance.
Dynamic exercise evokes sustained blood pressure and heart rate (HR) increases. Although it is well accepted that there is a CNS mediation of cardiovascular adjustments during dynamic exercise, information on the role of specific CNS structures is still limited. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is involved in exercise-evoked cardiovascular responses in rats. However, the specific neurotransmitter involved in BST-related modulation of cardiovascular responses to dynamic exercise is still unclear. In the present study, we investigated the role of local BST adrenoceptors in the cardiovascular responses evoked when rats are submitted to an acute bout of exercise on a rodent treadmill. We observed that bilateral microinjection of the selective 1-adrenoceptor antagonist WB4101 into the BST enhanced the HR increase evoked by dynamic exercise without affecting the mean arterial pressure (MAP) increase. Bilateral microinjection of the selective 2-adrenoceptor antagonist RX821002 reduced exercise-evoked pressor response without changing the tachycardiac response. BST pretreatment with the nonselective -adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol did not affect exercise-related cardiovascular responses. BST treatment with either WB4101 or RX821002 did not affect motor performance in the open-field test, which indicates that effects of BST adrenoceptor antagonism in exercise-evoked cardiovascular responses were not due to changes in motor activity. The present findings are the first evidence showing the involvement of CNS adrenoceptors in cardiovascular responses during dynamic exercise. Our results indicate an inhibitory influence of BST 1-adrenoceptor on the exercise-evoked HR response. Data also point to a facilitatory role played by the activation of BST 2-adrenoceptor on the pressor response to dynamic exercise.
The aim of this study was to examine the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) in the generation of oscillatory field activity at theta frequency (4-12 Hz) in the medial septal slice prepared from rat brain. Bath application of mGluR agonists and antagonists showed that activation of mGluR1-type receptors produces persistent theta frequency oscillations in a dose-responsive manner. This activity, induced by the group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), was reduced by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists and abolished by further addition of a GABAA receptor antagonist. However, addition of a GABAA receptor antagonist on its own converted the DHPG-induced oscillations to intermittent episodes of accentuated theta frequency activity following a burst. In a proportion of slices, DHPG induced large amplitude field population spiking activity (100-300 V) which is correlated linearly with the field theta oscillations and is sensitive to glutamate receptor antagonists, suggesting a role of this type of spikes in theta generation induced by DHPG. These data demonstrate that DHPG-sensitive neuronal networks within medial septum generate theta rhythmic activity and are differentially modulated by excitatory and inhibitory ionotropic neurotransmissions.
The caudal pressor area (CPA) is a brainstem area located close to the spinal cord. The activation of the CPA increases sympathetic activity and mean arterial pressure (MAP) by mechanisms dependent on the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (commNTS) and rostroventrolateral medulla, however, the signals that activate the CPA to produce these responses are still unknown. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the activity of glutamatergic and GABAergic mechanisms from the CPA and commNTS in rats exposed to hypoxia and the effects of the inhibition of CPA neurons on cardiorespiratory responses to peripheral chemoreceptor activation with i.v. sodium cyanide (NaCN). Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-280 g, n=5-8/group) were used. In conscious rats, most of the commNTS neurons (6611%) and part of the CPA neurons (367%) activated by hypoxia (8% O2) were glutamatergic (contained VGLUT2mRNA). Small part of the neurons activated during hypoxia was GABAergic (contained GAD-67mRNA) in the commNTS (94%) or the CPA (62%). In urethane anesthetized rats, the inhibition of CPA neurons with bilateral injections of muscimol (GABA-A agonist, 2 mM) reduced baseline MAP, splanchnic sympathetic nerve discharge (SND) and phrenic nerve discharge (PND). Muscimol into the CPA also reduced by around 50% the pressor and sympathoexcitatory responses and the increase in PND to peripheral chemoreceptor activation with NaCN (50 g/kg i.v.), without changing sympathetic baroreflex responses. These data suggest that CPA mechanisms facilitate cardiorespiratory responses to peripheral chemoreflex activation. Immunohistochemistry results also suggest that at least part of the CPA mechanisms activated by hypoxia is glutamatergic.
The involvement of substance P (SP) in neuronal sensitization through the activation of the neurokinin-1-receptor (NK1r) in postsynaptic dorsal horn neurons has been well established. In contrast, the role of SP and NK1r in primary sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, in particular in the soma, is not well understood. In this study, we evaluated whether SP modulated the NMDA-evoked transient increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+ ([Ca2+]cyt) in the soma of dissociated adult DRG neurons. Cultures were treated with nerve growth factor (NGF), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) or both NGF+PGE2. Treatment with NGF+PGE2 increased the percentage of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) responsive neurons. There was no correlation between the percentage of NMDA responsive neurons and the level of expression of the NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor or of the NK1r. Pretreatment with SP did not alter the percentage of NMDA responsive neurons; while it potentiated the NMDA-evoked [Ca2+]cyt transient by increasing its magnitude and by prolonging the period during which small- and some medium-sized neurons remained NMDA responsive. The SP-mediated potentiation was blocked by the SP-antagonist ([D-Pro4, D-Trp7,9]-SP (4-11)) and by the protein kinase C (PKC) blocker bisindolylmaleimide I (BIM); and correlated with the phosphorylation of PKC. The Nk1r agonist [Sar9, Met(O2)11]-SP (SarMet-SP) also potentiated the NMDA-evoked [Ca2+]cyt transient. Exposure to SP or SarMet-SP produced a rapid increase in the labeling of phosphorylated-PKC. In none of the conditions we detected phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit at Ser-1303. Phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit at Tyr1472 was enhanced to a similar extent in cells exposed to NMDA, SP or NMDA+SP, and that enhancement was blocked by BIM. Our findings suggest that NGF and PGE2 may contribute to the injury-evoked sensitization of DRG neurons in part by enhancing their NMDA-evoked [Ca2+]cyt transient in all sized DRG neurons; and that SP may further contribute to the DRG sensitization by enhancing and prolonging the NMDA-evoked increase in [Ca2+]cyt in small- and medium-sized DRG neurons.
Proechimys (Rodentia: Echimyidae) is a neotropical rodent of the Amazon region that has been successfully colonized in the laboratory and used for experimental medicine. Preliminary studies indicated that Proechimys (casiragua) rodents express an atypical resistance to developing a chronic epileptic condition in common models of temporal lobe epilepsy. Moreover, previous investigation of our laboratory described a remarkably different Proechimy's cytoarchitecture organization of the hippocampal CA2 subfield. In the present study, we investigated the intrinsic neuronal properties and morphological characteristics of the Proechimys's hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the CA1 and CA2 areas. A comparative approach was performed using neurons recorded in Wistar rats. A striking finding in Proechimys rodents was the presence of large pyramidal-like neurons throughout the stratum oriens from CA2 to CA1 area. In order to confirm such distinctive feature of the Proechimys's hippocampus, we performed Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry for neurofilament protein SM311. CA2 pyramidal neurons in the stratum pyramidale of Proechimys exhibited a significantly higher input resistance and lower time constant when compared to corresponding cell groups in the same area of the Wistar rat's. This newly identified population of pyramidal-shaped neurons in stratum oriens of Proechimys exhibited distinct electrophysiological and morphological properties. This included larger capacitance, lower input resistance, larger rheobase, long latency to first action potential and slower firing frequency. In addition, the apical dendrites of these neurons were oriented in parallel to apical dendrites of regular pyramidal neurons in stratum pyramidale. Moreover, these neurons were immunoreactive to SM311 as the majority of the neurons of the pyramidal layer. The functional role of these hippocampal neurons of the rodent Proechimys deserves further investigation.
Oligodendrocyte-derived myelin retards the ability of CNS axons to regenerate following transection. The intrinsic response of CNS axons to an axotomy insult may be vastly different in the absence of myelin. However, the paucity of adequate experimental models has limited detailed investigation of cellular behaviour following axon transection in an unmyelinated CNS environment. In this study we perform laser-induced axotomy of the porcine retinal ganglion cell axon, a physiologically unmyelinated, mature CNS axon that is structurally similar to humans to infer knowledge about axonal behaviour in the absence of myelin. Axotomy-induced changes to the neuronal cytoskeleton and supporting astrocytes during the early stages after transection are delineated by examining the sequence of neurofilament subunit, microtubule (TUB), microtubule associated protein (MAP), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) modification. Axonal transection induced an increase in the expression of neurofilament light at regions within, and immediately adjacent to, sites of axotomy. Other neurofilament subunits were not altered at sites of transection. Unlike myelinated axons where an increase in GFAP staining within hypertrophic glial scars have been shown to inhibit axonal repair we demonstrate a decrease in GFAP staining within regions of increased or preserved neurofilament expression. The behaviour of TUB and MAP proteins following transection of unmyelinated CNS axons are similar to what has previously been described in myelinated CNS axons. This study provides fundamental insights into astrocyte and axonal behaviour acutely after axotomy and demonstrates a series of degenerative events in unmyelinated CNS axons, which in comparison to prior reports are different to myelinated CNS axons. The findings of this report have relevance to understanding pathogenic mechanisms underlying neuro-degeneration in the CNS.
Hyperexcitability of motoneurons is one of the key mechanism that has been demonstrated to underlie the pathogenesis of spasticity after spinal injury. Serotonin (5-HT) denervation supersensitivity is one of the mechanisms underlying this increased motoneuron excitability. In this study, to examine whether the supersensitivity is caused by 5-HT receptor upregulation we investigated changes in levels of 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity (5-HT2AR-IR) following a spinal transection in the sacral spinal cord of rats at seven different time points post injury: 2, 8, 16 h, and 1, 2, 7 and 28 days, respectively. 5-HT2AR-IR density was analyzed in motoneurons (regions containing their somata and dendrites) in the spinal segments below the lesion. The results showed no significant changes in 5-HT2AR-IR in the motoneurons up to 16 h following the transection. After 1-day, however the levels of 5-HT2AR-IR increased in the motoneurons and their dendrites, with the density level being 3.4-fold higher in spinalized rats than in sham-operated rats. The upregulation increased progressively until a maximal level was reached at 28 days post-injury. We also investigated 5-HT and 5-HT transporter expressions at five different post injury time points: 1, 2, 7, 21 and 60 days and they showed concurrent down-regulation changes after 2 days. These results suggest that the upregulation of 5-HT2ARs may at least partly underlie the development of 5-HT denervation supersensitivity in spinal motoneurons following spinal injury and thereby implicates their involvement in the pathogenesis of the subsequent development of spasticity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) presents clinically with varying degrees of resting tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia. For decades, striatal-thalamo-cortical (STC) dysfunction has been implied in bradykinesia and rigidity, but does not explain resting tremor in PD. To understand the roles of cerebello-thalamo-cortical (CTC) and STC circuits in the pathophysiology of the heterogeneous clinical presentation of PD, we collected functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from 17 right-handed PD patients [nine tremor predominant (PDT) and eight akinetic-rigidity predominant (PDAR)] and 14 right-handed controls while they performed internally-guided (IG) sequential finger tapping tasks. The percentage of voxels activated in regions constituting the STC and CTC [divided as cerebellar hemisphere-thalamo-cortical (CHTC) and vermis-thalamo-cortical (CVTC)] circuits was calculated. Multivariate analysis of variance compared the activation patterns of these circuits between study groups. Compared to controls, both PDAR and PDT subjects displayed an overall increase in the percentage of voxels activated in both STC and CTC circuits. These increases reached statistical significance in contralateral STC and CTC circuits for PDT subjects, and in contralateral CTC pathways for PDAR subjects. Comparison of PDAR and PDT subjects revealed significant differences in ipsilateral STC (P=0.005) and CTC (P=0.043 for CHTC and P=0.003 for CVTC) circuits. These data support the differential involvement of STC and CTC circuits in PD subtypes, and help explain the heterogeneous presentation of PD symptoms. These findings underscore the importance of integrating CTC circuits in understanding PD and other disorders of the basal ganglia.
As the central nucleus (CE) is the only amygdaloid nucleus to send axons to the pons and medulla, it is thought to be involved in the expression of conditioned responses by accessing hindbrain circuitry generating stereotypic responses to aversive stimuli. Responses to aversive oral stimuli include gaping and tongue protrusion generated by central pattern generators and other premotor neurons in the ponto-medullary reticular formation. We investigated central nucleus connections with the reticular formation by identifying premotor reticular formation neurons through the retrograde trans-synaptic transport of pseudorabies virus (PRV) inoculated into masseter, genioglossus, thyroarytenoid or inferior constrictor muscles in combination with anterograde labeling of CE axons with biotinylated dextran amine. Three dimensional mapping of PRV infected premotor neurons revealed specific clusters of these neurons associated with different oro-laryngo-pharyngeal muscles, particularly in the parvicellular reticular formation. CE axon terminals were concentrated in certain parvicellular clusters but overall putative contacts were identified with premotor neurons associated with all four oro-laryngo-pharyngeal muscles investigated. We also mapped the retrograde trans-synaptic spread of PRV through the various nuclei of the amygdaloid complex. Medial CE was the first amygdala structure infected (4 days post-inoculation) with trans-synaptic spread to the lateral CE and the caudomedial parvicellular basolateral nucleus by day 5 post-inoculation. Infected neurons were only very rarely found in the lateral capsular CE and the lateral nucleus and then at only the latest time points. The data demonstrate that the CE is directly connected with clusters of reticular premotor neurons that may represent complex pattern generators and/or switching elements for the generation of stereotypic oral and laryngo-pharyngeal movements during aversive oral stimulation. Serial connections through the amygdaloid complex linked with the oro-laryngo-pharyngeal musculature appear quite distinct from those believed to sub-serve fear responses, suggesting there are distinct &quot;channels&quot; for the acquisition and expression of particular conditioned behaviors.
The sigma receptor 1 (R1) has been shown to modulate the activity of several voltage- and ligand-gated channels. Using patch-clamp techniques in rat retinal slice preparations, we demonstrated that activation of R1 by SKF10047 (SKF) or PRE-084 suppressed N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated current responses from both ON and OFF type ganglion cells (GCs), dose-dependently, and the effect could be blocked by the R1 antagonist BD1047 or the R antagonist haloperidol. The suppression by SKF of NMDA currents was abolished with pre-incubation of the G protein inhibitor GDP--S or the Gi/o activator mastoparan. We further explored the intracellular signaling pathway responsible for the SKF-induced suppression of NMDA responses. Application of either cAMP/the PKA inhibitor Rp-cAMP or cGMP/the PKG inhibitor KT5823 did not change the SKF-induced effect, suggesting the involvement of neither cAMP/PKA nor cGMP/PKG pathway. In contrast, suppression of NMDA responses by SKF was abolished by internal infusion of the phosphatidylinostiol-specific phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122, but not by the phosphatidylcholine-PLC inhibitor D609. SKF-induced suppression of NMDA responses was dependent on intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), as evidenced by the fact that the effect was abolished when [Ca2+]i was buffered with 10 mM BAPTA. The SKF effect was blocked by xestospongin-C/heparin, IP3 receptor antagonists, but unchanged by ryanodine/caffeine, ryanodine receptor modulators. Furthermore, application of protein kinase C inhibitors Bis IV and G6976 eliminated the SKF effect. These results suggest that the suppression of NMDA responses of rat retinal GCs caused by the activation of R1 may be mediated by a distinct [Ca2+]i-dependent PLC-PKC pathway. This effect of SKF could help ameliorate malfunction of GCs caused by excessive stimulation of NMDA receptors under pathological conditions.
In the present work we analyzed the profile of high voltage-activated (HVA) calcium (Ca2+) currents in freshly isolated striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) from rodent models of both idiopathic and familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). MSNs were recorded from reserpine-treated and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, and from DJ-1 and PINK1 (PTEN induced kinase 1) knockout (-/-) mice. Our analysis showed no significant changes in total HVA Ca2+ current. However, we recorded a net increase in the L-type fraction of HVA Ca2+ current in dopamine-depleted rats, and of both N- and P-type components in DJ-1-/- mice, whereas no significant change in Ca2+ current profile was observed in PINK1-/- mice. Dopamine modulates HVA Ca2+ channels in MSNs, thus we also analyzed the effect of D1 and D2 receptor activation. The effect of the D1 receptor agonist SKF 83822 on Ca2+ current was not significantly different among MSNs from control animals or PD models. However, in both dopamine-depleted rats and DJ-1-/- mice the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole inhibited a greater fraction of HVA Ca2+ current than in the respective controls. Conversely, in MSNs from PINK1-/- mice we did not observe alterations in the effect of D2 receptor activation. Additionally, in both reserpine-treated and 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, the effect of quinpirole was occluded by the selective L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine, while in DJ-1-/- mice it was mostly occluded by -conotoxin GVIA, blocker of N-type channels. These results demonstrate that both dopamine depletion and DJ-1 deletion induce a rearrangement in the HVA Ca2+ channel profile, specifically involving those channels that are selectively modulated by D2 receptors.
Prion diseases are neurodegenerative disorders characterized by deposition of the pathological prion protein (PrPsc) within the brain of affected humans and animals. Microglial cell activation is a common feature of prion diseases; alterations of various neurotransmitter systems and neurotransmission have been also reported. Owing to its ability to modulate both neuroimmune responses and neurotransmission, it was of interest to study the brain endocannabinoid system in a prion-infected mouse model. The production of the endocannabinoid, 2-arachidonoyglycerol (2-AG), was enhanced 10 weeks post-infection, without alteration of the other endocannabinoid, anandamide. The CB2 receptor expression was up-regulated in brains of prion-infected mice as early as 10 weeks and up to 32 weeks post-infection whereas the mRNAs of other cannabinoid receptors (CBRs) remain unchanged. The observed alterations of the endocannabinoid system were specific for prion infection since no significant changes were observed in the brain of prion-resistant mice, that is, mice devoid of the Prnp gene. Our study highlights important alterations of the endocannabinoid system during early stages of the disease long before the clinical signs of the disease.
Aging is thought to impair prefrontal cortical (PFC) structure-sensitive cognitive functions and flexibility, such as working memory and reversal learning. A traditional Japanese medicine, yokukansan (YKS), is frequently used to treat age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease in Japan, but its pharmacological properties have not been elucidated. The present study was designed to examine whether YKS improves age-related cognitive deficits using aged rats. YKS was administered to 21-month-old rats for 3 months. The ability to learn initially a reward rule for a T-maze discrimination task (initial learning) was examined in young control (4-month-old), aged control (24-month-old) and YKS-treated aged (24-month-old) rats. Subsequently, working memory and reversal learning were examined in delayed alternation and reversal discrimination T-maze tasks, respectively. Locomotor activity was also measured in new environments. Although performance accuracy in the initial learning procedure did not differ among any experimental groups, accuracy in the delayed alternation task was significantly decreased in aged rats compared to young rats. Aged rats also showed significant decreases in accuracy in the reversal discrimination task. YKS treatment significantly ameliorated the age-related decreases in accuracy in the delayed alternation and reversal discrimination tasks. The ameliorative effects of YKS on impaired delayed alternation performance were reduced by intracranial infusions of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, into the prelimbic cortical region of the PFC, and the YKS effects on impaired reversal learning were done by the infusions into the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Locomotor activity did not change in any experimental group. Thus, YKS ameliorated age-related impairments of working memory and reversal learning, which might be mediated by a dopaminergic mechanism in the PFC structure. These investigations provide information important for the treatment of brain dysfunctions in the elderly people.
Modeling the behavior of mammalian arachnoid cells is critical to understand hydrocephalus and other brain disorders involving abnormal flow of cerebrospinal fluid, yet relatively little is known about the physiology of arachnoid cells due to lack of a robust three-dimensional model system. Explanted primary cultures have been the only option to study transport across arachnoid cell membranes, but practical limitations of primary culture include slow growth, early senescence, and poor reproducibility. The purpose of this study was to create immortalized rat arachnoid cell lines to permit in vitro study of arachnoid granulations and properties of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow. We established and partially characterized two immortalized cell lines generated from primary rat arachnoid cells, using retroviral gene transfer of SV40 large T antigen (SV40 LTAg) either with or without human telomerase (hTERT). The established cell lines stably express either SV40 LTAg alone, or SV40 LTAg and hTERT, and demonstrate high proliferative rate, contact inhibition at confluence, and stable expression of protein markers characteristic of native arachnoid cells over more than 160 passages.
Multiple neurotrophic factors play a role in proliferation, differentiation and survival in the olfactory epithelium (OE); however, the signaling cascade has not been fully elucidated. We tested the hypotheses that ATP induces the synthesis and secretion of two neurotrophic factors, fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF), and that these neurotrophic factors have a role in inducing proliferation. Protein levels of FGF2 and TGF were increased 20 h post-intranasal instillation of ATP compared to vehicle control in adult Swiss Webster mice. Pre-intranasal treatment with purinergic receptor antagonist pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-20,40-disulfonic acid (PPADS) significantly blocked this ATP-induced increase, indicating that upregulation of FGF2 and TGF expression is mediated by purinergic receptor activation. However, in neonatal mouse, intranasal instillation of ATP significantly increased the protein levels of FGF2, but not TGF. Likewise, ATP evoked the secretion of FGF2, but not TGF, from neonatal mouse olfactory epithelial slices and PPADS significantly blocked ATP-evoked FGF2 release. To determine the role of FGF2 and TGF in inducing proliferation, 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation was examined in adult olfactory epithelium. Intranasal treatment with FGF receptor inhibitor PD173074 or epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor AG1478 following ATP instillation significantly blocked ATP-induced BrdU incorporation. Collectively, these data demonstrate that ATP induces proliferation in adult mouse olfactory epithelium by promoting FGF2 and TGF synthesis and activation of their receptors. These data suggest that different mechanisms regulate neurogenesis in neonatal and adult OE, and FGF2 and TGF may have different roles throughout development.
In the present work we study the contribution of the chloride channel of the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) in the postsynaptic inhibition of somatic motoneurons during rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep atonia. Postsynaptic inhibition of motoneurons is partially responsible for the atonia that occurs during REM sleep. Disfacilitation is an additional mechanism that lowers motoneuron excitability in this state. Postsynaptic inhibition is mediated by the release of glycine from synaptic terminals on motoneurons, and by GABA that plays a complementary role to that of glycine. In this work we look in brain stem motoneurons of neonatal rats at a mechanism unrelated to the actions of glycine, GABA or to disfacilitation which depends on the chloride channel of the CFTR. We studied the presence of CFTR by immunocytochemistry. In electrophysiological experiments utilizing whole cell recordings in in vitro slices we examined the consequences of blocking this chloride channel. The effects on motoneurons of the application of glycine, of the application of glibenclamide (a CFTR blocker) and again of glycine during the effects of glibenclamide were studied. Glycine produced an hyperpolarization, a decrease in motoneuron excitability and a decrease in input resistance, all characteristic changes of the postsynaptic inhibition produced by this neurotransmitter. Glibenclamide produced an increase in input resistance and in motoneurons' repetitive discharge as well as a shift in the equilibrium potential for chloride ions as indicated by the displacement of the reversal potential for glycinergic actions. In motoneurons treated with glibenclamide, glycine produced postsynaptic inhibition but this effect was smaller when compared to that elicited by glycine in control conditions. The fact that blocking of the CFTR-chloride channel in brain stem motoneurons influences glycinergic inhibition suggests that this channel may play a complementary role in the glycinergic inhibition that occurs during REM sleep.
Direct evidence that the mammalian neocortex is an important generator of intrinsic activity comes from isolated neocortical slices that spontaneously generate multiple rhythms including those in the beta, delta and gamma range. These oscillations are also seen in intact animals where they interact with other areas including the hippocampus, thalamus and basal ganglia. Here we show that thick isolated neocortical slices from hooded seals intrinsically generate persistent spontaneous activities, both repetitive non-rhythmic activity with activity states lasting for several minutes, and oscillating activity with rhythms that are much slower (&lt;0.1 Hz) than the rhythms previously described in vitro. These intrinsic activities were very robust and persisted for up to 1 h even in severely hypoxic conditions. We hypothesize that the remarkable hypoxia tolerance of the hooded seal nervous system made it possible to maintain functional integrity in slices thick enough to preserve intact neuronal networks capable of generating these slow oscillations. The observed activities in seal neocortical slices support the notion that mammalian cortical networks intrinsically generate multiple states of activity that include oscillatory activity all the way down to &lt;0.1 Hz. This intrinsic neocortical excitability is an important contributor not only to sleep but also to the default awake state of the neocortex.
Previous work suggested that the telencephalic pathways of the main olfactory and vomeronasal systems of vertebrates are mostly isolated from each other, with the possible exception of convergence of the two systems into a small part of the olfactory amygdala. We tested the hypothesis of convergence between the main olfactory and vomeronasal systems by investigating the physiology of telencephalic olfactory responses in an in vitro brain preparation of the salamander Plethodon shermani. This animal was chosen because its olfactory and vomeronasal nerves can be separated and stimulated independently. The nerves were stimulated by short current pulses delivered through suction electrodes. Evoked field potentials and intracellular responses were systematically recorded in the telencephalon. The results showed an abundant overlap of olfactory and vomeronasal nerve-evoked field potentials in the ipsilateral lateral telencephalon and the amygdala. Single neurons receiving bimodal main olfactory and vomeronasal input were found in the dorsolateral telencephalon and amygdala. A classification of response latencies suggested that a subset of these neurons received direct input from both the main and accessory olfactory bulbs. Unimodal excitatory main olfactory responses were mostly found in neurons of the caudal telencephalic pole, but were also present in the striato-pallial transition area/lateral pallium region and striatum. Unimodal excitatory vomeronasal responses were found in neurons of the striato-pallial transition area, vomeronasal amygdala, and caudal amygdala. We conclude that the main olfactory and vomeronasal systems are extensively integrated within the salamander telencephalon and probably act in concert to modulate behavior.
Nickel (Ni(2+)) is a toxic metal that affects the function of several ionic channels. In the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor (NR), it causes activity enhancement of the channels containing the NR2B subunit and voltage-independent inhibition of those containing NR2A. Thus, it may represent a functional marker for the identification of NR native channel subunits. We investigated the effect of Ni(2+) on spontaneous NR currents in cortical neurons, dissociated from 18-day rat embryos and maintained in culture for up to 40 days. In whole-cell voltage-clamp at -60 mV, in a Mg(2+)-free bath containing the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX) (10 M), spontaneous currents were blocked by 10 M D(-)-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV) (10 M), and by NR2B antagonists, ifenprodil (10 M) or Ro25-6981 (Ro25, 1 M), indicating that they are due to NRs containing predominantly the NR2B subunit. In the presence of Ni(2+) (30 M) the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous currents were increased and the decay time decreased. A higher dose (300 M) blocked all electrical activity. In current-clamp, Ni(2+) (30 M) caused a 5 mV reversible depolarization. The effect of Ni(2+), as well as that of NR2B antagonists, was almost independent of days in vitro (DIV) in the range from 18 to 33 DIV. The electrical activity of the neuronal networks measured by microelectrode arrays (MEAs) was also affected by Ni(2+), which caused a decrease in firing rate, but an increase in burst duration, while Ro25 (1-10 M) caused a decrease in both firing rate and burst duration. Finally, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed a predominant expression of NR2B, with no modification during DIV. These results demonstrate that, in these cultured cells, the NR spontaneous current is almost entirely due by NR2B-containing receptors and that Ni(2+) affects the electrical activity through a specific effect on NR channels.
The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic capable of inducing analgesia, is known to have psychotomimetic actions, but the detailed mechanisms remain unclear because of its complex properties. The present study elucidated neural mechanisms of the effect of ketamine, at doses that exert psychotomimetic effects without anesthetic and analgesic effects, by evaluating cortical synaptic responses in vivo. Systemic administration (i.p.) of low (1 and 5 mg/kg), subanesthetic (25 mg/kg) and anesthetic (100 mg/kg) doses of ketamine dose-dependently decreased hippocampal stimulation-evoked potential in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in freely moving rats. The behavioral analysis assessed by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle response showed that ketamine (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) produced PPI deficit. Thus, the psychotomimetic effects observed in ketamine-treated groups (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) are associated with the induction of synaptic depression in the hippocampus-mPFC neural pathway. Based on these results, we further examined the underlying mechanisms of the ketamine-induced synaptic depression under anesthesia. Ketamine (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) caused increases in dialysate dopamine in the mPFC in anesthetized rats. Moreover, the ketamine-induced decreases in the evoked potential, at the dose 5 mg/kg which has no anesthetic and analgesic effects, were indeed absent in dopamine-lesioned rats pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 150 g/rat, i.c.v.). Ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced synaptic depression was blocked by pretreatment with dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (10 g/rat, i.c.v.) but not dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.), suggesting that dopaminergic modulation mediated via D1 receptors are involved in the synaptic effects of ketamine. Furthermore, ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced synaptic depression was prevented also by GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (0.2 or 2 g/rat, i.c.v.). These findings suggest that ketamine at the dose that exerts psychotomimetic symptoms depresses hippocampus-mPFC synaptic transmission through mechanisms involving dopaminergic modulation mediated via D1 receptors, which may lead to a net augmentation of synaptic inhibition mediated via GABAA receptors.


Estrogen therapy can promote cognitive function if initiated within a 'critical window' during the menopausal transition. However, in the absence of a progestogen, estrogens increase endometrial cancer risk which has spurred research into developing estrogenic alternatives that have the beneficial effects of estrogen but which are clinically safer. Soy protein is rich in isoflavones, which are a class of potential estrogenic alternatives. We sought to determine the effects of two diets, one with casein-lactalbumin as the main protein source and the other with soy protein containing isoflavones, on protein markers of hippocampal bioenergetic capacity in adult female cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis). Further, we assessed the effects of dietary soy isoflavones before or after ovariectomy. Animals receiving soy diet premenopausally then casein/lactalbumin post-ovariectomy had higher relative hippocampal content of glycolytic enzymes glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and pyruvate dehydrogenase subunit e1. Post-ovariectomy consumption of soy was associated with higher succinate dehydrogenase  levels and lower levels of isocitrate dehydrogenase, both proteins involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, significantly decreased expression of the antioxidant enzyme peroxiredoxin-V, and a non-significant trend towards decreased manganese superoxide dismutase expression. None of the diet paradigms significantly affected expression levels of oxidative phosphorylation enzyme complexes, or of mitochondrial fission and fusion proteins. Together, these data suggest that long-term soy diet produces minimal effects on hippocampal expression of proteins involved in bioenergetics, but that switching between a diet containing primarily animal protein and one containing soy isoflavones before and after menopause may result in complex effects on brain chemistry.
Current rodent models of menopause fail to adequately recapitulate the menopause transition. The intact aging model fails to achieve very low estrogen levels, and the ovariectomy model lacks a perimenopause phase. A new rodent model of accelerated ovarian failure (AOF) successfully replicates human perimenopause and postmenopause, including estrous acyclicity and fluctuating, followed by undetectable, estrogen levels, and allows for the dissociation of the effects of hormone levels from the effects of aging. In this model, an ovotoxic chemical, 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD), selective for primary and primordial follicles, is injected intraperitonelly in animals for 15 days. As the mature follicle population is depleted through natural cycling, ovarian failure follows increasing periods of acyclity. Administered at low doses, VCD specifically causes apoptotic cell death of primordial follicles but does not affect other peripheral tissues, including the liver and spleen, nor does it affect brain inflammation markers. In addition to reducing confounds associated with genetic and surgical manipulations, the AOF model maintains the presence of ovarian tissue which importantly parallels to the menopause transition in humans. The VCD injection procedure can be applied to studies using transgenic or knockout mice strains, or in other disease-state models (e.g., ischemia, atherosclerosis, or diabetes). This AOF model of menopause will generate new insights into women's health particularly in determining the critical periods (i.e., a window of opportunity) during perimenopause for restoring ovarian hormones for the most efficacious effect on memory and mood disorders as well as other menopausal symptoms.
Menopause is associated with a precipitous decline in circulating estrogens and a resulting loss of the neuroprotective actions of this steroid hormone. In view of the results of the Women's Health Initiative and the preceding knowledge that orally administered estrogens has a variety of adverse side effects, likely through actions on peripheral estrogen receptor alpha (ER), we initiated a program of research to synthesis and assess a group of non-feminizing estrogens that lack ability to interact with ERs but retain much of the neuroprotective action of feminizing estrogens. This program of research is aimed at the identification of compounds which do not stimulate ERs but are potentially neuroprotective in vitro and in animal models of neuronal cell death. We discovered that the most effective non-feminizing estrogens were those with large bulky groups in the 2 and/or 4 carbon of the phenolic A ring of the steroid. These compounds were 8- to 114-fold more potent than 17 -estradiol (E2), but lacked ER binding capacity in vitro and feminizing effects in vivo. The success of this program of research suggests that strategies to optimize non-feminizing estrogens for use in postmenopausal women can be successful.
Circulating estrogen levels and hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions decline with aging. Moreover, the responses of hippocampal synaptic structure to estrogens differ between aged and young rats. We recently reported that estrogens increase levels of post-synaptic proteins, including PSD-95, and opioid peptides leu-enkephalin and dynorphin in the hippocampus of young animals. However, the influence of ovarian hormones on synaptic protein and opioid peptide levels in the aging hippocampus is understudied. Here, young (3- to 5-month-old), middle-aged (9- to 12-month-old), and aged (about 22-month-old) female rats were ovariectomized and then, 4 weeks later, subcutaneously implanted with a silastic capsule containing vehicle or 17-estradiol. After 48 h, rats were subcutaneously injected with progesterone or vehicle and sacrificed 1 day later. Coronal sections through the dorsal hippocampus were processed for quantitative peroxidase immunohistochemistry of leu-enkephalin, dynorphin, synaptophysin, and PSD-95. With age, females showed opposing changes in leu-enkephalin and dynorphin levels in the mossy fiber pathway, particularly within the hilus, and regionally specific changes in synaptic protein levels. 17-estradiol, with or without progesterone, altered leu-enkephalin levels in the dentate gyrus and synaptophysin levels in the CA1 of young but not middle-aged or aged females. Additionally, 17-estradiol decreased synaptophysin levels in the CA3 of middle-aged females. Our results support and extend previous findings indicating 17-estradiol modulation of hippocampal opioid peptides and synaptic proteins while demonstrating regional and age-specific effects. Moreover, they lend credence to the &quot;window of opportunity&quot; hypothesis during which hormone replacement can modulate hippocampal structure and circuitry to improve cognitive outcomes.
The estrogen 17-estradiol (E) increases the axospinous synaptic density and plasticity in the hippocampal CA1 region of young female rats but fails to do so in aged female rats. This E stimulus on synaptic plasticity is associated with the phosphorylation-dependent activation of Akt kinase. Our previous findings demonstrated that increased estrogen levels subsequently increase phosphorylated Akt (pAkt)-immunoreactivity (-IR) within the dendritic shafts and spines of pyramidal neurons in young female rats. Therefore, because Akt can promote cell survival and growth, we tested the hypothesis that the less plastic synapses of aged female rats would contain less E-stimulated pAkt-IR. Here, young (3-4 months) and aged (22-23 months) female rats were ovariectomized 7 days prior to a 48-h administration of either vehicle or E. The pAkt-IR synaptic distribution was then analyzed using post-embedding electron microscopy. In both young and aged rats, pAkt-IR was found in dendritic spines and terminals, and pAkt-IR was particularly abundant at the post-synaptic density. Quantitative analyses revealed that the percentage of pAkt-labeled synapses was significantly greater in young rats compared to aged rats. Nonetheless, E treatment significantly increased pAkt-IR in pre- and post-synaptic profiles of both young and aged rats, although the stimulus in young rats was notably more widespread. These data support the evidence that hormone-activated signaling associated with cell growth and survival is diminished in the aged brain. However, the observation that E can still increase pAkt-IR in aged synapses presents this signaling component as a candidate target for hormone replacement therapies.


Impaired neurological development in premature infants frequently arises from periventricular white matter injury (PWMI), a condition associated with myelination abnormalities. Recently, exposure to hyperoxia was reported to disrupt myelin formation in neonatal rats. To identify the causes of hyperoxia-induced PWMI, we characterized cellular changes in the white matter (WM) using neonatal wild-type 2-3-cyclic nucleotide 3-phosphodiesterase-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-EGFP transgenic mice exposed to 48 h of 80% oxygen from postnatal day 6 (P6) to P8. Myelin basic protein expression and CC1(+) oligodendroglia decreased after hyperoxia at P8, but returned to control levels during recovery between P12 and P15. At P8, hyperoxia caused apoptosis of NG2(+)O4(-) progenitor cells and reduced NG2(+) cell proliferation. This was followed by restoration of the NG2(+) cell population and increased oligodendrogenesis in the WM after recovery. Despite apparent cellular recovery, diffusion tensor imaging revealed WM deficiencies at P30 and P60. Hyperoxia did not affect survival or proliferation of astrocytes in vivo, but modified GFAP and glutamate-aspartate transporter expression. The rate of [(3)H]-d-aspartic acid uptake in WM tissue was also decreased at P8 and P12. Furthermore, cultured astrocytes exposed to hyperoxia showed a reduced capacity to protect oligodendrocyte progenitor cells against the toxic effects of exogenous glutamate. This effect was prevented by 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide treatment. Our analysis reveals a role for altered glutamate homeostasis in hyperoxia-induced WM damage. Understanding the cellular dynamics and underlying mechanisms involved in hyperoxia-induced PWMI will allow for future targeted therapeutic intervention.
Stress is a physiological, adaptive response to changes in the environment, but can also lead to pathological alterations, such as relapse in psychiatric disorders and drug abuse. Evidence demonstrates that the dopamine (DA) system plays a role in stress; however, the nature of the effects of sustained stressors on DA neuron physiology has not been adequately addressed. By using a combined electrophysiological, immunohistochemical and behavioral approach, we examined the response of ventral tegmental area DA neurons in rats to acute as well as repeated stressful events using noxious (footshock) and psychological (restraint) stress. We found that aversive stimuli induced a pronounced activation of the DA system both electrophysiologically (population activity; i.e., number of DA neurons firing spontaneously) and behaviorally (response to psychostimulants). Moreover, infusion of TTX into the ventral hippocampus (vHPC) reversed both behavioral and electrophysiological effects of stress, indicating that the hyperdopaminergic condition associated with stress is driven by hyperactivity within the vHPC. Therefore, the stress-induced activation of the DA system may underlie the propensity of stress to exacerbate psychotic disorders or predispose an individual to drug-seeking behavior. Furthermore, the vHPC represents a critical link between context-dependent DA sensitization, stress-induced potentiation of amphetamine responsivity, and the increase in DA associated with stressors.
For reasons that are not well understood, aging significantly increases brain vulnerability to challenging life events. High-functioning older individuals often experience significant cognitive decline after an inflammatory event such as surgery, infection, or injury. We have modeled this phenomenon in rodents and have previously reported that a peripheral immune challenge (intraperitoneal injection of live Escherichia coli) selectively disrupts consolidation of hippocampus-dependent memory in aged (24-month-old), but not young (3-month-old), F344xBN rats. More recently, we have demonstrated that this infection-evoked memory deficit is mirrored by a selective deficit in long-lasting synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Interestingly, these deficits occur in forms of long-term memory and synaptic plasticity known to be strongly dependent on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Here, we begin to test the hypothesis that the combination of aging and an infection might disrupt production or processing of BDNF protein in the hippocampus, decreasing the availability of BDNF for plasticity-related processes at synaptic sites. We find that mature BDNF is markedly reduced in Western blots of hippocampal synaptoneurosomes prepared from aged animals following infection. This reduction is blocked by intra-cisterna magna administration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-1Ra (interleukin 1-specific receptor antagonist). Levels of the pan-neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) and the BDNF receptor TrkB (tropomyosin receptor kinase B) are not significantly altered in these synaptoneurosomes, but phosphorylation of TrkB and downstream activation of PLC1 (phospholipase C1) and ERK (extracellular response kinase) are attenuated-observations consistent with reduced availability of mature BDNF to activate TrkB signaling. These data suggest that inflammation-evoked reductions in BDNF at synapses might contribute to inflammation-evoked disruptions in long-term memory and synaptic plasticity in aging.
Despite the presence of large endbulb inputs, the spherical bushy cells (SBCs) of the rostral anteroventral cochlear nucleus do not function as simple auditory relays. We used the good signal-to-noise ratio of juxtacellular recordings to dissect the intrinsic and network mechanisms controlling the input-output relationship of SBCs in anesthetized gerbils. The SBCs generally operated close to action potential (AP) threshold and showed no evidence for synaptic depression, suggesting that the endbulbs of Held have low release probability in vivo. Analysis of the complex waveforms suggested that in the absence of auditory stimulation, postsynaptic spike depression and stochastic fluctuations in EPSP size were the main factors determining jitter and reliability of the endbulb synapse. During auditory stimulation, progressively larger EPSPs were needed to trigger APs at increasing sound intensities. Simulations suggested hyperpolarizing inhibition could explain the observed decrease in EPSP efficacy. Synaptic inhibition showed a delayed onset and generally had a higher threshold than excitatory inputs, but otherwise inhibition and excitation showed mostly overlapping frequency-response areas. The recruitment of synaptic inhibition caused postsynaptic spikes to be preferentially triggered by well-timed, large EPSPs, resulting in improved phase locking despite more variable EPSP-AP latencies. Our results suggest that the lack of synaptic depression, caused by low release probability, and the apparent absence of sound-evoked synaptic inhibition at low sound intensity maximize sensitivity of SBCs. At higher sound intensities, the recruitment of synaptic inhibition constrains their firing rate and optimizes their temporal precision.
Numerous studies with the neural activity marker Fos indicate that cocaine activates only a small proportion of sparsely distributed striatal neurons. Until now, efficient methods were not available to assess neuroadaptations induced specifically within these activated neurons. We used fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) to purify striatal neurons activated during cocaine-induced locomotion in naive and cocaine-sensitized cfos-lacZ transgenic rats. Activated neurons were labeled with an antibody against -galactosidase, the protein product of the lacZ gene. Cocaine induced a unique gene expression profile selectively in the small proportion of activated neurons that was not observed in the nonactivated majority of neurons. These genes included altered levels of the immediate early genes arc, fosB, and nr4a3, as well as genes involved in p38 MAPK signaling and cell-type specificity. We propose that this FACS method can be used to study molecular neuroadaptations in specific neurons encoding the behavioral effects of abused drugs and other learned behaviors.
Are experts born with particular predispositions, or are they made through experience? We examined brain structure in expert phoneticians, individuals who are highly trained to analyze and transcribe speech. We found a positive correlation between the size of left pars opercularis and years of phonetic transcription training experience, illustrating how learning may affect brain structure. Phoneticians were also more likely to have multiple or split left transverse gyri in the auditory cortex than nonexpert controls, and the amount of phonetic transcription training did not predict auditory cortex morphology. The transverse gyri are thought to be established in utero; our results thus suggest that this gross morphological difference may have existed before the onset of phonetic training, and that its presence confers an advantage of sufficient magnitude to affect career choices. These results suggest complementary influences of domain-specific predispositions and experience-dependent brain malleability, influences that likely interact in determining not only how experience shapes the human brain but also why some individuals become engaged by certain fields of expertise.
In attentional models of learning, associations between actions and subsequent rewards are stronger when outcomes are surprising, regardless of their valence. Despite the behavioral evidence that surprising outcomes drive learning, neural correlates of unsigned reward prediction errors remain elusive. Here we show that in a probabilistic choice task, trial-to-trial variations in preference track outcome surprisingness. Concordant with this behavioral pattern, responses of neurons in macaque (Macaca mulatta) dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) to both large and small rewards were enhanced when the outcome was surprising. Moreover, when, on some trials, probabilities were hidden, neuronal responses to rewards were reduced, consistent with the idea that the absence of clear expectations diminishes surprise. These patterns are inconsistent with the idea that dACC neurons track signed errors in reward prediction, as dopamine neurons do. Our results also indicate that dACC neurons do not signal conflict. In the context of other studies of dACC function, these results suggest a link between reward-related modulations in dACC activity and attention and motor control processes involved in behavioral adjustment. More speculatively, these data point to a harmonious integration between reward and learning accounts of ACC function on one hand, and attention and cognitive control accounts on the other.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by predominant vulnerability and central degeneration of both corticospinal/corticobulbar motor neurons (CSMN; &quot;upper motor neurons&quot;) in cerebral cortex, and spinal/bulbar motor neurons (SMN; &quot;lower motor neurons&quot;) in spinal cord and brainstem. Increasing evidence indicates broader cerebral cortex pathology in cognitive, sensory, and association systems in select cases. It remains unclear whether widely accepted transgenic ALS models, in particular hSOD1(G93A) mice, undergo degeneration of CSMN and molecularly/developmentally closely related populations of nonmotor projection neurons [e.g., other subcerebral projection neurons (SCPN)], and whether potential CSMN/SCPN degeneration is specific and early. This relative lack of knowledge regarding upper motor neuron pathology in these ALS model mice has hindered both molecular-pathophysiologic understanding of ALS and their use toward potential CSMN therapeutic approaches. Here, using a combination of anatomic, cellular, transgenic labeling, and newly available neuronal subtype-specific molecular analyses, we identify that CSMN and related nonmotor SCPN specifically and progressively degenerate in hSOD1(G93A) mice. Degeneration starts quite early and presymptomatically, by postnatal day 30. Other neocortical layers, cortical interneurons, and other projection neuron populations, even within layer V, are not similarly affected. Nonneuronal pathology in neocortex (activated astroglia and microglia) is consistent with findings in human ALS cortex and in affected mouse and human spinal cord. These results indicate previously unknown neuron type-specific vulnerability of CSMN/sensory and association SCPN, and identify that characteristic dual CSMN and SMN degeneration is conserved in hSOD1(G93A) mice. These results provide a foundation for detailed investigation of CSMN/SCPN vulnerability and toward potential CSMN therapeutics in ALS.
Neurons recruit numerous mechanisms to facilitate the development of synaptic connections. However, little is known about activity-dependent mechanisms that control the timing and fidelity of this process. Here we describe a novel pathway used by neurons to regulate glutamate receptors at maturing central synapses. This pathway relies on communication between neurons and astrocytes and the ability of astrocytes to release the factor SPARC (secreted protein, acidic and rich in cysteine). SPARC expression is dynamically regulated and plays a critical role in determining the level of synaptic AMPARs. SPARC ablation in mice increases excitatory synapse function, causes an abnormal accumulation of surface AMPARs at synapses, and impairs synaptic plasticity during development. We further demonstrate that SPARC inhibits the properties of neuronal 3-integrin complexes, which are intimately coupled to AMPAR stabilization at synapses. Thus neuron-glial signals control glutamate receptor levels at developing synapses to enable activity-driven modifications of synaptic strength.
Network state influences the processing of incoming stimuli. It is reasonable to expect, therefore, that animals might adjust cortical activity to improve sensory coding of behaviorally relevant stimuli. We tested this hypothesis, recording single-neuron activity from gustatory cortex (GC) in rats engaged in a two-alternative forced-choice taste discrimination task, and assaying the responses of these same neurons when the rats received the stimuli passively. We found that the task context affected the GC network state (reducing beta- and gamma-band field potential activity) and changed prestimulus and taste-induced single-neuron activity: before the stimulus, the activity of already low-firing neurons was further reduced, a change that was followed by comparable reductions of taste responses themselves. These changes served to sharpen taste selectivity, mainly by reducing responses to suboptimal stimuli. This sharpening of taste selectivity was specifically attributable to neurons with decreased prestimulus activities. Our results suggest the importance of prestimulus activity control for improving sensory coding within the task context.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-regulated (HCN) channels in the brain associate with their auxiliary subunit TRIP8b (also known as PEX5R), a cytoplasmic protein expressed as a family of alternatively spliced isoforms. Recent in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that association of TRIP8b with HCN subunits both inhibits channel opening and alters channel membrane trafficking, with some splice variants increasing and others decreasing channel surface expression. Here, we address the structural bases of the regulatory interactions between mouse TRIP8b and HCN1. We find that HCN1 and TRIP8b interact at two distinct sites: an upstream site where the C-linker/cyclic nucleotide-binding domain of HCN1 interacts with an 80 aa domain in the conserved central core of TRIP8b; and a downstream site where the C-terminal SNL (Ser-Asn-Leu) tripeptide of the channel interacts with the tetratricopeptide repeat domain of TRIP8b. These two interaction sites play distinct functional roles in the effects of TRIP8b on HCN1 trafficking and gating. Binding at the upstream site is both necessary and sufficient for TRIP8b to inhibit channel opening. It is also sufficient to mediate the trafficking effects of those TRIP8b isoforms that downregulate channel surface expression, in combination with the trafficking motifs present in the N-terminal region of TRIP8b. In contrast, binding at the downstream interaction site serves to stabilize the C-terminal domain of TRIP8b, allowing for optimal interaction between HCN1 and TRIP8b as well as for proper assembly of the molecular complexes that mediate the effects of TRIP8b on HCN1 channel trafficking.
To compare with our previous findings on relative-duration discrimination, we studied prefrontal cortex activity as monkeys performed a relative-distance discrimination task. We wanted to know whether the same parts of the prefrontal cortex compare durations and distances and, if so, whether they use similar mechanisms. Two stimuli appeared sequentially on a video screen, one above a fixed reference point, the other below it by a different distance. After a delay period, the same two stimuli reappeared (as choice stimuli), and the monkeys' task was to choose the one that had appeared farther from the reference point during its initial presentation. We recorded from neurons in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (area 46) and the caudal prefrontal cortex (area 8). Although some prefrontal neurons encoded the absolute distance of a stimulus from the reference point, many more encoded relative distance. Categorical representations (&quot;farther&quot;) predominated over parametric ones (&quot;how much farther&quot;). Relative-distance coding was most often abstract, coding the farther or closer stimulus to the same degree, independent of its position on the screen. During the delay period before the choice stimuli appeared, feature-based coding supplanted order-based coding, and position-based coding-always rare-decreased to chance levels. The present results closely resembled those for a duration-discrimination task in the same cortical areas. We conclude, therefore, that these areas contribute to decisions based on both spatial and temporal information.
Melanoma-associated retinopathy (MAR) is characterized by night blindness, photopsias, and a selective reduction of the electroretinogram b-wave. In certain cases, the serum contains autoantibodies that react with ON bipolar cells, but the target of these autoantibodies has not been identified. Here we show that the primary target of autoantibodies produced in MAR patients with reduced b-wave is the TRPM1 cation channel, the newly identified transduction channel in ON bipolar cells. Sera from two well characterized MAR patients, but not from a control subject, stained human embryonic kidney cells transfected with the TRPM1 gene, and Western blots probed with these MAR sera showed the expected band size (180 kDa). Staining of mouse and primate retina with MAR sera revealed immunoreactivity in all types of ON bipolar cells. Similar to staining for TRPM1, staining with the MAR sera was strong in dendritic tips and somas and was weak or absent in axon terminals. This staining colocalized with GFP in Grm6-GFP transgenic mice, where GFP is expressed in all and only ON bipolar cells, and also colocalized with G(o), a marker for all types of ON bipolar cells. The staining in ON bipolar cells was confirmed to be specific to TRPM1 because MAR serum did not stain these cells in a Trpm1(-/-) mouse. Evidence suggests that the recognized epitope is likely intracellular, and the sera can be internalized by retinal cells. We conclude that the vision of at least some patients with MAR is compromised due to autoantibody-mediated inactivation of the TRPM1 channel.
There is accumulating evidence that sleep contributes to memory formation and learning, but the underlying cellular mechanisms are incompletely understood. To investigate the impact of sleep on excitatory synaptic transmission, we obtained whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from layer V pyramidal neurons in acute slices of somatosensory cortex of juvenile rats (postnatal days 21-25). In animals after the dark period, philanthotoxin 74 (PhTx)-sensitive calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) accounted for 25% of total EPSP size, and current-voltage (I-V) relationships of the underlying EPSCs showed inward rectification. In contrast, in similar experiments after the light period, EPSPs were PhTx insensitive with linear I-V characteristics, indicating that CP-AMPARs were less abundant. Combined EEG and EMG recordings confirmed that slow-wave sleep-associated delta wave power peaked at the onset of the more quiescent, lights-on phase of the cycle. Subsequently, we show that burst firing, a characteristic action potential discharge mode of layer V pyramidal neurons during slow-wave sleep has a dual impact on synaptic AMPA receptor composition: repetitive burst firing without synaptic stimulation eliminated CP-AMPARs by activating serine/threonine phosphatases. Additionally, repetitive burst-firing paired with EPSPs led to input-specific long-term depression (LTD), affecting Ca(2+) impermeable AMPARs via protein kinase C signaling. In agreement with two parallel mechanisms, simple bursts were ineffective after the light period but paired bursts induced robust LTD. In contrast, incremental LTD was generated by both conditioning protocols after the dark cycle. Together, our results demonstrate qualitative changes at neocortical glutamatergic synapses that can be induced by discharge patterns characteristic of non-rapid eye movement sleep.
Huntington's disease is caused by a gain-of-function neurotoxic mutation in normally neuroprotective huntingtin. Sensitive assays are required to discriminate mutant huntingtin from wild-type huntingtin. We have developed a normalized 384-plate assay for determination of mutant and wild-type huntingtin. Based on a single pipetting step, the sensitive assay uses two antibody pairs for simultaneous mutant and wild-type huntingtin time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer detection combined with PicoGreen quantification of double-stranded DNA. The assay can be used for discovery of drugs reducing mutant huntingtin over wild-type huntingtin and for assessing the value of huntingtin as a disease progression marker, and it is adaptable to other proteins of interest.
The mechanisms underlying nitric oxide (()NO) synthesis and inactivation in the brain are essential determinants of ()NO neuroactivity. Although ()NO production is well characterized, the pathways of inactivation in vivo remain largely unknown. Here, we characterize the kinetics and the major mechanism of ()NO inactivation in the rat brain cortex and hippocampus in vivo by measuring locally applied ()NO with carbon-fiber microelectrodes (CFMs) and ceramic-based microelectrode arrays (MEAs). An apparent first-order clearance was observed in both brain regions, with decay rate constants (k) of ()NO signals of 0.67 to 0.84 per second, significantly higher than the k obtained in agarose gel (0.099 per second), used as a ()NO diffusion-control medium. ()NO half-life in vivo, estimated by mathematical modeling, was 0.42 to 0.75 s. Experiments using MEAs support that the ()NO diffusion radius is heterogeneous and related to local metabolic activity and vascular density. After global ischemia, k decreased to control values of diffusion in gel, but during anoxia, k decreased only 21%. Additionally, k in brain slices was threefold to fivefold lower than that in vivo, and hemorrhagic shock induced a 53% decrease in k. Overall, the results support that ()NO scavenging by circulating erythrocytes constitutes the major ()NO-inactivation pathway in the brain.
Cyclophosphamide (cy) is an alkylating agent used to treat malignancies and immune-mediated inflammatory nonmalignant processes. It has been used as a treatment in cases of worsening multiple sclerosis (MS). Cy is currently used for patients whose disease is not controlled by beta-interferon or glatiramer acetate as well as those with rapidly worsening MS. The most commonly used regimens involve outpatient IV pulse therapy given with or without corticosteroids every 4 to 8 weeks. Side effects include nausea, headache, alopecia, pain, male and women infertility, bladder toxicity, and risk of malignancy. Previous studies suggest that cy is effective in patients in the earlier stages of disease, where inflammation predominates over degenerative processes. Given that early inflammatory events appear to correlate with later disability, a major question is whether strong anti-inflammatory drugs, such as cy, will have an impact on later degenerative changes if given early in the disease to halt inflammation.
Human paraoxonase 1 (PON1) has been portrayed as a catalytic bioscavenger which can hydrolyze large amounts of chemical warfare nerve agents (CWNAs) and organophosphate (OP) pesticides compared to the stoichiometric bioscavengers such as butyrylcholinesterase. We evaluated the protective efficacy of purified human and rabbit serum PON1 against nerve agents sarin and soman in guinea pigs. Catalytically active PON1 purified from human and rabbit serum was intravenously injected to guinea pigs, which were 30 min later exposed to 1.2  LCt sarin or soman using a microinstillation inhalation exposure technology. Pre-treatment with 5 units of purified human and rabbit serum PON1 showed mild to moderate increase in the activity of blood PON1, but significantly increased the survival rate with reduced symptoms of CWNA exposure. Although PON1 is expected to be catalytic, sarin and soman exposure resulted in a significant reduction in blood PON1 activity. However, the blood levels of PON1 in pre-treated animals after exposure to nerve agent were higher than that of untreated control animals. The activity of blood acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and brain acetylcholinesterase was significantly higher in PON1 pre-treated animals and were highly correlated with the survival rate. Blood O saturation, pulse rate and respiratory dynamics were normalized in animals treated with PON1 compared to controls. These results demonstrate that purified human and rabbit serum PON1 significantly protect against sarin and soman exposure in guinea pigs and support the development of PON1 as a catalytic bioscavenger for protection against lethal exposure to CWNAs.

Converging evidence indicates an association of the short (s), low-expressing variant of the repeat length polymorphism, serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR), in the human serotonin transporter gene (5-HTT, SERT, SLC6A4) with anxiety-related traits and increased risk for depression in interaction with psychosocial adversity across the life span. However, genetically driven deficient serotonin transporter (5-HTT) function would not have been maintained throughout evolution if it only exerted negative effects without conveying any gain of function. Here, we review recent findings that humans and nonhuman primates carrying the s variant of the 5-HTTLPR outperform subjects carrying the long allele in an array of cognitive tasks and show increased social conformity. In addition, studies in 5-HTT knockout rodents are included that provide complementary insights in the beneficial effects of the 5-HTTLPR s-allele. We postulate that hypervigilance, mediated by hyperactivity in corticolimbic structures, may be the common denominator in the anxiety-related traits and (social) cognitive superiority of s-allele carriers and that environmental conditions determine whether a response will turn out to be negative (emotional) or positive (cognitive, in conformity with the social group). Taken together, these findings urge for a conceptual change in the current deficit-oriented connotation of the 5-HTTLPR variants. In fact, these factors may counterbalance or completely offset the negative consequences of the anxiety-related traits. This notion may not only explain the modest effect size of the 5-HTTLPR and inconsistent reports but may also lead to a more refined appreciation of allelic variation in 5-HTT function.

Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with no efficient treatment that is caused in the majority of cases by mutations in the gene methyl-CpG binding-protein 2 (MECP2). RTT becomes manifest after a period of apparently normal development and causes growth deceleration, severe psychomotor impairment and mental retardation. Effective animal models for RTT are available and show morphofunctional abnormalities of synaptic connectivity. However, the molecular consequences of MeCP2 disruption leading to neuronal and synaptic alterations are not known. Protein synthesis regulation via the mammalian target of the rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is crucial for synaptic organization, and its disruption is involved in a number of neurodevelopmental diseases. We investigated the phosphorylation of the ribosomal protein (rp) S6, whose activation is highly dependent from mTOR activity. Immunohistochemistry showed that rpS6 phosphorylation is severely affected in neurons across the cortical areas of Mecp2 mutants and that this alteration precedes the severe symptomatic phase of the disease. Moreover, we found a severe defect of the initiation of protein synthesis in the brain of presymptomatic Mecp2 mutant that was not restricted to a specific subset of transcripts. Finally, we provide evidence for a general dysfunction of the Akt/mTOR, but not extracellular-regulated kinase, signaling associated with the disease progression in mutant brains. Our results indicate that defects in the AKT/mTOR pathway are responsible for the altered translational control in Mecp2 mutant neurons and disclosed a novel putative biomarker of the pathological process. Importantly, this study provides a novel context of therapeutic interventions that can be designed to successfully restrain or ameliorate the development of RTT.
Identifying subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) most likely to decline in cognition over time is a major focus in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research. Neuroimaging biomarkers that predict decline would have great potential for increasing the efficacy of early intervention. In this study, we used high-resolution MRI, combined with a cortical unfolding technique to increase visibility of the convoluted medial temporal lobe (MTL), to assess whether gray matter thickness in subjects with MCI correlated to decline in cognition over two years. We found that thickness in the entorhinal (ERC) and subicular (Sub) cortices of MCI subjects at initial assessment correlated to change in memory encoding over two years (ERC: r = 0.34; P = .003) and Sub (r = 0.26; P = .011) but not delayed recall performance. Our findings suggest that aspects of memory performance may be differentially affected in the early stages of AD. Given the MTL's involvement in early stages of neurodegeneration in AD, clarifying the relationship of these brain regions and the link to resultant cognitive decline is critical in understanding disease progression.

During walking cutaneous stimulation of the foot yields neural and mechanical reflexes that serve a functional purpose to correct or assist the ongoing movement. Concurrently, while cutaneous stimulation of the hand during rhythmic arm movement parallel the neural responses observed in the legs, studies of rhythmic arm movement have only limited mechanical measurements. Therefore it is difficult to determine whether reflex responses in the arms during rhythmic arm movement serve a functional purpose similar to those seen in the lower limbs. The purpose of this study was to explore the mechanical outcomes of stimulating a cutaneous nerve innervating the hand during arm cycling. We hypothesized that there would be measurable mechanical effects to cutaneous stimulation during arm cycling that function to correct or assist the task of arm cycling. Specifically, kinetic responses measured at the handle would be considered assistive if they were tangential to the arm cycling path in the direction of forward progression. Also, limb kinematic responses would be considered corrective if they allowed limb movement that would result in removal of the limb from stimulus while not altering the kinetic profile at the handle necessary for arm cycling progression. Participants performed seated arm cycling while EMG was recorded from the arm and trunk muscles, kinematic data was recorded from the right arm, and kinetic data was recorded from the handle. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked by stimulating the superficial radial nerve. The results show that there are observable mechanical responses to cutaneous stimulation of the hand during arm cycling. Subjects responded to cutaneous stimulation of the hand during arm cycling with significant changes in backward and lateral forces at the handle as well as wrist abduction/adduction and wrist flexion/extension kinematics. These responses, related to the task and phase of movement, are consistent with the anatomical location of the stimulus and are correlated to the neural responses. Therefore, these responses are comparable to functionally relevant responses in the legs during rhythmic movement. However, while there is a single observation of a kinematic corrective strategy, the kinetics measured at the handle are not tangential to the arm cycling path and therefore not considered an assistive response. Therefore, unlike the observations in the lower limbs, the mechanical responses during arm cycling are not clearly related to the functional context of the ongoing task.
Neuron morphology, adhesion, axon or neurite outgrowth, and neuron-glial cell interactions are influenced by cues from growth factors as well as extracellular matrix molecules linked to the structural scaffolding. Both chemical and physical events affect neural response, as cells respond to soluble, and insoluble chemical cues and neuron-material interface cues including the mechanical properties of the substrate itself. Both types of cues directly influence neural behaviors and the array of structural elements including microtubules, actin filaments, neurofilaments, and filament-associated proteins. In this manuscript, we examine the relationship between the physical substrate environment and neuron morphology in primary dorsal-root ganglia (DRG) neuron co-cultures including glial cells and DRG neurons. By culturing DRGs on polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) substrates of varying elasticity we found that structural protein responses, neurite extensions, and protein distributions varied between substrates, indicating a physical relationship between cultured surface rigidity and cellular morphology. In addition, we found higher cell densities for both DRG neurons and glial cells grown on semi-rigid polydimethylsiloxane substrates (PDMS ratio of base to curing agent of 35:1) than found on more rigid (15:1) or more flexible (50:1) substrates, indicating a localized bimodal response within a very small difference of elasticity on PDMS. These results imply that physiological relevancy may be best discovered by examining and replicating physical parameters such as tissue stiffness. This work is important in fields including biomaterials, neuron-material interactions, and neuroscience.
Citalopram is one of several selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) commonly found in treated sewage effluents. Accordingly, there are concerns about possible adverse effects of SSRIs on aquatic organisms, particularly behavioural effects similar to those associated with SSRI use in humans. Rainbow trout fry and adult male guppies were therefore exposed to waterborne citalopram, ranging from environmentally relevant to high concentrations (1, 10, 100 g/L) for 3-7 days. Under these experimental conditions citalopram does not appear to cause significant effects on aggression in rainbow trout fry or on sexual behaviour in male guppies. This may be explained by a relatively low uptake of citalopram from water to fish.
The function of sleep in physiology, behaviour and cognition has become a primary focus of neuroscience. Its study inevitably includes experimental sleep deprivation designs. However, concerns exist regarding confounds like stress, increased locomotor activity levels, and decreased motivation to perform operant tasks induced by the methods employed. We here propose a novel procedure for sleep deprivation in rats and evaluate how it affects sleep, corticosterone concentration profiles, locomotor activity levels, and motivation to perform an operant task. Before, during and after 12h of total sleep deprivation by means of gradually increasing the rotation variability and the speed of a novel automated, two-compartment sleep deprivation device, sleep-wake states were assessed by electroencephalography (n=21), brain extracellular corticosterone concentrations using microdialysis (n=11), locomotor activity by infrared measurements (n=8), and operant performance using a fixed-interval-fixed-ratio task (n=16). Sleep was effectively prevented during the procedure; rats on average slept less than 1% of the time (0.80.2%, meanstandard error). Brain corticosterone concentrations were mildly increased during the procedure, but did not exceed normal peak concentrations. Locomotor activity was not only increased during the procedure, but also did not exceed the peak levels found during undisturbed wakefulness. Food restriction to 12 g/rat/day prevented sleep deprivation from reducing the motivation to perform an operant task. This novel procedure can be applied to sleep deprive rats in a highly effective way, while keeping corticosterone and locomotor activity within the normal range.
Spatial memory can be assessed by virtual reality-based tasks, some of them similar to those previously used in rodents. In this study a virtual place avoidance task was developed based on a rodent labyrinth to evaluate human spatial memory. The task required subjects to avoid in a virtual room a prohibited zone defined solely by distal cues, while they collected rewards. The size of the to-be-avoided area was used as an independent variable as well as the gender of the participants. Subjects displayed an adequate performance after a single 5-min trial, entering the prohibited area on very few occasions. Our results showed that the size of the prohibited zone can be used to adapt task difficulty to different populations. Moreover, males were faster than females. They collected more rewards and spent less time in the prohibited area. Data collected supports the spatial component of the task and the validity of this procedure for spatial memory assessment in human beings.
The inference of the interaction structure in networks of dynamical systems promises novel insights into the functioning or malfunctioning of systems in the neurosciences. This may improve the understanding of mechanisms underlying several diseases like tremor disorders and might eventually help to cure patients. Of particular interest is the estimation of the direction of information flow for which different methods have been suggested and have been applied to data from human tremor. Based on a simulated system motivated by the human tremor application we analyze the performance of three methods. The abilities and limitations of the individual techniques are compared and discussed. An application to essential tremor complements this investigation.
Nonstationarity in extracellular recordings can present a major problem during in vivo experiments. In this paper we present automatic methods for tracking time-varying spike shapes. Our algorithm is based on a computationally efficient Kalman filter model; the recursive nature of this model allows for on-line implementation of the method. The model parameters can be estimated using a standard expectation-maximization approach. In addition, refractory effects may be incorporated via closely related hidden Markov model techniques. We present an analysis of the algorithm's performance on both simulated and real data.
Immunofluorescently stained whole mounts have proved useful for defining the innervation of the gut and large blood vessels. Nerves supplying other hollow organs are usually studied in sections, which provide much less information. Aiming to describe the entire innervation of rat uterus, we developed a method for immunoperoxidase staining of full-thickness whole mounts that allowed us to visualize all immunoreactive axons. Uterine horns were dissected out, slit open, stretched, pinned flat and fixed. Entire horns were treated with methanol/peroxide, buffered Triton X-100 and normal serum and then incubated in primary antibodies, biotinylated secondary antibodies and avidin-horseradish peroxidase (HRP), each for at least 3 days. Peroxidase reactions revealed immunoreactivity. Immunostained horns were dehydrated, infiltrated with epoxy resin, mounted on slides under Aclar coverslips and polymerized. We treated bladders, gut, major pelvic ganglia and thick sections of perfused medulla oblongata similarly to assess the applicability of the method. Using this method, we could map the entire uterine innervation provided by axons immunoreactive for a variety of antigens. We could also assess the entire tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive innervation in all layers of bladder, gut and ganglia whole mounts and throughout 300 m sections of medulla. These observations show that this method for immunoperoxidase staining reliably reveals the complete innervation of full-thickness whole mounts of hollow organs and thick sections of central nervous tissue. The method has several advantages. The resin-embedded tissue does not degrade; the immunostaining is non-fading and permanent and neurochemically defined features can be mapped at large scale without confocal microscopy.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) elevates haemoglobin concentration both by increasing red blood cell volume and by a decrease in plasma volume. This study delineates the association of rHuEPO-induced changes in blood volumes with changes in the reninaldosterone system and renal function. Sixteen healthy males were given rHuEPO for 28 days in doses raising the haematocrit to 48.34.1%.Renal clearance studieswith urine collections (N = 8) were done at baseline and at days 4, 11, 29 and 42. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was measured by 51Cr-EDTA.Renal clearance of lithium (CLi)was used as an index of proximal tubular outflow and to assess segmental renal tubular handling of sodium and water. rHuEPO-induced increases in haematocrit occurred from day 10 onwards and was caused by both an increase in red cell volume and a fall in plasma volume. Well before that (from day 2 and throughout the treatment time), rHuEPO decreased plasma levels of renin and aldosterone (N = 8) by 2133% (P &lt; 0.05) and 1536% (P &lt; 0.05), respectively. After cessation of rHuEPO, values returned to baseline. On days 11 and 29, CLi increased (P &lt; 0.02) indicating a significant 1016% decrease in absolute proximal reabsorption of sodium and water (APR = GFR  CLi, P &lt; 0.05). GFR decreased slightly, albeit significantly, on day 4 (P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, rHuEPO promptly, and before any changes in blood volumes and haematocrit can be detected, causes a down-regulation of the reninaldosterone system. The results are compatible with a rHuEPO-induced reduction in proximal reabsorption rate leading to activation of the tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism and a fall in GFR. Therefore, treatment with rHuEPO may result in suppression of endogenous EPO synthesis secondary to a decrease in intrarenal oxygen consumption.
Developing neurons undergo a series of maturational stages, and the timing of these events is critical for formation of synaptic circuitry. Here we addressed temporal regulation of the Gabra6 gene, which is expressed in a delayed manner during dendritogenesis in maturing cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Developmental up-regulation of Gabra6 transcription required a binding site for nuclear factor I (NFI) proteins. The amounts and DNA binding activities of NFI proteins were similar in immature and mature CGNs; however, NFI occupancy of the Gabra6 promoter in native chromatin was temporally delayed in parallel with Gabra6 gene expression, both in vivo and in culture. The trans-repressor RE1 silencing transcription factor (REST) occupied the Gabra6 proximal promoter in CGN progenitors and early postmitotic CGNs, and its departure mirrored the initial onset of NFI binding as CGNs differentiated. Furthermore constitutive REST expression blocked both Gabra6 expression and NFI occupancy in mature CGNs, whereas REST knockdown in immature CGNs accelerated the initiation of both events. These studies identify a novel mechanism for controlling the timing of dendritogenesis-associated gene expression in maturing neurons through delayed binding of NFI proteins to chromatin. They also establish a temporal function for REST in preventing premature promoter occupancy by NFI proteins in early-stage postmitotic neurons.
Multiple experiments have found sleep deprivation to lower task-related parietal and extrastriate visual activation, suggesting a reduction of visual processing capacity in this state. The perceptual load theory of attention (Lavie, 1995) predicts that our capacity to process unattended distractors will be reduced by increasing perceptual difficulty of task-relevant stimuli. Here, we evaluated the effects of sleep deprivation and perceptual load on visual processing capacity by measuring neural repetition-suppression to unattended scenes while healthy volunteers attended to faces embedded in face-scene pictures. Perceptual load did not affect repetition suppression after a normal night of sleep. Sleep deprivation reduced repetition suppression in the parahippocampal place area (PPA) in the high but not low perceptual load condition. Additionally, the extent to which task-related fusiform face area (FFA) activation was reduced after sleep deprivation correlated with behavioral performance and lowered repetition suppression in the PPA. The findings concerning correct responses indicate that a portion of stimulus related activation following a normal night of sleep contributes to potentially useful visual processing capacity that is attenuated following sleep deprivation. Finally, when unattended stimuli are not highly intrusive, sleep deprivation does not appear to increase distractibility.
The working memory (WM) system is vital to performing everyday functions that require attentive, non-automatic processing of information. However, its interaction with long term memory (LTM) is highly debated. Here, we used fMRI to examine whether a popular complex WM span task, thought to force the displacement of to-be-remembered items in the focus of attention to LTM, recruited medial temporal regions typically associated with LTM functioning to a greater extent and in a different manner than traditional neuroimaging WM tasks during WM encoding and maintenance. fMRI scans were acquired while participants performed the operation span (OSPAN) task and an arithmetic task. Results indicated that performance of both tasks resulted in significant activation in regions typically associated with WM function. More importantly, significant bilateral activation was observed in the hippocampus, suggesting it is recruited during WM encoding and maintenance. Right posterior hippocampus activation was greater during OSPAN than arithmetic. Persitimulus graphs indicate a possible specialization of function for bilateral posterior hippocampus and greater involvement of the left for WM performance. Recall time-course activity within this region hints at LTM involvement during complex span.
The corpus callosum is the largest white matter tract, important for interhemispheric communication. The aim of this study was to investigate and compare corpus callosum size, shape and diffusion characteristics in 106 very preterm infants and 22 full-term infants. Structural and diffusion magnetic resonance images were obtained at term equivalent. The corpus callosum was segmented, cross-sectional areas were calculated, and shape was analyzed. Fractional anisotropy, mean, axial and radial diffusivity measures were obtained from within the corpus callosum, with additional probabilistic tractography analysis. Very preterm infants had significantly reduced callosal cross-sectional area compared with term infants (p=0.004), particularly for the mid-body and posterior sub-regions. Very preterm callosi were more circular (p=0.01). Fractional anisotropy was lower (p=0.007) and mean (p=0.006) and radial (p=0.001) diffusivity values were higher in very preterm infants' callosi, particularly at the anterior and posterior ends. The volume of tracts originating from the corpus callosum was reduced in very preterm infants (p=0.001), particularly for anterior mid-body (p=0.01) and isthmus tracts (p=0.04). This study characterizes callosal size, shape and diffusion in typically developing infants at term equivalent age, and reports macrostructural and microstructural abnormalities as a result of prematurity.
Egocentric tactile perception is crucial for skilled hand motor control. In order to better understand the brain functional underpinnings related to this basic sensorial perception, we performed a tactile perception functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment with two aims. The first aim consisted of characterizing the neural substrate of two types of egocentric tactile discrimination: the spatial localization (SLD) and simultaneity succession discrimination (SSD) in both hands to define hemispheric dominance for these tasks. The second goal consisted of characterizing the brain activation related to the spatial attentional load, the functional changes and their connectivity patterns induced by the psychometric performance (PP) during SLD. We used fMRI in 25 right-handed volunteers, applying pairs of sinusoidal vibratory stimuli on eight different positions in the palmar surface of both hands. Subjects were required either to identify the stimulus location with respect to an imaginary midline (SLD), to discriminate the simultaneity or succession of a stimuli pair (SSD) or to simply respond to stimulus detection. We found a fronto-parietal network for SLD and frontal network for SSD. During SLD we identified right hemispheric dominance with increased BOLD activation and functional interaction of the right supramarginal gyrus with contralateral intra-parietal sulcus for right and left hand independently. Brain activity correlated to spatial attentional load was found in bilateral structures of intra-parietal sulcus, precuneus extended to superior parietal lobule, pre-supplementary motor area, frontal eye fields and anterior insulae for both hands. We suggest that the right supramarginal gyrus and its interaction with intra-parietal lobule may play a pivotal role in the phenomenon of tactile neglect in right fronto-parietal lesions.
Recent studies of resting-state functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) have emerged as a hot topic and revealed that resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) is an inherent characteristic of the resting brain. However, it is currently unclear if fNIRS-based RSFC is test-retest reliable. In this study, we utilized independent component analysis (ICA) as an effective RSFC detection tool to address the reliability question. Sixteen subjects participated in two resting-state fNIRS recording sessions held 1week (6.881.09 days) apart. Then, RSFC in the sensorimotor regions was extracted using ICA. Test-retest reliability was assessed for intra- and inter-sessions, at both individual and group levels, and for different hemoglobin concentration signals. Our results clearly demonstrated that map-wise reliability was excellent at the group level (with Pearson's r coefficients up to 0.88) and generally fair at the individual level. Cluster-wise reliability was better at the group level (having reproducibility indices of up to 0.97 for the size and up to 0.80 for the location of the detected RSFC) and was weaker but still fair at the individual level (0.56 and 0.46 for intra- and inter-session reliabilities, respectively). Cluster-wise intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) also exhibited fair-to-good reliability (with single-measure ICC up to 0.56), while channel-wise single-measure ICCs indicated lower reliability. We conclude that fNIRS-based, ICA-derived RSFC is an essential and reliable biomarker at the individual and group levels if interpreted in map- and cluster-wise manners. Our results also suggested that channel-wise individual-level RSFC results should be interpreted with caution if no optode co-registration procedure had been conducted and indicated that &quot;cluster&quot; should be treated as a minimal analytical unit in further RSFC studies using fNIRS.
Working memory (WM) is an essential component for human higher order cognitive activities. Creativity has been essential to the development of human civilization. Previous studies from different fields have suggested creativity and capacity of WM have opposing characteristics possibly in terms of diffuse attention. However, despite a number of functional imaging studies on creativity, how creativity relates to brain activity during WM has never been investigated. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we investigated this issue using an n-back WM paradigm and a psychometric measure of creativity (a divergent thinking test). A multiple regression analysis revealed that individual creativity was significantly and positively correlated with brain activity in the precuneus during the 2-back task (WM task), but not during the non-WM 0-back task. As the precuneus shows deactivation during cognitive tasks, our findings show that reduced task induced deactivation (TID) in the precuneus is associated with higher creativity measured by divergent thinking. The precuneus is included in the default mode network, which is deactivated during cognitive tasks. The magnitude of TID in the default mode network is considered to reflect the reallocation of cognitive resources from networks irrelevant to the performance of the task. Thus, our findings may indicate that individual creativity, as measured by the divergent thinking test, is related to the inefficient reallocation of attention, congruent with the idea that diffuse attention is associated with individual creativity.


Reverse transcription and real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) has been widely used for rapid quantification of relative gene expression. To offset technical confounding variations, stably-expressed internal reference genes are measured simultaneously along with target genes for data normalization. Statistic methods have been developed for reference validation; however normalization of RT-qPCR data still remains arbitrary due to pre-experimental determination of particular reference genes. To establish a method for determination of the most stable normalizing factor (NF) across samples for robust data normalization, we measured the expression of 20 candidate reference genes and 7 target genes in 15 Drosophila head cDNA samples using RT-qPCR. The 20 reference genes exhibit sample-specific variation in their expression stability. Unexpectedly the NF variation across samples does not exhibit a continuous decrease with pairwise inclusion of more reference genes, suggesting that either too few or too many reference genes may detriment the robustness of data normalization. The optimal number of reference genes predicted by the minimal and most stable NF variation differs greatly from 1 to more than 10 based on particular sample sets. We also found that GstD1, InR and Hsp70 expression exhibits an age-dependent increase in fly heads; however their relative expression levels are significantly affected by NF using different numbers of reference genes. Due to highly dependent on actual data, RT-qPCR reference genes thus have to be validated and selected at post-experimental data analysis stage rather than by pre-experimental determination.


Cortical circuits perform the computations underlying rapid perceptual decisions within a few dozen milliseconds with each neuron emitting only a few spikes. Under these conditions, the theoretical analysis of neural population codes is challenging, as the most commonly used theoretical tool--Fisher information--can lead to erroneous conclusions about the optimality of different coding schemes. Here we revisit the effect of tuning function width and correlation structure on neural population codes based on ideal observer analysis in both a discrimination and a reconstruction task. We show that the optimal tuning function width and the optimal correlation structure in both paradigms strongly depend on the available decoding time in a very similar way. In contrast, population codes optimized for Fisher information do not depend on decoding time and are severely suboptimal when only few spikes are available. In addition, we use the neurometric functions of the ideal observer in the classification task to investigate the differential coding properties of these Fisher-optimal codes for fine and coarse discrimination. We find that the discrimination error for these codes does not decrease to zero with increasing population size, even in simple coarse discrimination tasks. Our results suggest that quite different population codes may be optimal for rapid decoding in cortical computations than those inferred from the optimization of Fisher information.

A core aspect of working memory is that only a limited amount of information can be held at one time, but the investigations of its underlying neural mechanisms in animal models have been dominated by paradigms requiring the retention of a single memorandum. In humans, the information processing limitations of visual working memory have been studied extensively using a sequential comparison procedure, in which subjects detect a change in a multiple-item array following a retention interval. Here, we adopted this approach to study the working memory ability of the macaque monkey. We trained two female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to perform a change detection task, in which they were required to report with a saccadic eye movement which one of several items (two to five colored stimuli) in a array had changed color after a 1-s retention interval. Performance gradually declined as a function of set size but always exceeded chance probability. These results show that monkeys possess sufficient information processing capability to perform a visual working memory task requiring the simultaneous maintenance of mnemonic representations of multiple items and validate this animal model for investigation of the neural mechanisms underlying the temporary retention of more than one memorandum.
In the adult visual system, functionally distinct retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) within each eye project to discrete targets in the brain. In the ferret, RGCs encoding light increments or decrements project to independent On and Off sublaminae within each eye-specific layer of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). Here we report a manipulation of retinal circuitry that alters RGC action potential firing patterns during development and eliminates the anatomical markers of segregated On and Off sublaminae in the LGN, including the intersublaminar spaces and the expression of a glial-associated inhibitory molecule, ABAKAN, normally separating On and Off leaflets. Despite the absence of anatomically defined On and Off sublaminae, electrophysiological recordings in the dLGN reveal that On and Off dLGN cells are segregated normally. These data demonstrate a dissociation between normal anatomical sublamination and segregation of function in the dLGN and call into question a purported role for ABAKAN boundaries in the developing visual system.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an idiopathic, fatal neurodegenerative disease of the human motor system. In this Seminar, we summarise current concepts about the origin of the disease, what predisposes patients to develop the disorder, and discuss why all cases of ALS are not the same. In the 150 years since Charcot originally described ALS, painfully slow progress has been made towards answering these questions. We focus on what is known about ALS and where research is heading-from the small steps of extending longevity, improving therapies, undertaking clinical trials, and compiling population registries to the overarching goals of establishing the measures that guard against onset and finding the triggers for this neurodegenerative disorder.
In this review, we will discuss the recent literature on fish polarization vision and we will present a model on how the retina processes polarization signals. The model is based on a general retinal-processing scheme and will be compared with the available electrophysiological data on polarization processing in the retina. The results of this model will help illustrate the functional significance of polarization vision for both feeding behaviour and navigation. First, we examine the linkage between structure and function in polarization vision in general.
Toward development of a safe and effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease, Elan Pharmaceuticals reported a novel -secretase inhibitor that specifically targets the cleavage of amyloid- precursor protein, opening the way to design of substrate-specific -secretase inhibitors that would reduce the amyloid burden without significant adverse events.
We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and a follow-up study of bipolar disorder (BD), a common neuropsychiatric disorder. In the GWAS, we investigated 499,494 autosomal and 12,484 X-chromosomal SNPs in 682 patients with BD and in 1300 controls. In the first follow-up step, we tested the most significant 48 SNPs in 1729 patients with BD and in 2313 controls. Eight SNPs showed nominally significant association with BD and were introduced to a meta-analysis of the GWAS and the first follow-up samples. Genetic variation in the neurocan gene (NCAN) showed genome-wide significant association with BD in 2411 patients and 3613 controls (rs1064395, p = 3.02 10(-8); odds ratio = 1.31). In a second follow-up step, we replicated this finding in independent samples of BD, totaling 6030 patients and 31,749 controls (p = 2.74 10(-4); odds ratio = 1.12). The combined analysis of all study samples yielded a p value of 2.14 10(-9) (odds ratio = 1.17). Our results provide evidence that rs1064395 is a common risk factor for BD. NCAN encodes neurocan, an extracellular matrix glycoprotein, which is thought to be involved in cell adhesion and migration. We found that expression in mice is localized within cortical and hippocampal areas. These areas are involved in cognition and emotion regulation and have previously been implicated in BD by neuropsychological, neuroimaging, and postmortem studies.




The present study examined the effects of sustained nicotine exposure on the cholinergic vasodilative system originating in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) and projecting to the cerebral cortex in rats. Rats received sustained subcutaneous nicotine (100g/kg/h) for 14 days. Under urethane anesthesia, the vasodilation response and acetylcholine release in the parietal cortex induced by electrical stimulation of the NBM (10-200A) were measured. The basal level of acetylcholine release was significantly higher in nicotine-treated rats than in saline-treated control rats. In the control rats, both the acetylcholine release and blood flow were increased by NBM stimulation in a stimulus intensity-dependent manner, and a threshold of 50A. In nicotine-treated rats, the threshold intensity of NBM stimulation producing increases in acetylcholine release and blood flow was reduced to 20A. The stimulus intensity-dependent acetylcholine release and vasodilation by NBM stimulation were significantly larger in nicotine-treated rats than in control rats. We conclude that sustained subcutaneous infusion of nicotine enhances cholinergic vasodilative system in the cerebral cortex originating in the NBM.
Given that coactivation of adenosine A(2A) (A(2A)R) and dopamine D(2) (D(2)R) receptors results in the coaggregation, cointernalization, and codesensitization of the A(2A)R and D(2)R and the role of scaffolding protein -arrestin2 in the desensitization, internalization, and signaling of G-protein-coupled receptors, in this study we explored the ability of the A(2A)R agonist CGS21680 in A(2A)R-D(2)R-coexpressing cells to modulate the D(2)R agonist-induced recruitment of -arrestin2 to the D(2)R by means of proximity-based bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET(2)) and co-trafficking analysis. We found evidence that CGS21680 can increase the maximal BRET(2) signal between -arrestin2(RLuc) and D(2L)R(GFP2) upon D(2)R activation, by increasing the potency of the D(2)R agonist to exert this action. In addition, this change was associated with an increased formation of cytoplasmic clusters containing -arrestin2(GFP2) and D(2L)R(YFP) as seen from the co-trafficking analysis. Furthermore, the A(2A)R agonist advanced the time for the increase in Akt phosphorylation obtained with the D(2)R agonist. Finally, using a novel bioinformatics approach to predict the protein-protein interface, we have also found that amino acid pro-triplets TNY, LLS, RAF, and VSR may be crucial for the -induced -arrestin2 recruitment by A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromers. Taken together, the results indicate that the antagonistic A(2A)R-D(2)R allosteric receptor-receptor interaction in A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromers favors -arrestin2 recruitment to the D(2L)R protomer with subsequent cointernalization associated with a reduced time onset of Akt phosphorylation followed by a rapid dephosphorylation. Thus, -arrestin2 action becomes more rapid and short-lasting and, in this way, mimics G-protein-mediated signaling.

It has been 10 years since the seminal work of Dwight Bergles and collaborators demonstrated that NG2 (nerve/glial antigen 2)-expressing oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (NG2 cells) receive functional glutamatergic synapses from neurons (Bergles et al., 2000), contradicting the old dogma that only neurons possess the complex and specialized molecular machinery necessary to receive synapses. While this surprising discovery may have been initially shunned as a novelty item of undefined functional significance, the study of neuron-to-NG2 cell neurotransmission has since become a very active and exciting field of research. Many laboratories have now confirmed and extended the initial discovery, showing for example that NG2 cells can also receive inhibitory GABAergic synapses (Lin and Bergles, 2004) or that neuron-to-NG2 cell synaptic transmission is a rather ubiquitous phenomenon that has been observed in all brain areas explored so far, including white matter tracts (Kukley et al., 2007; Ziskin et al., 2007; Etxeberria et al., 2010). Thus, while still being in its infancy, this field of research has already brought many surprising and interesting discoveries, and has become part of a continuously growing effort in neuroscience to re-evaluate the long underestimated role of glial cells in brain function (Barres, 2008). However, this area of research is now reaching an important milestone and its long-term significance will be defined by its ability to uncover the still elusive function of NG2 cells and their synapses in the brain, rather than by its sensational but transient successes at upsetting the old order established by neuronal physiology. To participate in the effort to facilitate such a transition, here we propose a critical review of the latest findings in the field of NG2 cell physiology--discussing how they inform us on the possible function(s) of NG2 cells in the brain--and we present some personal views on new directions the field could benefit from in order to achieve lasting significance.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a preferential loss of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Both glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) play key roles in maintaining the DAergic phenotype and exert a cytoprotective effect on these neurons in vivo and in vitro. However, controversy still exists regarding the relative potency of the two factors and the extent to which they act synergistically. In this study, we used a refined version of organotypic cultures as a model for PD. The neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was applied unilaterally in slices of rat mesencephalon, allowing for internal controls and enabling a precise comparison between the two sides of the midbrain. We evaluated the cytoprotective and regenerative effects of BDNF, GDNF and the combination of these in terms of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH+) cells and TH mRNA expression. Pre-, co-, or post-treatment with neurotrophic factors clearly protects DAergic neurons from cell death. Cell survival is particularly pronounced in cultures pre-treated with BDNF and is not further increased when BDNF is applied in combination with GDNF in equimolar dose. On the lesion side, surviving TH+ cells exposed to neurotrophic factors showed extensive sprouting, and BDNF treatment resulted in a two-fold increase in TH mRNA. Such effects were not seen in the absence of toxin exposure. Thus, we observed that BDNF induced an upregulation of the DAergic phenotype, which suggest a cytoprotective and regenerative effect.
The ability to detect physiological changes associated with treatments to effect axonal regeneration, or novel rehabilitation strategies, for spinal cord injury will be challenging using the widely employed American Spinal Injuries Association (ASIA) impairment scales (AIS) for sensory and motor function. Despite many revisions to the AIS standard neurological assessment, there remains a perceived need for more sensitive, quantitative and objective outcome measures. The purpose of Stage 1 of the Clinical Initiative was to develop these tools and then, in Stage 2 to test them for reliability against natural recovery and treatments expected to produce functional improvements in those with complete or incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). Here we review aspects of the progress made by four teams involved in Stage 2. The strategies employed by the individual teams were (1) application of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the motor cortex in stable (chronic) SCI with intent to induce functional improvement of upper limb function, (2) a tele-rehabilitation approach using functional electrical stimulation to provide hand opening and grip allowing incomplete SCI subjects to deploy an instrumented manipulandum for hand and arm exercises and to play computer games, (3) weight-assisted treadmill walking therapy (WAT) comparing outcomes in acute and chronic groups of incomplete SCI patients receiving robotic assisted treadmill therapy, and (4) longitudinal monitoring of the natural progress of recovery in incomplete SCI subjects using motor tests for the lower extremity to investigate strength and coordination.
The reasons for the failure of central nervous system (CNS) axons to regenerate include the presence of myelin- and non-myelin derived inhibitory molecules, neuronal apoptosis and the absence of a potent neurotrophic stimulus. Transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been implicated in signalling inhibition of axon growth in the CNS. Small molecule EGFR inhibitors such as AG1478 and PD168393 promote CNS axon growth after optic nerve transection despite the presence of inhibitory molecules in the environment of the regenerating axon. However, our results demonstrate that phosphorylated EGFR (pEGFR) is not present on regenerating axons and that the majority of pEGFR is present in glia, suggesting that EGFR cannot play a direct intra-axonal role in signalling inhibition and thus disinhibited CNS axon growth must be indirectly mediated by glia. We argue that EGFR may not have a role in signalling axon growth inhibition since AG1478 and PD168393 promotes neuronal neurite outgrowth in CNS myelin-inhibited cultures after EGFR knockdown. This review discusses the current evidences for and against the involvement of EGFR in signalling myelin inhibition.
Self-renewal and pluripotency of embryonic stem (ES) cells are maintained by several signaling cascades and by expression of intrinsic factors, such as Oct4, Nanog and Sox2. The mechanism regulating these signaling cascades in ES cells is of great interest. Recently, we have demonstrated that natriuretic peptide receptor A (NPR-A), a specific receptor for atrial and brain natriuretic peptides (ANP and BNP, respectively), is expressed in pre-implantation embryos and in ES cells. Here, we examined whether NPR-A is involved in the maintenance of ES cell pluripotency. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of NPR-A resulted in phenotypic changes, indicative of differentiation, downregulation of pluripotency factors (such as Oct4, Nanog and Sox2) and upregulation of differentiation genes. NPR-A knockdown also resulted in a marked downregulation of phosphorylated Akt. Furthermore, NPR-A knockdown induced accumulation of ES cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Interestingly, we found that ANP was expressed in self-renewing ES cells, whereas its level was reduced after ES cell differentiation. Treatment of ES cells with ANP upregulated the expression of Oct4, Nanog and phosphorylated Akt, and this upregulation depended on NPR-A signaling, because it was completely reversed by pretreatment with either an NPR-A antagonist or a cGMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor. These findings provide a novel role for NPR-A in the maintenance of self-renewal and pluripotency of ES cells.

Long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART) for human immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection shows limitations in pharmacokinetics and biodistribution while inducing metabolic and cytotoxic aberrations. In turn, ART commonly requires complex dosing schedules and leads to the emergence of viral resistance and treatment failures. We posit that the development of nanoformulated ART could preclude such limitations and affect improved clinical outcomes. To this end, we wet-milled 20 nanoparticle formulations of crystalline indinavir, ritonavir, atazanavir, and efavirenz, collectively referred to as &quot;nanoART,&quot; then assessed their performance using a range of physicochemical and biological tests. These tests were based on cell-nanoparticle interactions using monocyte-derived macrophages and their abilities to uptake and release nanoformulated drugs and affect viral replication. We demonstrate that physical characteristics such as particle size, surfactant coating, surface charge, and most importantly shape are predictors of cell uptake and antiretroviral efficacy. These studies bring this line of research a step closer to developing nanoART that can be used in the clinic to affect the course of HIV-1 infection.

Excitatory synaptic transmission is modulated by inhibitory neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. We found that the synaptic transmission of somatic sensory afferents can be rapidly regulated by a presynaptically secreted protein, follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1), which serves as a direct activator of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (NKA). The FSTL1 protein is highly expressed in small-diameter neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). It is transported to axon terminals via small translucent vesicles and secreted in both spontaneous and depolarization-induced manners. Biochemical assays showed that FSTL1 binds to the 1 subunit of NKA and elevates NKA activity. Extracellular FSTL1 induced membrane hyperpolarization in cultured cells and inhibited afferent synaptic transmission in spinal cord slices by activating NKA. Genetic deletion of FSTL1 in small DRG neurons of mice resulted in enhanced afferent synaptic transmission and sensory hypersensitivity, which could be reduced by intrathecally applied FSTL1 protein. Thus, FSTL1-dependent activation of NKA regulates the threshold of somatic sensation.
Though transmitters can be released from astrocytes, the conditions that permit their modulation of synaptic transmission are under debate. Santello et al. in this issue of Neuron now show that TNF promotes a burst mode of glial transmitter release that escapes reuptake processes allowing access to neuronal NMDA receptors.
An interaction of the intranasal chemical trigeminal and the olfactory system has previously been described. Intranasal chemical trigeminal stimulation during sleep leads to a dose-dependent increase in arousal reactions while pure olfactory stimuli are not able to trigger arousals or awakenings during sleep, regardless of the concentration used. The aim of the study was to assess whether co-stimulation with an olfactory substance increases arousal responses to intranasal chemical trigeminal stimulation. Experimental procedures: Five young healthy, normosmic volunteers of both sexes participated in the trial and 20 nights of testing were performed. For intranasal chemical trigeminal stimulation, CO(2) was administered at 40% v/v and at 0% as a control stimulus. For olfactory co-stimulation, H(2)S was used at a concentration of 8 ppm. To compare the specific nasal chemical trigeminal/olfactory interaction with an interaction between an olfactory stimulus and peripheral somatosensory stimulation, an electrical stimulation protocol at the forearm was used with and without olfactory co-stimulation. Results: Chemical trigeminal stimulation with 40% CO(2) led to an increase in arousal frequency compared to the control stimulus, which was most pronounced in light sleep. Co-stimulation with H(2)S was associated with higher arousal frequencies and shorter arousal latencies compared to isolated chemical trigeminal stimulation. The differences between the three study conditions were statistically significant for light sleep. Increasing electric stimulus concentration was associated with an increase in arousal frequency, again most pronounced in light sleep. Co-simulation with the olfactory stimulus did not lead to a systemic effect with regard to arousal reactions. Conclusions: The present results confirm the close interaction of the olfactory and chemical trigeminal system and support the idea that this interaction takes place at an early stage of processing.
