This study aimed to enhance our understanding of neuropsychological functioning in children with early-treated phenylketonuria (PKU) and assess the relative impact of white matter abnormalities (WMA) and neurotransmitter deficiencies on cognitive functions in this population. The study consisted of 33 children with early-treated PKU and 34 healthy control children aged between 7 to 18 years. All children had a neuropsychological evaluation that included measures of general intelligence, attention, processing speed, memory and learning, executive function, and academic achievement. Children in the PKU group also had a magnetic resonance (MR) brain scan. When compared with the control group, the PKU group exhibited global cognitive impairment including lower IQ, attention problems, slow information processing, reduced learning capacity, mild executive impairments, and educational difficulties. Children in the PKU group with extensive WMA (n = 14) displayed significant impairments across all cognitive domains. Metabolic control correlated weakly to moderately with attention, executive, and memory/learning factors. Within the PKU group, regressions revealed that executive function and attention factors were independently related to severity of WM pathology and age, while the memory and learning factor was independently related to metabolic control and age. It is concluded that children with early-treated PKU exhibit a global pattern of impairment, with a particular deficit in processing speed. WM pathology extending into frontal and subcortical regions correlates with the greatest deficits and a profile of impairment consistent with diffuse WM damage. Our findings also offer some support for dopamine depletion in the prefrontal cortex, however adverse consequences as a result of norepinephrine and serotonin deficiencies should not be discounted.

Deficits in language are a core feature of autism. The superior temporal gyrus (STG) is involved in auditory processing, including language, but also has been implicated as a critical structure in social cognition. It was hypothesized that subjects with autism would display different size-function relationships between the STG and intellectual-language-based abilities when compared to controls. Intellectual ability was assessed by either the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition (WISC-III) or Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III), where three intellectual quotients (IQ) were computed: verbal (VIQ), performance (PIQ), and full-scale (FSIQ). Language ability was assessed by the Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals-Third Edition (CELF-3), also divided into three index scores: receptive, expressive, and total. Seven to 19-year-old rigorously diagnosed subjects with autism (n = 30) were compared to controls (n = 39; 13 of whom had a deficit in reading) of similar age who were matched on education, PIQ, and head circumference. STG volumes were computed based on 1.5 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). IQ and CELF-3 performance were highly interrelated regardless of whether subjects had autism or were controls. Both IQ and CELF-3 ability were positively correlated with STG in controls, but a different pattern was observed in subjects with autism. In controls, left STG gray matter was significantly (r = .42, p &lt; or = .05) related to receptive language on the CELF-3; in contrast, a zero order correlation was found with autism. When plotted by age, potential differences in growth trajectories related to language development associated with STG were observed between controls and those subjects with autism. Taken together, these findings suggest a possible failure in left hemisphere lateralization of language function involving the STG in autism.
We previously demonstrated that IGF-1 blocks glutamate-mediated death of late oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPs) by preventing Bax translocation, mitochondrial cytochrome c release and cleavage of caspases 9 and 3. Here, we demonstrate that IGF-1 prevents caspase 3 activation in late OPs when administered up to 16 h following exposure to glutamate. Moreover, late addition of IGF-1 to OPs previously exposed to toxic levels of glutamate promotes oligodendrocyte maturation as measured by myelin basic protein expression. We also demonstrate that intraventricularly administered IGF-1 retains OPs in the perinatal white matter after hypoxia-ischemia when given after insult. These results suggest that delayed administration of IGF-1 will rescue OPs in the immature white matter and promote myelination following hypoxia-ischemia.
Hypoxia is the most common cause of neonatal seizures and can lead to epilepsy, but the epileptogenic mechanisms are not yet understood. We have previously shown that hypoxia-induced seizures in the neonatal rat result in acutely decreased amplitudes and frequency of spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. In the current study, we asked whether such changes persist for several days following hypoxia-induced seizures. Similar to the acute findings, we observed decreased frequency and amplitudes of sIPSCs and decreased mIPSC amplitudes in CA1 pyramidal neurons at 3-5 days after hypoxia. However, in contrast to the acute findings, we observed no differences between hypoxia-treated and control groups in mIPSC frequency. Additionally, by 7 days after hypoxia, sIPSC amplitudes in the hypoxia group had recovered to control levels, but sIPSC frequency remained decreased. These data indicate that the persistently decreased sIPSC frequency result from decreased firing of presynaptic inhibitory interneurons, with only transient possible changes in postsynaptic responses to GABA release.
Hippocampal interneurons arise in the ventral forebrain and migrate dorsally in response to cues, including hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor which signals via its receptor MET. Examination of the hippocampus in adult mice in which MET had been inactivated in the embryonic proliferative zones showed an increase in parvalbumin-expressing cells in the dentate gyrus, but a loss of these cells in the CA3 region. An overall loss of calretinin-expressing cells was seen throughout the hippocampus. A similar CA3 deficit of parvalbumin and calretinin cells was observed when MET was eliminated only in postmitotic cells. These data suggest that MET is required for the proper hippocampal development, and embryonic perturbations lead to long-term anatomical defects with possible learning and memory dysfunction.
Human type 1 lissencephaly is a severe brain malformation associated with cognitive dysfunction and intractable epilepsy. Mutant mice with a heterozygous deletion of LIS1 show varying degrees of hippocampal abnormality and enhanced excitability. Whether a reduction of LIS1 function affects adult hippocampal neurogenesis, and if so, whether aberrant neurogenesis contributes to the generation of a disorganized hippocampus remain unknown. Previous reports indicate the presence of multiple pyramidal cell layers and granule cell dispersion in LIS1 mutant mice. Here we observed disruption of the subgranular zone and glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive radial astrocytes in the dentate gyrus of adult LIS1 mice. Using pulse-chase bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling combined with neuronal and glial antibody staining we provide evidence for ectopic adult neurogenesis in LIS1 mice. A gradually decreased survival rate for these newborn granule cells was also demonstrated in LIS1 mice 7 days after BrdU injection. This reduced survival rate was associated with impaired neuronal differentiation 28 days after BrdU administration. Thus, LIS1 haploinsufficiency can lead to abnormal cell proliferation, migration and differentiation in the adult dentate gyrus.
We anterogradely labeled entorhinodentate axons by the injection of biotin dextran amine into the entorhinal cortex of adult wildtype and reeler mice to clarify whether the course and terminal endings of the reeler entorhinal projection are normal or not. We found that in the reeler mouse, biotin dextran amine-labeled entorhinodentate fibers arising from the entorhinal cortex curved around the hippocampal fissure instead of crossing it, whereas in the wildtype mouse, they crossed the fissure as a perforant pathway. Next, we examined carbocyanine dye (DiI) labeling of the immature entorhinodentate projection and the developmental changes of the hippocampal fissure during early postnatal days based on the laminin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry. Injection of DiI into the entorhinal area of the wildtype and reeler mice at postnatal day 1 resulted in anterograde labeling of pioneer axons passing through the hippocampal fissure. However, follower axons could not penetrate through the hippocampal fissure in reeler mice, whereas in the normal controls, many DiI-labeled axons continued to pass through the fissure. GFAP immunohistochemistry demonstrated that GFAP-immunopositive astrocytes were abundant along the hippocampal fissure both in the wildtype and reeler mice at birth. In the wildtype mouse, GFAP-positive neurons nearby the fissure were decreasing in number during the early postnatal days, whereas in the reeler mouse, many GFAP-positive astrocytes were continuing to accumulate there. This barrier made of astrocytes in the reeler mouse may obstruct the ingrowth of the follower axons arising from the entorhinal cortex through the hippocampal fissure, resulting in the abnormal course of the entorhinodentate axons in this mutant.
Previous studies have demonstrated that stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) is crucial for early dentate development; however, the mouse mutants for this chemokine and its only receptor, CXCR4, are neonatally lethal, making conclusions about the role of these molecules in postnatal development difficult to sustain. Previous expression analyses have used single labeling, but the distribution of CXCR4 is complex and to determine the cell types expressing CXCR4 requires multiple marker labeling. In this study, we examined the distribution of SDF-1 and CXCR4 mRNAs during the first postnatal weeks, combining these markers with several other cell-type-specific markers. We found that SDF-1 has three sites of expression: (1) continuation of prenatal expression in the meninges; (2) expression in Cajal-Retzius cells occupying the molecular layer of the upper and lower blades of the dentate, and (3) the maturing dentate granule neurons themselves. The timing of expression in these three sites corresponds to alterations in the distribution of the primary cell types expressing CXCR4 during the same periods, notably the expression of CXCR4 in radial-glial-like GFAP-expressing dentate precursors and immature dentate granule neurons. Taken together, our data suggest potential ongoing roles for SDF-1/CXCR4 signaling in the dentate gyrus during the early postnatal period that will be tested in the future with more precise genetic approaches.
During early development of the central nervous system (CNS), there is an exuberant outgrowth of projections which later need to be refined to achieve precise connectivity. One widely used strategy for this refinement is axon pruning. Axon pruning has also been suggested to be involved in creating more diverse connection patterns between different species. An understanding of the mechanism of pruning, however, has been elusive in the CNS. Recent studies have focused on a stereotyped pruning event that occurs within the mossy fibers of the developing vertebrate hippocampus. In the following discussion, we will review the cellular and molecular factors that are known to regulate pruning in the hippocampus and highlight some advantages this system presents for future studies on pruning in the developing CNS.
The transcription coactivator CITED1 is an important mediator of transcriptional events regulated by estrogen or TGF-beta. We used in situ hybridization to delineate the distribution of CITED1 mRNA in the adult and developing murine brain and found robust CITED1 expression in ventral hypothalamus and midbrain raphe. The distribution of CITED1 in these regions overlapped the reported expression of estrogen receptors alpha and beta. Less intense expression of CITED1 was also evident in medial preoptic area, subfornical organ, thalamus and cerebral cortex. CITED1 mRNA in the arcuate nucleus (an area of active transcriptional modulation by TGF-beta) was evident in postmigratory neurons as early as embryonic day 16. Expression of CITED1 in arcuate continued throughout postnatal development. CITED1 in developing cerebellum was first evident in external granule cells and was transiently expressed in the Purkinje cell/granule cell layer in a temporal pattern similar to estrogen receptor-beta. The spatial and temporal distribution of CITED1 mRNA reported here is consistent with a role for CITED1 in the modulation of transcriptional events mediated by steroid hormone and cytokine signaling pathways.
The oculomotor periphery was formerly regarded as a simple mechanism executing complex behaviors explicitly specified by innervation. It is now recognized that several fundamental aspects of ocular motility are properties of the extraocular muscles (EOMs) and their associated connective tissue pulleys. The Active Pulley Hypothesis proposes that rectus and inferior oblique EOMs have connective tissue soft pulleys that are actively controlled by the action of the EOMs' orbital layers. Functional imaging and histology have suggested that the rectus pulley array constitutes an inner mechanism, similar to a gimbal, that is rotated torsionally around the orbital axis by an outer mechanism driven by the oblique EOMs. This arrangement may mechanically account for several commutative aspects of ocular motor control, including Listing's law, yet permits implementation of noncommutative motility as during the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Recent human behavioral studies, as well neurophysiology in monkeys, are consistent with mechanical rather than central neural implementation of Listing's law. Pathology of the pulley system is associated with predictable patterns of strabismus that are surgically treatable when the pathologic anatomy is characterized by imaging. This mechanical determination may imply limited possibilities for neural adaptation to some ocular motor pathologies, but indicates greater potential for surgical treatments.
In hamsters, the maturation of aggression during puberty is associated with a gradual reduction of offensive responses. The purpose of this study was to analyze the changes during this decrease to provide an enhanced description of the behavior. During early puberty, play-fighting is characterized by long and continuous contact duration throughout the encounter and repetitive attacks within bouts of agonistic interaction. By mid-puberty, adult patterns of offensive behavior emerge. Contact time becomes shorter in duration and shifts to the beginning of the test, while attacks become less repetitive per bout. In late puberty, animals show an enhanced efficiency of behavior, as indicated by an increased percentage of attacks followed by bites. This study provides a better understanding of the development of aggression by characterizing the differences between juvenile play-fighting and adult aggression and the process of the maturation of aggression.
Sheep and goats rapidly establish an exclusive relationship with their neonate following contact with it during a sensitive period of maternal responsiveness induced by the physiological events occurring at parturition. The data concerning the sensory, physiological, and neurobiological factors involved in the activation of both maternal responsiveness and the establishment of selective nursing indicates that these processes are activated simultaneously by the combined action of two main factors, the prepartum rise in circulating estrogen and the vaginocervical stimulation (VCS) caused by fetus expulsion. On the one hand, these two factors act on a neural network including the main olfactory system (MOB), the medial preoptic area (MPOA), and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) to induce maternal responsiveness towards any neonate. The intracerebral release of oxytocin (OT) from the PVN, and the triggering of olfactory attraction for amniotic fluid (AF) are key elements in this process. On the other hand, VCS at birth also sets the MOB ready to memorize the individual odor of the neonate, through the release of peptides and neurotransmitters (noradrenaline and acetylcholine). In addition to the MOB, the network involved in recognition mainly includes the medial and cortical amygdala. Across consolidation processes, reorganization occurs in the network engaged in lamb recognition. Whether this memorization may be potentiated by other sensory cues is not known. The identification of the chemosensory compounds involved in the attraction for AF and in the recognition of the neonate is important for understanding the mechanisms of maternal attachment.
The possibilities for building and nourishing connections among the social, cultural, neuroscientific, biological, and cognitive sciences in the service of understanding children and their development are tremendously exciting. Crossing, and integrating across, disciplinary boundaries, especially those disciplines relating to biology/neuroscience, society/culture, cognition, emotion, perception, and motor function has greatly increased over the last decade and hopefully will increase exponentially in the future. All of these aspects of being human are multiply-interrelated and we need to make far more progress in understanding those interrelations.
Infants represent the acts of others and their own acts in commensurate terms. They can recognize cross-modal equivalences between acts they see others perform and their own felt bodily movements. This recognition of self-other equivalences in action gives rise to interpreting others as having similar psychological states such as perceptions and emotions. The 'like me' nature of others is the starting point for social cognition, not its culmination.
Early experience preserves and refines many capabilities that emerge prenatally. Here we describe another role that it plays -- establishing the neural substrate for capabilities that emerge at a much later point in development. The evidence comes from sleeper effects: permanent deficits when early experience was absent in capabilities that normally emerge long after birth. We provide evidence of sleeper effects for three aspects of vision, based on our research with children who were deprived of early visual input by congenital cataracts: contrast sensitivity for mid and high spatial frequencies, holistic face processing, and the ability to recognize the identity of faces based on small differences in the spacing among facial features.
Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic mechanism controlling parental-origin-specific gene expression. Perturbing the parental origin of the distal portion of mouse chromosome 12 causes alterations in the dosage of imprinted genes resulting in embryonic lethality and developmental abnormalities of both embryo and placenta. A 1 Mb imprinted domain identified on distal chromosome 12 contains three paternally expressed protein-coding genes and multiple non-coding RNA genes, including snoRNAs and microRNAs, expressed from the maternally inherited chromosome. An intergenic, parental-origin-specific differentially methylated region, the IG-DMR, which is unmethylated on the maternally inherited chromosome, is necessary for the repression of the paternally expressed protein-coding genes and for activation of the maternally expressed non-coding RNAs: its absence causes the maternal chromosome to behave like the paternally inherited one. Here, we characterise the developmental consequences of this epigenotype switch and compare these with phenotypes associated with paternal uniparental disomy of mouse chromosome 12. The results show that the embryonic defects described for uniparental disomy embryos can be attributed to this one cluster of imprinted genes on distal chromosome 12 and that these defects alone, and not the mutant placenta, can cause prenatal lethality. In the placenta, the absence of the IG-DMR has no phenotypic consequence. Loss of repression of the protein-coding genes occurs but the non-coding RNAs are not repressed on the maternally inherited chromosome. This indicates that the mechanism of action of the IG-DMR is different in the embryo and the placenta and suggests that the epigenetic control of imprinting differs in these two lineages.
The neural basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Ascl1 (previously Mash1) is present in ventricular zone cells in restricted domains throughout the developing nervous system. This study uses genetic fate mapping to define the stage and neural lineages in the developing spinal cord that are derived from Ascl1-expressing cells. We find that Ascl1 is present in progenitors to both neurons and oligodendrocytes, but not astrocytes. Temporal control of the fate-mapping paradigm reveals rapid cell-cycle exit and differentiation of Ascl1-expressing cells. At embryonic day 11, Ascl1 identifies neuronal-restricted precursor cells that become dorsal horn neurons in the superficial laminae. By contrast, at embryonic day 16, Ascl1 identifies oligodendrocyte-restricted precursor cells that distribute throughout the spinal cord. These data demonstrate that sequentially generated Ascl1-expressing progenitors give rise first to dorsal horn interneurons and subsequently to late-born oligodendrocytes. Furthermore, Ascl1-null cells in the spinal cord have a diminished capacity to undergo neuronal differentiation, with a subset of these cells retaining characteristics of immature glial cells.
Secreted factors FGF8 and WNT1 are essential either for the inductive activity of the isthmus organizer or for the regionalization of the midbrain-hindbrain boundary (MHB). However, transcriptional regulation of these secreted factors during development remains to be elucidated. Here we show that the LIM homeobox gene Lmx1b is expressed in the anterior embryo as early as E7.5 and its expression becomes progressively restricted to the isthmus at E9.0. Analysis of gene expression in the MHB of the mutant embryos showed that many genes were lost by E9.5. In the MHB of Lmx1b-/- embryos, the expression of Fgf8, which normally occurs at the 4-somite stage, was completely absent, whereas Wnt1 was downregulated before the 4-somite stage. Moreover, transcription factors En1 and Pax2 were also downregulated prior to the 4-somite stage, whereas Gbx2 downregulation occurred at the 4-somite stage. By contrast, Otx2 and Pax6 expression was not affected in Lmx1b-/- embryos. The requirement of specific Lmx1b expression in the MHB was further confirmed by Wnt1-Cre-mediated region-specific conditional knockout of Lmx1b. As a result of these molecular defects, the development of the tectum and cerebellum was severely impaired in Lmx1b-/- mice. Taken together, our results indicate that Lmx1b plays an essential role in the development of the tectum and cerebellum by regulating expression of Fgf8, Wnt1 and several isthmus-related transcription factors in the MHB, and is a crucial component of a cross-regulatory network required for the induction activity of the isthmic organizer in the MHB.
alpha- and beta-Spectrin are major components of a submembrane cytoskeletal network connecting actin filaments to integral plasma membrane proteins. Besides its structural role in red blood cells, the Spectrin network is thought to function in non-erythroid cells during protein targeting and membrane domain formation. Here, we demonstrate that beta-Spectrin is required in neurons for proper midline axon guidance in the Drosophila embryonic CNS. In beta-spectrin mutants many axons inappropriately cross the CNS midline, suggesting a role for beta-Spectrin in midline repulsion. Surprisingly, neither the Ankyrin-binding nor the pleckstrin homology (PH) domains of beta-Spectrin are required for accurate guidance decisions. alpha-Spectrin is dependent upon beta-Spectrin for its normal subcellular localization and/or maintenance, whereas alpha-spectrin mutants exhibit a redistribution of beta-Spectrin to the axon scaffold. beta-spectrin mutants show specific dose-dependent genetic interactions with the midline repellent slit and its neuronal receptor roundabout (robo), but not with other guidance molecules. The results suggest that beta-Spectrin contributes to midline repulsion through the regulation of Slit-Robo pathway components. We propose that the Spectrin network is playing a role independently of Ankyrin in the establishment and/or maintenance of specialized membrane domains containing guidance molecules that ensure the fidelity of axon repulsion at the midline.
Obesity has a heritable component; however, the heterogeneity of obesity complicates dissection of its genetic background. In this study, we therefore focused on eating patterns as specific traits within obesity. These traits have a heritable component; genes associated with a specific eating pattern have not yet been reported at the population level. In this study, we determined whether genetic variations in cholecystokinin (CCK) and leptin genes underlie specific eating patterns. We selected obese individuals showing extreme snacking behavior or use of excessive portion sizes from a large population-based sample (n = 17,357) from the Prospect-EPIC (European Prospective Study into Cancer and Nutrition) study. Using allele-specific PCRs, we tested several single nucleotide polymorphisms in the candidate genes and performed haplotype analysis. Obese carriers of common allelic variations in leptin or the leptin receptor gene had an increased risk to display extreme snacking behavior. In contrast, obese carriers of common allelic variations in CCK had an increased risk to eating increased meal sizes. In conclusion, we identified common allelic variants specifically associated with distinctly different eating patterns, namely extreme snacking behavior or excessive portion size.
Alcohol dependence is a frequent, chronic, relapsing, and incurable disease with enormous societal costs. Thus, alcoholism therapy and research into its outcome are of major importance for public health. The present article will: (i) give a brief overview of the epidemiology, pathogenesis, and treatment outcomes of alcohol dependence; (ii) introduce the basic principles of outpatient long-term therapy of alcohol-dependent patients; and (iii) discuss in detail process-outcome research on Outpatient Long-term Intensive Therapy for Alcoholics (OLITA). This successful biopsychosocial approach to the treatment of alcoholism shows a 9-year abstinence rate of over 50%, a re-employment rate of 60%, and a dramatic recovery from comorbid depression, anxiety disorders, and physical sequelae. The outcome data are empirically based on treatment processes that have proven high predictive validity and give concrete information about where to focus the therapeutic efforts. Thus, process-outcome research on OLITA can serve for the development of new therapeutic guidelines on adapting individual relapse prevention strategies.
Although the pharmacology of amphetamine-like psychostimulants at dopamine transporters is well understood, addiction to this class of drugs has proven difficult to deal with. The reason for this disconnection is that while the molecular mechanism of amphetamine action is critical to reinforce drug use, it is only the first step in a sequence of widespread neuroplastic events in brain circuitry. This review outlines the affect of psychostimulants on mesocorticolimbic dopamine projections that mediate their reinforcing effect, and how this action ultimately leads to enduring pathological neuroplasticity in glutamatergic projections from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens. Molecular neuroadaptations induced by psychostimulant abuse are described in glutamate neurotransmission, and from this information potential pharmacotherapeutic targets are identified, based upon reversing or countermanding psychostimulant-induced neuroplasticity.
The articulated goals of Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience are to serve as &quot;an interface between clinical neuropsychiatry and the neurosciences by providing state-of-the-art information and original insights into relevant clinical, biological, and therapeutic aspects.&quot; My laboratory the Laboratory of the Biology of Addictive Diseases at The Rockefeller University, has for years been focused on &quot;bidirectional translational research,&quot; that is, learning by careful observations and study in patient populations with the disorders under study, in this case primarily specific addictive diseases, and then using that knowledge to create improved animal models or other laboratory-based research paradigms, while, at the same time, taking research findings made at the bench into the clinic as promptly as that is appropriate and feasible. In this invited review, therefore, the focus will be on perspectives of our Laboratory of the Biology of Addictive Diseases and related National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse research Center, including laboratory-based molecular neurobiological research, research using several animal models designed to mimic human patterns of drug abuse and addiction, as well as basic clinical research, intertwined with treatment-related research.
This review summarizes research on the chronobiology and neurobiology of winter seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a recurrent subtype of depression characterized by a predictable onset in the fall/winter months and spontaneous remission in the spring/summer period. Chronobiological mechanisms related to circadian rhythms, melatonin, and photoperiodism play a significant role in many cases of SAD, and treatment of SAD can be optimized by considering individual differences in key chronobiological markers. Converging evidence also points to a role for the major monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine in one or more aspects of SAD. Ultimately, as with other psychiatric illnesses, SAD is best considered as a complex disorder resulting from the interaction of several vulnerability factors acting at different levels, the various genetic mechanisms that underlie them, and the physical environment. Models of SAD that emphasize its potential role in human evolution will also be discussed.
In 1936, two clinical reviews, one by de Morsier, the other by L'Hermitte and de Ajuriaguerra, formulated an approach to visual hallucinations that continues to this day. Breaking with previous traditions, the papers championed visual hallucinations as worthy of study in their own right, de-emphasizing the clinical significance of their visual contents and distancing them from visual illusions. De Morsier described a set of visual hallucinatory syndromes based on the wider neurological and psychiatric context, many of which remain relevant today; however, one-the Charles Bonnet Syndrome-sparked 70 years of controversy over the role of the eye. Here, the history of visual hallucinatory syndromes and the eye dispute is reviewed, together with advances in perceptual neuroscience that question core assumptions of our current approach. From a neurobiological perspective, three syndromes emerge that relate to specific dysfunctions of afferent, cholinergic and serotonergic visual circuitry and promise future therapeutic advances.
Neuropsychiatry represents a field of medicine situated at the crossroads of neurology and psychiatry, and deals with the interface of behavioral phenomena driven by brain dysfunction. Psychiatric symptoms are highly prevalent in these conditions, are a major source of disability and diminished quality of life, and potentially represent the target of treatment interventions that stand to significantly decrease the suffering they generate. In this article, the disease paradigm is explained, with particular attention to its role as an organizing principle for the field. Specific diseases including traumatic brain injury, stroke, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and epilepsy are explored in relation to the presentation of multiple psychiatric phenotypes in each, associations with underlying brain pathology, and existing treatment approaches. Finally the article explores the inherent complexities in this area of research and proposes a framework for future work based on the understanding of phenomenology and associated risk factors, the involvement of the rapidly advancing field of neuroscience, and targeted treatment development to serve as a road map for advancement in the field..
Our aim is to describe the current situation regarding the diagnosis and treatment of addiction in a variety of settings in Spain. Four-hundred and twenty-seven physicians known to treat addicted patients in non-private settings were recruited and agreed to participate. Each physician provided clinical and anonymous information on the first 6 consecutive patients who attended on a scheduled day. A total of 2361 patients were interviewed (92.1%) and data were obtained concerning gender, age, work, educational level, civil status, addiction diagnosis, type of treatment and psychiatric comorbidity. Seven-hundred and ninety-eight out of 2361 addicts (33.8%) presented with a dual diagnosis. Depression was the most prevalent disorder (21.6%), followed by anxiety disorders (11.7%). Comorbidity was found to be related to age, female gender, divorce and widowhood, and higher educational levels. Alcoholics who abused other drugs showed the highest rates of comorbidity (48.5%), while opiate addicts were at the lower end of the spectrum (27.4%). No differences were found related to the treatment setting, the doctor's medical specialty, or the geographical area. Finally, doctors tended to perceive that dual diagnosis was related to a worse psychiatric prognosis but not to higher relapse rates. Antidepressants were the most commonly prescribed drugs (62.4% of co-morbid patients) and anticraving agents were prescribed equally to comorbid and non-comorbid patients. Within the limitations of a descriptive study, our data show that comorbidity is a common clinical problem in patients who access addiction treatment. Affective and anxiety disorders are the most common comorbid diseases, and comorbidity rates seem to be unrelated to regional differences, medical settings or doctor's professional background. Dual diagnosis patients thus account for one third of the clinical workload of addiction specialists in Spain.
This study analyzed indicators of alcohol-related problems in opiate addicts before, during, and after leaving methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), in relation to illicit drug use and retention in treatment. The study was based on 204 patients, admitted to MMT for the first time between 1 January 1995 and 31 July 2000, and followed until 31 December 2000. Three measures were used to indicate alcohol use and alcohol-related problems; records of hospital care with an alcohol-related diagnosis, any treatment with alcohol-sensitizing drugs (disulfiram or calcium carbimide) during MMT, and results of the 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ratio (5HTOL/5HIAA) in urine, a sensitive biomarker for recent drinking. Use of illicit drugs was determined by routine urine drug testing. About one third of the patients (n = 69) had a lifetime prevalence of hospital treatment for an alcohol-related diagnosis, 45 of whom had been hospitalized (mean 4.2 stays) prior to the start of MMT. There was a significant association (p&lt;0.05) between the number of alcohol-related diagnoses prior to treatment and a positive 5HTOL/5HIAA test during MMT. The alcohol indicators first became positive on average 1.6 years after admission to treatment, compared with after about 4 months for illicit drugs. Use of cannabis or benzodiazepines was significantly associated with alcohol use. Female methadone patients with indications of alcohol-related problems relapsed more often into illicit drug use than did women without such indications (3.9 vs. 2.5 relapse periods/year; p&lt;0.005), whereas no significant association was found for men. The results of the present study indicate that drinking problems among patients undergoing MMT is associated with an increased risk of relapse into illicit drug use and with discharge from treatment. Concurrent treatment of alcohol-related problems, including systematic monitoring of alcohol use, therefore should be recommended to reduce the risk for relapse into illicit drug use and improve overall treatment outcome in MMT.
As with other addictions, human alcoholism is characterised as a chronically relapsing condition. Consequently, the therapeutic goal is the development of clinically effective, safe drugs that promote high adherence rates and prevent relapse. These products can then be used in conjunction with psychosocial approaches. In this review, preclinical studies are highlighted that indicate the mechanism of action of currently used anti-craving medications or demonstrate the potential of novel pharmacological agents for the treatment of alcohol use disorders. While current pharmacological strategies are far from ideal, there are a number of candidate molecules that may ultimately be developed into therapeutic agents. In addition, prescribing clinicians should also consider strategies such as combinations of various drugs to aid in the regulation of aberrant alcohol consumption.

Acute ischaemic stroke is a leading cause of death in the majority of industrialised countries and also in many developing countries. Free radicals are generated in the brain during ischaemic injury and these radicals are involved in the secondary injury processes. Several free radical scavengers have been developed and some of them have progressed into clinical trials. One of them, edaravone, has been approved by the regulatory authority in Japan for the treatment of stroke patients. Another scavenger, disodium 4-[(tert-butylimino)methyl] benzene-1,3-disulfonate N-oxide (NXY-059; disufenton), has demonstrated efficacy in a phase III clinical trial (SAINT [Stroke Acute Ischaemic NXY-059 Treatment study]-I) involving a large number of stroke patients. Unfortunately, SAINT II did not show efficacy in the treatment of stroke patients. The purpose of this article is to review the current development of antioxidant strategies, update recent findings for NXY-059 in the treatment of stroke patients, and discuss the future development of neuroprotective agents. Although the development of neuroprotective strategies for the treatment of stroke is challenging, progress in molecular and cellular neuroscience will uncover new information about stroke mechanisms, which should result in the realisation of neuroprotective therapy for this disease.
Depressive Mood Scale (EHD) aims at assessing the various depressive mood dimensions as &quot;blunted affect&quot; and &quot;lack of emotional control&quot;. It is an 18 items hetero-evaluation scale. The aim of this study was the validation of an EHD self questionnaire version. Self questionnaire items were generated from genuine scale items. As in the former version, response format was a Lickert 5 point scale. This validation study was carried out on 77 Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients. Mood disorders are frequent during the course of MS and might be triggered or worsened by immuno-modulation therapies. Principal Component Analysis (ACP) with Varimax rotation revealed a two factors structure. The first one, corresponding to a &quot;blunted affect&quot; dimension, explained 33.5% of the scale variance and was composed of 7 items. The second one, corresponding to a &quot;lack of emotional control&quot; dimension, explained 20% of total scale variance and was composed of 4 items. The questionnaire internal coherence coefficient (Cronbach alpha) was excellent (=0.87) and the two sub-scales ones were satisfactory [0.89 for &quot;blunted affect&quot; dimension and 0.71 for &quot;lack of emotional control&quot; dimension. The questionnaire's external validity was confirmed by a positive correlation between &quot;lack of control&quot; sub-score and state sub-score of the Stait-Trait Anger eXpression Inventory (STAXI)] (r=0.55, p&lt;0.01). Moreover we found a positive correlation between the total EHD autoquestionnaire score and both sub-scores on the one hand, and the Beck Depression Inventory score on the second hand (EHD/BDI: r=0.76, p&lt;0.01; &quot;lack of emotional control&quot;/BDI: r=0.68, p&lt;0.01; &quot;blunted affect&quot;/BDI: r=0.63, p&lt;0.01). Test-retest reliability was good with a positive correlation between all the initial scores and their retests, a week later. Secondarily, a structural equation modeling analysis confirmed the two-factors structure model suggested by ACP. Various indicators showed a good fit between theoretical variance-covariance matrix and the observed one (chi(2)=41.55, p=0.49, ddl=42, Goodness Fit Index GFI=0.91, Root Mean Square Residual RMSEA=0.00). Thus, we proposed a well validated self questionnaire that allows the assessment of &quot;blunted affect&quot; and &quot;lack of emotional control&quot;. It should be challenging to correlate those dimensions with neuro-psycho-logical testing and neuro-imagery, in patients affected by CNS diseases. Moreover, the assessment of those dimensions during interferon treatment in MS could allow a more precise evaluation of the emotional changes potentially induced by immuno-modulatory treatments.
A major characteristic of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. A growing body of evidence indicates that oxidative stress that results from increased production of reactive oxygen species and/or reactive nitrogen species leads to insulin resistance, tissue damage, and other complications observed in T2DM. It has been suggested that muscular free fatty acid accumulation might be responsible for the mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance seen in T2DM, although the mechanisms by which increased levels of free fatty acid lead to insulin resistance are not well understood. To help resolve this situation, we report that saturated fatty acid palmitate stimulated the expression of inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase and the production of reactive oxygen species and NO in L6 myotubes. Additionally, palmitate caused a significant dose-dependent increase in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage and a subsequent decrease in L6 myotube viability and ATP levels at concentrations as low as 0.5 mM. Furthermore, palmitate induced apoptosis, which was detected by DNA fragmentation, caspase-3 cleavage, and cytochrome c release. N-acetyl cysteine, a precursor compound for glutathione formation, aminoguanidine, an inducible NO synthase inhibitor, and 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-sulphonatophenyl) porphyrinato iron (III), a peroxynitrite inhibitor, all prevented palmitate-induced mtDNA damage and diminished palmitate-induced cytotoxicity. We conclude that exposure of L6 myotubes to palmitate induced mtDNA damage and triggered mitochondrial dysfunction, which caused apoptosis. Additionally, our findings indicate that palmitate-induced mtDNA damage and cytotoxicity in skeletal muscle cells were caused by overproduction of peroxynitrite.





Weight gain or loss is not an integral part of epilepsy although a sedentary lifestyle can contribute to weight gain. Pharmacological treatment for epilepsy may be associated with substantial weight changes that may increase morbidity and impair adherence to the treatment regimen. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) associated with weight loss are felbamate, topiramate, and zonisamide. AEDs associated with weight gain are gabapentin, pregabalin, valproic acid, and vigabatrin and possibly, carbamazepine. Weight neutral AEDs are lamotrigine, levetiracetam, and phenytoin. In clinical practice it is critical to weigh patients regularly and AED selection should be based on each patient's profile without sacrificing therapeutic efficacy.
It was questioned whether amygdala kindling, a model of temporal lobe epilepsy, is under genetic control, and is associated with comorbid behavioral features. Initially, rats were selectively bred for speed of amygdala kindling, and, in subsequent generations, were assessed in behavioral paradigms to measure activity, emotionality, impulsivity, and learning. Clearly kindling was under genetic control, as two strains were developed to be either Fast or Slow to kindle, and each was associated with different neurological, electrophysiological and behavioral features. Behaviorally, the Fast rats appear much like humans with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), showing easy distraction, hyperactivity and impulsivity, compared to Slow rats.
Cytoarchitectural alterations during central nervous system (CNS) development are believed to underlie aberrations in brain morphology that lead to epilepsy. We have recently reported marked reductions in hippocampal and white matter volumes along with relative ventriculomegaly in a rat strain bred to be seizure-prone (FAST) compared to a strain bred to be seizure-resistant (SLOW) (Gilby et al., 2002, American Epilepsy Society 56th Annual Meeting). This study was designed to investigate deviations in gene expression during late-phase embryogenesis within the brains of FAST and SLOW rats. In this way, we hoped to identify molecular mechanisms operating differentially during neurodevelopment that might ultimately create the observed differences in brain morphology and/or seizure susceptibility. Using Superarray technology, we compared the expression level of 112 genes, known to play a role in neurodevelopment, within whole brains of embryonic day 21 (E21) FAST and SLOW rats. Results revealed that while most genes investigated showed near equivalent expression levels, both Apolipoprotein E (APOE) and the beta2 subunit of the voltage-gated sodium channel (SCN2beta) were significantly underexpressed in brains of the seizure-prone embryos. Currently, these transcripts have no known interactions during embryogenesis; however, they have both been independently linked to seizure disposition and/or neurodevelopmental aberrations leading to epilepsy. Thus, alterations in the timing and/or degree of expression for APOE and SCN2beta may be important to developmental cascades that ultimately give rise to the differing brain morphologies, behaviors, and/or seizure vulnerabilities that characterize these strains.
Neurological complications of hypoglycemia often include seizures and fasting is a predisposing factor for seizures to occur. The mechanisms involved are unknown. In rats, insulin administration induces hypoglycemia, which may lead to generalized seizures with barrel rotations as a hallmark. Here we compared the incidence of barrel rotations in fasted and nonfasted rats. Further, we investigated the role of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) in control of barrel rotations using localized bilateral microinfusions of GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor agonists (muscimol or baclofen, respectively) or an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (AP7). The incidence of barrel rotations was significantly higher in fasted compared to nonfasted rats. SNR infusions of muscimol were ineffective, while both baclofen and AP7 significantly decreased occurrence of barrel rotations. These data suggest that during hypoglycemia, the SNR seizure controlling system has different properties than in seizure models not involving a metabolic stress.
We investigated expression of genes involved in the proteolytic process during epileptogenesis in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In a previous microarray study we found prominent activation of this process, which reached highest expression during the acute and latent phase (1 week after SE) in CA3 and entorhinal cortex (EC). Detailed analysis shows differences in dynamics of the changes of several protease genes such as cathepsins, caspases, matrix metalloproteinases, and plasminogen activators. Most genes were acutely upregulated while others were mainly activated during the latent phase. Interestingly several proteolytic genes were still elevated in the chronic epileptic phase. Various protease inhibitors followed a similar time course. The identification of changes in the activation of genes involved in proteolysis at critical phases during epileptogenesis could point to potential time specific targets for intervention. The fact that several proteolytic genes were still activated in the chronic epileptic phase makes them interesting candidates to modify and slow down seizure progression.
Seizure incidence during the neonatal period is higher than any other period in the lifespan, yet we know little about this period in terms of the effect of seizures or of the drugs used in their treatment. The fact that several antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) induce pronounced apoptotic neuronal death in specific regions of the immature brain prompts a search for AEDs that may be devoid of this action. Furthermore, there is a clear need to find out if a history of seizures alters the proapoptotic action of the AEDs. Our studies are aimed at both of these issues. Phenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital, and MK801 each induced substantial regionally specific cell death, whereas levetiracetam even in high doses (up to 1,500 mg/kg) did not have this action. In view of our previously findings of neuroprotective actions of repeated seizures in the adult brain, we also examined repeated seizures for a possible antiapoptotic action in the infant rat. Rat pups were preexposed to electroshock seizures (ECS) for 3 days (age 5-7 days) before receiving MK801 on day 7. The effect of ECS, which was consistently a 30% decrease in MK801-induced programmed cell death (PCD), suggests that repeated seizures can exert an antiapoptotic action in the infant brain. In contrast, PCD induced by valproate was not attenuated by ECS preexposure, suggesting that valproate-induced PCD is mechanistically distinct from that induced by MK801 and may not be activity-dependent. Presently, we do not know if this neuroprotective effect of seizures is deleterious or beneficial. If the seizures also enhance the survival of neurons that are destined to undergo naturally occurring PCD, early childhood seizures may have deleterious effects by preventing this necessary component of normal development. While this effect of seizures might be counteracted by AEDs, the fact that several AEDs shift the PCD to the other extreme, and trigger excessive neuronal cell loss, raises concern about whether the drug therapy may be more detrimental than the seizures. In this context, it is encouraging that we have identified at least one AED that is devoid of a proapoptotic action in the infant brain, even in high doses. It is now important to evaluate the long-term consequences of the changes in PCD in infancy by examining behavioral outcomes and seizure susceptibility in the AED- and seizure-exposed neonates when they reach adulthood.
GABA(A) receptors have dual functions during development. They depolarize immature neurons but hyperpolarize more mature neurons. This functional switch has been attributed to age-related differences in the relative abundance of cation chloride cotransporters, such as KCC2 and NKCC1, which regulate chloride homeostasis. Certain insults, such as trauma, ischemia, and seizures, if they occur when GABA(A)ergic signaling is hyperpolarizing, such as in the adult brain, can lead to reappearance of the immature, depolarizing synaptic responses to GABA(A) receptor activation. In certain cases, this has been associated with either reduced expression of KCC2 or increase in NKCC1. In epilepsy, the depolarizing effects of GABA(A) receptors have been proposed to be important for the acquisition and/or maintenance of the epileptic state. Using the kainic acid model of status epilepticus, we have studied the effects of repetitive neonatal episodes of status epilepticus on the expression of cation chloride cotransporter KCC2 in the neonatal hippocampus. In contrast to adults, seizures increased KCC2 mRNA expression in the CA3 region of the neonatal hippocampus. The contrasting patterns of regulation of KCC2 by seizures in mature and immature neurons may be one of the age-related factors that protect the neonatal brain against the development of epilepsy.

Status epilepticus (SE) is often followed by severe cognitive impairment, including memory impairment. Previous studies have shown that SE is associated with impairment of single cells in the hippocampus that fire action potentials when the animal is in a specific location in space, the so-called place cells, and that place cell function correlates well with performance in tasks of visual-spatial memory. Place cell patterns therefore appear to be an excellent measure of spatial memory and may serve as a tool to assess seizure-induced impairment in memory. In this study we determined the relationship between visual-spatial memory and place cell function following SE. In addition, we determined if levetiracetam (LEV), an antiepileptic drug with a novel mechanism of action, can improve cognitive function and place cell firing patterns when administered following SE. SE was induced in adult male rats which were then randomized to post-SE treatment with LEV or normal saline (NS) treatment for 14 days. Non-SE control rats also were randomized to LEV or NS. Following discontinuation of LEV rats were tested for visual-spatial memory in the Morris water-maze and then underwent unit recording in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Brains were then evaluated for cell loss and mossy fiber sprouting. SE was associated with severely impaired performance in the water-maze with SE rats demonstrating no learning over four days of testing. Paralleling this memory deficit was a marked disturbance in firing patterns of pyramidal neurons in CA1. Non-SE rats learned quickly over four days of water-maze testing and had normal pyramidal cell firing patterns. LEV had no major effects on water-maze performance or place cell function. Histopathological examination of the brains showed severe cell loss in CA1 in all of the SE rats with lesser degrees of injury in CA3 and the hilus. LEV treatment resulted in less histological damage in the hippocampus but had no effect on visual-spatial function or place cell physiology in either control or SE rats.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multi-organ pathologies. Most TSC patients exhibit seizures, usually starting in early childhood. The neuropathological hallmarks of the disease - cortical tubers, containing cytopathological neuronal and glial cell types - appear to be the source of seizure initiation. However, the contribution of these aberrant cell populations to TSC-associated epilepsies is not fully understood. To gain further insight, investigators have attempted to generate animal models with TSC-like brain abnormalities. In the current study, we focused on the Eker rat, in which there is a spontaneous mutation of the TSC2 gene (TSC2+/-). We attempted to exacerbate TSC-like brain pathologies with a &quot;second-hit&quot; strategy - exposing young pups to ionizing irradiation of different intensities, and at different developmental timepoints (between E18 and P6). We found that the frequency of occurrence of dysmorphic neurons and giant astrocytes was strongly dependent on irradiation dose, and weakly dependent on timing of irradiation in Eker rats, but not in irradiated normal controls. The frequency of TSC-like pathology was progressive; there were many more abnormal cells at 3 months compared to 1 month post-irradiation. Measures of seizure propensity (flurothyl seizure latency) and brain excitability (paired-pulse and post-tetanic stimulation studies in vitro), however, showed no functional changes associated with the appearance of TSC-like cellular abnormalities in irradiated Eker rats.
Since the late 1980s, microwave dielectric heating has been used to speed up chemical transformations, also in radiolabeling tracers for positron emission tomography. In addition to shorter reaction times, higher yields, cleaner product mixtures and improved reproducibility have also been obtained for reactions involving polar components that require heating at elevated temperatures. The conditions used in microwave chemistry can differ considerably from those in conventional heating. Understanding the factors that influence the interaction of the electromagnetic field with the sample is critical for the successful implementation of microwave heating. These parameters are discussed here and exemplified with radiolabelings with fluorine-18.
Episodic memory tests that measure cued recall may be particularly effective in the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease (AD) because they examine both episodic and semantic memory functions. The Category Cued Recall (CCR) test provides superordinate semantic cues at encoding and retrieval, and high discriminative validity has been claimed for this test. The aim of this study was to investigate the discriminative validity for this test when compared with the 10-word memory list from Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog) that measures free recall. The clinical diagnosis of AD was taken as the standard. It was also investigated whether the two episodic memory tests correlated with measures of semantic memory. The tests were administered to 35 patients with very mild AD (Mini Mental State Examination score &gt;22) and 28 control subjects. Both tests had high sensitivity (&gt;88%) with high specificity (&gt;89%). One out of the five semantic memory tests was significantly correlated to performances on CCR, whereas delayed recall on the ADAS-cog memory test was significantly correlated to two semantic tests. In conclusion, the discriminative validity of the CCR test and the ADAS-cog memory test was equivalent in very mild AD. This may be because CCR did not tap more semantic processes, which are impaired in the earliest phases of AD, than a test of free recall.
Conflicting evidence exists whether hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is a risk factor for headache. The aim of the study was to examine the prevalence of headache and migraine amongst postmenopausal women using HRT. In the Nord-Trndelag Health Study 1995-97 (HUNT 2), 18,323 (62%) out of 29,679 women aged 40 years or more responded to headache questions (Head-HUNT). Amongst the 6007 postmenopausal women, 5507 (92%) responded to questions regarding use of HRT (2375 used or had used it) and questions related to headache (2407 had complaints). There was a significant association between headache and present use of HRT, both with local [odds ratio (OR) = 1.4, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 1.1-1.7] and systemic (OR = 1.6, 95% CI 1.4-1.9) application. This was found for non-migrainous headache (OR = 1.3, 95% CI 1.1-1.5) and migraine (OR = 1.6, 95% CI 1.4-1.9). Both migraine and non-migrainous headache were more probably amongst users of postmenopausal HRT than amongst those who had never used HRT. Whether HRT caused headache or was used partly because of headache cannot be determined in this cross-sectional study.
We used paired-pulse odorant stimulation, with a conditioning stimulus delivered either ipsilateral or contralateral to a test stimulus, to unmask the effects of centrifugal feedback on olfactory bulb responses. In reptiles and mammals there are no direct connections between the paired olfactory bulbs, and thus all information transfer between the olfactory bulbs depends on feedback from retrobulbar structures. We measured odor-induced activity in the turtle olfactory bulb using a voltage-sensitive dye and a 464-element photodiode array, which allowed us to monitor the spatial variation in activation of the olfactory bulb. We found that both contralateral and ipsilateral conditioning stimuli evoked long-lasting inhibition of olfactory bulb activation. In contrast to previous studies using local field potential recording to monitor activity at a single site, we found that this inhibition increased contrast in the spatial patterning of activation over the dorsal surface of the olfactory bulb. Inhibition was also increased when different odorants were used as conditioning and test stimuli, suggesting a role for centrifugal feedback in olfactory discrimination. These results highlight the functional importance of centrifugal feedback and information processing in a broadly distributed olfactory network.
Narcolepsy, a disorder characterized by fragmented bouts of sleep and wakefulness during the day and night as well as cataplexy, has been linked in humans and nonhuman animals to the functional integrity of the orexinergic system. Adult orexin knockout mice and dogs with a mutation of the orexin receptor exhibit symptoms that mirror those seen in narcoleptic humans. As with narcolepsy, infant sleep-wake cycles in humans and rats are highly fragmented, with consolidated bouts of sleep and wakefulness developing gradually. Based on these common features of narcoleptics and infants, we hypothesized that the development of sleep-wake fragmentation in orexin knockout mice would be expressed as a developmental divergence between knockouts and wild-types, with the knockouts lagging behind the wild-types. We tested this hypothesis by recording the sleep-wake patterns of infant orexin knockout and wild-type mice across the first three postnatal weeks. Both knockouts and wild-types exhibited age-dependent, and therefore orexin-independent, quantitative and qualitative changes in sleep-wake patterning. At 3 weeks of age, however, by which time the sleep and wake bouts of the wild-types had consolidated further, the knockouts lagged behind the wild-types and exhibited significantly more bout fragmentation. These findings suggest the possibility that the fragmentation of behavioural states that characterizes narcolepsy in adults reflects reversion back toward the more fragmented sleep-wake patterns that characterize infancy.
Na+-activated K+ channels (K(Na)) exist in different types of neurones and their activation has been shown to depend on Na+ influx via voltage-activated channels. However, one major route for Na+ influx into neurones is through ionotropic receptors and its role in activating K(Na) is still unclear. We have examined whether Na+ influx induced by activation of AMPA receptors can activate K(Na) in lamprey spinal cord neurones. Our results showed that the application of AMPA induced not only the characteristic inward current but also produced an outward current outlasting the activation of the receptors. This outward current was mediated by K+ and was abolished when Na+ was substituted with Li+. The AMPA-mediated K(Na) current was completely blocked by quinidine but was not modulated by increased intracellular Cl- concentration or ATP. Thus, Na+ influx via AMPA receptor channels activates K(Na) with properties similar to Slack channels. The AMPA-activated K(Na) may act as an inherent negative feedback mechanism to regulate the homeostasis of excitation.
By altering their morphology, astrocytes, including those involved in the maintenance and plasticity of neurons and in clearance of transmitter, play important roles in synaptic transmission; however, the mechanism that regulates the morphological plasticity of astrocytes remains unclear. Recently, we reported that T1, a subtype of TrkB (a family of BDNF-specific receptors), altered astrocytic morphology through the control of Rho GTPases in primary astrocyte cultures. In this study, we extended this observation to investigate acute neocortical slices from adult rats. T1 siRNA-expression vectors were electroporated into astrocytes in neocortical layer I of living rats. In both normal slices and control vector-electroporated slices, BDNF induced the elongation of the astrocytic processes and increased the branching of processes in slices after 1 h incubation. In contrast, in T1 siRNA-electroporated slices, no such significant morphological changes were observed in the astrocytes. In addition, the number of synaptophysin+ sites in contact with GFAP+ processes increased in a BDNF-T1-dependent manner without the increase in the total synaptophysin+ sites. Therefore, the present study provides evidence of the regulation of layer I astrocytic morphology by the BDNF-T1 signal in adult rat neocortical slices.
Studies of spinal cord injury using contusion (impact) injury paradigms have shown that neuronal death is an acute event that is largely over within 24 h. However, much less is known about cell death following compression injury, despite compression being a key component of natural spinal injuries. We have therefore used neuronal nuclei (NeuN) immunostaining to examine the spatiotemporal pattern of neuronal loss after static compression injury in adult rats. 3D reconstruction was used to reveal the full effect of the injury. Neuronal loss at the injury epicentre, assessed by NeuN immunostaining, amounted to 44% at 1 day but increased to 73% at 3 days and 81% at 1 month. Neuronal loss was also seen 5 mm rostral and caudal to the epicentre, but was not significant until 3 days. NeuN loss was greatest in the ventral horns and in the intermediate grey matter, with the lateral dorsal horns relatively spared. Cystic cavities formed after injury, but were not evident until 4 weeks and were small in size. In contrast to the slow profile of neuronal loss, the compression injury also evoked a transient expression of activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3) and activated c-Jun in neurons. ATF3 expression peaked at 3 days and declined at 7 days. Our spatiotemporal analysis of compression injury shows that neuronal loss is much more protracted than in contusion injury, and highlights the potential for neuroprotective strategies. This study is also the first indication of ATF3 involvement in spinal cord injury.
Purkinje axons in adult mammals are generally unable to regenerate after axotomy. Our recent work has shown that over-expression of growth related genes, GAP-43 and L1, in Purkinje cells increased their axonal outgrowth into a predegenerated peripheral nerve graft, but not into a fresh graft [Zhang et al., (2005) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 102, 14883-14888]. In the current study we investigated whether engineered expression of growth permissive molecule polysialic acid (PSA) in the glial scar or on transplanted Schwann cells could overcome the inhibitory environment and promote Purkinje axonal regeneration. A stab wound was introduced in the cerebellum of the L1/GAP-43 transgenic mice and a lentiviral vector (LV) carrying the polysialyltransferase (PST) cDNA (LV/PST) was injected into the lesion site to transduce the cells in the glial scar. Regenerating Purkinje axons were examined by calbindin immunostaining. There was increased Purkinje axonal sprouting in the area expressing high-level PSA. However, Purkinje axons were unable to grow into the lesion cavity. In the second set of experiments when LV/PST transduced Schwann cells were transplanted into the lesion site, the number of Purkinje axons growing into the transplant was nine times more than that growing into Schwann cell transplant expressing GFP two months post operation. Our result suggests that transplanted Schwann cells engineered to express PSA support axonal regeneration better than nave Schwann cells.
Although language functions are, in general, attributed to the left hemisphere, it is still a matter of debate to what extent the cognitive functions underlying the processing of music are lateralized in the human brain. To investigate hemispheric specialization we evaluated the effect of different overt musical and linguistic tasks on the excitability of both left and right hand motor cortices using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Task-dependent changes of the size of the TMS-elicited motor evoked potentials were recorded in 12 right-handed, musically naive subjects during and after overt speech, singing and humming, i.e. the production of melody without word articulation. The articulation of meaningless syllables served as control condition. We found reciprocal lateralized effects of overt speech and musical tasks on motor cortex excitability. During overt speech, the corticospinal projection of the left (i.e. dominant) hemisphere to the right hand was facilitated. In contrast, excitability of the right motor cortex increased during both overt singing and humming, whereas no effect was observed on the left hemisphere. Although the traditional concept of hemispheric lateralization of music has been challenged by recent neuroimaging studies, our findings demonstrate that right-hemisphere preponderance of music is nevertheless present. We discuss our results in terms of the recent concepts on evolution of language and gesture, which hypothesize that cerebral networks mediating hand movement and those subserving language processing are functionally linked. TMS may constitute a useful tool to further investigate the relationship between cortical representations of motor functions, music and language using comparative approaches.
Behavioral and physiological studies have indicated the existence of a temporal window of auditory integration (TWI), within which similar sounds are perceptually grouped. The current study exploits the combined temporal and spatial resolution of fast optical imaging (the event-related optical signal, EROS) to show that brain activity elicited by sounds within and outside the TWI differs in location and latency. In a previous event-related brain potential (ERP) study [Sable, Gratton, and Fabiani (2003) European Journal of Neuroscience, 17, 2492-2496], we found that the mismatch negativity (MMN; a brain response to acoustic irregularities) elicited by deviations in stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) had a unique shape when the deviant SOA was within the TWI. In the present study, we extended these ERP results using EROS. Participants heard trains of five tones. The first four tones had SOAs of 96, 192, 288 or 384 ms. The SOA of the fourth and fifth tones was either the same (standard) or one of the other three (deviant) SOAs. With a deviant SOA of 96 ms, the cortical response was approximately 2 cm anterior to responses to longer SOA deviants, and was followed by a later response that was absent in the other conditions. Similarly to the electrical MMN, the optical mismatch response amplitudes were proportional to the magnitude of interval deviance. These results, in combination with our previous findings, indicate that the temporal integration of sounds is reflected in cortical mismatch responses that differ from the typical response to interval deviance.
The entry of therapeutic compounds into the brain and spinal cord is normally restricted by barrier mechanisms in cerebral blood vessels (blood-brain barrier) and choroid plexuses (blood-CSF barrier). In the injured brain, ruptured cerebral blood vessels circumvent these barrier mechanisms by allowing blood contents to escape directly into the brain parenchyma. This process may contribute to the secondary damage that follows the initial primary injury. However, this localized compromise of barrier function in the injured brain may also provide a 'window of opportunity' through which drugs that do not normally cross the blood-brain barriers are able to do so. This paper describes a systematic study of barrier permeability in a mouse model of traumatic brain injury using both small and large inert molecules that can be visualized or quantified. The results show that soon after trauma, both large and small molecules are able to enter the brain in and around the injury site. Barrier restriction to large (protein-sized) molecules is restored by 4-5 h after injury. In contrast, smaller molecules (286-10,000 Da) are still able to enter the brain as long as 4 days postinjury. Thus the period of potential secondary damage from barrier disruption and the period during which therapeutic compounds have direct access to the injured brain may be longer than previously thought.
The transcription factor, DeltaFosB, is an important mediator of the long-term plasticity induced in brain by chronic exposure to drugs of abuse, stress, or several other psychoactive stimuli. We have previously demonstrated that the casein kinase 2 (CK2)-mediated phosphorylation of a highly conserved N-terminal serine (Ser27) plays a critical role in regulating DeltaFosB's unusual stability, while it does not affect that of the full-length FosB protein. In the present study, we analysed whether CK2 and Ser27 phosphorylation also play a role in regulating DeltaFosB's transcriptional activity. Our findings indicate that CK2 activation increases DeltaFosB's transactivation potential, while CK2 inhibition decreases it. Further, we show that preventing Ser27 phosphorylation by mutating the site to Ala results in a significant decrease in DeltaFosB transactivation, without affecting DeltaFosB's subcellular localization or DNA-binding affinity. In contrast, Ser27 does not seem to play a role in the transactivation potential of full-length FosB. These findings constitute the first evidence of a role for phosphorylation in DeltaFosB's transcriptional activity.
Here we present evidence that the kinesin, Kif5B, is involved in the transportation and axonal targeting of Kv1 channels. We show that a dominant negative variant of Kif5B specifically blocks localization to the axon of expressed, tagged versions of Kv1.3 in cultured cortical slices. In addition, the dominant negative variant of Kif5B blocks axonal localization of endogenous Kv1.1, Kv1.2, and Kv1.4 in cortical neurons in dissociated cultures. We also found evidence that Kif5B interacts with Kv1 channels. Endogenous Kv1.2 colocalized with Kif5B in cortical neurons and coimmunoprecipitated with Kif5B from brain lysate. The T1 domain of Shaker K(+) channels has been shown to play a critical role in targeting the channel to the axon. We have three pieces of evidence to suggest that the T1 domain also mediates interaction between Kv1 channels and Kif5B: Addition of the T1 domain to a heterologous protein, TfR, is sufficient to cause the resulting fusion protein, TfRT1, to colocalize with Kif5B. Also, the T1 domain is necessary for interaction of Kv1.3 with Kif5B in a coimmunoprecipitation assay. Finally, dominant negative variants of Kif5B block axonal targeting of TfRT1, but have no effect on dendritic localization of TfR. Together these data suggest a model where Kif5B interacts with Kv1 channels either directly or indirectly via the T1 domain, causing the channels to be transported to axons.
The first postmitotic neurons in the developing neocortex establish the preplate layer. These early-born neurons have a significant influence on the circuitry of the developing cortex. However, the exact timing and trajectory of their projections, between cortical hemispheres and intra- and extra-cortical regions, remain unresolved. Here, we describe the creation of a transgenic mouse using a 1.3 kb golli promoter element of the myelin basic protein gene to target expression of a tau-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in the cell bodies and processes of pioneer cortical neurons. During embryonic and early neonatal development, the timing and patterning of process extension from these neurons was examined. Analysis of tau-GFP fluorescent fibers revealed that progression of early labeled projections was interrupted unexpectedly by transient pauses at the corticostriatal and telencephalic-diencephalic boundaries before invading the thalamus just prior to birth. After birth the pioneering projections differentially invaded the thalamus, excluding some nuclei, e.g. medial and lateral geniculate, until postnatal days 10-14. Early labeled projections were also found to cross to the contralateral hemisphere as well as to the superior colliculus. These results indicate that early corticothalamic projections appear to pause before invading specific subcortical regions during development, that there is developmental regulation of innervation of individual thalamic nuclei, and that these early-generated neurons also establish early projections to commissural and subcortical targets.
In a one-year longitudinal study, emotional/behavioural correlates and predictors of four common pain complaints (headaches, stomach, back and limb pain), were examined in a representative school sample of 2360 adolescents aged 12- to 15-years. At first assessment, 18.3% reported being bothered by a frequent pain (at least once a week) and 40% of the pain sufferers had two or more pain locations, more commonly reported by girls. Subjects having any of the four frequent pains reported having fewer friends and were more often absent from school. Frequency and number of reported pains among adolescents were positively related to levels of internalising and externalising problems. These latter problems were consistently and significantly higher among adolescents with frequent back and limb pains, however, when coexistence of another frequent pain was controlled, differences were small. Number of pains at the one-year follow-up was significantly predicted by frequent back pain and headache, depressive symptoms scores, somatic complaints (other than pain), number of friends and reduced leisure time activities during the follow-up period. Frequent back pain and depressive symptoms also predicted multiple frequent pains (vs single frequent pain) at the follow-up as did recent parental divorce. It is concluded that various emotional and behavioural problems, and which are commonly regarded as being specifically related to pain type or location among adolescents, depend rather on frequency and coexistence of multiple frequent pains. Assessment of adolescents with frequent and multiple pains should, therefore, include broad screening of internalising as well as externalising problems as well as various aspects of impairment.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory and degenerative disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that causes white matter and cortical lesions over many years. The CNS is selectively affected by the disease with a great variety of symptoms between patients. In this study, we describe the impact on various aspects of cognition over an 8-year follow-up period in 31 consecutive MS patients subgrouped as relapsing remitting (RR) MS, secondary progressive (SP) MS, and primary progressive (PP) MS. Results showed a differential pattern of cognitive decline already at baseline in speed of information processing. During the follow-up, a pronounced decline occurred in speed of information processing, finger-motor speed, copying geometrical designs, episodic memory, and visuospatial short-term memory. A striking difference was observed between a marked decline in visual reaction time, whereas no significant change was seen in auditory reaction time. In contrast, there was no time-related decline in verbal abilities. However, an initial marked cognitive impairment predicted further cognitive decline over the 8-year follow-up. Information-processing tests were found to be an especially strong predictor of long-term cognitive decline. In addition, high EDSS score at follow-up was associated with decline in information processes. Results also showed that SP-MS patients deteriorated significantly more than the other two groups, particularly in visual compared to auditory information processing. To conclude, cognitive decline appeared particularly in SP-MS patients and in visual information processing.

We studied the impact of various motor and nonmotor symptoms upon quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The study comprised 110 patients with PD (age: 68.6 years, course of the disease: 7.6 years). The Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS; I-IV) and Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39) were recorded. We recorded the correlations between years of disease and UPDRS IV, as well as PDQ-39 and UPDRS I, II, III and IV. Introduction of all variables into a linear regression model showed that 3 variables accounted for 51% of the variance in PDQ-39. Mental condition, gait disorders and complications of dopaminergic drugs are the variables that most affect the quality of life of patients with PD.
Monozygotic male twins, carrying the same number of trinucleotide repeats in the IT 15 Huntington disease (HD) gene, showed a different clinical course. Patient 1 presented with anxiety and chorea at the age of 40. Patient 2 showed persecution paranoia and motor impersistence at the age of 42. Both patients were monitored for 30 months using currently recommended motor and behaviour scales. No differences were observed in motor scoring besides small interevaluation fluctuations. However, on the cognitive and behaviour scales, patient 1 showed a significant worsening when compared with patient 2. Our cases support the belief that the motor symptoms and signs in HD are highly dependent on the trinucleotide expansion. However, the differences in the evolution of mental status in our patients suggest that other still unknown environmental factors are important in the phenotypic expression of Huntington's disease.
To date, only a few studies have examined whether executive dysfunctions in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are state or trait dependent and almost none of these studies have used functional neuroimaging techniques. We conducted a functional MRI study before and after 12 weeks of pharmacological treatment in 14 psychotropic-free patients with OCD without comorbidity. Subjects performed a spatial variant of a working memory task with four increasing levels of difficulty (n-back task). Responders and non-responders did not differ in clinical and demographical characteristics or brain activation patterns before treatment. Performance improved only in responders and was associated with a change in the overall pattern of brain activity during the task. We found no correlations between (changes in) scores on symptom scales, brain activity and performance. Our preliminary findings suggests that spatial working memory deficits in OCD and their functional anatomical correlates, as assessed with a spatial n-back task, are, at least to some extent, state dependent.

The effect of intracerebroventricular infusion of galanin and/or the galanin antagonist M35 was studied in the forced swim test. Animals were pre-exposed to water for 15 min 24 h prior to test. Immobility and climbing were assessed during the second, 5 min exposure to water. Rats receiving a single infusion of galanin (3 nmol) displayed a significant increase of immobility. This effect was blocked by co-administration of M35 (1 nmol). M35 alone (1 nmol) produced a significant decrease of immobility. The results further support the hypothesis that galanin may play a role in mood disorders, and that galanin antagonists may represent new candidates for antidepressant treatment.

Peak grip aperture has often been used to quantify the influence of illusions on judgments of size for action. However, a larger peak grip aperture need not mean that the object looks larger. It could also mean that it was grasped more carefully. These two possibilities can be distinguished on the basis of the velocity of grip closure just before contact. We let people grasp a bar that was placed on the shaft of a Mller-Lyer figure. The Mller-Lyer figure influenced the peak grip aperture. It did not influence the velocity of grip closure in the way that one would expect if size were mis-perceived. Thus there is no reason to assume that the perceived size guides the way that we reach and grasp an object.
The aim of this study was to examine the functional organization of the spinal neuronal networks activated by myelinated afferent fibers in the posterior articular nerve (PAN) of the anesthetized cat. Particular attention was given to the tonic and phasic GABAa inhibitory modulation of these networks. Changes in the synaptic effectiveness of the joint afferents were inferred from changes in the intraspinal focal potentials produced by electrical stimulation of the PAN. We found that conditioning stimulation of cutaneous nerves (sural, superficial peroneus and saphenous) and of the nucleus raphe magnus often inhibited, in a differential manner, the early and late components of the intraspinal focal potentials produced by stimulation of low and high threshold myelinated PAN afferents, respectively. The degree of the inhibition depended on the strength of both the conditioning and test stimuli and on the segmental level of recording. Conditioning stimulation of group I muscle afferents was less effective, but marked depression of the early and late focal potentials was produced by stimuli exceeding 5 xT. The i.v. injection of 1-2.5 mg/kg of picrotoxin, a GABAa blocker, had relatively minor effects on the early components of the PAN focal potentials, but was able to induce a significant increase of the late components. It also reduced the inhibitory effects of cutaneous and joint nerve conditioning on PAN focal responses. Conditioning autogenetic stimulation with high-frequency trains depressed the PAN focal potentials. The late components of the PAN responses remained depressed several minutes after discontinuing the conditioning train, even after picrotoxin administration. The present observations indicate that the neuronal networks activated by the low threshold PAN afferents show a relatively small post-activation depression and appear to be subjected to a minor tonic inhibitory GABAa control. In contrast, the pathways activated by stimulation of high threshold myelinated afferents have a strong post-activation depression and are subjected to a significant tonic GABAergic modulation. These contrasting features, together with the phasic differential GABAergic inhibition of the responses produced by stimulation of the different populations of joint afferents, may contribute to the preservation of the original information on joint position transmitted by large diameter joint afferents, in contrast with the tonic presynaptic inhibition exerted on the fine myelinated joint afferents, which may be involved in the adjustment of compensatory reactions to inflammation.
We have examined in the anesthetized cat the threshold changes produced by sensory and supraspinal stimuli on intraspinal collaterals of single afferents from the posterior articular nerve (PAN). Forty-eight fibers were tested in the L3 segment, in or close to Clarke's column, and 70 fibers in the L6-L7 segments within the intermediate zone. Of these, 15 pairs of L3 and L6-L7 collaterals were from the same afferent. Antidromically activated fibers had conduction velocities between 23 and 74 m/s and peripheral thresholds between 1.1 and 4.7 times the threshold of the most excitable fibers (xT), most of them below 3 xT. PAN afferents were strongly depolarized by stimulation of muscle afferents and by cutaneous afferents, as well as by stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation and the midline raphe nuclei. Stimulation of muscle nerves (posterior biceps and semitendinosus, quadriceps) produced a larger PAD (primary afferent depolarization) in the L6-L7 than in the L3 terminations. Group II were more effective than group I muscle afferents. As with group I muscle afferents, the PAD elicited in PAN afferents by stimulation of muscle nerves could be inhibited by conditioning stimulation of cutaneous afferents. Stimulation of the cutaneous sural and superficial peroneal nerves increased the threshold of few terminations (i.e., produced primary afferent hyperpolarization, PAH) and reduced the threshold of many others, particularly of those tested in the L6-L7 segments. Yet, there was a substantial number of terminals where these conditioning stimuli had minor or no effects. Autogenetic stimulation of the PAN with trains of pulses increased the intraspinal threshold in 46% and reduced the threshold in 26% of fibers tested in the L6-L7 segments (no tests were made with trains of pulses on fibers ending in L3). These observations indicate that PAN afferents have a rather small autogenetic PAD, particularly if this is compared with the effects of heterogenetic stimulation. Therefore, the depression of the PAN intraspinal fields produced by autogenetic stimulation described by Rudomin et al. (Exp Brain Res DOI 10.1007/s00221-006-0600-x, 2006) may be ascribed to other mechanisms besides a GABAa PAD. It is suggested that the small or no autogenetic PAD displayed by the examined joint afferents prevents presynaptic filtering of their synaptic actions and preserves the original information generated in the periphery. This could be important for proper adjustment of limb position.
The increased prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the aged has been recognized for a long time. Within the last decades, a growing number of younger subjects and even children are prone to develop type 2 diabetes. In both groups, aged and young, the biological clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SCN) is malfunctioning as evidenced by disturbed sleep cycles and altered circadian rhythms. While elderly patients have an impaired function of the SCN due to the degeneration of neurons, we propose that in younger subjects the clock loses its &quot;feeling&quot; for internal and external rhythms caused by the modern lifestyle. Sleeping late and less coupled with constant metabolic excess alter both internal and external environmental stimuli to the brain. In response to these alterations, the rhythm of the biological clock is disrupted which may lead to the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes.

Oxidative stress has been implicated in the aging process. Previous studies have determined that mice with a targeted mutation of the p66(Shc) gene show reduced oxidative stress and extended life span. This study is the first behavioral characterization of mice carrying a deletion of p66(Shc). Four-, 11- and 24-months-old homozygous knockout and wild-type mice of the 129Sv/Ev strain underwent a battery of behavioral tests. Locomotion and exploratory activity were tested in the open-field test, emotional reactivity was assessed in the elevated plus-maze, while nociception was evaluated by means of the hot-plate test (50 degrees C). In addition, social behavior was assessed in a social interaction test. Our results indicate that pain sensitivity and emotional behavior in wild-type mice increase with age. Deletion of the p66 gene results in an increase in pain threshold and reduced emotionality, differences with wild-type subjects becoming more pronounced with age. Thus reduced oxidative stress throughout the life span is able to prevent some behavioral effects of aging, particularly in response to painful or emotionally arousing stimuli. These data are discussed in relation to recent views, indicating new and complex interactions between oxidative stress and emotional stress.
Cellular and extracellular inhibitors are thought to restrict axon growth after chronic spinal cord injury (SCI), confronting the axon with a combination of chronic astrocytosis and extracellular matrix-associated inhibitors that collectively constitute the chronic &quot;scar.&quot; To examine whether the chronically injured environment is strongly inhibitory to axonal regeneration, we grafted permissive autologous bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) into mid-cervical SCI sites of adult rats, 6 weeks post-injury without resection of the &quot;chronic scar.&quot; Additional subjects received MSCs genetically modified to express neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), providing a further local stimulus to axon growth. Anatomical analysis 3 months post-injury revealed extensive astrocytosis surrounding the lesion site, together with dense deposition of the inhibitory extracellular matrix molecule NG2. Despite this inhibitory environment, axons penetrated the lesion site through the chronic scar. Robust axonal regeneration occurred into chronic lesion cavities expressing NT-3. Notably, chronically regenerating axons preferentially associated with Schwann cell surfaces expressing both inhibitory NG2 substrates and the permissive substrates L1 and NCAM in the lesion site. Collectively, these findings indicate that inhibitory factors deposited at sites of chronic SCI do not create impenetrable boundaries and that inhibition can be balanced by local and diffusible signals to generate robust axonal growth even without resecting chronic scar tissue.
We have constructed a recombinant adenovirus expression vector carrying the human neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) receptor TrkC (tyrosine protein kinase C) gene (rAd-TrkC; 2478 bp) and confirmed the expression of the encoded TrkC in green fluorescent protein (GFP)-murine neural stem cells (NSCs) by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry. The activity of the expressed rAd-TrkC was verified in vitro by evaluating dose-related responses of NSCs to NT-3, a TrkC specific ligand. TrkC-GFP-NSCs had a significantly higher percentage of neuronal differentiation when treated with NT-3 relative to the rAd-LacZ control cells (55.2% vs. 29.8%; P&lt;0.05, chi(2) test). Thus, our rAd-TrkC vector can transfect NSCs and produce functional TrkC receptors to promote neuronal differentiation of NSCs.
Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy (PN) can be a significant problem for patients receiving chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of breast, ovarian, and lung cancer as PN can influence the quality of life and survivorship in these patients. To begin to understand the cellular changes that occur within the peripheral and central nervous system as PN develops, we intravenously infused rats with clinically relevant doses of paclitaxel. Ten days later, behavioral changes indicative of PN became evident that included mechanical allodynia, cold hyperalgesia, and deficits in ambulation/coordination. These behaviors were accompanied by increased expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3; a marker of cellular injury) in a population of large&gt;medium&gt;small diameter sensory neurons, a population of satellite cells in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and in myelinating Schwann cells in the sciatic nerve. In addition, there was an increase in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in DRG satellite cells and an increase in the number of CD68 positive activated macrophages within the DRG and peripheral nerve. Within lamina III-IV of the lumbar spinal cord, there was an increase in OX42 positive microglia. These data suggest that intravenous infusion of paclitaxel induces a peripheral neuropathy characterized by injury of neuronal and non-neuronal cells in the peripheral nervous system, macrophage activation in both the DRG and peripheral nerve, and microglial activation within the spinal cord. An understanding of the factors involved in the development and maintenance of PN may lead to mechanism based therapies that prevent/treat PN and thus improve the survival and quality of life of patients receiving chemotherapy.
Axonal regeneration is normally limited after injuries to CNS white matter. Infusion of neurotrophins has been successful in promoting regenerative growth through injured white matter but this growth generally fails to extend beyond the infusion site. These observations are consistent with a chemotropic effect of these factors on axonal growth and support the prevailing view that neurotrophin-induced axonal regeneration requires the use of gradients, i.e., gradually increasing neurotrophin levels along the target fiber tract. To examine the potential of global overexpression of neurotrophins to promote, and/or modify the orientation of, regenerative axonal growth within white matter, we grafted nerve growth factor (NGF) responsive neurons into the corpus callosum of transgenic mice overexpressing NGF throughout the CNS under control of the promoter for glial fibrillary acidic protein. One week later, glial fibrillary acidic protein and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan immunoreactivity increased within injured white matter around the grafts. NGF levels were significantly higher in the brains of transgenic compared with non-transgenic mice and further elevated within injury sites compared with the homotypic region of the non-injured side. Although there was minimal outgrowth from neurons grafted into non-transgenic mice, extensive parallel axonal regeneration had occurred within the corpus callosum up to 1.5 mm beyond the astrogliotic scar (the site of maximum NGF expression) in transgenic mice. These results demonstrate that global overexpression of neurotrophins does not override the constraints limiting regenerative growth to parallel orientations and suggest that such factors need not be presented as positive gradients to promote axonal regeneration within white matter.
Activation of 5-HT4 receptors has been shown to improve memory processes in preclinical cognition models, suggesting potential utility of 5-HT4 agonists for the symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have shown that 5-HT4 agonists also increase the secretion of the non-amyloidogenic soluble amyloid precursor protein-alpha (sAPPalpha). In the present study, we demonstrated that a selective 5-HT4 partial agonist, RS67333, inhibited the generation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in primary cortical cultures of Tg2576 transgenic mice expressing human APP(K670N/M671L). Furthermore, treatments with RS67333 selectively increased the survival of transgenic neurons in a dose-dependent manner, which was inhibited by 5-HT4 antagonists. These and previous data collectively suggest that the 5-HT4 receptor may be an effective therapeutic target for AD, providing both symptomatic improvements and neuroprotection.
In this Paton Lecture I have tried to trace the key experiments that have developed ideas on how the brain regulates the cardiovascular system. It is a personal view and inevitably, owing to constraints on space and time, I have not been able to cover areas such as the nucleus tractus solitarius and cardiac vagal neurones, although I acknowledge that some may consider the story is incomplete without them. Starting with the crucial discovery of vasomotor nerves and 'vasomotor tone', the patterns of activity in sympathetic nerves which led to the important idea of central oscillating networks of neurones are described. I discuss how this knowledge has informed current controversies on the origin of vasomotor activity in presympathetic neurones in the ventral medulla, which identify intrinsic pacemaker activity or synaptic input from multiple oscillators as prime mechanisms. I present an emerging view that the role of other regions of the brain, in particular supramedullary sites, has been underplayed. These regions are pivotal for the non-uniform distribution of cardiac output that is unique to each reflex and behavioural state. I discuss the most recent evidence for 'central command' neurones that offers a plausible explanation for how these patterns of sympathetic activity are achieved. Finally, I stress the importance of these current ideas to the understanding of pathological changes in sympathetic activity in cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or congestive heart failure.
In Wistar rats, an increase in renal sympathetic activity is induced by activation of presympathetic neurones in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and reflexly by a mild venous haemorrhage. Both stimuli are dependent on the release of vasopressin and glutamate at spinal synapses. The significance of the supraspinal pathway and the co-operative interaction of vasopressin with an excitatory amino acid is unclear. The present study examines this in Brattleboro rats, which have a natural vasopressin gene deletion. The responses were compared with Long-Evans rats, from which Brattleboro rats are derived. All rats were anaesthetized with a mixture of urethane (650 mg kg(-1) i.v.) and chloralose (50 mg kg(-1) i.v.). Recordings were made of blood pressure, heart rate and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA). Microinjection of d,l-homocysteic acid (DLH, 0.2 m, 100 nl) at sites restricted to the PVN elicited significant increases in RSNA (P &lt; 0.001) in both strains of rats. These changes were significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.01) in Long-Evans rats by intrathecal application to the spinal cord of either a V(1a) antagonist or a glutamate antagonist (kynurenic acid), whereas in Brattleboro rats the changes were significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05) only by kynurenic acid. Removal of 1 ml of venous blood in Long-Evans rats increased RSNA by 28 +/- 4% (P &lt; 0.01), which was significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05) by prior intrathecal application of either the V(1a) antagonist or by kynurenic acid. The same test in Brattleboro rats caused a significantly greater (P &lt; 0.05) increase (63 +/- 14.7%) in RSNA which, in contrast to Long-Evans rats, was unchanged by intrathecal application of the V(1a) antagonist, being significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.01) only by intrathecal kynurenic acid. Thus, in Brattleboro rats, the lack of vasopressin in the brain sympathetic pathways appears to be compensated, acutely, by glutamate-releasing pathways. This might indicate that, in normal rats, vasopressin is more important in maintaining longer term adjustments to stressors.
The existence of a common mechanism for length and numerosity processing was tested with a Stroop task. Participants compared the length or the numerosity of arrays of dots, for which the two variables were manipulated independently to create congruent, incongruent, or neutral pairs. Results showed that the spatial cues strongly interfered with the processing of numerosity, whereas the numerical cues only moderately interfered with the processing of length. These findings reflect a different mandatory processing of numerosity and length.
A central feature of many formal accounts of reading aloud, and of Coltheart and colleagues dual-route cascaded model in particular, is that activation across various modules is cascaded. Evidence is reviewed that this assumption is problematic in a particular context, along with a solution that involves thresholding the output of the letter level to the nonlexical routine. Consideration of the known effects of repetition leads to the prediction of a three-way interaction between stimulus quality, repetition, and lexicality in which repetition and stimulus quality interact when reading aloud exception words, but produce additive effects when reading aloud nonwords. The result of such an experiment confirms this prediction, and appears consistent with the localized dual-route model. Implications for other accounts are briefly noted.
Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring has evolved over the last 25 years to become an important component of many types of orthopedic and neurosurgical procedures. From its foundations in VIII cranial nerve surgeries and scoliosis corrections surgeries, intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring has expanded to incorporate nearly all spine procedures and many involving the brain and brainstem. Fundamental to this growth in the use of intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring has been the development of the technology used to perform the neurophysiological tests. Advancements in electronics and computer technology have resulted in significant improvements in the capacity, ease of use, quality and reliability of the equipment as well as the quality of and control over the acquired data. These technological advancements have resulted in remarkable improvements in not only the quality and availability of intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring, but also, as a consequence, patient care, and have arguably propelled the expansion of the use that intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring has seen over the last 10 years.
This review first outlines the rationale and research base supporting the development of family interventions for schizophrenia. The over-riding principles guiding effective family interventions for schizophrenia are then presented, along with the key components (engagement, assessment, education, communication skills training and problem-solving) shared by most family programs in schizophrenia. Meta-analyses demonstrating the efficacy of family interventions in reducing relapse and rehospitalization in schizophrenia are then discussed, along with issues regarding minimal duration of effective treatment, differential benefits of single and multiple family modalities and mixed evidence for the maintenance of treatment effects after termination. The benefits of participation in family-organized, nonprofessional support and education programs are then described. Finally, three issues meriting further study are outlined.
Recent studies have demonstrated that activated microglia play an important role in dopamine (DA) neuronal degeneration in Parkinson disease (PD) by generating NADPH-oxidase (NADPHO)-derived superoxide. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie microglial activation in DA cell death are still disputed. We report here that matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) was newly induced and activated in stressed DA cells, and the active form of MMP-3 (actMMP-3) was released into the medium. The released actMMP-3, as well as catalytically active recombinant MMP-3 (cMMP-3) led to microglial activation and superoxide generation in microglia and enhanced DA cell death. cMMP-3 caused DA cell death in mesencephalic neuron-glia mixed culture of wild-type (WT) mice, but this was attenuated in the culture of NADPHO subunit null mice (gp91(phox-/-)), suggesting that NADPHO mediated the cMMP-3-induced microglial production of superoxide and DA cell death. Furthermore, in the N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-injected animal model of PD, nigrostriatal DA neuronal degeneration, microglial activation, and superoxide generation were largely attenuated in MMP-3-/- mice. These results indicate that actMMP-3 released from stressed DA neurons is responsible for microglial activation and generation of NADPHO-derived superoxide and eventually enhances nigrostriatal DA neuronal degeneration. Our results could lead to a novel therapeutic approach to PD.
There is compelling evidence that l-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) glutamate receptors containing the GluR1 subunit contribute to the molecular mechanisms associated with learning. AMPA GluR1 glutamate receptor knockout mice (KO) exhibit abnormal hippocampal and amygdala plasticity, and deficits on various assays for cognition including Pavlovian fear conditioning. Here we examined associative fear learning in mice with complete absence (KO) or partial loss (heterozygous mutant, HET) of GluR1 on multiple fear conditioning paradigms. After multi-trial delay or trace conditioning, KO displayed impaired tone and context fear recall relative to WT, whereas HET were normal. After one-trial delay conditioning, both KO and HET showed impaired tone and context recall. HET and KO showed normal nociceptive sensitivity in the hot plate and tail flick tests. These data demonstrate that the complete absence of GluR1 subunit-containing receptors prevents the formation of associative fear memories, while GluR1 haploinsufficiency is sufficient to impair one-trial fear learning. These findings support growing evidence of a major role for GluR1-containing AMPA receptors in amygdala-mediated forms of learning and memory.
Mice are a nocturnal species, whose social behaviors occur primarily during the dark phase of the circadian cycle. However, laboratory rodents are frequently tested during their light phase, for practical reasons. We investigated the question of whether light phase testing presents a methodological pitfall for investigating mouse social approach behaviors. Three lines of mice were systematically compared. One cohort of each line was raised in a conventional lighting schedule and tested during the light phase, under white light illumination; another cohort was raised in a reverse lighting schedule and tested during their dark phase, under dim red light. Male C57BL/6J (B6) displayed high levels of sociability in our three-chambered automated social approach task when tested in either phase. BTBR T+ tf/J (BTBR) displayed low levels of sociability in either phase. Five cohorts of vasopressin receptor subtype 1b (Avpr1b) null mutants, heterozygotes, and wildtype littermate controls were tested in the same social approach paradigm: three in the dark phase and two in the light phase. All three genotypes displayed normal sociability in four out of the five replications. In the juvenile play test, testing phase had no effect on play soliciting behaviors in Avpr1b mice, but had modest effects on nose sniff and huddling. Taken together, these findings indicate that testing phase is not a crucial factor for studying some forms of social approach in juvenile and adult mice.
The hippocampus, one of the most vulnerable regions in the brain, has been implicated in learning and memory formation. However, impairment of hippocampal function is observed during normal aging and neurodegenerative processes. Current evidence suggests that mitochondria and NO participate prominently in cellular signaling in the hippocampus integrating physiologic and toxic pathways. Although all isoforms of nitric oxide synthase are expressed in hippocampal cells, the production of NO in the dependency of glutamate receptors is primarily involved in hippocampal physiopathology. Taking into consideration that the biological impact of NO remains largely qualitative, this review discusses generally the regulation of glutamate-dependent NO production in hippocampus with implications in synaptic plasticity and explores mechanisms by which NO and mitochondria coordinate physiologic and toxic pathways, in particular the excitotoxic NO-mitochondrial connection, the excitotoxic-dependent DNA damage and the mitochondrial biogenesis and trafficking.
As the average lifespan in Western countries continues to expand, health care for the aged has become an increasingly important research focus. While clinicians and vertebrate researchers have frequently concentrated on specific age-related diseases, particularly neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases, researchers working with invertebrate genetic model systems have gained important insights into global mechanisms of lifespan determination. Still others have employed biochemical and molecular approaches to elucidate processes contributing to common diseases of the elderly, such as cancer and diabetes. In between the broad focus on organismal aging and the more narrow focus on cellular dysfunction is the study of aging at the level of individual organ function. This review will attempt to highlight recent advances in the area of age-related deterioration of organ function provided by the use of transgenic model organisms, with a view toward incorporating these observations into a framework provided by both broader theories of the aging process and studies of cellular function during aging.
Theoretical studies have shown that memories last longer if the neural representations are sparse, that is, when each neuron is selective for a small fraction of the events creating the memories. Sparseness reduces both the interference between stored memories and the number of synaptic modifications which are necessary for memory storage. Paradoxically, in cortical areas like the inferotemporal cortex, where presumably memory lifetimes are longer than in the medial temporal lobe, neural representations are less sparse. We resolve this paradox by analyzing the effects of sparseness on complex models of synaptic dynamics in which there are metaplastic states with different degrees of plasticity. For these models, memory retention in a large number of synapses across multiple neurons is significantly more efficient in case of many metaplastic states, that is, for an elevated degree of complexity. In other words, larger brain regions allow to retain memories for significantly longer times only if the synaptic complexity increases with the total number of synapses. However, the initial memory trace, the one experienced immediately after memory storage, becomes weaker both when the number of metaplastic states increases and when the neural representations become sparser. Such a memory trace must be above a given threshold in order to permit every single neuron to retrieve the information stored in its synapses. As a consequence, if the initial memory trace is reduced because of the increased synaptic complexity, then the neural representations must be less sparse. We conclude that long memory lifetimes allowed by a larger number of synapses require more complex synapses, and hence, less sparse representations, which is what is observed in the brain.
Humans can be instructed verbally to perform computationally complex cognitive tasks; their performance then improves relatively slowly over the course of practice. Many skills underlie these abilities; in this paper, we focus on the particular question of a uniform architecture for the instantiation of habitual performance and the storage, recall, and execution of simple rules. Our account builds on models of gated working memory, and involves a bilinear architecture for representing conditional input-output maps and for matching rules to the state of the input and working memory. We demonstrate the performance of our model on two paradigmatic tasks used to investigate prefrontal and basal ganglia function.
Human perception of faces is widely believed to rely on automatic processing by a domain-specific, modular component of the visual system. Scalp-recorded event-related potential (ERP) recordings indicate that faces receive special stimulus processing at around 170 ms poststimulus onset, in that faces evoke an enhanced occipital negative wave, known as the N170, relative to the activity elicited by other visual objects. As predicted by modular accounts of face processing, this early face-specific N170 enhancement has been reported to be largely immune to the influence of endogenous processes such as task strategy or attention. However, most studies examining the influence of attention on face processing have focused on non-spatial attention, such as object-based attention, which tend to have longer-latency effects. In contrast, numerous studies have demonstrated that visual spatial attention can modulate the processing of visual stimuli as early as 80 ms poststimulus - substantially earlier than the N170. These temporal characteristics raise the question of whether this initial face-specific processing is immune to the influence of spatial attention. This question was addressed in a dual-visual-stream ERP study in which the influence of spatial attention on the face-specific N170 could be directly examined. As expected, early visual sensory responses to all stimuli presented in an attended location were larger than responses evoked by those same stimuli when presented in an unattended location. More importantly, a significant face-specific N170 effect was elicited by faces that appeared in an attended location, but not in an unattended one. In summary, early face-specific processing is not automatic, but rather, like other objects, strongly depends on endogenous factors such as the allocation of spatial attention. Moreover, these findings underscore the extensive influence that top-down attention exercises over the processing of visual stimuli, including those of high natural salience.
Fluid reasoning, or the capacity to think logically and solve novel problems, is central to the development of human cognition, but little is known about the underlying neural changes. During the acquisition of event-related fMRI data, children aged 6-13 (N = 16) and young adults (N = 17) performed a task in which they were asked to identify semantic relationships between drawings of common objects. On semantic problems, participants indicated which of five objects was most closely semantically related to a cued object. On analogy problems, participants solved a visual propositional analogy (e.g., shoe is to foot as glove is to...?) by indicating which of four objects would complete the problem; these problems required integration of two semantic relations, or relational integration. Our prior research on analogical reasoning in adults implicated left anterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) in the controlled retrieval of individual semantic relationships, and rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) in relational integration. In this study, age-related changes in the recruitment of VLPFC, temporal cortex, and other cortical regions were observed during the retrieval of individual semantic relations. In contrast, age-related changes in RLPFC function were observed during relational integration. Children aged 6-13 engage RLPFC too late in the analogy trials to influence their behavioral responses, suggesting that important changes in RLPFC function take place during adolescence.
This study examined the performance of 41 patients with focal prefrontal cortical lesions and 38 healthy controls on a task-switching procedure. Three different conditions were evaluated: single tasks without switches and two switching tasks with the currently relevant task signalled either 1500 ms (Long Cue) or 200 ms (Short Cue) before the stimulus. Patients with Superior Medial lesions showed both a general slowing of reaction time (RT) and a significantly increased switch cost as measured by RT. No other prefrontal group showed this increased reaction time switch cost. Increased error rates in the switching conditions, on the other hand, were observed in patients with Inferior Medial lesions and, to a lesser extent, ones with Superior Medial lesions. Patients with left dorsolateral lesions (9/46v) showed slower learning of the task as indicated by a high error rate early on. Several different processes are involved in task-switching and these are selectively disrupted by lesions to specific areas of the frontal lobes.
Adoptive transfer experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (AT-EAE) is an inflammatory demyelination that recapitulates in mouse spinal cord (SC) the human multiple sclerosis disease. We now analyze previously reported cDNA array data from age-matched young female adult control and passively myelin antigen-sensitized EAE mice with regard to organizational principles of the SC transcriptome in autoimmune demyelination. Although AT-EAE had a large impact on immune response genes, broader functional and chromosomal gene cohorts were neither significantly regulated nor showed significant changes in expression coordination. However, overall transcriptional control was increased in AT-EAE and the proportions of transcript abundances were perturbed within each cohort. Striking likenesses and oppositions were identified in the coordination profiles of genes related to myelination, calcium signaling, and inflammatory response in controls that were substantially altered in AT-EAE. We propose that up- or down-regulation of genes linked to those targeted by the disease could potentially compensate for the pathological transcriptomic changes.
In order to determine brain and behavioral sensitivity of nutrients that may serve as inductive signals during early development, we altered choline availability to rats during 7 time frames spanning embryonic day (ED) 6 through postnatal day (PD) 75 and examined spatial memory ability in the perinatally-treated adults. Two sensitive periods were identified, ED 12-17 and PD 16-30, during which choline supplementation facilitated spatial memory and produced increases in dendritic spine density in CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG) regions of the hippocampus while also changing the dendritic fields of DG granule cells. Moreover, choline supplementation during ED 12-17 only, prevented the memory decline normally observed in aged rats. These behavioral changes were strongly correlated with the acetylcholine (ACh) content of hippocampal slices following stimulated release. Our data demonstrate that the availability of choline during critical periods of brain development influences cognitive performance in adulthood and old age, and emphasize the importance of perinatal nutrition for successful cognitive aging.
Extended training can induce a shift in behavioral control from goal-directed actions, which are governed by action-outcome contingencies and sensitive to changes in the expected value of the outcome, to habits which are less dependent on action-outcome relations and insensitive to changes in outcome value. Previous studies in rats have shown that interval schedules of reinforcement favor habit formation while ratio schedules favor goal-directed behavior. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying habit formation are not well understood. Endocannabinoids, which can function as retrograde messengers acting through presynaptic CB1 receptors, are highly expressed in the dorsolateral striatum, a key region involved in habit formation. Using a reversible devaluation paradigm, we confirmed that in mice random interval schedules also favor habit formation compared with random ratio schedules. We also found that training with interval schedules resulted in a preference for exploration of a novel lever, whereas training with ratio schedules resulted in less generalization and more exploitation of the reinforced lever. Furthermore, mice carrying either a heterozygous or a homozygous null mutation of the cannabinoid receptor type I (CB1) showed reduced habit formation and enhanced exploitation. The impaired habit formation in CB1 mutant mice cannot be attributed to chronic developmental or behavioral abnormalities because pharmacological blockade of CB1 receptors specifically during training also impairs habit formation. Taken together our data suggest that endocannabinoid signaling is critical for habit formation.
Thalamocortical communication is a dynamic process influenced by both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms. In this study, we recorded single-unit responses from cortical neurons that received direct input from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to address the question of whether prior patterns of cortical activity affect the ability of LGN inputs to drive cortical responses. By examining the ongoing activity that preceded the arrival of electrically evoked spikes from the LGN, we identified a number of activity patterns that were predictive of suprathreshold communication. Namely, cortical neurons were more likely to respond to LGN stimulation when their activity levels increased to 30-40Hz and/or their activity displayed rhythmic patterns (30 ms intervals) with increased power in the gamma frequency band. Cortical neurons were also more likely to respond to LGN stimulation when their activity increased 30-40 ms prior to stimulation, suggesting that the phase of gamma activity also contributes to geniculocortical communication. Based on these results, we conclude that ongoing activity in the cortex is not random, but rather organized in a manner that can influence the dynamics of thalamocortical communication.
A recombinant rabies virus was used as a retrograde tracer to allow complete filling of the axonal and dendritic arbors of identified projection neurons in layer 5 of mouse primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in vivo. Previous studies have distinguished three types of layer 5 pyramids in S1: tall-tufted, tall-simple, and short. Layer 5 pyramidal neurons were retrogradely labeled from several known targets: contralateral S1, superior colliculus, and thalamus. The complete dendritic arbors of labeled cells were reconstructed to allow for unambiguous classification of cell type. We confirmed that the tall-tufted pyramids project to the superior colliculus and thalamus and that short layer 5 pyramidal neurons project to contralateral cortex, as previously described. We found that tall-simple pyramidal neurons contribute to corticocortical connections. Axonal reconstructions show that corticocortical projection neurons have a large superficial axonal arborization locally, while the subcortically projecting neurons limit axonal arbors to the deep layers. Furthermore, reconstructions of local axons suggest that tall-simple cell axons have extensive lateral spread while those of the short pyramids are more columnar. These differences were revealed by the ability to completely label dendritic and axonal arbors in vivo and have not been apparent in previous studies using labeling in brain slices.
In the central nervous system, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-20 has been reported to act preferentially on midbrain dopaminergic neurons. It also promotes the dopaminergic differentiation of stem cells. We have analyzed the effects of FGF-20 on human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) differentiation into dopaminergic neurons. We induced neuronal differentiation of hESCs by co-culturing those with PA6 mouse stromal cells for 3 weeks. When we supplemented the culture medium with FGF-20, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing neurons increased fivefold, from 3% to 15% of the hESC-derived cells. The cultured cells also expressed other midbrain dopaminergic markers (PITX3, En1, Msx1, and Aldh1), suggesting that some had differentiated into midbrain dopaminergic neurons. We observed no effect of FGF-20 on the size of the soma area or neurite length of the TH-immunopositive neurons. Regardless of whether FGF-20 had been added or not, 17% of the hESC-derived cells expressed the pan-neuronal marker b-III-Tubulin. The proportion of proliferating cells positive for Ki-67 was also not affected by FGF-20 (7% of the hESC-derived cells). By contrast, after 3 weeks in culture FGF-20 significantly reduced the proportion of cells undergoing cell death, as revealed by immunoreactivity for cleaved caspase-8, Bcl-2 associated X protein (BAX) and cleaved caspase-3 (2.5% to 1.2% of cleaved caspase-3-positive cells out of the hESC-derived cells). Taken together, our results indicate that FGF-20 specifically increases the yield of dopaminergic neurons from hESCs grown on PA6 feeder cells and at least part of this effect is due to a reduction in cell death.
A new interactive visualization tool is proposed for mining text data from various fields of neuroscience. Applications to several text datasets are presented to demonstrate the capability of the proposed interactive tool to visualize complex relationships between pairs of lexical entities (with some semantic contents) such as terms, keywords, posters, or papers' abstracts. Implemented as a Java applet, this tool is based on the spherical embedding (SE) algorithm, which was designed for the visualization of bipartite graphs. Items such as words and documents are linked on the basis of occurrence relationships, which can be represented in a bipartite graph. These items are visualized by embedding the vertices of the bipartite graph on spheres in a three-dimensional (3-D) space. The main advantage of the proposed visualization tool is that 3-D layouts can convey more information than planar or linear displays of items or graphs. Different kinds of information extracted from texts, such as keywords, indexing terms, or topics are visualized, allowing interactive browsing of various fields of research featured by keywords, topics, or research teams. A typical use of the 3D-SE viewer is quick browsing of topics displayed on a sphere, then selecting one or several item(s) displays links to related terms on another sphere representing, e.g., documents or abstracts, and provides direct online access to the document source in a database, such as the Visiome Platform or the SfN Annual Meeting. Developed as a Java applet, it operates as a tool on top of existing resources.
This article introduces a desktop application, named Concierge, for managing personal digital research resources. Using simple operations, it enables storage of various types of files and indexes them based on content descriptions. A key feature of the software is a high level of extensibility. By installing optional plug-ins, users can customize and extend the usability of the software based on their needs. In this paper, we also introduce a few optional plug-ins: literature management, electronic laboratory notebook, and XooNlps client plug-ins. XooNIps is a content management system developed to share digital research resources among neuroscience communities. It has been adopted as the standard database system in Japanese neuroinformatics projects. Concierge, therefore, offers comprehensive support from management of personal digital research resources to their sharing in open-access neuroinformatics databases such as XooNIps. This interaction between personal and open-access neuroinformatics databases is expected to enhance the dissemination of digital research resources. Concierge is developed as an open source project; Mac OS X and Windows XP versions have been released at the official site (http://concierge.sourceforge.jp).
Tomographic neuroimaging techniques allow visualization of functionally and structurally specific signals in the mouse and rat brain. The interpretation of the image data relies on accurate determination of anatomical location, which is frequently obstructed by the lack of structural information in the data sets. Positron emission tomography (PET) generally yields images with low spatial resolution and little structural contrast, and many experimental magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) paradigms give specific signal enhancements but often limited anatomical information. Side-by-side comparison of image data with conventional atlas diagram is hampered by the 2-D format of the atlases, and by the lack of an analytical environment for accumulation of data and integrative analyses. We here present a method for reconstructing 3-D atlases from digital 2-D atlas diagrams, and exemplify 3-D atlas-based analysis of PET and MRI data. The reconstruction procedure is based on two seminal mouse and brain atlases, but is applicable to any stereotaxic atlas. Currently, 30 mouse brain structures and 60 rat brain structures have been reconstructed. To exploit the 3-D atlas models, we have developed a multi-platform atlas tool (available via The Rodent Workbench, http://rbwb.org) which allows combined visualization of experimental image data within the 3-D atlas space together with 3-D viewing and user-defined slicing of selected atlas structures. The tool presented facilitates assignment of location and comparative analysis of signal location in tomographic images with low structural contrast.
Recent applications of network theory to brain networks as well as the expanding empirical databases of brain architecture spawn an interest in novel techniques for analyzing connectivity patterns in the brain. Treating individual brain structures as nodes in a directed graph model permits the application of graph theoretical concepts to the analysis of these structures within their large-scale connectivity networks. In this paper, we explore the application of concepts from graph and game theory toward this end. Specifically, we utilize the Shapley value principle, which assigns a rank to players in a coalition based upon their individual contributions to the collective profit of that coalition, to assess the contributions of individual brain structures to the graph derived from the global connectivity network. We report Shapley values for variations of a prefrontal network, as well as for a visual cortical network, which had both been extensively investigated previously. This analysis highlights particular nodes as strong or weak contributors to global connectivity. To understand the nature of their contribution, we compare the Shapley values obtained from these networks and appropriate controls to other previously described nodal measures of structural connectivity. We find a strong correlation between Shapley values and both betweenness centrality and connection density. Moreover, a stepwise multiple linear regression analysis indicates that approximately 79% of the variance in Shapley values obtained from random networks can be explained by betweenness centrality alone. Finally, we investigate the effects of local lesions on the Shapley ratings, showing that the present networks have an immense structural resistance to degradation. We discuss our results highlighting the use of such measures for characterizing the organization and functional role of brain networks.
For over 100 years the link between synaesthesia and the arts has attracted controversy. This has been spurred by the production of auditory, literary and visual art by famous individuals who report experiences synonymous with the neurological condition. Impressive protagonists in this discussion include Arthur Rimbaud, Charles Baudelaire, Vasily Kandinsky, Vladimir Nabokov, Alexander Scriabin, Olivier Messiaen and David Hockney. Interdisciplinary debates have concerned whether synaesthesia can actively contribute to an artist's ability, whether it is a driving force or a mere idiosyncratic quirk and whether, fundamentally, it is a distinct idiopathic condition or an unusual metaphorical description of normal perception. Recent psychological and neuroscientific evidence offers a new level to the debate. Coherent patterns of a neural basis of synaesthesia have been confirmed with high spatial resolution brain imaging techniques and the link with the arts is transpiring to be more than superficial or coincidental. Moreover, the neural distinction of the synaesthete brain may prove to be a window into a neural basis of creative cognition, and therefore conducive to the expression of creativity in various media.
At 45 years of age, Charles Baudelaire suffered a left hemispheric stroke that left him with a right hemiplegia and severe aphasia. In this chapter, we investigate the nature of his symptoms, drawing mostly on his own and his contemporaries' correspondence. Before specifically examining his aphasia, we put the poet's life, work, and health in context, notably his tormented mind, his probable syphilitic infection and the intellectual milieu of 19th century France. The time when Baudelaire was struck with aphasia coincides with early discoveries and debates that centered on the nature and implications of this neurological disorder. Many of the questions raised at that time still await definitive answers. Here, we compare Baudelaire's language disorder with recent research that has shed new light on the poet's disease. Most interestingly, we explore the nature of his dramatic use of the expletive Cr nom!, which was the only word he was able to express. Finally, we discuss the links between disease and creativity and dismiss the frequent notion that Baudelaire, in the end, paid the price of his genius.
The acclaimed Italian directors Luchino Visconti and Federico Fellini had very different life trajectories that led them to become major figures in the history of cinema. Similarities, however, can be found in their debuts with the neorealist genre, their personalities, creative styles and politicocultural involvement, and ultimately in the neurological disease that struck them at the end of their careers. Both suffered a right-hemispheric stroke that left them hemiplegic on the left side. We review their life and career to put that event into perspective, and then discuss its aftermath for both artists in the light of our current knowledge of right-hemispheric functions. Visconti showed a tremendous resilience following the accident and managed to direct several films and plays as an infirm, whereas Fellini had to put an end to his career but still was able to display his talents to the neuropsychologists that treated him. A speculative account is given of the links between right-hemispheric symptomatology and the premorbid personality of these highly prolific patients.
Human bodily experience is characterized by the immediate feeling that our body is localized at a certain position in space and that the self is localized within these body borders (embodiment). Recent research from cognitive neuroscience and neurology suggests that embodiment is of major importance for neuroscientific models of self and self-consciousness. This is suggested by illusory own body perceptions (such as autoscopic hallucinations, heautoscopy, and out-of-body experiences) during which the self may be experienced as being localized outside one's body borders. I have previously argued that self-portraiture may rely on similar brain mechanisms and have proposed a classification of self-portraiture based on neurological classifications of illusory own body perceptions. Here I extend this model focussing on three types of self-portraits: visual self-portraits, disembodied self-portraits, and corporeal self-portraits. This is followed by a discussion of visuospatial, linguistic, and mnestic mechanisms in self-portraiture that are examined in selected painters.
Here, we and others describe an unusual neurorobotic project, a merging of art and science called MEART, the semi-living artist. We built a pneumatically actuated robotic arm to create drawings, as controlled by a living network of neurons from rat cortex grown on a multi-electrode array (MEA). Such embodied cultured networks formed a real-time closed-loop system which could now behave and receive electrical stimulation as feedback on its behavior. We used MEART and simulated embodiments, or animats, to study the network mechanisms that produce adaptive, goal-directed behavior. This approach to neural interfacing will help instruct the design of other hybrid neural-robotic systems we call hybrots. The interfacing technologies and algorithms developed have potential applications in responsive deep brain stimulation systems and for motor prosthetics using sensory components. In a broader context, MEART educates the public about neuroscience, neural interfaces, and robotics. It has paved the way for critical discussions on the future of bio-art and of biotechnology.
Traditional research in artificial intelligence and machine learning has viewed the brain as a specially adapted information-processing system. More recently the field of social robotics has been advanced to capture the important dynamics of human cognition and interaction. An overarching societal goal of this research is to incorporate the resultant knowledge about intelligence into technology for prosthetic, assistive, security, and decision support applications. However, despite many decades of investment in learning and classification systems, this paradigm has yet to yield truly &quot;intelligent&quot; systems. For this reason, many investigators are now attempting to incorporate more realistic neuromorphic properties into machine learning systems, encouraged by over two decades of neuroscience research that has provided parameters that characterize the brain's interdependent genomic, proteomic, metabolomic, anatomic, and electrophysiological networks. Given the complexity of neural systems, developing tenable models to capture the essence of natural intelligence for real-time application requires that we discriminate features underlying information processing and intrinsic motivation from those reflecting biological constraints (such as maintaining structural integrity and transporting metabolic products). We propose herein a conceptual framework and an iterative method of virtual neurorobotics (VNR) intended to rapidly forward-engineer and test progressively more complex putative neuromorphic brain prototypes for their ability to support intrinsically intelligent, intentional interaction with humans. The VNR system is based on the viewpoint that a truly intelligent system must be driven by emotion rather than programmed tasking, incorporating intrinsic motivation and intentionality. We report pilot results of a closed-loop, real-time interactive VNR system with a spiking neural brain, and provide a video demonstration as online supplemental material.
In 1976 Julian Jaynes published his controversial book The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind, introducing the hypothesis of a two-chambered brain-mind model that preceded the evolutionary development of the conscious mind. Jaynes' speculative model gave rise to a huge debate, which has reverberated throughout the current neuroscientific and neurophilosophical literature. Has the bicameral mind stood the test of time? To answer this question, the present paper adopts a multidisciplinary perspective and, after briefly summarizing Jaynes' hypothesis, addresses two main critical issues: the neurological basis of the bicameral model and the philological accuracy of Jaynes' arguments. Finally, the concept of a non-unitary Self is presented as one of the most relevant contemporary legacies of the bicameral mind.
Different types of integrated management programmes have lately been introduced in the treatment of Whiplash Associated Disorders (WAD). In this study regular primary care physiotherapy and physiotherapy management with integrated components of cognitive-behavioural origin was compared in an experimental group study. The predictive value of self-efficacy was also addressed. In all thirty-three patients with chronic WAD were included in the trial. Results revealed no significant differences between groups in self-ratings of disability or pain intensity. However, among the self-reported benefits of treatment, patients in the experimental group reported significantly less pain than did the comparison group. At three months follow-up the experimental group also reported better performance of daily activities. Between group differences in the coping repertoire were found at pre-, post-and three-month follow-up. Generally, patients with high self-efficacy reported less use of 'maladaptive' and passive coping style than less self-efficient subjects at all times. In conclusion cognitive behavioural components can be useful in physiotherapy treatment for patients with chronic WAD, but their contributions are not yet fully understood. Self-efficacy is related to patients' use of different coping styles. Positive long-term outcomes in WAD-patients could therefore be improved by boosting self-efficacy and by teaching patients to use active, adaptive coping strategies.


In songbirds, three isoforms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) have been reported: chicken GnRH-I (GnRH-I); and -II (GnRH-II); and lamprey GnRH-III (lGnRH-III). In galliformes, the distribution of GnRH-I and -II have been extensively studied. GnRH-I cell bodies are located primarily in the preoptic-septal region and primarily project to the median eminence. GnRH-II cell bodies are located in the midbrain and project to various hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic regions. In songbirds, the distributions of only GnRH-I and lGnRH-III have been thoroughly described. Songbirds differ from galliformes in that they possess specialized neural regions for the learning and production of complex vocalizations, the song-control system. In songbirds lGnRH-III was found within many song nuclei. In this study, we investigated the distribution of GnRH-II in the male house sparrow (Passer domesticus) brain. Our objectives were (1) to determine the distribution of GnRH-II in the male songbird brain and (2) to investigate the presence of GnRH-II in song control nuclei. Our study identified immunoreactive magnocellular GnRH-II cell bodies in the oculomotor region of the mesencephalon and parvicellular cells in the lateral hypothalamus. Also, an extensive network of GnRH-II immunoreactive fibres was observed in hypothalamic nuclei and extrahypothalamic regions. Immunoreactive GnRH-II fibres were most abundant in the preoptic area, ventromedial nucleus, hippocampus and the medial septum. Sparse immunoreactivity was also observed in the mesencephalon and diencephalon. GnRH-II was not identified in any of the song-control nuclei. Unlike lGnRH-III, these data suggest that GnRH-II is not directly involved with song learning, perception or production.
An RNA gain-of-function of expanded transcripts is the most accredited molecular mechanism for myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) and 2 (DM2). To disclose molecular parallels and divergences in pathogenesis of both disorders, we compared the expression profile of muscle biopsies from DM1 and DM2 patients to controls. DM muscle tissues showed a reduction in the major skeletal muscle chloride channel (CLCN1) and transcription factor Sp1 transcript levels and an abnormal processing of the CLCN1 and insulin receptor (IR) pre-mRNAs. No essential differences were observed in the muscle blind-like gene (MBNL1) and CUG binding protein 1 (CUGBP1) transcript levels as well as in the splicing pattern of the myotubularin-related 1 (MTMR1) gene. Macroarray analysis of 96 neuroscience-related genes revealed a considerable similar expression profile between the DM samples, reflective of a common muscle pathology origin. Using a twofold threshold, we found six misregulated genes important in calcium and potassium metabolism and in mitochondrial functions. Our results indicate that the DM1 and DM2 overlapping clinical phenotypes may derive from a common trans acting mechanism that traps and influences shared genes and proteins. An RNA gain-of-function of expanded transcripts is the most accredited molecular mechanism for myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) and 2 (DM2). To disclose molecular parallels and divergences in pathogenesis of both disorders, we compared the expression profile of muscle biopsies from DM1 and DM2 patients to controls. DM muscle tissues showed a reduction in the major skeletal muscle chloride channel (CLCN1) and transcription factor Sp1 transcript levels and an abnormal processing of the CLCN1 and insulin receptor (IR) pre-mRNAs. No essential differences were observed in the muscle blind-like gene (MBNL1) and CUG binding protein 1 (CUGBP1) transcript levels as well as in the splicing pattern of the myotubularin-related 1 (MTMR1) gene. Macroarray analysis of 96 neuroscience-related genes revealed a considerable similar expression profile between the DM samples, reflective of a common muscle pathology origin. Using a twofold threshold, we found six misregulated genes important in calcium and potassium metabolism and in mitochondrial functions. Our results indicate that the DM1 and DM2 overlapping clinical phenotypes may derive from a common trans acting mechanism that traps and influences shared genes and proteins.
Although the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on the incidence of the neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's disease is controversial, experimental studies indicate that estrogen replacement to young adult animals is neuroprotective and that perimenopausal estrogen replacement is associated with a decreased incidence of Alzheimer's disease. Estrogen affects a wide variety of cellular processes that can protect neuronal health. This article considers the disruption of the blood-brain barrier in Alzheimer's disease and forwards the hypothesis that estrogen may preserve neural health by maintaining the integrity of the blood-brain barrier.
The 22q11 Deletion Syndrome (22q11DS, also known as DiGeorge or Velo-Cardio-Facial Syndrome) has a variable constellation of phenotypes including life-threatening cardiac malformations, craniofacial, limb, and digit anomalies, a high incidence of learning, language, and behavioral disorders, and increased vulnerability for psychiatric diseases, including schizophrenia. There is still little clear understanding of how heterozygous microdeletion of approximately 30-50 genes on chromosome 22 leads to this diverse spectrum of phenotypes, especially in the brain. Three possibilities exist: 1) 22q11DS may reflect haploinsufficiency, homozygous loss of function, or heterozygous gain of function of a single gene within the deleted region; 2) 22q11DS may result from haploinsufficiency, homozygous loss of function, or heterozygous gain of function of a few genes in the deleted region acting at distinct phenotypically compromised sites; 3) 22q11DS may reflect combinatorial effects of reduced dosage of multiple genes acting in concert at all phenotypically compromised sites. Here, we consider evidence for each of these possibilities. Our review of the literature, as well as interpretation of work from our laboratory, favors the third possibility: 22q11DS reflects diminished expression of multiple 22q11 genes acting on common cellular processes during brain as well as heart, face, and limb development, and subsequently in the adolescent and adult brain.
The reticulon family is a large and diverse group of membrane-associated proteins found throughout the eukaryotic kingdom. All of its members contain a carboxy-terminal reticulon homology domain that consists of two hydrophobic regions flanking a hydrophilic loop of 60-70 amino acids, but reticulon amino-terminal domains display little or no similarity to each other. Reticulons principally localize to the endoplasmic reticulum, and there is evidence that they influence endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi trafficking, vesicle formation and membrane morphogenesis. However, mammalian reticulons have also been found on the cell surface and mammalian reticulon 4 expressed on the surface of oligodendrocytes is an inhibitor of axon growth both in culture and in vivo. There is also growing evidence that reticulons may be important in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The diversity of structure, topology, localization and expression patterns of reticulons is reflected in their multiple, diverse functions in the cell.


The completion of the Allen Brain Atlas generated a great deal of press interest and enthusiasm from the research community. What does it do, and what other complementary resources increase its functionality?
Our previously reported cDNA array datasets from neonatal wild-type and Cx43-/- (approved gene symbol Gja1) mouse brains were further analyzed to identify underlying interlinkages in the brain transcriptome. The analysis revealed that no gene cohort sharing either primary function or chromosomal location was significantly altered (up-and down-regulation were roughly balanced) in Cx43-/- brains, but each cohort exhibited significant perturbation of transcript abundance proportions and reduced expression variability and coordination. By comparing pairwise expression correlations of all genes with one another in wild-type brains, we found genes exhibiting remarkable similarity or opposition to the coordination profile (set of synergistically, antagonistically, and independently expressed partners) of Cx43, one of the most similar being pannexin1, a vertebrate homolog of invertebrate gap junction proteins. This study indicates striking redundancy of expression controls over functional pathways and suggests that certain genes may play roles similar to or opposite that of Cx43 in organizing the brain transcriptome.
While isolating morphine-dependence-related genes with differential display, we cloned a novel human gene, zinc finger CCHC-type and RNA-binding motif 1 (ZCRB1, alias MADP-1) encoding a nuclear protein (217 residues). The ZCRB1 gene consists of eight exons and seven introns. It is mapped to 12q12, which is within a locus reported for Parkinson disease (M. Funayama et al., Ann. Neurol. 51 (2002) 296-301). The 5'-flanking region contains an enhancer core motif and binding sites for AP-1, AP-2, and LF-A1. ZCRB1 is characterized by an RNA-binding motif and a CCHC zinc finger motif. The latter overlaps the C..C...GH....C core nucleocapsid motif. ZCRB1 is conserved from zebrafish to human and shares homology with cold-inducible RNA-binding protein. Transfection assay showed that ZCRB1 is located in the nucleoplasm, but outside the nucleolus. ZCRB1 gene expression was stimulated by morphine, inhibited by 30-36 degrees C, and up-regulated by 39 degrees C incubation in SH-SY5Y neural cells. Zcrb1 gene expression is highest in the heart and testes, lower in the cerebellum, and lowest in the liver in mice. ZCRB1 mRNA expression is specifically elevated in hepatocarcinoma HepG2 cells. These data provide new clues for further understanding of morphine dependence, heat shock, and hepatocarcinoma.

The earliest radial glia are neural stem cells that guide neural cell migration away from ventricular zones. Subsequently, radial glia become lineage restricted during development before they differentiate into more mature cell types in the CNS. We have previously shown that subpopulations of radial glial cells express markers for glial and neuronal restricted precursors (GRPs and NRPs) in expression patterns that are temporally and spatially regulated during CNS development. To characterize further the mechanism of this regulation in rat forebrain, we tested whether secreted factors that are present during development effect lineage restriction of radial glia. We show here that in radial glial cultures LIF/CNTF up-regulates, whereas BMP2 down-regulates GRP antigens recognized by monoclonal antibodies A2B5/4D4. These activities combined with secretion of BMPs dorsally and LIF/CNTF from the choroid plexus provide an explanation for the graded distribution pattern of A2B5/4D4 in dorso-lateral ventricular regions in vivo. The regulation by LIF/CNTF of A2B5/4D4 is mediated through the JAK-STAT pathway. BMP2 promotes expression on radial glial cells of the NRP marker polysialic acid most likely by regulating N-CAM expression itself, as well as at least one polysialyl transferase responsible for synthesis of polysialic acid on N-CAM. Taken together, these results suggest that generation of lineage-restricted precursors is coordinately regulated by gradients of the secreted factors BMPs and LIF/CNTF during development of dorsal forebrain.
Astroglia are integral components of synapse formation and maturation during development. Less is known about how astroglia might influence synaptogenesis in the mature brain. Preparation of mature hippocampal slices results in synapse loss followed by recuperative synaptogenesis during subsequent maintenance in vitro. Hence, this model system was used to discern whether perisynaptic astroglial processes are similarly plastic, associating more or less with recently formed synapses in mature brain slices. Perisynaptic astroglia was quantified through serial section electron microscopy in perfusion-fixed or sliced hippocampus from adult male Long-Evans rats that were 65-75 days old. Fewer synapses had perisynaptic astroglia in the recovered hippocampal slices (42.4% +/- 3.4%) than in the intact hippocampus (62.2% +/- 2.6%), yet synapses were larger when perisynaptic astroglia was present (0.055 +/- 0.003 microm2) than when it was absent (0.036 +/- 0.004 microm2) in both conditions. Importantly, the length of the synaptic perimeter surrounded by perisynaptic astroglia and the distance between neighboring synapses was not proportional to synapse size. Instead, larger synapses had longer astroglia-free perimeters where substances could escape from or enter into the synaptic clefts. Thus, smaller presumably newer synapses as well as established larger synapses have equal access to extracellular glutamate and secreted astroglial factors, which may facilitate recuperative synaptogenesis. These findings suggest that as synapses enlarge and release more neurotransmitter, they attract astroglial processes to a discrete portion of their perimeters, further enhancing synaptic efficacy without limiting the potential for cross talk with neighboring synapses in the mature rat hippocampus.




Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by a progressive degeneration of selective neural populations. This selective hallmark pathology and the lack of effective treatment modalities make these diseases appropriate candidates for cell therapy. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are self-renewing precursors that reside in the bone marrow and may further be exploited for autologous transplantation. Autologous transplantation of MSCs entirely circumvents the problem of immune rejection, does not cause the formation of teratomas, and raises very few ethical or political concerns. More than a few studies showed that transplantation of MSCs resulted in clinical improvement. However, the exact mechanisms responsible for the beneficial outcome have yet to be defined. Possible rationalizations include cell replacement, trophic factors delivery, and immunomodulation. Cell replacement theory is based on the idea that replacement of degenerated neural cells with alternative functioning cells induces long-lasting clinical improvement. It is reasoned that the transplanted cells survive, integrate into the endogenous neural network, and lead to functional improvement. Trophic factor delivery presents a more practical short-term approach. According to this approach, MSC effectiveness may be credited to the production of neurotrophic factors that support neuronal cell survival, induce endogenous cell proliferation, and promote nerve fiber regeneration at sites of injury. The third potential mechanism of action is supported by the recent reports claiming that neuroinflammatory mechanisms play an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, inhibiting chronic inflammatory stress might explain the beneficial effects induced by MSC transplantation. Here, we assemble evidence that supports each theory and review the latest studies that have placed MSC transplantation into the spotlight of biomedical research.
In signal transduction of metazoan cells, transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels have been identified that respond to diverse external and internal stimuli, among them osmotic and mechanical stimuli. This chapter will summarize findings on the TRPV subfamily, both its vertebrate and invertebrate members. Of the six mammalian TRPV channels, TRPV1, -V2, and -V4 were demonstrated to function in transduction of osmotic and/or mechanical stimuli. TRPV channels have been found to function in cellular as well as systemic osmotic homeostasis in vertebrates. Invertebrate TRPV channels, five in Caenorhabditis elegans and two in Drosophila, have been shown to play a role in mechanosensation, such as hearing and proprioception in Drosophila and nose touch in C. elegans, and in the response to osmotic stimuli in C. elegans. In a striking example of evolutionary conservation of function, mammalian TRPV4 has been found to rescue mechanosensory and osmosensory deficits of the TRPV mutant line osm-9 in C. elegans, despite no more than 26% orthology of the respective amino acid sequences.
The TRPA1 protein has up to 18 N-terminal and presumed cytoplasmic ankyrin repeats followed by the six membrane spanning and single pore-loop domains characteristic of all TRPs. In mice, TRPA1 is almost exclusively expressed in nociceptive neurons of peripheral ganglia and in all the mechanosensory epithelia of inner ear. In nociceptive neurons, TRPA1 mediates the response to the proalgesic bradykinin as well as the response to pungent irritants found in mustards and garlic, and probably also to those found in cinnamon and tear gas. The channel properties of TRPA1 are discussed and compared to those of sensory transducers. TRPA1 is well conserved across the animal kingdom, with likely orthologs from human to nematode, which suggest an ancestral role for this channel, probably in sensation.
2-Aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2APB) had been depicted as a universal blocker of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. While evidence has accumulated showing that some TRP channels are indeed inhibited by 2APB, especially in heterologous expression systems, there are other TRP channels that are unaffected or affected very little by this compound. More interestingly, the thermosensitive TRPV1, TRPV2, and TRPV3 channels are activated by 2APB. This has been demonstrated both in heterologous systems and in native tissues that express these channels. A number of 2APB analogs have been examined for their effects on native store-operated channels and heterologously expressed TRPV3. These studies revealed a complex mechanism of action for 2APB and its analogs on ion channels. In this review, we have summarized the current results on 2APB-induced activation of TRPV1-3 and discussed the potential mechanisms by which 2APB may regulate TRP channels.
Pharmacotherapy is most appropriate in acute pain, whereas in chronic pain states behavioral approaches or a combination of behavioral treatment and pharmacotherapy is more appropriate. In this chapter we first describe the role of learning and memory as well as other psychological factors in the development of chronic pain and emphasize that chronic pain must viewed as the result of a learning process with resulting central neuroplastic changes. We then describe operant behavioral and cognitive-behavioral treatments as well as biofeedback and relaxation techniques and present innovative treatment procedures aimed at altering central pain memories. We complete the section with a discussion of combined behavioral and pharmacological approaches and an interdisciplinary view.
The discovery of the endogenous systems of analgesia has produced a large amount of research aimed at investigating their biochemical and neurophysiological mechanisms and their neuroanatomical localization. Nevertheless, the neurobiological acquisitions on these mechanisms have not been paralleled by behavioural correlates in humans--in other words, by the understanding of when and how these endogenous mechanisms of analgesia are activated. Until recent times one of the most studied behavioural correlates of endogenous analgesia was stress-induced analgesia, in which the activation of endogenous opioid systems is known to be involved. By contrast, today the placebo analgesic effect represents one of the best-described situations in which this endogenous opioid network is naturally activated in humans. Therefore, not only is placebo research helpful towards improving clinical trial design and medical practice, but it also provides us with a better understanding of the endogenous mechanisms of analgesia.
Glutamate acts through a variety of receptors to modulate neurotransmission and neuronal excitability. Glutamate plays a critical role in neuroplasticity as well as in nervous system dysfunctions and disorders. Hyperfunction or dysfunction of glutamatergic neurotransmission also represents a key mechanism of pain-related plastic changes in the central and peripheral nervous system. This chapter will review the classification of glutamate receptors and their role in peripheral and central nociceptive processing. Evidence from preclinical pain models and clinical studies for the therapeutic value of certain glutamate receptor ligands will be discussed.

The purpose of this study was to distinguish the effects of different parameters on latencies of wave IIIe, wave Ve, and interpeak interval IIIe-Ve of electrical auditory brainstem responses (EABRs). EABRs were recorded from all the intra-cochlear electrodes in eight adult HiRes90K((R)) cochlear implant users. The relationship between latencies and stimulation sites in the cochlea was characterized to assess activity along the auditory pathway. Audiograms before implantation, psychophysics at first fitting and duration of deafness were used to describe the influence of deafness on latencies. A decreasing baso-apical latency gradient was found for waves IIIe and Ve, while the interpeak interval IIIe-Ve remained the same along the electrode array. Electrical stimulation enabling to stimulate various parts of the cochlea at the same time, this could indicate an anatomical way of compensating for the delay the acoustic wave takes to reach the cochlea apex in a non-implanted ear. However, psychophysical levels were also found to increase at the cochlear base showing that the latency gradient could result from an increasing gradient of neural degeneration toward the base. Correlations of EABR latencies with psychophysics, audiometric data and duration of deafness show that factors linked to deafness have indeed an influence on EABR latencies. The possible explanations for the latency shift observed, whether they are anatomical and/or pathological, are exposed.
Intracellular recording and computational modelling suggest that interactions of subthreshold membrane potential oscillation frequency in different dendritic branches of entorhinal cortex stellate cells could underlie the functional coding of continuous dimensions of space and time. Among other things, these interactions could underlie properties of grid cell field spacing. The relationship between experimental data on membrane potential oscillation frequency (f) and grid cell field spacing (G) indicates a constant scaling factor H = fG. This constant scaling factor between temporal oscillation frequency and spatial periodicity provides a starting constraint that is used to derive the model of Burgess et al. (Hippocampus, 2007). This model provides a consistent quantitative link between single cell physiological properties and properties of spiking units in awake behaving animals. Further properties and predictions of this model about single cell and network physiological properties are analyzed. In particular, the model makes quantitative predictions about the change in membrane potential, single cell oscillation frequency, and network oscillation frequency associated with speed of movement, about the independence of single cell properties from network theta rhythm oscillations, and about the effect of variations in initial oscillatory phase on the pattern of grid cell firing fields. These same mechanisms of subthreshold oscillations may play a more general role in memory function, by providing a method for learning arbitrary time intervals in memory sequences.
We examined synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus in vitro in juvenile C57Bl6 mice (28-40 days of age), housed in control conditions with minimal enrichment (Controls) or with access to an exercise wheel (Runners). LTP expression was significantly greater in slices from Runners than in those from Controls, but could be blocked by APV in both groups. LTP was significantly reduced by NR2B subunit antagonists in both groups. NVP-AAM077, an antagonist with a higher preference for NR2A subunits over NR2B subunits, blocked LTP in slices from Runners and produced a slight depression in Control animals. LTD in the DG was also blocked by APV, but not by either of the NR2B specific antagonists. Strikingly, NVP-AAM077 prevented LTD in Runners, but not in Control animals, suggesting an increased involvement of NR2A subunits in LTD in animals that exercise. NVP-AAM077 did not block LTD in NR2A Knock Out (KO) animals that exercised, as expected. In an attempt to discern whether NMDA receptors located at extrasynaptic sites could play a role in the induction of LTD, DL-TBOA was used to block excitatory amino acid transport and increase extracellular glutamate levels. Under these conditions, LTD was not blocked by the co-application of a specific NR2B subunit antagonist in either group, but NVP-AAM077 again blocked LTD selectively in Runners. These results indicate that NR2A and NR2B subunits play a significant role in LTP in the DG, and that exercise can significantly alter the contribution of NMDA NR2A subunits to LTD.
Genetic background influences the responsiveness to stress and plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression. In an animal model of depression, Flinders Sensitive Line rats, and Sprague Dawley controls we analyzed if 7 weeks of social isolation of adult animals affect the number of newly proliferated cells in the dentate gyrus or mRNAs of Neuropeptide Y (NPY), the NPY-Y1 receptor, nociceptin, BDNF, and the serotonin 5HT1A and 5HT2A receptors, which are molecules involved in hippocampal plasticity. Since depressive illness more frequently affects women than men, and females seem to respond differently to stressful experiences than males, female rats were used in this study. Bromodeoxyuridine, which is a thymidin analogue that is incorporated into the DNA of newly formed cells, was administered during 9 days to even out the effects of hormonal fluctuations. Social isolation increased the number of newly proliferated Bromodeoxyuridine-immunoreactive cells in the Flinders Sensitive Line rats, whereas it had no impact on the number of cells in the Sprague Dawley strain. Group housed Sprague Dawley rats had a higher expression of BDNF, NPY, and the serotonin 5HT2A receptor mRNA than &quot;depressed&quot; Flinders Sensitive Line. Social isolation downregulated these molecules in Sprague Dawley but not in Flinders Sensitive Line rats thereby eliminating the differences between the two strains. We demonstrate strain and gender specific responses to stress induced regulation of factors important for hippocampal plasticity.
Older studies suggest that astrocytes act as potassium electrodes and depolarize with the potassium efflux accompanying neuronal activity. Newer studies suggest that astrocytes depolarize in response to neuronal glutamate release and the activity of electrogenic glial glutamate transporters, thus casting doubt on the fidelity with which astrocytes might sense extracellular potassium rises. Any K(+)-induced astrocyte depolarization might reflect a spatial buffering effect of astrocytes during neuronal activity. For these reasons, we studied stimulus-evoked currents in hippocampal CA1 astrocytes. Hippocampal astrocytes exhibited stimulus-evoked transient glutamate transporter currents and slower Ba(2+)-sensitive inward rectifier potassium (K(ir)) currents. In whole-cell astrocyte recordings, Ba(2+) blocked a very weakly rectifying component of the astrocyte membrane conductance. The slow stimulus-elicited current, like measurements from K(+)-sensitive electrodes under the same conditions, predicted small bulk [K(+)](o) increases (&lt;0.5 mM) following the termination of short-stimulus trains. These currents indicate the potential for astrocyte spatial K(+) buffering. However, Ba(2+) did not significantly affect resting [K(+)](o) or the [K(+)](o) rises detected by the K(+)-sensitive electrode. To test whether local K(+) rises may be significantly higher than those detected by glial recordings or by K(+) electrodes, we assayed EPSCs and fiber volleys, two measures very sensitive to K(+) increases. We found that Ba(2+) had little effect on neuronal axonal or synaptic function during short-stimulus trains, indicating that K(ir)s do not influence local [K(+)](o) rises enough, under these conditions to affect synaptic transmission. In conclusion, our results indicate that hippocampal astrocytes are faithful sensors of [K(+)](o) rises, but we find little evidence for physiologically relevant spatial K(+) buffering during brief bursts of presynaptic activity.
The firing of place cells in the rodent hippocampus is reliable enough to infer the rodent's position to a high accuracy; however, hippocampal firing also reflects the stages of complex tasks. Theories have suggested that these task-stage responses may reflect changes in reference frame related to task-related subgoals. If the hippocampus represents an environment in multiple ways depending on a task's demands, then switching between these cell assemblies should be detectable as a switch in spatial maps or reference frames. Place cells exhibit extreme temporal variability or &quot;overdispersion,&quot; which Fenton et al. suggest reflects changes in active cell-assemblies. If reference-frame switching exists, investigating the relationship of the single cell variability described by Fenton and colleagues to network level processes provides an entry point to understanding the relationship between cell-assembly-like mechanisms and an animal's behavior. We tested the cell-assembly explanation for overdispersion by recording hippocampal neural ensembles from rats running three tasks of varying spatial complexity: linear track (LT), cylinder-foraging (CF), and cylinder-goal (CG). Consistent with the reports by Fenton and colleagues, hippocampal place cells showed high variance in their firing rates across place field passes on the CF and CG tasks. The directional firing of hippocampal place cells on LT provided a test of the reference-frame hypothesis: ignoring direction produced overdispersion similar to the CF and CG tasks; taking direction into account produced a significant decrease in overdispersion. To directly examine the possibility of a network modulation of cell-assemblies, we clustered the firing patterns within each pixel and chained them together to construct whole-environment spatial firing maps. Maps were internally self-consistent, switching with mean rates of several hundred milliseconds. There were significant increases in map-switching rates following reward-related events on the LT and CG tasks, but not on the CF task. Our results link single cell variability with network-level processes and imply that hippocampal spatial representations are made up of multiple, continuous sub-maps, the selection of which depends on the animal's goals when reward is tied to the animal's spatial behavior.
In an effort to evaluate episodic memory processes in the rat, we developed a novel Pavlovian conditioning procedure. Rats explored two distinctive contexts, one in the morning and the other in the evening. Subsequently, either in the morning or the evening, they received a foot shock immediately upon entry into a third context that equally resembled the two explored contexts. When conditioned freezing was measured at an intermediate time of day, rats showed significantly more fear of the context congruent with the time of day of the foot shock. Thus, rats automatically form an integrated time-place memory that can be flexibly updated by future events, essential characteristics of episodic memory.
The prevailing paradigm in cognitive neuroscience assumes that the brain can be best understood as consisting of modules specialised for different psychological functions. Within the field of memory, we assume modules for different kinds of memory. The most influential version of this view posits a module called the &quot;medial temporal lobe memory system&quot; which operates in the service of &quot;declarative memory.&quot; This system can be contrasted with a separate &quot;perceptual representation system&quot; in the ventral visual stream, which is critical for perceptual learning and memory, an example of nondeclarative function. Here we question this modular memory systems view and suggest that a better way to understand the ventral visual-perirhinal-hippocampal stream is as a hierarchically organised representational continuum. We suggest that in general, rather than trying to map psychological functions onto brain modules, we could benefit by instead attempting to understand the functions of brain regions in terms of the representations they contain, and the computations they perform.
A review of empirical evidence supporting the multiple memory systems view of the organization of learning and memory in the mammalian brain is presented as a powerful component of a broader foundation of basic scientific information necessary for understanding human behavior. However, it is argued that there are significant gaps in our knowledge about these different learning and memory systems, how they interact with one another, and how they interact with the rest of the brain. To demonstrate how little we know about these complex processes, this article reviews recent evidence showing the complexity of associative structure formed during the acquisition of a simple visual discrimination task. The results show that the dorsolateral striatum is necessary for the acquisition of this task but that both the amygdala and hippocampus incidentally acquire and store information during this training period. A new experiment is also presented showing that rats with complete or partial (dorsal vs. ventral) hippocampal lesions show a retrograde amnesic effect on the simple visual discrimination task despite the fact that these same lesions produce no impairment in the anterograde direction. Evidence is presented in support of one interpretation of this effect suggesting that the retrograde amnesia occurs, at least in part, because the hippocampus acquires a context-specific inhibitory association during original training. Although this representation is not required for acquisition of the task in the anterograde direction, removal of this representation has a disruptive effect on expression of the task.
The hippocampal place cells are a highly multimodal class of neurons, receiving information from many different sensory sources to correctly localize their firing to restricted regions of an environment. Evidence suggests that the sensory information is processed upstream of the hippocampus, to extract both angular and linear metric information, and also contextual information. These various kinds of information need to be integrated for coherent firing fields to be generated, and the present article reviews recent evidence concerning how this occurs. It is concluded that there is a functional dissociation of the cortical inputs, with one class of incoming information comprising purely metric information concerning distance and orientation, probably routed via the grid cells and head direction cells. The other class of information is much more heterogeneous and serves, at least in part, to contextualize the spatial inputs so as to provide a unique representation of the place the animal is in. Evidence from remapping studies suggests that the metric and contextual inputs interact upstream of the place cells, perhaps in entorhinal cortex. A full understanding of the generation of the hippocampal place representation will require elucidation of the representational functions of the afferent cortical areas.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) serves a pivotal role in corticohippocampal interactions, but a complete description of its extrinsic connections has not been presented. Here, we have summarized the cortical, subcortical, and hippocampal connections of the lateral entorhinal area (LEA) and the medial entorhinal area (MEA) in the rat. We found that the targets and relative strengths of the entorhinal connections are strikingly different for the LEA and MEA. For example, the LEA receives considerably heavier input from the piriform and insular cortices, whereas the MEA is more heavily targeted by the visual, posterior parietal, and retrosplenial cortices. Regarding subcortical connections, the LEA receives heavy input from the amygdala and olfactory structures, whereas the MEA is targeted by the dorsal thalamus, primarily the midline nuclei and also the dorsolateral and dorsoanterior thalamic nuclei. Differences in the LEA and MEA connections with hippocampal and parahippocampal structures are also described. In addition, because the EC is characterized by bands of intrinsic connectivity that span the LEA and MEA and project to different septotemporal levels of the dentate gyrus, special attention was paid to the efferents and afferents of those bands. Finally, we summarized the connections of the dorsocaudal MEA, the region in which the entorhinal &quot;grid cells&quot; were discovered. The subregional differences in entorhinal connectivity described here provide further evidence for functional diversity within the EC. It is hoped that these findings will inform future studies of the role of the EC in learning and memory.
Previous research has investigated intentional retrieval of contextual information and contextual influences on object identification and word recognition, yet few studies have investigated context effects in episodic memory for objects. To address this issue, unique objects embedded in a visually rich scene or on a white background were presented to participants. At test, objects were presented either in the original scene or on a white background. A series of behavioral studies with young adults demonstrated a context shift decrement (CSD)-decreased recognition performance when context is changed between encoding and retrieval. The CSD was not attenuated by encoding or retrieval manipulations, suggesting that binding of object and context may be automatic. A final experiment explored the neural correlates of the CSD, using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Parahippocampal cortex (PHC) activation (right greater than left) during incidental encoding was associated with subsequent memory of objects in the context shift condition. Greater activity in right PHC was also observed during successful recognition of objects previously presented in a scene. Finally, a subset of regions activated during scene encoding, such as bilateral PHC, was reactivated when the object was presented on a white background at retrieval. Although participants were not required to intentionally retrieve contextual information, the results suggest that PHC may reinstate visual context to mediate successful episodic memory retrieval. The CSD is attributed to automatic and obligatory binding of object and context. The results suggest that PHC is important not only for processing of scene information, but also plays a role in successful episodic memory encoding and retrieval. These findings are consistent with the view that spatial information is stored in the hippocampal complex, one of the central tenets of Multiple Trace Theory.
In the present study we aimed to determine the topographical and laminar characteristics of cingulate projections to the parahippocampal region and hippocampal formation in the rat, using the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextranamine. The results show that all areas of the cingulate cortex project extensively to the parahippocampal region but not to the hippocampal formation. Rostral cingulate areas (infralimbic-, prelimbic cortices, rostral 1/3 of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex) primarily project to the perirhinal and lateral entorhinal cortices. Projections from the remaining cingulate areas preferentially target the postrhinal and medial entorhinal cortices as well as the presubiculum and parasubiculum. At a more detailed level the projections show differences in topographical specificities according to their site of origin within the cingulate cortex suggesting the functional contribution of cingulate areas may differ at an individual level. This organization of the cingulate-parahippocampal projections relates to the overall organization of postulated parallel parahippocampal-hippocampal processing streams mediated through the lateral and medial entorhinal cortex respectively. The mid-rostrocaudal part of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex appears to be connected to both networks as well as to rostral and caudal parts of the cingulate cortex. This region may therefore responsible for integrating information across these specific networks.
Multiple Ca(2+) entry routes have been implicated in excitotoxic Ca(2+) loading in neurons and reverse-operation of sodium-calcium exchangers (NCX) has been shown to contribute under conditions where intracellular Na(+) levels are enhanced. We have investigated effects of KB-R7943, an inhibitor of reverse-operation NCX activity, on Ca(2+) elevations in single CA1 neurons in acute hippocampal slices. KB-R7943 had no significant effect on input resistance, action potential waveform, or action potential frequency adaptation, but reduced L-type Ca(2+) entry in somata. Nimodipine was therefore included in subsequent experiments to prevent complication from effects of L-type influx on evaluation of NCX activity. NMDA produced transient primary Ca(2+) increases, followed by propagating secondary Ca(2+) increases that initiated in apical dendrites. KB-R7943 had no significant effect on primary or secondary Ca(2+) increases generated by NMDA. The Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibitor ouabain (30 microM) produced degenerative Ca(2+) overload that was initiated in basal dendrites. KB-R7943 significantly reduced initial Ca(2+) increases and delayed the propagation of degenerative Ca(2+) loads triggered by ouabain, raising the possibility that excessive intracellular Na(+) loading can trigger reverse-operation NCX activity. A combination of NMDA and ouabain produced more rapid Ca(2+) overload, that was contributed to by NCX activity. These results suggest that degenerative Ca(2+) signaling can be triggered by NMDA in dendrites, before intracellular Na(+) levels become sufficient to reverse NCX activity. However, since Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibition does appear to produce significant reverse-operation NCX activity, this additional Ca(2+) influx pathway may operate in ATP-deprived CA1 neurons and play a role in ischemic neurodegeneration.
Following Hartley et al. (Hartley et al. (2000) Hippocampus 10:369-379), we present a simple feed-forward model of place cell (PC) firing predicated on neocortical information regarding the environmental geometry surrounding the animal. Incorporating the idea of boundaries with distinct sensory qualities, we show that synaptic plasticity mediated by a BCM-like rule (Bienenstock et al. (1982) J Neurosci 2:32-48) produces PCs that encode position relative to specific extended landmarks. In an unchanging environment the model is shown to undergo an initial phase of learning, resulting in the formation of stable place fields. In familiar environments, perturbation of environmental cues produces graded changes in the firing rate and position of place fields. Model simulations are compared favorably with three sets of experimental data: (1) Results published by Barry et al. (Barry et al. (2006) Rev Neurosci 17:71-97) showing the slow disappearance of duplicate place fields produced when a barrier is placed into a familiar environment. (2) Rivard et al.'s (Rivard et al. (2004) J Gen Physiol 124:9-25) study showing a graded response in PC firing such that fields near to a centrally placed object encode space relative to the object, whereas more distant fields respond to the surrounding environment. (3) Fenton et al.'s (Fenton et al. (2000a) J Gen Physiol 116:191-209) observation that inconsistent rotation of cue cards produces parametric changes in place field positions. The merits of the model are discussed in terms of its extensibility and biological plausibility.
We expand upon our proposal that the oscillatory interference mechanism proposed for the phase precession effect in place cells underlies the grid-like firing pattern of dorsomedial entorhinal grid cells (O'Keefe and Burgess (2005) Hippocampus 15:853-866). The original one-dimensional interference model is generalized to an appropriate two-dimensional mechanism. Specifically, dendritic subunits of layer II medial entorhinal stellate cells provide multiple linear interference patterns along different directions, with their product determining the firing of the cell. Connection of appropriate speed- and direction-dependent inputs onto dendritic subunits could result from an unsupervised learning rule which maximizes postsynaptic firing (e.g. competitive learning). These inputs cause the intrinsic oscillation of subunit membrane potential to increase above theta frequency by an amount proportional to the animal's speed of running in the &quot;preferred&quot; direction. The phase difference between this oscillation and a somatic input at theta-frequency essentially integrates velocity so that the interference of the two oscillations reflects distance traveled in the preferred direction. The overall grid pattern is maintained in environmental location by phase reset of the grid cell by place cells receiving sensory input from the environment, and environmental boundaries in particular. We also outline possible variations on the basic model, including the generation of grid-like firing via the interaction of multiple cells rather than via multiple dendritic subunits. Predictions of the interference model are given for the frequency composition of EEG power spectra and temporal autocorrelograms of grid cell firing as functions of the speed and direction of running and the novelty of the environment.
The subiculum and the entorhinal cortex (EC) are important structures in processing and transmitting information between the neocortex and the hippocampus. The subiculum potentially receives information from the EC through two routes. In addition to a direct projection from EC to the subiculum, there is an indirect polysynaptic connection. The latter uses a number of possible pathways, which all converge onto the final projection from the hippocampal field CA1 to the subiculum. In this series of experiments we investigated to what extent activity in both pathways influences population activity of subicular neurons. We used voltage sensitive dyes in combined hippocampal-EC slices of the rat to measure the spatio-temporal activity patterns. To activate the two inputs to the subiculum, stimulation electrodes were placed in the stratum oriens/alveus of CA1 and in layer III of the medial EC. The response patterns evoked in the subiculum after electrical stimulation of each of these input pathways separately were compared with the response patterns after simultaneous stimulation of both areas (medial EC + CA1). A comparison of the computed added responses of the two individual stimulations with the measured responses after simultaneous stimulation suggests that both inputs are linearly added in the subiculum with very little nonlinear interactions. This strongly suggests that in the subiculum interaction at a single cell level of the direct and the indirect pathways from the EC is an unlikely scenario.
In a continuous T-maze spatial alternation task, CA1 place cells fire differentially on the stem of the maze as rats are performing left- and right-turn trials (Wood et al. (2000) Neuron 27:623-633). This context-dependent hippocampal activity provides a potential mechanism by which animals could solve the alternation task, as it provides a cue that could prime the appropriate goal choice. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between context-dependent hippocampal activity and spatial alternation behavior. We report that rats with complete lesions of the hippocampus learn and perform the spatial alternation task as well as controls if there is no delay between trials, suggesting that the observed context-dependent hippocampal activity does not mediate alternation behavior in this task. However lesioned rats are significantly impaired when delays of 2 or 10 s are interposed. Recording experiments reveal that context-dependent hippocampal activity occurs in both the delay and no-delay versions of the task, but that in the delay version it occurs during the delay period, and not on the stem of the maze. These data are consistent with a role for context-dependent hippocampal activity in delayed spatial alternation, but suggest that, according to specific task demands and memory load, the activity may be generated by different mechanisms and/or in different brain structures.
Recording the activity of neurons is a mainstay of animal memory research, while human recordings are generally limited to the activity of large ensembles of cells. The relationship between ensemble activity and neural firing rate during declarative memory processes, however, remains unclear. We recorded neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously from the same sites in the human hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (ERC) in patients with implanted intracranial electrodes during a virtual taxi-driver task that also included a memory retrieval component. Neurons increased their firing rate in response to specific passengers or landmarks both during navigation and retrieval. Although we did not find item specificity in the broadband LFP, both theta- and gamma-band LFPs increased power to specific items on a small but significant percent of channels. These responses, however, did not correlate with item-specific neural responses. To contrast item-specific responses with process-specific responses during memory, we compared neural and LFP responses during encoding (navigation) and retrieval (associative and item-specific recognition). A subset of neurons also altered firing rates nonspecifically while subjects viewed items during encoding. Interestingly, LFPs in the hippocampus and ERC increased in power nonspecifically while subjects viewed items during retrieval, more often during associative than item-recognition. Furthermore, we found no correlation between neural firing rate and broadband, theta-band, and gamma-band LFPs during process-specific responses. Our findings suggest that neuronal firing and ensemble activity can be dissociated during encoding, item-maintenance, and retrieval in the human hippocampal area, likely relating to functional properties unique to this region.
The study of the intracellular mechanics that underlay changes in synaptic efficacy is a rapidly evolving field of research. It is currently believed that NMDA receptors play a significant role in the induction of synaptic plasticity, whereas AMPA receptors play a significant role in its expression. For AMPA receptors, it has been shown that tyrosine phosphorylation of the GluR2 carboxyl termini is required for the expression of long-term depression of synaptic efficacy (LTD) in vitro (Ahmadian et al. (2004) EMBO J 23:1040-1050). In the present study, we sought to determine whether similar mechanisms are involved in vivo, where different stimulation parameters are required for the induction of LTD. We initially used a paired-burst (PB) paradigm that reliably induces LTD in vivo. In these animals we were able to prevent the induction and expression of PB-LTD by administering a peptide (GluR-3Y) that acted as a competitive inhibitor of tyrosine phosphorylation. In a separate set of animals, we exposed animals to brief periods of stress (S) before using low-frequency stimuli to induce LTD (S-LTD). Again, GluR2-3Y blocked both the induction and expression of S-LTD. In contrast, an inert version of the peptide, with alanine replacing the three tyrosine residues, did not inhibit LTD induction. In addition, we demonstrated that GluR2-3Y did not affect the induction of long-term potentiation in vivo. These findings support the hypothesis that tyrosine phosphorylation and AMPA receptor endocytosis are necessary steps for the induction and maintenance of two forms of LTD in the CA1 region.
This single case analysis of memory performance in a patient with an ischemic lesion affecting posterior but not anterior right medial temporal lobe (MTL) indicates that source memory can be disrupted in a domain-specific manner. The patient showed normal recognition memory for gray-scale photos of objects (visual condition) and spoken words (auditory condition). While memory for visual source (texture/color of the background against which pictures appeared) was within the normal range, auditory source memory (male/female speaker voice) was at chance level, a performance pattern significantly different from the control group. This dissociation is consistent with recent fMRI evidence of anterior/posterior MTL dissociations depending upon the nature of source information (visual texture/color vs. auditory speaker voice). The findings are in good agreement with the view of dissociable memory processing by the perirhinal cortex (anterior MTL) and parahippocampal cortex (posterior MTL), depending upon the neocortical input that these regions receive.
GABAergic interneurons constitute a heterogeneous group of cells that exert a powerful control on network excitability and are responsible for the oscillatory behavior crucial for information processing in the brain. These cells have been differently classified according to their morphological, neurochemical, and physiological characteristics. Here, whole cell patch clamp recordings were used to further characterize, in transgenic mice expressing EGFP in a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons containing somatostatin (GIN mice), the functional properties of EGFP-positive cells in stratum oriens of the CA1 region of the hippocampus, in slice cultures obtained from P8 old animals. These cells showed passive and active membrane properties similar to those found in stratum oriens interneurons projecting to stratum lacunosum-moleculare. Moreover, they exhibited different firing patterns that were maintained upon membrane depolarization: irregular (48%), regular (30%), and clustered (22%). Trains of action potentials in interneurons evoked in a minority of principal cells (3/45) small amplitude GABAergic currents that at 20 Hz underwent short-term depression. In contrast, excitatory connections between principal cells and EGFP-positive interneurons were highly reliable (17/55) and exhibited a frequency and use-dependent facilitation particularly in the gamma band. In addition, recordings from paired of interconnected EGFP-positive cells revealed in 47% of the cases electrical coupling, which was abolished by carbenoxolone (200 microM). On average, the coupling coefficient was 0.21 +/- 0.07. When electrical coupling was particularly strong it acted as a powerful low-pass filter, thus contributing to alter the output of individual cells. In conclusion, it appears that the dynamic interaction between cells with various firing patterns could differently affect GABAergic signaling, leading, as suggested by simulation data, to a wide range of interneuronal communication within the hippocampal network.
We previously reported that adenosine, through A(2A) receptor activation, potentiates synaptic actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus of infant (3-4 weeks) rats. Since A(2A)-receptor-mediated actions are more evident in old than in young rats and since the therapeutic potential for BDNF-based strategies is greater in old subjects, we now evaluated synaptic actions of BDNF and the levels of TrkB receptors and of adenosine A(2A) receptors in the hippocampus of three groups of adult rats: young adults (10-16 weeks), old adults (36-38 weeks), and aged (70-80 weeks), as well as in one group of infant (3-4 weeks) rats. BDNF (20 ng/ml) enhances field excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded from the hippocampus of young adults and aged rats, an action triggered by adenosine A(2A) receptor activation, since it was blocked by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, ZM 241385. In the other groups of animals BDNF (20 ng/ml) was virtually devoid of action on synaptic transmission. Western blot analysis of receptor density shows decreased amounts of TrkB receptors in old adults and aged rats, whereas A(2A) receptor levels assayed by ligand binding are enhanced in the hippocampus of old adults and aged rats. It is concluded that age-related changes in the density of TrkB receptors and of adenosine A(2A) receptors may be responsible for a nonmonotonous variation of BDNF actions on synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
For latent inhibition, preexposure to a conditioned stimulus (CS) prior to training with an unconditioned stimulus (US) results in decreased conditioned responses (CRs) to the CS at the time of testing. The mechanism by which decreased CRs occurs, however, is unknown; CS preexposure may interfere with subsequent conditioning, or modulate the expression of CRs. Previous research has suggested that the entorhinal cortex (EC) is necessary for latent inhibition of a variety of tasks. However, no studies have specifically compared the role of the EC in acquisition vs. expression of latent inhibition. The present study used reversible inactivation of the EC to address this issue. The GABA agonist muscimol (0.5 microg/side) was directly infused into the EC of mice prior to CS preexposure, training, or testing. Our results indicate that muscimol inactivation of the EC before CS preexposure disrupts latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. Importantly, this same dose of muscimol did not disrupt cued fear conditioning, nor did it affect latent inhibition when infused into the subiculum. Furthermore, inactivation of the EC at testing disrupted the expression of latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning; that is, CS preexposed mice that received entorhinal cortical muscimol infusion at testing showed CRs compared to saline-infused CS preexposed mice. These findings suggest that repeated preexposure to the CS during latent inhibition may alter entorhinal cortical activity thereby allowing the EC to exert inhibitory control over the expression of CRs during testing of CS preexposed mice.
Spatial behavior was examined in control rats and rats with neurotoxic-induced damage of the hippocampus in an open field &quot;exploratory&quot; task. In Experiment 1, rats were placed on a large circular table for 30 min for four consecutive days with a short wall adjacent to the table and a large black box near the edge of the table diametrically opposite to the wall. On the fifth day, rats were given a probe test during which both cues were removed. Over the training exposures both control and hippocampal-damaged rats formed &quot;home bases,&quot; operationally defined as places where the rats preferentially stopped and spent time, near the cues. When the cues were removed on the probe day, both groups visited, stopped near, and spent time at places adjacent to the cues' previous location. In Experiment 2, rats were given a similar training protocol, but only a single cue was used, which was a small box placed directly on the table that did not block visibility of the entire room. On the fifth day, the box was moved to the other end of the table. Despite the presence of a cued home base, control and hippocampal-damaged rats remembered the original location of the home base. The results are discussed in relation to the comparative task demands of formal and informal test procedures and with respect to their relevance to understanding the neural basis of spatial behavior.
Severe stress elevates plasma and CNS levels of endogenous neuroactive steroids that can contribute to the influence of stress on memory formation. Among the neuroactive steroids, pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) reportedly strengthens memories and is readily available as a memory-enhancing supplement. PREGS actions on memory may reflect its ability to produce changes in memory-related neuronal circuits, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory transmission in hippocampus. Here, we report a previously undiscovered pathway by which PREGS exposure promotes activity-dependent LTP of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials at CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices. Thus, application of PREGS, but not the phosphated conjugate of the steroid, selectively facilitates the induction of a slow-developing LTP in response to high-frequency (100 Hz) afferent stimulation, which is not induced in the absence of the steroid. The slow-developing LTP is independent of NMDA-receptor function (i.e., dAP5 insensitive) but dependent on functional L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) and sigma-receptors. By contrast, PREGS at the highest concentration tested produces a depression in NMDA-receptor-dependent LTP, which is evident when sigma-receptor function is compromised by the presence of a sigma-receptor antagonist. We found that at early times during the induction phase of L-type VGCC-dependent LTP, PREGS via sigma-receptors transiently enhances presynaptic function. As well, during the maintenance phase of L-type VGCC-dependent LTP, PREGS promotes a further increase in presynaptic function downstream of LTP induction, as evidenced by a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation. The identification of complex regulatory actions of PREGS on LTP, involving sigma-receptors, L-type VGCCs, NMDA-receptors, and inhibitory circuits will aid future research endeavors aimed at understanding the precise mechanisms by which this stress-associated steroid may engage multiple LTP-signaling pathways that alter synaptic transmission at memory-related synapses.
Ontogenesis of GABAergic signaling may play an important role in developmental changes in seizure susceptibility in the high-potassium model of ictogenesis in vitro. The age-dependent effects of [K(+)](o) on the reversal potential of the GABA(A)-mediated responses and membrane potential in hippocampal slices in vitro were compared with the effect of GABA(A)-receptors antagonists and GABA(A) modulators on high-potassium induced seizures in the CA3 pyramidal layer of rat hippocampus in vivo. GABA(A) responses were depolarizing at P8-12 and hyperpolarizing at P17-21. In P8-12 rats, GABA(A) responses switch their polarity from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing upon elevation of extracellular potassium. At approximately 10 mM [K(+)](o), activation of GABA(A) receptors produced an isoelectric, purely shunting response characterized by no changes in the membrane potential but an increase in the membrane conductance. In P17-21 rats, the hyperpolarizing GABA(A) driving force progressively increased with elevation of [K(+)](o). In P8-12 rats in vivo, GABA(A)-receptor antagonists did not affect the occurrence of ictal discharges induced by intrahippocampal injection of 10 mM [K(+)](o), but significantly increased seizure duration. Diazepam and isoguvacine completely prevented seizures induced by 10 mM [K(+)](o). In P17-21 rats, GABA(A)-receptor antagonists strongly increased the occurrence of ictal activity induced both by 10 mM [K(+)](o). Taken together, these results suggest that anticonvulsive effects of GABA are because of the combination of shunting and hyperpolarizing actions of GABA. Although shunting GABA is already efficient in the young age group, a developmental increase in the hyperpolarizing GABA(A) driving force likely contributes to the increase in the GABAergic control of seizures upon maturation.
We demonstrated previously that when hippocampal-dependent learning and plasticity are compromised by fornix lesions, behaviorally induced expression of the immediate early gene, Arc, is correspondingly low. The medial septum and the vertical diagonal band are major sources of subcortical afferents that innervate the hippocampus via the fornix. Here we assessed the specific contribution of cholinergic afferents from these regions to the impairments in spatial learning and behavioral induction of Arc transcription produced by fornix lesions. The immunotoxin, 192 IgG-saporin, was used to produce selective lesions of cholinergic cell bodies in the medial septum and vertical diagonal band. Rats were then trained on both cued and spatial delayed match-to-place tasks in a radial arm water maze. Animals with 192 IgG-saporin lesions learned both cue and place discrimination tasks in the water maze normally, and showed only a mild and transient impairment when switching from the cued to the spatial version of the task. Following behavioral testing, rats explored two novel environments sequentially in a setting known to induce Arc expression in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. In marked contrast to the effects of complete fornix transection, quantitative in situ autoradiography revealed no differences in Arc mRNA expression between sham and lesion animals in CA1, CA3 or stratum radiatum. The conclusion from these data is that cholinergic deafferentation alone cannot account for the spatial learning deficits or impaired behavioral induction of Arc transcription produced by fornix lesions.
The hypothesis that hippocampal activity at encoding is causally related to subsequent declarative memory expression is tested in the mouse, by using lidocaine inactivation of the hippocampus in combination with c-fos neuroimaging analysis. We employed a two-stage radial maze paradigm of spatial discrimination, which was previously shown to dissociate between declarative and nondeclarative expression of memory related to the same acquired material. In Stage 1 (encoding), mice learnt the constant location of food among a set of six arms (three baited, three unbaited) by being submitted repeatedly to discontiguous experiences with each arm separately (&quot;go/no-go&quot; discrimination). In Stage 2 (test-session), they are challenged with novel presentations of the arms, which are either combined into pairs of opposite valence (&quot;two-choice&quot; discrimination), or opened all six together (&quot;six-choice&quot; discrimination). Previous experiments have demonstrated that the &quot;two-choice&quot; situation is a critical test for declarative memory while &quot;six-choice&quot; discrimination may rely on procedural memory. We observed that (i) hippocampal activity measured by c-fos mRNA expression was increased by &quot;go/no-go&quot; learning, and this activation was blocked by pre-training local infusions of lidocaine; (ii) when performed just before each session of Stage 1, such inactivation spared the acquisition of &quot;go/no-go&quot; discrimination but produced, subsequently, a selective deficit in the &quot;two-choice&quot; test (not in the &quot;six-choice&quot; test). This study indicates that the hippocampus is &quot;spontaneously&quot; engaged in encoding processes necessary for long-term storage of discontiguous experiences under a form enabling flexible declarative memory expression.
Latent inhibition (LI), that is the decrease in conditioned response induced by the repeated nonreinforced pre-exposures to the to-be-conditioned stimulus, is disrupted by entorhinal cortex (EC) lesions. The mechanism involved in this disruption is unknown, and in particular the experimental stage (pre-exposure or conditioning) at which the integrity of EC is necessary has to be determined. The purpose of this study was to address this issue by using reversible inactivation of the EC by local micro-infusion of tetrodotoxin (TTX). TTX was infused either before the pre-exposure phase, before the conditioning phase, or before both phases. LI was unaffected in rats that received TTX before conditioning or before both pre-exposure and conditioning. In contrast, LI was disrupted in rats that received TTX before pre-exposure only. These results are discussed in the framework of LI models.
Long-term adrenalectomy (ADX) causes a nearly complete and selective loss of granule cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. Previously, learning and memory deficits have been observed following ADX-induced granule cell degeneration for tasks that require the hippocampus. Our objective here was to determine whether corticosterone (CORT) replacement and treatment with the neurogenic compound fluoxetine could reverse behavioral deficits after ADX. We trained ADX and control rats in a moving, hidden platform version of the Morris water task before chronic administration (6 weeks) of CORT and either fluoxetine or vehicle. After treatment, all rats were retested in the Morris water task. Brains were labeled for the endogenous neurogenic markers Ki67 and doublecortin. Here we provide evidence that neurogenesis persists at a normal rate in the hippocampus after long-term ADX. After 8 weeks of CORT and fluoxetine administration, ADX-fluoxetine rats did not differ significantly compared to ADX-vehicle rats receiving CORT or compared to control rats in the number of Ki67 or doublecortin labeled cells. ADX-fluoxetine rats also did not significantly differ from ADX-vehicle rats in regards to granule cell layer thickness. Our results indicate that long-term ADX is associated with impaired spatial ability in the Morris water task and that neither chronic treatment with CORT, nor with CORT and fluoxetine are capable of altering the Morris water task deficit.
The hippocampus plays a crucial role within the neural systems for long-term memory, but little if any role in the short-term retention of some types of stimuli. Nonetheless, the hippocampus may be specialized for allocentric topographical processing, which impacts on short-term memory or even perception. To investigate this we developed performance-matched tests of perception (match-to-sample) and short-term memory (2 s delayed-match-to-sample) for the topography and for the nonspatial aspects of visual scenes. Four patients with focal hippocampal damage and one with more extensive damage, including right parahippocampal gyrus, were tested. All five patients showed impaired topographical memory and spared nonspatial processing in both memory and perception. Topographical perception was profoundly impaired in the patient with parahippocampal damage, mildly impaired in two of the hippocampal cases, and clearly preserved in the other two hippocampal cases (including one with dense amnesia). Our results suggest that the hippocampus supports allocentric topographical processing that is indispensable when appropriately tested after even very short delays, while the presence of the sample scene can allow successful topographical perception without it, possibly via a less flexible parahippocampal representation.
The current view of the molecular basis for information storage is that post-translational modification (PTM) of brain proteins is important for the early stages of memory storage and that protein synthesis is necessary for long-lasting memory. This view has been challenged by the proposal that PTM of synaptic proteins is the critical instructive mechanism underlying both recent as well as long-lasting memories (Routtenberg and Rekart, 2005). As an initial test, a broad spectrum serine/threonine kinase inhibitor (H-7) was delivered bilaterally to rat anterior cingulate cortex 1 h before a 3 week retention test of contextual fear conditioning. This significantly blocked 21-Day retention. In the second experiment evaluating extinction of a 21-Day remote memory, H-7 injected into mouse medial prefrontal cortex blocked fear extinction. As the H-7-induced impairment in 21-Day retention was indexed by a decrease in freezing, while the extinction blockade by no decrease in freezing, the results could not be ascribed to a direct effect of the drug on behavioral performance. This represents the first demonstration, to our knowledge, that PTM inhibition, here serine/threonine kinase activity, interferes with long-lasting memory, providing initial support for the PTM model.
Enduring long-term potentiation (LTP) requires immediate protein synthesis, hence we assessed whether more polyribosomes are present in dendritic spines of mature hippocampal dendrites after the induction of LTP. Reconstructions from serial section transmission electron microscopy (sSTEM) revealed more dendritic polyribosomes 2 h posttetanus, relative to low-frequency stimulation (LFS). Polyribosomes were present in spines of all shapes with larger postsynaptic densities after 2 h, suggesting a coordinated local protein synthesis among many synapses to replenish proteins utilized during an earlier phase of LTP.
Ramon y Cajal (1852-1934) is considered to be one of the founders of the field of neuroscience. In 1911, he described interstitial neurons in the gut, noting that they were primitive accessory components that perhaps modify smooth muscle contraction, themselves subject to regulation from principle neurons. The accuracy of his description of their appearance and activities has led to these cells now being called the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). Thuneberg and Faussone-Pellegrini were instrumental in bringing these cells to the attention of gastroenterologists and pathologists in the early 1980s. Subsequently, the development of antibodies to c-kit has allowed routine identification of the ICC in pathology specimens. c-Kit is a transmembrane protein kinase which has as ligand stem cell factor and is involved in cell development in a variety of cell lineages. In the gut musculature, ICC and mast cells are the only cells that have prominent c-kit expression. The ICC are now known to play an important role in gut motility and absent or disordered ICC networks have been identified in a variety of motility disorders.
In Astatotilapia burtoni, dominant males have higher levels of sex steroid hormones than subordinate males. Because of the complex regulatory interactions between steroid hormones and receptors, we asked whether dominance is also associated with variation in sex steroid receptor gene expression. Using quantitative PCR, we compared the expression of specific subtypes of androgen (AR) and estrogen (ER) receptor genes between dominant and subordinated males in 3 divisions of the brain, the pituitary, and the testes. We measured mRNA levels of AR-alpha, AR-beta, ER-alpha, ER-betaa, and ER-betab, gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GnRH1), and GnRH receptor 1 (GnRH-R1) relative to 18S rRNA. In the anterior part of the brain, we found that dominant males had higher mRNA expression of AR-alpha, AR-beta, ER-betaa, and ER-betab, but not ER-alpha, compared to subordinate males. This effect of dominance was reflected in a positive correlation between testes size and AR-alpha, AR-beta, ER-betaa, and ER-betab in the anterior brain. In addition, mRNA levels of all ARs and ERs in the anterior brain were positively correlated with mRNA level of GnRH1. In the middle and posterior portions of the brain, as well as the testes, steroid receptor mRNA levels were similar among dominants and subordinates. In the pituitary, ER-alpha mRNA level was positively correlated with testes size and AR-alpha mRNA was positively correlated with GnRH-R1 mRNA level. These data suggest that dominant male brains could be more sensitive to sex steroids, which may contribute to the increased complexity of the behavioral repertoires of dominant males.
Women are at higher risk of anxiety and mood disorders, especially at transitions across the reproductive life cycle (premenstruum, postpartum, menopause). Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is one of female mood disorders associated with changing ovarian hormone levels. Because anxiety and depression frequently occur in women with PMDD, premenstrual dysphoria might be a manifestation of certain vulnerability traits increasing the risk of those disorders. The present study was conducted to elucidate a potential association between estrous cycle-dependent aggression, the rodent model of &quot;premenstrual irritability&quot; (resident-intruder test), and anxiety (elevated plus maze), depressive-like traits (forced swim test) as well as carbohydrate craving in female Wistar rats. Some aggressive and nonaggressive females were restraint-stressed before testing to determine their sensitivity to stress at different hormonal stages. The results revealed that females expressing the estrous cycle-dependent aggression but not those not expressing cycle-dependent aggression spent longer time immobile and shorter time swimming in the forced swim test at metestrus compared to proestrus phase of the estrous cycle. There was no difference between aggressive and nonaggressive females in anxiety, locomotor activity and sensitivity to restraint stress and sucrose consumption. The present study suggests a common neurobiological background for the estrous cycle-dependent aggression and depressive-like traits in rodents. This phenomenon could potentially aid the elucidation of premenstrual emotional dysfunctions and might be used as an ethological model to study a biochemical and genetic proneness to depression.
Aging is associated with a variety of pathologies, including motor dysfunctions and reductions in sexual behavior. In male rats, declines in sexual behavior during the aging process may be caused in part by the loss of the lumbar spinal cord motoneurons that innervate the penile musculature. Alternatively, declining sexual behavior may be caused by the precipitous reductions in circulating testosterone that occur during aging. In this paper, we report two experiments examining these issues. In Experiment 1, we counted motoneurons in the lumbar motor nuclei and measured several androgen-sensitive morphological properties of the penile muscles and their innervating motoneurons at several time points during the aging process. Motoneuron number in the lumbar nuclei did not change over time, even with very advanced age. In contrast, the penile muscles and their innervating motoneurons underwent profound atrophy, with muscle weight and motoneuron dendritic length declining to less than 50% of young adult levels. In Experiment 2, we treated aged animals with exogenous testosterone, and then examined their penile neuromuscular systems for morphological changes. Testosterone treatment, both acute and chronic, completely reversed age-related declines in the weight of the penile muscles and in the soma size and dendritic length of their innervating motoneurons. Together, these data suggest that reductions in male sexual behavior during the aging process are caused primarily by declines in testosterone levels rather than motoneuron loss. Furthermore, they raise the possibility that testosterone treatment could play an important role in maintaining neuronal connectivity in the aging body.
Using high-resolution MRI, it is now possible to examine the living human cortex down to a resolution of less than 300 mum. Thus, in vivo imaging is now approaching the resolution that has been successfully used in histological analysis of the cerebral cortex for many years, e.g., low-magnification light microscopy. This allows unprecedented views of cortical microstructure that reflect defined histological features, specifically, individual cortical layers. As in histological brain mapping, it is possible to use the changes in the cortical lamination patterns to define individual cortical areas. This allows in vivo neuroanatomical maps to be generated for individual subjects and precise correlation of the results from functional imaging studies in these subjects with their own microanatomical information. To this end, we adapted the well-established observer-independent cytoarchitectonic mapping techniques for defining cortical borders based on changes in cortical lamination for in vivo parcellation of high-resolution structural MR images.
We manually defined the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) on high-resolution MRIs in native space in 30 healthy subjects (15 female, median age 31 years; 15 male, median age 30 years), resulting in 30 individual atlases. Using standard software (SPM99), these were spatially transformed to a widely used stereotaxic space (MNI/ICBM 152) to create probabilistic maps. In native space, the total IFG volume was on average 5%, and the gray matter (GM) portion 12% larger in women (not significant). Expressed as a percentage of ipsilateral frontal lobe volume (i.e., correcting for brain size), the IFG was an average of 20%, and the GM portion of the IFG 27%, larger in women (P &lt; 0.005). Correcting for total lobar volume yielded the same result. No asymmetry was found in IFG volumes. There were significant positional differences between the right and left IFGs, with the right IFG being further lateral in both native and stereotaxic space. Variability was similar on the left and right, but more pronounced anteriorly and superiorly. We show differences in IFG volume, composition, and position between sexes and between hemispheres. Applications include probabilistic determination of location in group studies, automatic labeling of new scans, and detection of anatomical abnormalities in patients.
The proportionality of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response during a cognitive task and that from a hypercapnic challenge was investigated in cortical structures involved in working memory (WM). Breath holding (BH) following inspiration was used to induce a BOLD response characteristic of regional vasomotor reactivity but devoid of metabolic changes. BOLD effects measured during BH were used to normalize individual subject activations during WM, which effectively reduced the confounding influence of individual- and region-specific differences in hemodynamic responsivity common to both tasks. In a study of seven subjects, the BH calibration reduced intersubject variability in WM effect amplitude by 24.8% (P &lt; 0.03). Reduced intersubject variability resulted in a 23.7% increase in group WM activation voxel extent significant at P &lt; 0.001, with further increases at more stringent thresholds. Because the BH task does not require CO(2) inhalation or other invasive manipulations and is broadly applicable across cortical regions, the proposed approach is simple to implement and may be beneficial for use not only in quantitative group fMRI analyses, but also for multicenter and longitudinal studies.
With event-related functional MRI (fMRI) and with behavioral measures we studied the brain processes underlying the acquisition of native language literacy. Adult dialect speakers were scanned while reading words belonging to three different conditions: dialect words, i.e., the native language in which subjects are illiterate (dialect), German words, i.e., the second language in which subjects are literate, and pseudo-words. Investigating literacy acquisition of a dialect may reveal how novel readers of a language build an orthographic lexicon, i.e., establish a link between already available semantic and phonological representations and new orthographic word forms. The main results of the study indicate that a set of regions, including the left anterior hippocampal formation and subcortical nuclei, is involved in the buildup of orthographic representations. The repeated exposure to written dialect words resulted in a convergence of the neural substrate to that of the language in which these subjects were already proficient readers. The latter result is compatible with a &quot;fast&quot; brain plasticity process that may be related to a shift of reading strategies.
Tryptophan hydroxylase 1 catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of serotonin in the periphery. Recently, it has been shown that expression of the tryptophan hydroxylase 1 gene is increased in lungs and pulmonary endothelial cells from patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension. Here we investigated the effect of genetic deletion of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 on hypoxia-induced pulmonary arterial hypertension in mice by measuring pulmonary hemodynamics and pulmonary vascular remodeling before and after 2 weeks of hypoxia. In wild-type mice, hypoxia increased right ventricular pressure and pulmonary vascular remodeling. These effects of hypoxia were attenuated in the tryptophan hydroxylase 1-/-mice. Hypoxia increased right ventricular hypertrophy in both wild-type and tryptophan hydroxylase 1-/-mice suggesting that in vivo peripheral serotonin has a differential effect on the pulmonary vasculature and right ventricular hypertrophy. Contractile responses to serotonin were increased in pulmonary arteries from tryptophan hydroxylase 1-/-mice. Hypoxia increased serotonin-mediated contraction in vessels from the wild-type mice, but this was not further increased by hypoxia in the tryptophan hydroxylase 1-/-mice. In conclusion, these results indicate that tryptophan hydroxylase 1 and peripheral serotonin play an essential role in the development of hypoxia-induced elevations in pulmonary pressures and hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling. In addition, the results suggest that, in mice, serotonin has differential effects on the pulmonary vasculature and right ventricular hypertrophy.
Stroke remains the leading cause of adult disability, with upper extremity motor impairments being the most prominent functional deficit in surviving stroke victims. The development of animal models of upper extremity dysfunction after stroke has enabled investigators to examine the neural mechanisms underlying rehabilitation-dependent motor recovery as well as the efficacy of various adjuvant therapies for enhancing recovery. Much of this research has focused on rat models of forelimb motor function after experimentally induced ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. This article provides a review of several different methods for inducing stroke, including devascularization, photothrombosis, chemical vasoconstriction, and hemorrhagia. We also describe a battery of sensorimotor tasks for assessing forelimb motor function after stroke. The tasks range from measures of gross motor performance to fine object manipulation and kinematic movement analysis, and we offer a comparison of the sensitivity for revealing motor deficits and the amount of time required to administer each motor test. In addition, we discuss several important methodological issues, including the importance of testing on multiple tasks to characterize the nature of the impairments, establishing stable baseline prestroke motor performance measures, dissociating the effects of acute versus chronic testing, and verifying lesion location and size. Finally, we outline general considerations for conducting research using rat models of stroke and the role that these models should play in guiding clinical trials.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurological disorder caused by a genetic mutation in the IT15 gene. Progressive cell death in the striatum and cortex, and accompanying declines in cognitive, motor, and psychiatric functions, are characteristic of the disease. Animal models of HD have provided insight into disease pathology and the outcomes of therapeutic strategies. Earlier studies of HD most often used toxin-induced models to study mitochondrial impairment and excitotoxicity-induced cell death, which are both mechanisms of degeneration seen in the HD brain. These models, based on 3-nitropropionic acid and quinolinic acid, respectively, are still often used in HD studies. The discovery in 1993 of the huntingtin mutation led to the creation of newer models that incorporate a similar genetic defect. These models, which include transgenic and knock-in rodents, are more representative of the HD progression and pathology. An even more recent model that uses a viral vector to encode the gene mutation in specific areas of the brain may be useful in nonhuman primates, as it is difficult to produce genetic models in these species. This article examines the aforementioned models and describes their use in HD research, including aspects of the creation, delivery, pathology, and tested therapies for each model.




This paper introduces a novel framework for diffusion tensor combination, which can be used for tensor averaging, clustering, interpolation, and regularization. The framework is based on the physical interpretation of the tensors as the covariance matrices of Gaussian probability distributions. The symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence provides a natural distance measure on these distributions, which leads to a closed-form expression for the distance between any two diffusion tensors, as well as for the weighted average of an arbitrary number of tensors. We illustrate the application of our technique in four different scenarios: (a) to combine tensor data from multiple subjects and generate population atlases from ten young and ten older subjects, (b) to perform k-means clustering and generate a compact Gaussian mixture of multiple tensors, (c) to interpolate between tensors, and (d) to regularize (i.e., smooth) noisy tensor data. For boundary-preserving regularization, we also propose a non-linear two-stage smoothing algorithm that can be considered remotely similar to a median filter.
We report on mathematical methods for the exploration of spatiotemporal dynamics of Magneto- and Electro-Encephalography (MEG / EEG) surface data and/or of the corresponding brain activity at the cortical level, with high temporal resolution. In this regard, we describe how the framework and numerical computation of the optical flow--a classical tool for motion analysis in computer vision--can be extended to non-flat 2-dimensional surfaces such as the scalp and the cortical mantle. We prove the concept and mathematical well-posedness of such an extension through regularizing constraints on the estimated velocity field, and discuss the quantitative evaluation of the optical flow. The method is illustrated by simulations and analysis of brain image sequences from a ball-catching paradigm.
The overactivation of macrophages causes abnormal cell death and chronic inflammatory diseases. Therefore, the modulation of macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity is expected to become a new therapeutic strategy for various inflammatory diseases. In this study, three types of short chain fatty acids (sodium butyrate (NaB), sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPB), sodium phenylacetate (NaPA)) were found to have anti-inflammatory effects in IFN-gamma-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. They inhibited the expression of iNOS, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 induced by IFN-gamma, while they enhanced the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10. Their potency as anti-inflammatory agents was in the order of NaB&gt;NaPB&gt;NaPA. Further mechanistic studies revealed these three agents to repress the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB, which is an important modulator of inflammation. In addition, these agents repressed the IFN-gamma-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation without affecting the Jak/STAT activities. The potency of NF-kappaB and ERK inhibition was also in the order of NaB&gt;NaPB&gt;NaPA. The results suggest that the NF-kappaB and ERK signaling pathways are at least in part involved in the anti-inflammatory activities of these SCFAs. Considering that SCFAs are normally present in the body and have few side effects, they might be promising agents for the prevention and/or treatment of various inflammatory diseases.

Adolescent suicide is an escalating crisis that needs to be addressed by clinicians and researchers. Alcohol use has consistently been implicated in adolescent suicide and it is generally assumed that alcohol use leads to an increased risk in suicidality, suicide attempts and completed suicides. It can lead to adolescent suicidality through alcohol myopia, disinhibition, and impaired judgment. Multiple genetically related intermediate phenotypes might contribute to the risk of alcohol misuse and suicidal behavior in adolescents. Genetic variations that enhance the risk for mood and anxiety symptoms or susceptibility to stress might increase risk through different mechanisms. Comorbid disorders such as depression are frequently exhibited in adolescents who misuse alcohol, therefore any adolescent who appears to be at risk for alcoholism or depression should always be screened for all other psychiatric disorders and for suicidality; some signs suicidal adolescents may exhibit include withdrawal, personality change, and a loss of interest in pleasurable activities. While assessment is important, prevention is crucial in any attempt to decrease the incidence of adolescent suicide. The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has established a set of seven guidelines that can be implemented from kindergarten through high school in order to establish alcohol prevention efforts in schools. Through beginning prevention efforts at a young age, it is hopeful that both alcohol misuse and adolescent suicide can be reduced.
Childhood abuse is responsible for a variety of outcomes that are characterized by maladjustment and maladaption. Two of the most significant results are suicide and alcohol and substance misuse. This paper explores the direct link between childhood abuse and adolescent suicide, the direct link between childhood abuse and adolescent alcohol and substance misuse, the indirect link between childhood abuse and adolescent suicide through alcohol and substance misuse, and finally implications of these links for practitioners working with adolescents who are experiencing or who have experienced childhood abuse. Both suicide and alcohol and substance misuse are prevalent in the adolescent population; however those adolescents who were victims of childhood abuse show an even greater prevalence of both suicidality and substance and alcohol misuse. Additionally adolescents who exhibit alcohol or substance misuse show greater rater of suicidality than those without alcohol and substance misuse. It appears that abuse is a risk factor for eventual suicidality. Practitioners working with children or adolescents who have experienced abuse need to work towards secondary prevention by identifying, predicting and treating those at risk for substance abuse and/or suicide; and those working with adolescents who are already abusing substances and/or are suicidal should work with the adolescent to identify and examine life events such as abuse that may have triggered the chain towards substance misuse and/or suicidal ideation.
Adolescent suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death in the United States and alcohol consumption is estimated to cause adolescent males to be up to 17 times more likely to attempt suicide, and females three times more likely to attempt suicide. Suicide and suicide attempt rates vary across different ethnicities. Also, associated psychopathology, stressors and substance use differ across ethnic groups in adolescents. In an exhaustive review of the literature, we found that depressed Asian-American youth were four times more likely to display suicidal behavior when compared to other Asian youths with other diagnoses; and depressed African-American females were more likely to report suicidal ideation than male adolescents. We also found that Asian-Americans who experience high parental conflict are 30 times more likely to engage in suicidal behavior when compared to Asian-American youths with low parental conflict. African-American adolescents are 6.4 times more likely to attempt suicide as a result of parental conflict. With respect to alcohol use and dependence, Caucasian adolescents were twice as likely as the African American victims to have used alcohol before committing suicide. Alcohol use among adolescents was associated with increased suicidal behavior. Cultural differences in alcohol consumption may account for disparities, however future research is needed to further examine cultural trends in suicidal behavior and alcoholism.
Functional MRI of the brain is a technique that localizes regions of activity in the brain following task activation. It is useful to neuroscientists interested in interrogating the localization of certain brain functions. Alcohol misuse is a complex, multidimensional disorder involving problematic ethanol ingestion and reflected in behavior. Genetic factors play an important role in the etiopathogenesis of alcohol abuse in adolescents. Alcohol use disorders tend to run in families with 40-60% of the variance of risk explained by genetic influences. Numerous well-designed twin, adoption, and family studies have demonstrated that genetic factors are important in determining vulnerability to alcohol use disorders. There is a tendency for people who misuse alcohol to marry individuals who also abuse alcohol (assortative mating). Thus, many adolescent alcohol misusers are from families with a high proportion of alcohol abuse or dependence. It has been shown that alcohol abusing adolescents have a number of cognitive deficits. Neuropsychological studies of adolescents with alcohol use disorders have reported decrements in language skills, problem solving, verbal and non-verbal retention, working memory, and visuospatial performance. Some cognitive deficits may be present before an adolescent starts drinking and contribute to the development of alcohol use disorders. Data suggest that neuropsychological dysfunction may play a role in determining risk for suicidal acts. Therefore, studies of cognitive impairments and the neural substrate of these impairments in alcohol abusing adolescents may help develop methods of identifying teenagers who are at increased risk for suicide and contribute to our knowledge of the neurobiology of suicidal behavior and may lead to the development of new treatment methods.
Alterations in the mechanisms that regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity predate the development of alcohol use disorders. Human and animal studies indicate that chronic alcohol consumption induces a persistent impairment in the ability of the HPA axis to respond to stress. Therefore, HPA axis abnormalities may contribute to the development of alcohol use disorders and may be a result of alcohol misuse. HPA axis interacts with serotonergic mechanisms. Hippocampal function is modulated by serotonergic projections mostly from dorsal raphe nucleus in the midbrain. Glucocorticoids modulate the activity of this raphe-hippocampal system in various ways. These effects are mediated via central corticosteroid receptors, which include glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors located in the hippocampus and in other cortical structures. An association between suicidal behavior and hyperactivity of the HPA axis has been suggested. An abnormal interaction between the HPA mechanisms and serotonergic systems may substantially contribute to suicidal behavior in adolescents, because abnormalities in HPA and serotonin functions may be inherited and may manifest at young age. Vulnerability to alcohol use disorders and suicide is likely to be due to multiple interacting genetic loci of small to modest effects. The identification and treatment of adolescents at risk for suicide is one of the most critical issues in adolescent psychiatry. The identification of alcohol and drug misuse is critical to the proper assessment of suicide risk in adolescents. HPA dysregulation may contribute to both alcohol abuse and suicidal behavior in adolescents. Studies of HPA function in alcohol abusing adolescents may lead to the development of new diagnostic tests for predisposition to suicidal behavior. Furthermore, study of biological markers may help us towards an understanding of the neurophysiological substrates of severe dysphoric mood states, alcohol and substance abuse, and suicidal behavior in adolescents.
We found in an earlier study that participants in a short-term treatment program for obesity showed a good weight reduction (10.4 kg) 18 months after treatment terminated. The program included elements from cognitive therapy (CT) and psychoeducation. In the present study the efficacy of a slight modification of the same treatment program (cognitive treatment group) was compared with a behavioral program that included moderate-intensity physical activity and behavioral techniques (the control treatment group) in a randomized controlled trial. The primary effect variable was weight change 18 months after the end of therapy. Both treatment programs lasted for 10 weeks (2 hr/week), and thereafter the participants were weighed periodically over an 18-month period. The participants were obese women employed outside the home. Twelve of the participants did not receive treatment after randomization. Eleven of these participants had been randomized to the cognitive program, whereas the remaining participant was randomized to the control program. The mean age for those that began the 2 programs was 48.5 years, and the mean body mass index (BMI) was 36.6. For those who completed the treatment programs and participated in the 18-month follow-up, the baseline BMI was 34.7. One participant in the cognitive treatment group (n=16) and 6 in the control program (n=26) dropped out during treatment. Both per-protocol and intention-to-treat analyses were performed on the data. Fifteen participants (94%) completed the cognitive program. Of these, 13 (87%) participated at the 18-month follow-up. Their mean weight loss at treatment completion was 8.6 kg(SD=2.9) and 18 months later 5.9 kg (SD=5.4). Twenty participants (77%) completed the control program. Of these, 16 (80%) participated in the 18-month follow-up. Their mean weight loss at the end of treatment was 0.7 kg (SD=1.2), and 18 months later they showed an increase in weight of 0.3 kg (SD=4.3) as compared with baseline weight. The weight differences between the 2 program groups were highly significant (p&lt;.01-.001) at all posttreatment weighings. In the intention-to-treat analysis, all participants who started the cognitive treatment (n=16) or control program (n=26) were included. The last observation carried forward was used for those who dropped out from therapy or from follow-up. Eighteen months after the end of therapy, the mean weight loss was 5.5 kg (SD=5.5) in the cognitive group, whereas the control group evidenced a weight loss of 0.6 kg (SD=5.5). The weight change differences between the 2 groups were highly significant at all follow-up weighings (p&lt;.001). The low drop-out rate during the treatment period demonstrates that the participants found the 2 programs acceptable. The long-term efficacy of the cognitive treatment program seems to be satisfactory. With its group format and short treatment duration, the cognitive program is attractive from a cost-effective standpoint.
Differential intracellular distribution of the three pharmacologically and biophysically distinct types of IP3Rs can lead to different subcellular Ca2+ transients each coupled to discrete intracellular functions. Here, we report the functional localization of differentially distributed IP3 receptor types in the commonly-used hippocampal cell line HT22. The distinct subcellular localization and Ca2+ signaling properties of these receptors determine the potential role of specific IP3 receptor types in cellular function. By utilizing immunochemistry, we conclude that HT22 cells express all three IP3 receptors with types 1 and 3 being expressed predominantly in the endoplasmic reticulum and perinuclear regions and type 2 being expressed predominantly in the nuclear envelope. Optical imaging studies using the Ca2+-sensitive indicator dye fluo-3 show that nuclear IP3 responses have greater amplitude and faster kinetics than cytosolic IP3 responses corresponding to the biophysical characteristics of the differentially distributed receptor types. These results support the hypothesis that differentially distributed IP3R isotypes mediate distinct cellular functions through differential, organelle-specific Ca2+ signaling.
The organ of Corti, the sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea, develops from a subset of cells located along the dorsal side (referred to as the floor) of the cochlear duct. Over the course of embryonic development, cells within the developing organ of Corti become committed to develop as each of the unique cell types within the organ, including inner and outer hair cells, and at least four different types of supporting cells. Moreover, these different cell types are subsequently arranged into a highly rigorous cellular mosaic that includes the formation of ordered rows of both hair cells and supporting cells. The events that regulate both the location of the organ of Corti within the cochlear duct, the specification of each cell type and cellular patterning remain poorly understood. However, recent results have significantly improved our understanding of the molecular, genetic and cellular factors that mediate some of the decisions required for the development of this structure. In this review I will present an overview of cochlear development and then discuss some of the most recent and enlightening results regarding the molecular mechanism underlying the formation of this remarkable structure.
This paper reviews and discusses existing barriers to diagnosis and treatment for patients with dementia in Europe as well as approaches to overcome these barriers. The barriers to care are manifold, being present at all levels in each society and between countries in Europe. Multilevel and multifaceted strategies are needed to improve diagnosis and treatments for all patients with cognitive complaints. A multidisciplinary approach based on close collaboration between GPs and specialised memory clinics may be the ideal model for early accurate diagnosis and subsequently early pharmacological and psychosocial interventions. For all healthcare professionals, there should be specialised training in dementia and frequently updated practice guidelines to provide the framework for standards of care. Culture-sensitive strategies to promote public knowledge and destigmatize dementia are essential. Policy makers and authorities should be made aware of the benefits of early access to diagnosis and treatment.
The expression psychopathology in general and child psychopathology in particular, is affected by multiple sources of variance. Some of these sources include gender differences, informant differences, and age-related differences. In this paper, we discuss how these sources of variance complicate both research and clinical management. We argue that the current diagnostic system would be aided by the inclusion of a quantitative axis that can take these sources of variance into account. We reason that the fields of genomics and neuroscience are prepared to move the field of developmental psychopathology forward, but need a diagnostic system that allows for these sources of variance to be controlled. We demonstrate how in Conduct Disorder, inclusion of dimensional information would allow the clinician or researcher to demonstrate not only the presence or absence of pathology, but also the degree to which the disorder is manifested in a particular individual. Because dimensional approaches are already used widely as an alternative measure of psychopathology, we argue that there is reason to consider dimensionalizing some aspects of the DSM.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle blink reflex in humans can be modulated by selective attention to the prepulse. The present experiment used a memory task to determine whether the encoding of information for later report can modulate PPI. Participants were briefly presented with a display of one or three letters followed by a pattern mask and asked to make a delayed report of the letter(s) shown. Memory recall was better in the 1-letter condition than in the 3-letter condition. Prepulse inhibition was greater in the 3-letter condition than in the 1-letter condition at lead intervals of 120 and 240 ms following the onset of the letter display. Blink modulation did not differ between the letter conditions at lead intervals of 120, 240, 360, or 2600 ms following the mask, ruling out other explanations (e.g., rehearsal) for the earlier difference in PPI. The results suggest that the short-term consolidation of memory, and possibly any cognitive process that requires access to a theoretical limited capacity central processing mechanism modulates PPI.
Since the discovery of the sex-determining gene Sry in 1990, research effort has focused on the events downstream of its expression. A range of different experimental approaches including gene expression, knocking-out and knocking-in genes of interest, and cell and tissue culture techniques have been applied, highlighting the importance of growth factors at all stages of testicular morphogenesis. Migration of primordial germ cells and the mesonephric precursors of peritubular myoid cells and endothelial cells to the gonad is under growth factor control. Proliferation of both germ cells and somatic cells within the gonadal primordium is also controlled by cytokines as is the interaction of Sertoli cells (with each other and with the extracellular matrix) to form testicular cords. Several growth factors/growth factor families (e.g., platelet-derived growth factor, fibroblast growth factor family, TGFbeta family, and neurotrophins) have emerged as key players, exerting an influence at different time points and steps in organogenesis. Although most evidence has emerged in the mouse, comparative studies are important in elucidating the variety, potential, and evolution of control mechanisms.
CD1d-restricted invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are a unique subset of T cells that recognize glycolipid antigens presented by the CD1d molecule. iNKT cells participate in various kinds of immunoregulation due to a potent ability to produce a variety of cytokines. Recent advances in studies of novel synthetic glycolipid ligands has led to new strategies to manipulate the pleiotropic functions of iNKT cells. The molecular mechanism of selective cytokine production by glycolipid ligands will be discussed. We will also focus on the possible therapeutic application of such ligands for the clinical treatment of various autoimmune diseases.
Microglia-derived inflammatory neurotoxins play a principal role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and HIV-associated dementia; chief among these is reactive oxygen species. The detrimental effects of oxidative stress in the brain and nervous system are primarily a result of the diminished capacity of the central nervous system to prevent ongoing oxidative damage. A spectrum of environmental cues, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulation of aberrant misfolded proteins, inflammation, and defects in protein clearance are known to evolve and form as a result of disease progression. These factors likely affect glial function serving to accelerate the tempo of disease. Understanding the relationships between disease progression, free radical formation, neuroinflammation, and neurotoxicity is critical to elucidating disease mechanisms and the development of therapeutic modalities to combat disease processes. In an era where populations continue to age, the prevalence and incidence of age-related neurodegenerative diseases are on the rise; therefore, the need for novel therapeutic strategies that attenuate neuroinflammation and protect neurons against oxidative stress is ever more immediate.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) catalyzes the first committed step in the synthesis of prostaglandins (PGs) and is the main target of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The enzyme exists as constitutive (COX-1) and inducible (COX-2) isoforms, being the latter a major player in inflammation. In the brain, COX-2 expression has been associated with inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes of several human neurological diseases. Prion diseases, or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, are a heterogeneous group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, characterized by deposition of the protease-resistant prion protein, astrocytosis, and spongiform degeneration. In addition, an extensive microglial activation supports the occurrence of local chronic inflammatory response. In experimental prion diseases, COX-2 immunoreactivity was found specifically localized to microglial cells and increased with the progression of disease, along with the number of activated microglia. The induction of COX-2 was paralleled by a substantial raise in the brain homogenate PGE(2) levels. In these models, only few scattered COX-1-positive microglia-like cells were detected, suggesting that COX-2 is the major form in prion diseases. In line with the animal models, elevated levels of PGE(2) were found in the cerebrospinal fluid of subjects affected by sporadic, genetic, or variant CJD. In sporadic CJD patients, the most numerous group of patients examined, higher CSF levels of PGE(2) were associated with shorter survival. Although the mechanisms leading to microglial COX-2 expression as well as its potential implication in prion disease pathogenesis remain to be established, PGE(2) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid might represent an important index to predict survival and disease severity.
Chemokines were detected by virtue of chemotactic effects toward neutrophils in the late 1970s. During subsequent decades, it has become clear that their primordial role in vertebrate biology was to facilitate organogenesis, with particularly important functions in the central nervous system (CNS). In common with other developmentally relevant factors, chemokines and their G-protein-coupled receptors continue to be expressed in the adult CNS as neuromodulators. In our progress toward chemokine receptor blockade for treatment of inflammatory and infectious diseases, the CNS physiology of the chemokine system will need to be a material consideration. In some cases, the dual functions of the chemokine system in the periphery and in the CNS offer unique possibilities for disease treatment.
Alterations of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) have been recently implicated in a number of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative conditions so that the pharmacological modulation of cannabinoid (CB) receptors and/or of the enzymes controlling synthesis, transport, and degradation of these substances has emerged as a valuable option to treat neurological diseases. Here, we describe the current knowledge concerning the rearrangement of ECS in a primarily inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system such as multiple sclerosis (MS), and in a primarily degenerative condition such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Furthermore, the data supporting a therapeutic role of agents modulating CB receptors or endocannabinoid tone in these disorders will also be reviewed. Complex changes of ECS take place in both diseases, influencing crucial aspects of their pathophysiology and clinical manifestations. Neuroinflammation, microglial activation, oxidative stress, and excitotoxicity are variably combined in MS and in ALS and can be modulated by endocannabinoids or by drugs targeting the ECS.
In neurotrauma, brain ischemia or neurodegenerative diseases, astrocytes become reactive (which is known as reactive gliosis) and this is accompanied by an altered expression of many genes. Two cellular hallmarks of reactive gliosis are hypertrophy of astrocyte processes and the upregulation of the part of the cytoskeleton known as intermediate filaments, which are composed of nestin, vimentin, and GFAP. Our aim has been to better understand the function of reactive astrocytes in CNS diseases. Using mice deficient for astrocyte intermediate filaments (GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-)), we were able to attenuate reactive gliosis and slow down the healing process after neurotrauma. We demonstrated the key role of reactive astrocytes in neurotrauma-at an early stage after neurotrauma, reactive astrocytes have a neuroprotective effect; at a later stage, they facilitate the formation of posttraumatic glial scars and inhibit CNS regeneration, specifically, they seem to compromise neural graft survival and integration, reduce the extent of synaptic regeneration, inhibit neurogenesis in the old age, and inhibit regeneration of severed CNS axons. We propose that reactive astrocytes are the future target for the therapeutic strategies promoting regeneration and plasticity in the brain and spinal cord in various disease conditions. Through its involvement in inflammation, opsonization, and cytolysis, complement protects against infectious agents. Although most of the complement proteins are synthesized in CNS, the role of the complement system in the normal or ischemic CNS remains unclear. Complement activiation in the CNS has been generally considered as contributing to tissue damage. However, growing body of evidence suggests that complement may be a physiological neuroprotective mechanism as well as it may participate in maintenance and repair of the adult brain.
Inflammatory mediators, including free radicals such as nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), can contribute to neurodegenerative diseases in part by triggering protein misfolding. In this chapter, we will discuss a newly discovered pathway for this phenomenon and possible novel treatments. Excitotoxicity, defined as overstimulation of glutamate receptors, has been implicated in a final common pathway contributing to neuronal injury and death in a wide range of acute and chronic neurological disorders, ranging from Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) to stroke and trauma. Excitotoxic cell death is due, at least in part, to excessive activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors, leading to excessive Ca(2+) influx through the receptor's associated ion channel and subsequent free radical production, including NO and ROS. These free radicals can trigger a variety of injurious pathways, but newly discovered evidence suggests that some proteins are S-nitrosylated (transfer of NO to a critical thiol group), and this reaction can mimic the effect of rare genetic mutations. This posttranslational modification can contribute to protein misfolding, triggering neurodegenerative diseases. One such molecule affected is protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), an enzyme responsible for normal protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We found that when PDI is S-nitrosylation (forming SNO-PDI), the function of the enzyme is compromised, leading to misfolded proteins and contributing to neuronal cell injury and loss. Moreover, SNO-PDI occurs at pathological levels in several human diseases, including AD and PD. This discovery thus links protein misfolding to excitotoxicity and free radical formation in a number of neurodegenerative disorders. Another molecule whose S-nitrosylation can lead to abnormal protein accumulation is the E3 ubiquitin ligase, parkin, which contributes to the pathogenesis of PD. One way to ameliorate excessive NO production and hence abnormal S-nitrosylations would be to inhibit NMDA receptors. In fact, blockade of excessive NMDA receptor activity can in large measure protect neurons from this type of injury and death. However, inhibition of the NMDA receptor by high-affinity antagonists also blocks the receptor's normal function in synaptic transmission and leads to unacceptable side effects. For this reason, many NMDA receptor antagonists have disappointingly failed in advanced clinical trials. Our group was the first to demonstrate that gentle blockade of NMDA receptors by memantine, via a mechanism of uncompetitive open-channel block with a rapid &quot;off-rate,&quot; can prevent this type of damage in a clinically efficacious manner without substantial side effects. For these Uncompetitive/Fast Off-rate therapeutics, we use the term &quot;UFO drugs&quot; because like Unidentified Flying Objects, they leave very quickly as soon as their job is finished. As a result, memantine blocks excessive NMDA receptor activity without disrupting normal activity. Memantine does this by preferentially entering the receptor-associated ion channel when it is excessively open, and, most importantly, when its off-rate from the channel is relatively fast so that it does not accumulate to interfere with normal synaptic transmission. Hence, memantine is clinically well tolerated, has been used in Europe for PD for many years, and recently passed multiple phase III trials for dementia, leading to its approval by the FDA and European Union for moderate-to-severe AD. Clinical studies of memantine for additional neurological disorders, including other dementias, neuropathic pain, and glaucoma, are underway. We have also developed a series of second-generation drugs that display greater neuroprotective properties than memantine. These second-generation drugs take advantage of the fact that the NMDA receptor has other modulatory sites, including critical thiol groups that are S-nitrosylated. In this case, in contrast to PDI or parkin, S-nitrosylation proves to be neuroprotective by decreasing excessive NMDA receptor activity. Targeted S-nitrosylation of the NMDA receptor can be achieved by coupling NO to memantine, yielding second-generation &quot;UFO drugs&quot; known as NitroMemantines.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered an immune-mediated disorder in which immune cells cross the blood-brain barrier to enter the central nervous system (CNS) wherein they augment the neuropathology of the disease. This chapter discusses the role of various immune cell types that contribute to the development and progression of MS. Specifically, the role of T cells, antigen-presenting cells, and components of the innate immune system such as macrophages, B cells, and the complement system are discussed. The involvement of CNS-specific cells such as microglia, astrocytes, and neurons in MS are discussed and the immunosuppressive role of regulatory T cells is considered. We introduce the involvement of chemokines and matrix metalloproteinases which helps recruit immune cells into the CNS in MS. Although the causes of MS are unknown, various factors such as genetic influences, environmental effects, and involvement of infectious agents as potential contributors to MS immune dysfunctions are also considered. With this background, we discuss the mechanisms of the immunomodulators that are used to treat MS.
The transition from age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) to the dramatic loss of cognitive abilities accompanying Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires progressive development of neocortical pathology that results in neuron death. The selective vulnerability of this neuron death is reflected in the characteristics of cortical pyramidal neurons that are prone to form neurofibrillary tangles. Loss of the neurons that form long corticocortical projections in the association neocortex emerges as the pathological outcome most directly related to the dementia observed in AD. AAMI likely involves alterations of neuronal spines and synapses without neuron death. Interestingly, the same circuits that are vulnerable to degeneration in AD are vulnerable to synaptic alterations short of neuron death. These synaptic alterations likely impact cognitive function in normal aging in a manner consistent with the more modest cognitive decline typically seen in aging. Estrogen levels affect spine density on pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex; these neurons may provide many of the same circuits implicated in AAMI. This association demonstrates an important interface between reproductive and neural senescence and suggests that the synaptic alterations prevalent in normal aging may be responsive to therapy.
Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disorder that affects approximately one percent of the population worldwide. We argue that the efforts to decipher the genetic causes of schizophrenia have reached another turning point and describe evidence supporting some of the major recent genetic findings in the field. In addition, we identify some general areas of caution in the interpretation of these findings and addresses the promise this recently acquired knowledge holds for the generation of reliable animal models, characterization of genetic interactions, dissection of the disease pathophysiology and development of novel, mechanism-based treatments for the patients.
Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder that affects up to 1% of the population worldwide. As of yet, neurochemical mechanisms underlying schizophrenia remain unknown. To date, the most widely considered neurochemical hypothesis of schizophrenia is the dopamine hypothesis, which postulates that symptoms of schizophrenia may result from excess dopaminergic neurotransmission particularly in striatal brain regions, along with dopaminergic deficits in prefrontal brain regions. Alternative neurochemical models of schizophrenia, however, have been proposed involving glutamatergic mechanisms in general and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in particular. A potential role for glutamatergic mechanisms in schizophrenia was first proposed approximately 15 years ago based on the observation that the psychotomimetic agents phencyclidine (PCP) and ketamine induce psychotic symptoms and neurocognitive disturbances similar to those of schizophrenia by blocking neurotransmission at NMDA-type glutamate receptors. Since that time, significant additional evidence has accumulated supporting a role for NMDA hypofunction in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Clinical challenge studies with PCP and ketamine have confirmed the close resemblance between NMDA antagonist-induced symptoms and neurocognitive deficits and those observed in schizophrenia, and suggest that NMDA dysfunction may lead to secondary dopaminergic dysregulation in striatal and prefrontal brain regions. As compared to dopaminergic agents, NMDA antagonists induce negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia, as well as positive symptoms. Treatment studies with NMDA modulators, such as glycine, d-serine, and glycine transport inhibitors (GTIs), have yielded encouraging findings, although results remain controversial. Finally, genetic linkage and in vivo neurochemical studies in schizophrenia highlight potential etiological mechanisms giving rise to glutamatergic/NMDA dysfunction in schizophrenia.
The dopamine system has been a subject of intense investigation due to its role in a number of normal functions and its disruption in pathological conditions. Thus, the dopamine system has been shown to play a major role in cognitive, affective, and motor functions, and its disruption has been proposed to underlie the pathophysiology of several major psychiatric and neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, drug abuse, and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Although these studies have continued to define the basic functional principles of the dopamine system in the mammalian brain, we are still at the initial stages in unraveling the complex role of this transmitter system in regulating behavioral processes. Accumulating evidence suggests that dopamine modulates excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission, and moreover affects synaptic plasticity induced within the circuits of its target brain regions. It is this role in synaptic plasticity that has associated the dopamine system with aspects of cognitive function involving learning and memory. In this chapter, we summarize recent findings relevant to the role of the dopamine system in psychiatric disorders at cellular, anatomical, and functional levels. In particular, we will focus on the regulation of dopamine neuron activity states and how this impacts dopamine release in cortical and subcortical systems, and the physiological and behavioral impact of dopamine receptor stimulation in the postsynaptic targets of these neurons. A brief summary of recent findings regarding the development and maturation of DA system and how this relates to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders are given, and finally models of dopamine system disruption in schizophrenia and how therapeutic approaches impact on dopamine system dynamics is presented.

Advances in methods of examining the human brain have led to a dramatic increase in specific knowledge about the origins of tinnitus. Neural modeling, behavioral measurements of hearing performance and psychological state, neuro-morphology, metabolic measurements of neural activity, electromagnetic recordings of synaptic potentials, and optical measurements of action potentials are all modalities that have provided insights or the promise of new information about the pathophysiology of tinnitus. This review examines these techniques and their contributions to knowledge about tinnitus.
Elevated blood glucose associated with diabetes produces progressive and apparently irreversible damage to many cell types. Conversely, reduction of glucose extends life span in yeast, and dietary restriction reduces blood glucose. Therefore it has been hypothesized that cumulative toxic effects of glucose drive at least some aspects of the aging process and, conversely, that protective effects of dietary restriction are mediated by a reduction in exposure to glucose. The mechanisms mediating cumulative toxic effects of glucose are suggested by two general principles of metabolic processes, illustrated by the lac operon but also observed with glucose-induced gene expression. First, metabolites induce the machinery of their own metabolism. Second, induction of gene expression by metabolites can entail a form of molecular memory called hysteresis. When applied to glucose-regulated gene expression, these two principles suggest a mechanism whereby repetitive exposure to postprandial excursions of glucose leads to an age-related increase in glycolytic capacity (and reduction in beta-oxidation of free fatty acids), which in turn leads to an increased generation of oxidative damage and a decreased capacity to respond to oxidative damage, independent of metabolic rate. According to this mechanism, dietary restriction increases life span and reduces pathology by reducing exposure to glucose and therefore delaying the development of glucose-induced glycolytic capacity.


In an era in which neuroscience is developing rapidly and different psychotherapeutic modalities are proliferating, psychiatric training encounters new difficulties. This article raises various issues that the authors feel are not adequately addressed in contemporary psychiatric residency programs in Israel. These include basic issues of doctor-patient relationship; different cultural trends such as the increase in popularity of CAM (complementary and alternative medicine), the increase in substance abuse, and the increasing popularity of different spiritual movements; transcultural aspects affecting the prevalence and understanding of different psychopathologies in various sectors of the population; ethical issues particular to psychiatric research; and the future psychiatrist's role as communicator and educator of GPs, mental health workers and the general public. In a time characterized by an abundance of models and theories in psychiatry, the authors stress the need to assist residents in integrating various theories and models into a comprehensive outlook regarding the psyche and psychiatric disorders. As mental hospitals vary greatly in their general psychiatric outlook, emphases, and competence of the senior staff in different fields and treatment modalities, the authors see programs for continuing medical education (CME) as the natural arena in which the issues mentioned in this paper should be addressed.
Echolocating dolphins extract object feature information from the acoustic parameters of echoes. To gain insight into which acoustic parameters are important for object discrimination, human listeners were presented with echoes from objects used in two discrimination tasks performed by dolphins: Hollow cylinders with varying wall thicknesses (+/-0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.8 mm), and spheres made of different materials (steel, aluminum, brass, nylon, and glass). The human listeners performed as well or better than the dolphins at the task of discriminating between the standard object and the comparison objects on both the cylinders (humans=97.1%; dolphin=82.3%) and the spheres (humans= 86.6%; dolphin= 88.7%). The human listeners reported using primarily pitch and duration to discriminate among the cylinders, and pitch and timbre to discriminate among the spheres. Dolphins may use some of the same echo features as the humans to discriminate among objects varying in material or structure. Human listening studies can be used to quickly identify salient combinations of echo features that permit object discrimination, which can then be used to generate hypotheses that can be tested using dolphins as subjects.

Cannabis is the most widely used illicit substance in the United States, and rates of cannabis use disorders in some Native American samples have been reported to be higher than in the general U.S. population. However, little is known about factors which are associated with remission from cannabis dependence in any ethnicity. Using the SSAGA, this study examined variables associated with complete remission (defined as no symptoms of dependence for 6 months or more) from DSM-III-R cannabis dependence in 159 Southwest California Indians living on contiguous reservations. Female gender, employment, having more cannabis-induced symptoms, and a shorter duration of dependence were all associated with an increased likelihood of remission. Attention to factors associated with remission from cannabis dependence may be important in designing more effective treatment and intervention programs in this high-risk population.
Heroin addiction is increasingly being recognized as a chronic relapsing condition, but relatively little is known about long-term recovery processes among addicts who attain and maintain long periods of abstinence. This study is to identify predictors of long-term stable recovery from heroin addiction based on 242 heroin addicts that have been followed for more than 30 years. Results showed that recovery and non-recovery groups did not differ in deviant behaviors and family/school problems in their earlier lives. Both groups tried formal treatment and self-directed recovery (&quot;self-treatment&quot;), often many times. While the non-recovered addicts were significantly more likely to use substances in coping with stressful conditions, to have spouses who also abused drugs, and to lack non-drug-using social support, stable recovery ten years later was predicted only by ethnicity, self-efficacy, and psychological distress. These findings suggest that in addition to early intervention to curtail heroin addiction, increasing self-efficacy and addressing psychological problems are likely to enhance the odds of maintaining long-term stable recovery.




It is my intention to suggest that there are several affinities between Bion's thought, in particular with such concepts as truth, absolute truth (O), the contact with O (at-one-ment), and the transformation into O, the act of faith, hallucinosis and illumination, and certain formulations referring to Zen Buddhism. These concepts can find, in turn, correspondences in the salient characteristics of the rock garden at Kyoto's Ryoan-ji temple.
The concept of unconscious fantasy should be retained as fundamental to any psychoanalytic approach. The concept is reexamined in the face of two challenges: today's theoretical pluralism and the recent integration of findings from academic research. The first section reviews post-Freudian theoretical contributions to Freud's original concept, concluding that in its evolved form it is flexible enough to serve multiple perspectives. The second section examines four features identified with primary process thinking, demonstrating that a model of early mentation based on adult dream work cannot be supported by research on early development. However, the contemporary concept of unconscious fantasy is compatible with research findings from child development studies and cognitive neuroscience, permitting psychoanalysts to enter dialogue with those fields. Our contribution is not the posit of a new form of thinking (primary process) but an understanding of how general cognitive processes are enlisted for motivated purposes.
The neural circuits activated in a person carrying out actions, expressing emotions, and experiencing sensations are activated also, automatically via a mirror neuron system, in the observer of those actions, emotions, and sensations. It is proposed that this finding of shared activation suggests a functional mechanism of &quot;embodied simulation&quot; that consists of the automatic, unconscious, and noninferential simulation in the observer of actions, emotions, and sensations carried out and experienced by the observed. It is proposed also that the shared neural activation pattern and the accompanying embodied simulation constitute a fundamental biological basis for understanding another's mind. The implications of this perspective for psychoanalysis are discussed, particularly regarding unconscious communication, projective identification, attunement, empathy, autism, therapeutic action, and transference-countertransference interactions.
Various strategies have been studied to reduce the discomfort of rocuronium pain. These studies have shown fentanyl and lidocaine to be effective in reducing the incidence of pain on rocuronium injection. This prospective, randomized, and double-blind study was carried out on 80 neurosurgical patients for whom pain on rocuronium injection was assessed after pretreatment with lidocaine, fentanyl, sufentanil, or normal saline. The 80 neurosurgical patients were randomly allocated to anyone of the groups to receive lidocaine, fentanyl, sufentanil, or normal saline prior to being given rocuronium. The patients were asked about any discomfort in the hand, and also to rank that discomfort on a 5-point scale. In the normal saline group, the incidence of pain was 95%, of which 90% had very severe pain. In the lidocaine group, only 10% of patients reported pain, which was mild in nature. In the fentanyl group, 95% of patients had pain, of whom 25% had severe to very severe pain. In the sufentanil group, 85% of patients reported pain, of whom 25% fell into the severe to very severe group. We found that lidocaine was best at decreasing the incidence of pain on intravenous (i.v.) injection of rocuronium. Although the incidence of pain on injection of rocuronium with both fentanyl and sufentanil was high, the intensity was definitely reduced, with most patients falling in the mild pain group.
The neural mechanisms behind anesthetic-induced behavioral changes such as loss of consciousness, amnesia, and analgesia, are insufficiently understood, though general anesthesia has been of tremendous importance for the development of medicine. In this review, I summarize what is currently known about general anesthetic actions at different organizational levels and discuss current and future research, using systems neuroscience approaches such as functional neuroimaging and quantitative electrophysiology to understand anesthesia actions at the integrated brain level.
Despite great adaptability, most nonhuman primates require regular tactile contact with conspecifics for their psychological well being. By illustrating the inherent value of social contact and by providing clues to the best ways of satisfying this need, behavioral studies are useful in designing social enrichment programs. Although group housing is ideal for most gregarious primates, space constraints and protocol requirements may preclude such environments for macaques housed indoors. Pair housing is an effective and practical alternative. Furthermore, such social experience facilitates integration into future social groups, including those in postresearch retirement facilities. This article references common research protocols that accommodate pair housing and includes scientific recommendations for institutional animal care and use committees (IACUCs) to facilitate providing physical social contact for nonhuman primates in laboratories.
In humans, hyperventilation (HV) has various effects on systemic physiology and, in particular, on neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. However, it is far from clear how the effects of HV are mediated at the cortical level. In this study we investigated the effects of HV-induced hypocapnia on primary motor (M1) and visual cortex (V1) excitability. We used 1) motor threshold (MT) and phosphene threshold (PT) and 2) stimulus-response (S-R) curves (i.e., recruitment curves) as measures of excitability. In the motor cortex, we additionally investigated 3) the intrinsic inhibitory and facilitatory neuronal circuits using a short-interval paired-pulse paradigm. Measurements were performed before, during, and after 10 min of HV (resulting in a minimum end-tidal Pco(2) of 15 Torr). HV significantly increased motor-evoked potential (MEP) amplitudes, particularly at lower transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) intensities. Paired-pulse stimulation indicated that HV decreases intracortical inhibition (ICI) without changing intracortical facilitation. The results suggestthat low Pco(2) levels modulate, in particular, the intrinsic neuronal circuits of ICI, which are largely mediated by neurons containing gamma-aminobutyric acid. Modulation of MT probably resulted from alterations of Na(+) channel conductances. A significant decrease of PT, together with higher intensity of phosphenes at low stimulus intensities, furthermore suggested that HV acts on the excitability of M1 and V1 in a comparable fashion. This finding implies that HV also affects other brain structures besides the corticospinal motor system. The further exploration of these physiological mechanisms may contribute to the understanding of the various HV-related clinical phenomenona.
Thirty-one infant siblings of children with autism and 24 comparison infants were tested at 6 months of age during social interaction with a caregiver, using a modified Still Face paradigm conducted via a closed-circuit TV-video system. In the Still Face paradigm, the mother interacts with the infant, then freezes and displays a neutral, expressionless face, then resumes interaction. Eye tracking data on infant visual fixation patterns were recorded during the three episodes of the experiment. Using a hierarchical cluster analysis, we identified a subgroup of infants demonstrating diminished gaze to the mother's eyes relative to her mouth during the Still Face episode. Ten out of the 11 infants in this subgroup had an older sibling with autism.
Complex processes resulting from interaction of multiple elements can rarely be understood by analytical scientific approaches alone; additional, mathematical models of system dynamics are required. This insight, which disciplines like physics have embraced for a long time already, is gradually gaining importance in the study of cognitive processes by functional neuroimaging. In this field, causal mechanisms in neural systems are described in terms of effective connectivity. Recently, dynamic causal modelling (DCM) was introduced as a generic method to estimate effective connectivity from neuroimaging data in a Bayesian fashion. One of the key advantages of DCM over previous methods is that it distinguishes between neural state equations and modality-specific forward models that translate neural activity into a measured signal. Another strength is its natural relation to Bayesian model selection (BMS) procedures. In this article, we review the conceptual and mathematical basis of DCM and its implementation for functional magnetic resonance imaging data and event-related potentials. After introducing the application of BMS in the context of DCM, we conclude with an outlook to future extensions of DCM. These extensions are guided by the long-term goal of using dynamic system models for pharmacological and clinical applications, particularly with regard to synaptic plasticity.
The second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) plays a pivotal role in axonal growth and guidance, but its downstream mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we report that type II protein kinase A (PKA) is highly enriched in growth cone filopodia, and this spatial localization enables the coupling of cAMP signaling to its specific effectors to regulate guidance responses. Disrupting the localization of PKA to filopodia impairs cAMP-mediated growth cone attraction and prevents the switching of repulsive responses to attraction by elevated cAMP. Our data further show that PKA targets protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) through the phosphorylation of a regulatory protein inhibitor-1 (I-1) to promote growth cone attraction. Finally, we find that I-1 and PP1 mediate growth cone repulsion induced by myelin-associated glycoprotein. These findings demonstrate that the spatial localization of type II PKA to growth cone filopodia plays an important role in the regulation of growth cone motility and guidance by cAMP.
Central synapses exhibit spontaneous neurotransmitter release that is selectively regulated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). We now show that synaptic vesicles contain synaptotagmin-12, a synaptotagmin isoform that differs from classical synaptotagmins in that it does not bind Ca(2+). In synaptic vesicles, synaptotagmin-12 forms a complex with synaptotagmin-1 that prevents synaptotagmin-1 from interacting with SNARE complexes. We demonstrate that synaptotagmin-12 is phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent PKA on serine(97), and show that expression of synaptotagmin-12 in neurons increases spontaneous neurotransmitter release by approximately threefold, but has no effect on evoked release. Replacing serine(97) by alanine abolishes synaptotagmin-12 phosphorylation and blocks its effect on spontaneous release. Our data suggest that spontaneous synaptic-vesicle exocytosis is selectively modulated by a Ca(2+)-independent synaptotagmin isoform, synaptotagmin-12, which is controlled by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation.
Axon-associated Schwann cell (SC) motility and process dynamics are crucial in the development and regeneration of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The bipolar morphology of SCs represents an unexplored conundrum in terms of directed motility. Using fluorescence time-lapse microscopy of transfected SCs within myelinating dorsal root ganglion (DRG) explants, we demonstrate cycling of SCs between bipolar and highly motile, unipolar morphologies as a result of asymmetric process retraction and extension. Unipolar SC motility appears nucleotaxic in nature, similar to the movement of neurons on radial glia during cortical development. We also show that asymmetric process retraction is associated with the activation of ERM (ezrin/radixin/moesin) proteins and subsequent recruitment of ezrin-binding phospho-protein 50 kDa (EBP50) at the retracting process tip. This activation occurs in response to localized synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2) at this site. Finally, we demonstrate that the activation of ERM proteins at the SC process tip is essential for motility and the maintenance of SC polarity, as ERM disruption yields a dysfunctional, multi-polar cell. These results demonstrate that specializations at the tips of SC processes regulate their dynamics, which in turn is associated with directed motility in these cells.
Our recent report that fructose supported the metabolism of some, but not all axons, in the adult mouse optic nerve prompted us to investigate in detail fructose metabolism in this tissue, a typical central white matter tract, as these data imply efficient fructose metabolism in the central nervous system (CNS). In artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 10 mmol/L glucose or 20 mmol/L fructose, the stimulus-evoked compound action potential (CAP) recorded from the optic nerve consisted of three stable peaks. Replacing 10 mmol/L glucose with 10 mmol/L fructose, however, caused delayed loss of the 1st CAP peak (the 2nd and 3rd CAP peaks were unaffected). Glycogen-derived metabolic substrate(s) temporarily sustained the 1st CAP peak in 10 mmol/L fructose, as depletion of tissue glycogen by a prior period of aglycaemia or high-frequency CAP discharge rendered fructose incapable of supporting the 1st CAP peak. Enzyme assays showed the presence of both hexokinase and fructokinase (both of which can phosphorylate fructose) in the optic nerve. In contrast, only hexokinase was expressed in cerebral cortex. Hexokinase in optic nerve had low affinity and low capacity with fructose as substrate, whereas fructokinase displayed high affinity and high capacity for fructose. These findings suggest an explanation for the curious fact that the fast conducting axons comprising the 1st peak of the CAP are not supported in 10 mmol/L fructose medium; these axons probably do not express fructokinase, a requirement for efficient fructose metabolism.
Hypothermia reduces cell death and promotes recovery in models of cerebral ischemia, intracerebral hemorrhage and trauma. Clinical studies report significant benefit for treating cardiac arrest and studies are investigating hypothermia for stroke and related conditions. Both local (head) and generalized hypothermia have been used. However, selective brain cooling has fewer side effects than systemic cooling. In this study, we developed a method to induce local (hemispheric) brain hypothermia in rats. The method involves using a small metal coil implanted between the Temporalis muscle and adjacent skull. This coil is then cooled by flushing it with cold water. In our first experiment, we tested whether this method induces focal brain hypothermia in anesthetized rats. Brain temperature was assessed in the ipsilateral cortex and striatum, and contralateral striatum, while body temperature was kept normothermic. Focal, ipsilateral cooling was successfully produced, while the other locations remained normothermic. In the second experiment, we implanted the coil, and brain and body temperature telemetry probes. The coil was connected via overhead swivel to a cold-water source. Brain hypothermia was produced for 24 h, while body temperature remained normothermic. A third experiment measured brain and body temperature along with heart rate and blood pressure. Brain cooling was produced for 24 h without significant alterations in pressure, heart rate or body temperature. In summary, our simple method allows for focal brain hypothermia to be safely induced in anesthetized or conscious rats, and is, therefore, ideally suited to stroke and trauma studies.
Imidazoleacetic acid-ribotide (IAA-RP) is a putative neurotransmitter/modulator recently discovered in mammalian brain. The present study examines the distribution of IAA-RP in the rat CNS using a highly specific antiserum raised in rabbit against IAA-RP with immunostaining of aldehyde-fixed rat CNS. IAA-RP-immunoreactive neurons were present throughout the neuraxis; neuroglia were not labeled. In each region, only a subset of the neuronal pool was immunostained. In the forebrain, ribotide-immunolabeled neurons were common in neocortex, in hippocampal formation, and in subcortical structures including basal ganglia, thalamus and hypothalamus. Labeling was prominent in limbic areas including olfactory bulb, basal forebrain, pyriform cortex and amygdala. In the mid- and hindbrain, immunolabeled neurons were concentrated in specific nuclei and, in some areas, in specific subregions of those nuclei. Structures of the motor system, including cranial nerve motor nuclei, precerebellar nuclei, the substantia nigra, and the red nucleus were clearly labeled. Staining was intense in cells and/or puncta in the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medullary reticular formation, nucleus tractus solitarius and the caudal vestibular nuclear complex. Within neurons, the ribotide was found predominantly in somata and dendrites; some myelinated axons and occasional synaptic terminals were also immunostained. These data indicate that IAA-RP contributes to the neurochemical phenotype of many neuronal populations and further supports our suggestion that, in autonomic structures, IAA-RP may serve as a chemical mediator in complex circuits involved in blood pressure regulation and, more generally, sympathetic drive.
The experimental model of cisplatin treatment provides the opportunity to identify the precise function of the neurotransmitters in some crucial events of brain development, and their interactions or modulatory roles. The serotonin and noradrenaline monoamines influence the formation of the cerebellar cortex circuitry. In this study we found changes in the expression of the serotonin and noradrenaline receptors after a single injection of cisplatin in 10-day-old rats. The growth of Pc dendrites was early altered in lobules VI-VIII of cerebellum vermis. In these lobules, at postnatal day (PD) 17, the cisplatin-induced increase of the serotoninergic receptor 5-HT2AR, a factor that inhibits Pc dendrite growth by acting post-synaptically, occurred in all cerebellar layers, suggesting also alteration of granule cell proliferation and migration. The decreased labelling of beta l adrenergic receptor (beta1AR) in the soma of some Pc at PD11 can be correlated with the altered expression of glutamate receptors and GAD65 (glutamic acid decarboxylase) of and on Pc we have previously described [Pisu, M.B., Guioli, S., Conforti, E., Bernocchi, G., 2003. Signal molecules and receptors in the differential development of cerebellum lobules. Acute effects of cisplatin on nitric oxide and glutamate system in Purkinje cell population. Dev. Brain Res. 145, 229-240; Pisu, M.B., Roda, E., Avella, D., Bernocchi, G., 2004. Developmental plasticity of rat cerebellar cortex after cisplatin injury: inhibitory synapses and differentiating Purkinje neurons. Neuroscience 129, 655-664]. Moreover, beta1AR seems to be the key factor in the cerebellar reorganization between PD17 and PD30. The expression of this receptor was maintained in the molecular layer (ML), in particular in the inhibitory interneurons, despite their different distributions. The labelling of 5-HT1AR in the ML areas lacking Pc dendrite branches could contribute to the recovery phase of the cerebellar cytoarchitecture in cisplatin-treated rats. In general these findings should be taken into consideration in therapeutic interventions for developmental CNS disorders with a morphological basis.
Patients with early onset seizure disorder tend to have less cognitive decline following surgical resection than patients with late onset seizure disorder. Differential opportunity for presurgical cerebral functional reorganization has been proposed to account for this &quot;age of onset&quot; effect. However, the relationships between age of seizure onset, functional organization, and neuropsychological outcome remain incompletely understood. To shed additional light on these issues, we investigated 66 patients with anterior temporal lobectomies (37 left; 29 right), all of whom completed comprehensive neuropsychological assessment prior to and following surgical resection. The sample was divided into two groups: 34 patients with early onset (EO) epilepsy and 32 patients with late onset (LO) epilepsy. We found the typical age of onset effect: post-surgically, EO patients demonstrated relatively better outcome in multiple neuropsychological domains, especially verbal memory, compared to LO patients. Based on presurgical Wada testing, 23 patients were classified as having traditional cerebral functional organization (TFO) and 35 were classified as having nontraditional cerebral functional organization (NTFO). The NTFO group had an earlier age of seizure onset than the TFO group, and NTFO was more frequent in EO patients (70%) than LO patients (50%). NTFO patients demonstrated relatively better post-surgical outcome in several neuropsychological domains, compared to TFO patients. Our findings are consistent with the notion that functional reorganization may be an explanatory factor for the better neuropsychological outcome of EO epilepsy patients following anterior temporal lobectomy.
Although intracerebral haemorrhage occurring after surgery for chronic subdural haematoma has been reported as a rare complication, intracerebral haemorrhage occurring during surgery has not been described previously. A case of bilateral chronic subdural haematomas, with a small motor area haemorrhage occurring intra-operatively, is described here.
The objective of this article is to review literature about the effects of stimulant therapy on substance use disorders and the potential for misuse and diversion of stimulants. We reviewed published literature relevant to these objectives, and studies were selected if they were published or accepted for publication in peer-reviewed journals. Prospective longitudinal studies show that attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a risk factor for subsequent substance use disorders. These studies also suggest that ADHD pharmacotherapy in childhood reduces the risk for substance use disorders. Misuse and diversion of prescribed stimulants occur among a minority of ADHD patients, especially those with conduct or substance use disorders. Long-acting stimulants may be less likely to be misused or diverted.
Unipolar and bipolar disorders are major causes of disease burden for women in the United States. For some women, the menopausal transition can represent a time of increased vulnerability to depression, a greater risk of recurrence or instability of bipolar disorder, and an overall poorer quality of life (QOL). The physical and psychological changes of menopause and symptoms of depression may overlap, but QOL is affected doubly for women experiencing menopause-related complaints concomitantly with a unipolar or bipolar disorder. Treatments for the symptoms of menopause and for unipolar or bipolar disorder need to be chosen with careful consideration for the different stages of the menopausal transition, as well as safety, tolerability, and impact on QOL. Menopausal-related symptoms can be treated with hormonal therapies, antidepressants, and herbal supplements, but a critical window of opportunity may exist for these interventions. Bipolar disorder presents differently in women than in men and may require different medication. For instance, in women, lithium may be less effective for patients who have rapid cycling; adjuvant antidepressant medication may be required with valproate or carbamazepine; and lamotrigine may also be effective. Most of the medications that are standard treatment for bipolar disorder affect bone mineral density, and the risk for impaired QOL should be considered when choosing medication for women during this period. Insufficient information is available, however, to assess the best strategy to treat women with bipolar disorder and depression as they age.
Antidepressant activity of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) was initially noted in the 1950s, and by the early 1960s, they were a mainstay of antidepressant treatment. Reports of adverse events such as acute hypertensive reactions following the ingestion of certain foods and beverages tempered clinicians' enthusiasm for MAOIs. Introduction of the tricyclic antidepressants and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors led to declines in the use of MAOIs. However, MAOIs have been well established as an effective intervention for people with treatment-resistant depression, and transdermal formulations may provide a valuable therapeutic option and eliminate the drug-food interaction.
Although the introduction of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ushered in an era of relative comfort among clinicians in treating major depressive disorder (MDD), no one antidepressant is appropriate for all patients with depression. In patients with atypical symptoms, efficacy of therapeutic agents may be greatest for monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). The first-generation MAOIs such as phenelzine and isocarboxazid were largely nonselective inhibitors of both subtypes of MAO, MAO(A) and MAO(B). These medications carried with them dietary restrictions, medication restrictions, a need for titration, and a substantial side effect burden, including weight gain, cardiovascular effects (i.e., hypertension and hypotension), and sexual side effects. The second-generation MAOI selegiline is selective for MAO(B) at oral doses of up to 10 mg/day. At higher doses, selegiline loses selectivity and inhibits both MAO(A) and MAO(B). Because the antidepressant effects of selegiline occur with the higher doses that impact tyramine pressor effects, an ideal formulation would optimize dose while minimizing adverse effects of MAO(A) inhibition in the gastrointestinal mucosa. Efforts in this direction led to formulation of the selegiline transdermal system (STS). The most common side effects are irritation at the patch site and insomnia. Drugs to be avoided with the STS include some pain medications, antidepressants, muscle relaxants, and any form of sympathomimetic amines, which include amphetamines, cold products with pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, ephedrine, and stimulant-containing weight-reduction agents. Although no tyramine-restricted diet is required for the 6-mg/24-hour patch, a restricted diet is recommended for the higher-dose patches to reduce the risk of hypertensive crisis.

Our visual percepts are not fully determined by the physical stimulus input. That is why we perceive crisp bounding contours even in the absence of luminance-defined borders in visual illusions such as the Kanizsa figure. It is important to understand which neural processes are involved in creating these artificial visual experiences because this might tell us how we perceive coherent objects in natural scenes, which are characterized by mutual overlap. We have already shown using functional magnetic resonance imaging [Maertens, M., &amp; Pollmann, S. fMRI reveals a common neural substrate of illusory and real contours in v1 after perceptual learning. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 17, 1553-1564, 2005] that neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) respond to these stimuli. Here we provide support for the hypothesis that V1 is obligatory for the discrimination of the curvature of illusory contours. We presented illusory contours across the portion of the visual field corresponding to the physiological &quot;blind spot.&quot; Four observers were extensively trained and asked to discriminate fine curvature differences in these illusory contours. A distinct performance drop (increased errors and response latencies) was observed when illusory contours traversed the blind spot compared to when they were presented in the &quot;normal&quot; contralateral visual field at the same eccentricity. We attribute this specific performance deficit to the failure to build up a representation of the illusory contour in the absence of a cortical representation of the &quot;blind spot&quot; within V1. The current results substantiate the assumption that neural activity in area V1 is closely related to our phenomenal experience of illusory contours in particular, and to the construction of our subjective percepts in general.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between stuttering and a range of variables of possible relevance, with the main focus on neuromuscular reactivity, and anxiety. The explorative analysis also included temperament, biochemical variables, heredity, preonset lesions, and altered auditory feedback (AAF). An increased level of neuromuscular reactivity in stuttering adults has previously been reported by [Guitar, B. (2003). Acoustic startle responses and temperament in individuals who stutter. Journal of Speech Language and Hearing Research, 46, 233-240], also indicating a link to anxiety and temperament. The present study included a large number of variables in order to enable analysis of subgroups and relations between variables. Totally 32 stuttering adults were compared with nonstuttering controls. The acoustic startle eyeblink response was used as a measure of neuromuscular reactivity. No significant group difference was found regarding startle, and startle was not significantly correlated with trait anxiety, stuttering severity, or AAF. Startle was mainly related to calcium and prolactin. The stuttering group had significantly higher scores for anxiety and childhood ADHD. Two subgroups of stuttering were found, with high versus low traits of childhood ADHD, characterized by indications of preonset lesions versus heredity for stuttering. The study does not support the view that excessive reactivity is a typical characteristic of stuttering. The increased anxiety is suggested to mainly be an effect of experiences of stuttering. Learning outcomes: As a result of reading this article, the reader will be able to: (a) critically discuss the literature regarding stuttering in relation to acoustic startle, anxiety, and temperament; (b) describe the effect of calcium on neuromuscular reactivity; (c) discuss findings supporting the importance of early neurological incidents in some cases of stuttering, and the relation between such incidents and traits of ADHD or ADD; and (d) discuss the role of genetics in stuttering.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and the medial amygdala (MeA) are anatomically connected sites necessary for chemosensory regulation of social behaviors in rodents. Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are a valuable model for studying the neural regulation of social behaviors because, unlike many other rodents, they are gregarious, pair bond after copulating, and are biparental. We herein describe sex and species differences in immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme for catecholamine synthesis, in the BST and MeA. Virgin male prairie voles had a large number of TH-immunoreactive cells in areas analogous to the rat principal nucleus of the BST (pBST) and the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MeAPd). Virgin female prairie voles had far fewer TH-immunoreactive cells in these sites ( approximately 17% of the number of cells as males in the pBST, approximately 35% of the number of cells in the MeAPd). A few TH-immunoreactive cells were found in the BST of male and female hamsters and meadow voles, but not in rats. The MeApd also contained a few TH-immunoreactive cells in male and female hamsters and male meadow voles, but not rats. Castration greatly reduced the number of TH-immunoreactive cells in the male prairie vole pBST and MeAPd, an effect that could be reversed with testosterone. Furthermore, treating ovariectomized females with testosterone substantially increased TH-immunoreactive cells in both sites. Therefore, a species-specific sex difference in TH expression is found in a chemosensory pathway in prairie voles. Expression of TH in these sites is influenced by circulating gonadal hormones in adults, which may be related to changes in their display of social behaviors across the reproductive cycle.


Fetal glucocorticoids have an important role in the pre-partum maturation of physiological systems essential for neonatal survival such as glucogenesis. Consequently, in clinical practice, synthetic glucocorticoids, like dexamethasone, are given routinely to pregnant women threatened with pre-term delivery to improve the viability of their infants. However, little is known about the effects of maternal dexamethasone treatment on the glucogenic capacity of either the fetus or mother. This study investigated the effects of dexamethasone treatment using a clinically relevant dose and regime on glycogen deposition and the activities of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) in the liver and kidney of pregnant ewes and their fetuses, and of non-pregnant ewes. Dexamethasone administration increased the glycogen content of both the fetal and adult liver within 36 h of beginning treatment. It also increased G6Pase activity in the liver and kidney of the fetuses but not of their mothers or the non-pregnant ewes. Neither hepatic nor renal PEPCK activity was affected by dexamethasone in any group of animals. These changes in glycogen content and G6Pase activity were accompanied by rises in the plasma glucose and insulin concentrations and by a fall in the plasma cortisol level in the fetus and both groups of adult animals. In addition, dexamethasone treatment raised fetal plasma tri-iodothyronine (T(3)) concentrations and reduced maternal levels of plasma T(3) and thyroxine, but had no effect on thyroid hormone concentrations in the non-pregnant ewes. These findings show that maternal dexamethasone treatment increases the glucogenic capacity of both the mother and fetus and has major implications for glucose availability both before and after birth.
The Epidemiologic Study on the Prevalence of Osteoporosis in Italy showed that the prevalence of osteoporosis among women and men aged 60 yr and over is 22.8% and 14.5%, respectively, giving rise to about 80,000 new fractures a yr. Sarcopenia is considered to be one of the main features of the aging process. It is characterized by a reduction in muscle mass and muscle strength, and affects women more than men. It is associated with a increased risk of fractures consequent upon a greater predisposition to falls, but also to the lack of bone remodeling due to reduced muscle mechanical strength. Muscle strength determines quality bone modifications such as density, strength, and microarchitecture. Variations in the ratios of cortical and muscle areas give rise to various types of osteoporosis, with different risks of fracture. Bone mineral density increases with body fat mass, and obesity has a protective effect against osteoporosis. This protective effect is explained by a combination of hormonal (peripheral aromatization of androgens to estrogens in adipose tissue) and mechanical factors (on weight-bearing bone sites), but the hormone leptin also probably mediates fat and bone mass. Serum leptin levels are closely related to body fat mass, and some findings suggest the peripheral effect of leptin, which exerts estrogenic effects, enhancing osteoblastic differentiation and inhibiting late adipocytic differentiation. The overall effect of leptin on bone results from a balance between negative central effects and positive direct peripheral effects, according to serum leptin levels.
Successful reading instruction entails not only acquiring new words but also remembering them after training has finished and accessing their word-specific representations when they are encountered in new text. We report two studies demonstrating that acquisition, retention, and transfer of unfamiliar words were affected differentially by isolated word and context training. Materials were individualized to include only those words that average readers in second grade were unable to name in context. Different words were trained in each condition; context training presented words in stories, and isolated word training presented words on flashcards. Together, the studies show that context training promotes word acquisition beyond that experienced from reading words in isolation. Contrary to the prevailing opinion, memory performance for words trained in context and in isolation did not differ; children demonstrated excellent retention over an 8-day interval in both conditions. Finally, transfer was maximized when the congruency between training and testing was high. Therefore, when reading trained words in novel circumstances, the best method of training was mediated by the transfer task employed at test.
Although many animal species can represent numerical values, little is known about how salient number is relative to other object properties for nonhuman animals. In one hypothesis, researchers propose that animals represent number only as a last resort, when no other properties differentiate stimuli. An alternative hypothesis is that animals automatically, spontaneously, and routinely represent the numerical attributes of their environments. The authors compared the influence of number versus that of shape, color, and surface area on rhesus monkeys' (Macaca mulatta) decisions by testing them on a matching task with more than one correct answer: a numerical match and a nonnumerical (color, surface area, or shape) match. The authors also tested whether previous laboratory experience with numerical discrimination influenced a monkey's propensity to represent number. Contrary to the last-resort hypothesis, all monkeys based their decisions on numerical value when the numerical ratio was favorable.
The formation of associations between objects and locations is a vital aspect of episodic memory. More specifically, remembering the location where one experienced an object and, vice versa, the object one encountered at a specific location are both important elements for the memory of an event. Whether episodic associations are holistic representations of individual components or whether there are unidirectional, separately modifiable connections between them has been investigated nearly exclusively using verbal stimuli. A preliminary conclusion concerning this controversy is that verbal associations are, at least, highly correlated (M. J. Kahana, 2002). This theoretical debate, which in the past has undergone a major empirical effort, is still of relevance for the concurrent global matching models of associative memory (S. E. Clark &amp; S. D. Gronlund, 1996). The authors used variations of a novel object-location learning paradigm to complement the accumulated evidence regarding the nature of episodic associations.

Many models have been developed to account for stimulus-evoked [Ca(2+)] responses, but few address how responses elicited in specific cell types are defined by the Ca(2+) transport and buffering systems that operate in the same cells. In this study, we extend previous modeling studies by linking the time course of stimulus-evoked [Ca(2+)] responses to the underlying Ca(2+) transport and buffering systems. Depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) responses were studied in sympathetic neurons under voltage clamp, asking how response kinetics are defined by the Ca(2+) handling systems expressed in these cells. We investigated five cases of increasing complexity, comparing observed and calculated responses deduced from measured Ca(2+) handling properties. In Case 1, [Ca(2+)](i) responses were elicited by small Ca(2+) currents while Ca(2+) transport by internal stores was inhibited, leaving plasma membrane Ca(2+) extrusion intact. In Case 2, responses to the same stimuli were measured while mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake was active. In Case 3, responses were elicited as in Case 2 but with larger Ca(2+) currents that produce larger and faster [Ca(2+)](i) elevations. Case 4 included the mitochondrial Na/Ca exchanger. Finally, Case 5 included ER Ca(2+) uptake and release pathways. We found that [Ca(2+)](i) responses elicited by weak stimuli (Cases 1 and 2) could be quantitatively reconstructed using a spatially uniform model incorporating the measured properties of Ca(2+) entry, removal, and buffering. Responses to strong depolarization (Case 3) could not be described by this model, but were consistent with a diffusion model incorporating the same Ca(2+) transport and buffering descriptions, as long as endogenous buffers have low mobility, leading to steep radial [Ca(2+)](i) gradients and spatially nonuniform Ca(2+) loading by mitochondria. When extended to include mitochondrial Ca(2+) release (Case 4) and ER Ca(2+) transport (Case 5), the diffusion model could also account for previous measurements of stimulus-evoked changes in total mitochondrial and ER Ca concentration.
Nikolai Aleksandrovich Bernstein (1896-1966) studied movement in order to understand the brain. Contra Pavlov, he saw movements (thus, the brain) as coordinated. For Bernstein, the cortex was a stochastic device; the more cortexes an animal species has, the more variable its actions will be. Actions are planned with a stochastic &quot;model of the future,&quot; and relevance is established through blind mathematical search. In the 1950 neoPavlovian affair, he came under strong attack and had to stop experimenting. It is argued that the consistency of his work derived both from both dialectical materialism and the relentless attacks of the neoPavlovians.
In this paper we present brief biographical data of the outstanding Russian physiologist P.K. Anokhin and the stages of formation of the theory of functional systems, proposed by him. Furthermore we will deal with the architectonics of system organization of behavioral acts, underlying principles of the theory of functional systems as a part of the general theory of systems and the evolution of the theory of functional systems in the Anokhin Scientific School.
L.A. Orbeli and his school developed new directions in physiology: evolutionary physiology, the theory of adaptational-trophic functions of the sympathetic nervous system, the theory of coordination of functions, and neuroendocrine regulations in the body. Orbeli enriched the study of the physiology of the cerebellum, the sensory organs, the kidneys, and the study of pain. His name is associated with the development of the foundation of physiology of extreme states (the physiology of deep-sea exploration, high altitude, and high velocity flight).
Nikolai V. Konovalov (1900-1966) has left a significant imprint in the history of Russian neuroscience. He was among the coryphaei of international and national neurology. Along with the large number of fundamental scientific papers that have determined several aspects of the development of neuroscience, his contribution has been equally important to the establishment and development of one of the distinguished Russian scientific centers - the Institute of Neurology of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, which he headed from 1948 until 1966.
The investigation of Lenin's brain by the German neurobiologist Oskar Vogt and his Russian collaborators in Moscow is one of the most exciting and simultaneously questionable chapters in the history of medicine. With the bizarre claim to be able to detect the material substrate of genius it provoked as much unrealistic expectations in the public as strong criticism by the scientific community of brain researchers. The following paper deals in a brief survey with the foundation and the early history of the Moscow Brain Research Institute (INSTITUT MOZGA) and its initial task - the collecting and mapping the brains of famous (Russian) persons in general and the investigation of Lenin's brain in particular.
The historical prerequisites for the foundation and teaching of neurology at Kazan University are described; the relationship between the history of Kazan Imperial University Kazan medical university and neurology school is shown. Brief biographies of outstanding representatives of Kazan Neuroscience (D.P. Skalozubov, V.M. Bekhterev, L.O. Darkshevich, N.O. Kovalevsky, N.A. Mislavsky, A.V. Kibyakov, A.S. Dogel, A.V. Favorsky, L.I. Omorokov, and Y.Y. Popelyansky) are presented. The description of scientific interests of the Kazan neurological school and its specific features related to the one century period since 1885 are described.
This article contains a brief description of the scientific biography of the first Noble Prize laureate in the area of Neurosciences, I.P. Pavlov. Special attention is paid to the concept of neurism, which infused Pavlov's research on circulation, digestion, and higher nervous activity. The sources of Pavlov's interest in studying psychological processes and phases of &quot;hard intellectual struggle&quot; in the development of a new chapter of physiology are traced to their beginnings.
There is no discussion about the historic relevance of I. Sechenov for physiology and neurosciences as the &quot;father of Russian modern physiology&quot;. But he is relevant for modern natural science too because of his basic epistemological and ontological work. He did not accept the up to now basic paradigm of &quot;Ignorabimus&quot; which can be seen as the reason to exclude even the generalizable aspects of individuality, creativity and spontaneity from natural science. He developed techniques for empirical based science to deal with materialistic and idealistic aspects of the comprehensive person the &quot;ignoramus&quot; according to the actual stay of knowledge and the acceptable ontologies. He demonstrated that ontologies (&quot;paradigms&quot;) can be used as tools according to the given problem which should be solved. So Sechenov can be seen as a precursor of the so efficient philosophical positions of Einstein and Th. Kuhn. The stay of the art in physiology and neurosciences changed since the time of Sechenov dramatically. Therefore the philosophical positions of the 19th century should be discussed. Maybe this is indispensable for the needed linkage between materialistic and idealistic aspects of a person. For this the proposals of Sechenov are helpful up to now but nearly unknown. There is no discussion about the historic relevance of I. Sechenov as the &quot;father of Russian physiology.&quot; But he is relevant for modern natural science too because of his epistemological and ontological work. He did not accept the up to now basic paradigm of &quot;Ignorabimus&quot; that can be seen as the reason to exclude even the generalizable aspects of individuality, creativity, and spontaneity from natural science. He demonstrated that ontologies (&quot;paradigms&quot;) and epistemology can be used as tools according to the given problem. So Sechenov can be seen as a precursor of the so efficient philosophical positions of Einstein and Th. Kuhn. The state of the art changed dramatically. Therefore, the philosophical positions of the nineteenth century should be questioned. Maybe this is indispensable for the needed link between materialistic and idealistic aspects of a person as a whole. In this respect the proposals of Sechenov are helpful for medical science in the twenty-first century too but nearly unknown.
Using quotations from Russian (e.g., Mechnikov and Pavlov) and western European (e.g., Ludwig) sources of his friends and colleagues, as well as from his autobiography, this paper describes the life and personality of Ivan Mikhailovich Sechenov (1829-1905), who became well known because of his central inhibition theory (1862). He trained in several European centers, including Vienna, were he worked with Carl Ludwig (1816-1895), with whom he corresponded for several decades.
Immunohistochemical distribution and cellular localization of neurotrophins was investigated in adult monkey brains using antisera against nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). Western blot analysis showed that each antibody specifically recognized appropriate bands of approximately 14.7 kDa, 14.2 kDa, 13.6 kDa, and 14.5 kDa, for NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4, respectively. These positions coincided with the molecular masses of the neurotrophins studied. Furthermore, sections exposed to primary antiserum preadsorbed with full-length NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4 exhibited no detectable immunoreactivity, demonstrating specificities of the antibodies against the tissues prepared from rhesus monkeys. The study provided a systematic report on the distribution of NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4 in the monkey brain. Varying intensity of immunostaining was observed in the somata and processes of a wide variety of neurons and glial cells in the cerebrum, cerebellum, hippocampus, and other regions of the brain. Neurons in some regions such as the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, which stained for neurotrophins, also expressed neurotrophic factor mRNA. In some other brain regions, there was discrepancy of protein distribution and mRNA expression reported previously, indicating a retrograde or anterograde action mode of neurotrophins. Results of this study provide a morphological basis for the elucidation of the roles of NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4 in adult primate brains.
Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with proximal dominancy (HMSN-P) is an adult-onset peripheral neurodegenerative disorder which has been reported only in the Okinawa Islands, Japan. The disease locus of &quot;Okinawa-type&quot; HMSN-P has been previously mapped to 3q13.1, with all affected individuals sharing an identical haplotype around the locus, suggesting that the undiscovered causative mutation in HMSN-P originated from a single founder. We have newly found two large families from the western part of Japan within which multiple members developed symptoms similar to those exhibited by HMSN-P patients from Okinawa, with no record of affinal connection between the islands. Using these pedigrees with &quot;Kansai-type&quot; HMSN-P, we carried out a linkage study utilizing eight microsatellite markers and identified a candidate region on 3q13.1 cosegregating with the disease (maximum two-point LOD score of 8.44 at theta=0.0) overlapping with the Okinawa-type HMSN-P locus. However, the disease haplotype shared among all affected members in these families was different from that in the Okinawa kindred, suggesting allelic heterogeneity. Such allelic variation should aid in the identification of the disease-causative gene. Moreover, the allelic heterogeneity of HMSN-P in the Japanese population suggests that HMSN-P may be more common across other ethnic groups, but classified into other disease categories.
Recent models of impaired awareness in brain injury draw a distinction between metacognitive knowledge of difficulties and online awareness of errors (emergent and anticipatory). We examined performance of 31 Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) participants and 31 healthy controls using a three-strand approach to assessing awareness. Metacognitive knowledge was assessed with an awareness interview and discrepancy scores on three questionnaires--Patient Competency Rating Scale, Frontal Systems Behavioral Scale and the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire. Online Emergent Awareness was assessed using an online error-monitoring task while participants performed tasks of sustained attention. Online anticipatory awareness was examined using prediction performance on two cognitive tasks. Results indicated that the TBI Low Self-Awareness (SA) group and High SA group did not differ in terms of severity, chronicity or standard neuropsychological tasks but those with Low SA were more likely to exhibit disinhibition, interpersonal problems and more difficulties in total competency. Sustained attention abilities were associated with both types of online awareness (emergent and anticipatory). There was a strong relationship between online emergent and online anticipatory awareness. Metacognitive knowledge did not correlate with the other two measures. This study highlights the necessity in adopting a multidimensional approach to assessing the multifaceted phenomenon of awareness of deficits.
Evidence is now emerging for enhanced penetration of chemical solutes into uninvolved skin of atopic dermatitis patients. Along with the recent discovery of prevalent null mutations in the gene encoding filaggrin, a protein essential for stratum corneum formation, these data point to an innate epidermal-barrier defect in atopy.
HMGB1 (amphoterin) is a 30-kDa heparin-binding protein that mediates transendothelial migration of monocytes and has proinflammatory cytokine-like activities. In this study, we have investigated proinflammatory activities of both highly purified eukaryotic HMGB1 and bacterially produced recombinant HMGB1 proteins. Mass analyses revealed that recombinant eukaryotic HMGB1 has an intrachain disulphide bond. In mass analysis of tissue-derived HMGB1, two forms were detected: the carboxyl terminal glutamic acid residue lacking form and a full-length form. Cell culture studies indicated that both eukaryotic and bacterial HMGB1 proteins induce TNF-alpha secretion and nitric oxide release from mononuclear cells. Affinity chromatography analysis revealed that HMGB1 binds tightly to proinflammatory bacterial substances. A soluble proinflammatory substance was separated from the bacterial recombinant HMGB1 by chloroform-methanol treatment. HMGB1 interacted with phosphatidylserine in both solid-phase binding and cell culture assays, suggesting that HMGB1 may regulate phosphatidylserine-dependent immune reactions. In conclusion, HMGB1 polypeptide has a weak proinflammatory activity by itself, and it binds to bacterial substances, including lipids, that may strengthen its effects.


Using biochemical/pharmacological approaches, we previously showed that type 2 ryanodine receptors (RyR2) become dysfunctional in hearts of streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats. However, the functional consequence of this observation remains incompletely understood. Here we use laser confocal microscopy to investigate whether RyR2 dysfunction during diabetes alters evoked and spontaneous Ca(2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). After 7-8 weeks of diabetes, steady-state levels of RyR2 remain unchanged in hearts of male Sprague-Dawley rats, but the number of functional receptors decreased by &gt;37%. Interestingly, residual functional RyR2 from diabetic rat hearts exhibited increased sensitivity to Ca(2+) activation (EC(50activation) decreased from 80 microM to 40 microM, peak Ca(2+) activation decreased from 425 microM to 160 microM). When field stimulated, intracellular Ca(2+) release in diabetic ventricular myocytes was dyssynchronous (non-uniform) and this was independent of L-type Ca(2+) currents. Time to peak Ca(2+) increased 3.7-fold. Diabetic myocytes also exhibited diastolic Ca(2+) release and 2-fold higher frequency of spontaneous Ca(2+) sparks, albeit at a lower amplitude. The amplitude of caffeine-releasable Ca(2+) was also lower in diabetic myocytes. RyR2 from diabetic rat hearts exhibited increased phosphorylation at Ser2809 and contained reduced levels of FKBP12.6 (calstablin2). Collectively, these data suggest that RyR2 becomes leaky during diabetes and this defect may be responsible to the reduced SR Ca(2+) load. Diastolic Ca(2+) release could also serve as a substrate for delayed after-depolarizations, contributing to the increased incidence of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death in type 1 diabetes.
Growth of solid tumors is highly dependent on angiogenesis. During tumor development, neoplastic cells switch to an angiogenic phenotype, playing a significant role in the expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Seventy-two brain gliomas were induced in Sprague Dawley rats by prenatal exposure to ethylnitrosourea (ENU). Screening and location of tumors was carried out using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Conventional histology and immunocytochemistry for antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100, NF, oligodendrocyte Ab-2, Ki-67, and VEGF165 were performed. The proliferation index (PI) was calculated from the Ki-67 labeling index, and the concentration of VEGF165 was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In vivo identification of macro- and microtumor appears to be useful to lead morphological and biochemical studies. Histopathology allows us to identify microtumors as classic oligodendrogliomas (CO; mean PI of 6.01 +/- 2.8%) and macrotumors as anaplastic oligodendrogliomas (AO; mean PI of 14.06 +/- 5%). Classic oligodendrogliomas show scarce VEGF165 expression whereas anaplastic ones display VEGF165 protein level 100-fold increased respect to CO. Astrocytes, neoplastic, and endothelial cells show differential immunostaining patterns from the border to the core of neoplasm. Positive structures for VEGF and their distribution vary according to PI increase. Anaplastic gliomas displaying VEGF-positive intratumor capillaries correspond to the highest PI values. To identify the &quot;angiogenic switch,&quot; we propose the glioma stage characterized by VEGF immunopositive neoplastic cells inside the tumor and positive endothelial cells surrounding it.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by progressive neuronal degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Many factors are thought to contribute to the neuronal cell death that occurs in Parkinson's disease, including alpha-synuclein-mediated toxicity. Previously, we have reported that alpha-synuclein directly couples to the carboxyl tail of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and that the alpha-synuclein/DAT protein complex formation accelerates DAT-mediated cellular dopamine (DA) uptake and DA-induced cellular apoptosis. In the present study, we report that parkin, an E2-dependent E3 protein ubiquitin ligase associated with recessive early onset Parkinson's disease, exerts a protective effect against DA-induced alpha-synuclein-dependent cell toxicity. Parkin impairs the alpha-synuclein/DAT coupling by interacting with the carboxyl-terminus of the DAT and blocks the alpha-synuclein-induced enhancement in both DAT cell surface expression and DAT-mediated DA uptake. Moreover, we have found that parkin protects against DA-induced cell toxicity in dopaminergic SK-N-SH cells. These findings will help identify the role of these proteins in the etiology and/or maintenance of Parkinson's disease.
Peripheral nerve lesion-induced production of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) was implicated to influence a range of postaxotomy processes necessary for neuronal survival and nerve regeneration (Zochodne et al., Neuroscience, 91:1515-1527, 1999; Keilhoff et al., Journal of Chemical Neuroanatomy, 24:181-187, 2002, Nitric Oxide, 10:101-111, 2004). Protein-protein interactions represent an important mechanism in the control of NOS spatial distribution or activity (Alderton et al., Biochemical Journal, 357:593-615, 2001; Dedio et al., FASEB Journal, 15:79-89, 2001; Zimmermann et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 99:17167-17172, 2002). As one of the nNOS-binding proteins, nNOS-interacting DHHC domain-containing protein with dendritic mRNA (NIDD) has recently been identified to increase nNOS enzyme activity by targeting nNOS to the synaptic plasma membrane in a postsynaptic density protein 95/discs-large/zona occlusens-1 domain dependent manner (Saitoh et al., Journal of Biological Chemistry, 279:29461-29468, 2004). In this paper, we established a rat model with peripheral axotomy to investigate the gene expression patterns of NIDD in neural tissues using TaqMan quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization combined with immunofluorescence. It revealed that NIDD mRNA was upregulated after sciatic nerve transection with the similar expressing styles as that of the nNOS in the injured nerves, corresponding dorsal root ganglia, and lumbar spinal cord. These findings imply that NIDD may be involved in the different pathological conditions including nerve regeneration, neuron loss or survival, and even pain process, possibly via regulating the enzyme nNOS activity.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) regulates growth and development during the early postimplantation period of mouse embryogenesis. Blockage of VIP with a VIP antagonist during this period results in growth restriction, microcephaly, and developmental delays. Similar treatment of neonatal rodents also causes developmental delays and impaired diurnal rhythms, and the adult brains of these animals exhibit neuronal dystrophy and increased VIP binding. These data suggest that blockage of VIP during the development of the nervous system can result in permanent changes to the brain. In the current study, pregnant mice were treated with a VIP antagonist during embryonic days 8 through 10. The adult male offspring were examined in tests of novelty, paired activity, and social recognition. Brain tissue was examined for several measures of chemistry and gene expression of VIP and related compounds. Glial cells from the cortex of treated newborn mice were plated with neurons and examined for VIP binding and their ability to enhance neuronal survival. Treated adult male mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior and deficits in social behavior. Brain tissue exhibited regionally specific changes in VIP chemistry and a trend toward increased gene expression of VIP and related compounds that reached statistical significance in the VIP receptor, VPAC-1, in the female cortex. When compared to control astrocytes, astrocytes from treated cerebral cortex produced further increases in neuronal survival with excess synaptic connections and reduced VIP binding. In conclusion, impaired VIP activity during mouse embryogenesis resulted in permanent changes to both adult brain chemistry/cell biology and behavior with aspects of autism-like social deficits.
This study used Rana temporaria sartorius muscles to examine the effect of fatiguing electrical stimulation on the gap between the T-tubular and sarcoplasmic reticular membranes (T-SR distance) and the T-tubule diameter and compared this with corresponding effects on resting fibres exposed to a range of extracellular conditions that each replicate one of the major changes associated with muscular activity: membrane depolarisation, isotonic volume increase, acidification and intracellular lactate accumulation. Following each treatment, muscles were immersed in isotonic fixative solution and processed for transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Mean T-SR distances were estimated from orthogonal intercepts to provide estimates of diffusion distances between T and SR membranes and T-tubule diameter was estimated by measuring its shortest axis in the sampled J-SR complexes. Measurements from muscles fatigued by low frequency intermittent stimulation showed significant (P &lt; 0.05) reversible increases in both T-SR distance and T-tubule diameter from 15.97 +/- 0.37 nm to 20.15 +/- 0.56 nm and from 15.44 +/- 0.60 nm to 22.26 +/- 0.84 nm (n = 40, 30) respectively. Exposure to increasing concentrations of extracellular [K(+)] in the absence of Cl(-) to produce membrane depolarisation without accompanying cell swelling reduced T-SR distance and increased T-tubule diameter, whilst comparable increases in [K(+)](e) in the presence of Cl(-) suggested that isotonic cell swelling has the opposite effect. Acidification alone, produced by NH(4)Cl addition and withdrawal, also decreased T-SR distance and T-tubule diameter. A similar reduction in T-SR distance occurred following exposure to extracellular Na-lactate where such acidification was accompanied by elevations of intracellular lactate, but these conditions produced a significant swelling of T-tubules attributable to movement of lactate from the cell into the T-tubules. This study thus confirms previous reports of significant increases in T-SR distance and T-tubule diameter following stimulation. However, of membrane depolarisation, isotonic cell swelling, intracellular acidification and lactate accumulation, only isotonic cell swelling increases T-SR distance whilst membrane depolarisation and intracellular lactate likely contribute to the observed increases in T-tubule diameter.
To explore long-term associations between maltreatment in childhood and personality features in adulthood, 160 consecutive adult psychiatric outpatients completed self-administered questionnaires. Maltreatment was defined as either child abuse or neglect exerted by parents or other adults, coldness and overprotection by parents, or bullying by peers. The Childhood Trauma Questionnaire was used to detect childhood abuse by parents or other adults, while dimensions of parental coldness and overprotection were captured by the Parental Bonding Instrument. Bullying by peers was measured by an inventory used in schools. Personality variables were covered by the 5-PFa related to the &quot;Big Five,&quot; The Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, and the Locus of Control of Behavior. Reports of bullying by peers were linked to poor self-esteem and external locus of control. Child maltreatment by parents or other adults were linked to the Big Five personality dimensions; bullying by peers was not.
Gait adaptation is crucial for coping with varying terrain and biological needs. It is also important that any acquired adaptation is expressed only in the appropriate context. Here we review a recent series of experiments which demonstrate inappropriate expression of gait adaptation. We showed that a brief period of walking onto a platform previously experienced as moving results in a large forward sway despite full awareness of the changing context. The adaptation mechanisms involved in this paradigm are extremely fast, just 1-2 discrete exposures to the moving platform results in a motor after-effect. This after-effect still occurs even if subjects deliberately attempt to suppress it. However it disappears when the location or method of gait is altered, indicating that after-effect expression is context dependent. Conversely, making gait self-initiated increased sway during the after-effect. This after-effect demonstrates a profound dissociation between knowledge and action. The absence of generalisation suggests a simple form of motor learning. However, persistent expression of gait after-effects may be dependent on an intact cerebral cortex. The fact that the after-effect is greater during self-initiated gait, and is context dependent, would be consistent with the involvement of supraspinal areas.
Non-ceruloplasmin bound copper ('free') seems slightly elevated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. To test the hypothesis of a correlation between 'free' copper and liver function in AD. We evaluated 51 AD patients and 53 controls through typical tests for chronic liver disease (AST, ALT, gamma-GT, Albumin, prothrombin time - PT-, bilirubins), along with copper, ceruloplasmin, iron, cholesterol in the serum and apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE4) genotype. Absolute serum copper and 'free' copper were higher, albumin was lower and PT longer in AD patients than in controls. 'Free' copper correlated negatively with markers of liver function, in that albumin and albumin/PT ratio (r = -0.43, p = 0.004), and positively with direct bilirubin. Copper and 'free' copper were higher in the APOE4 carriers. These results suggest that abnormalities in copper metabolism might have an effect on liver function in AD.
Both a reduced face expertise and a basic abnormality in visual information, e.g. spatial frequency, processing have been proposed as possible causes of the abnormal face processing in Pervasive Developmental Disorder (PDD). This study investigated both the roles of expertise and spatial frequency for face processing in PDD. Event-related potentials (ERPs) and dipole sources were measured in response to (upright/inverted) high- and low-pass filtered faces, houses, and stimuli for which children with PDD were experts. ERP analyses for specific posterior electrodes showed no differences between children with PDD and matched controls, but source analyses did. These showed that controls activated specialized brain sources for the processing of faces, which was dependent on low spatial frequency content. However, children with PDD did not. Importantly, present results argue against the idea that this is due to a reduced face expertise on the part of the children with PDD, but instead support an abnormality in spatial frequency processing.
The importance of an interaction between environment and biological factors for the expression for a particular behaviour is illustrated by results from a series of adolescents in which effects of platelet MAO activity and psychosocial environment on criminality was investigated. In a favourable environment platelet MAO-B activity was not associated with criminality, while a very strong association was found in adolescents from a bad psychosocial environment. Essentially similar findings were obtained when a MAO-A promoter polymorphism was analysed instead of platelet MAO-B activity. In boys, presence of the low functioning allele seemed to be protective against criminal activity in combination with a good environment, while it predisposed for criminality in a bad psycho-social environment. In girls, instead, homozygosity for the high activity MAO-A allele interacted with environment to predict criminality. Possible mechanisms underlying the role of monoamine oxidases for behaviour are discussed.
X chromosome inactivation in mammalian females occurs early in embryonic development and renders most genes on the inactive X chromosome transcriptionally silenced. As a consequence, females will display an X chromosomal parent-of-origin mosaicism with regard to which parental allele that is expressed. Some genes however, escape inactivation and will therefore be expressed from both alleles. In this study we have investigated if the X-linked MAO-A gene have bi- or mono-allelic expression. This information would indicate whether or not MAO-A gene dosage could potentially explain the observed gender differences that show functional connections to the serotonin system, such as aggression and impulsiveness. To investigate the X inactivation status of MAO-A we have used primary clonal cell cultures, on which allelic expression was assessed with RFLP analysis. Our results show that the MAO-A gene has mono-allelic expression in these cells. This could have important implications for understanding traits that display gender differences.

The sulphated cholecystokinin (CCK) octapeptide (CCK-8S), the CCK tetrapeptide (CCK-4), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were determined in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from 11 pathological male gamblers and 11 healthy male controls. Compared with healthy controls, pathological male gamblers displayed higher concentrations of CCK-8S, CCK-4 and GABA (but not NPY). A gradient with decreasing concentrations from the first to the third 6-ml CSF fraction was found for CCK-8S, CCK-4 and NPY, but only in pathological gamblers. Disrupted gradients were found for GABA and for NPY in healthy controls. Given that CCK is a modulator of dopamine in the reward process, the increase in CCK-8S and CCK-4 is not unexpected. The high level of GABA in pathological gamblers is in conformity with a compensatory inhibitory action on noradrenergic neurons. The CSF gradient of CCK-8S and CCK-4 in pathological male gamblers (but not healthy controls) might indicate a difference in diurnal variation. The results obtained are in line with an altered CCK and GABA function in pathological gambling.
In 1980/81 Agnati and Fuxe introduced the concept of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions and presented the first experimental observations for their existence in crude membrane preparations. The second step was their introduction of the receptor mosaic hypothesis of the engram in 1982. The third step was their proposal that the existence of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions made possible the integration of synaptic (WT) and extrasynaptic (VT) signals. With the discovery of the intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions with the likely formation of receptor aggregates of multiple receptors, so called receptor mosaics, the entire decoding process becomes a branched process already at the receptor level in the surface membrane. Recent developments indicate the relevance of cooperativity in intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions namely the presence of regulated cooperativity via receptor-receptor interactions in receptor mosaics (RM) built up of the same type of receptor (homo-oligomers) or of subtypes of the same receptor (RM type1). The receptor-receptor interactions will to a large extent determine the various conformational states of the receptors and their operation will be dependent on the receptor composition (stoichiometry), the spatial organization (topography) and order of receptor activation in the RM. The biochemical and functional integrative implications of the receptor-receptor interactions are outlined and long-lived heteromeric receptor complexes with frozen RM in various nerve cell systems may play an essential role in learning, memory and retrieval processes. Intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions in the brain have given rise to novel strategies for treatment of Parkinson's disease (A2A and mGluR5 receptor antagonists), schizophrenia (A2A and mGluR5 agonists) and depression (galanin receptor antagonists). The A2A/D2, A2A/D3 and A2A/mGluR5 heteromers and heteromeric complexes with their possible participation in different types of RM are described in detail, especially in the cortico-striatal glutamate synapse and its extrasynaptic components, together with a postulated existence of A2A/D4 heteromers. Finally, the impact of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions in molecular medicine is discussed outside the brain with focus on the endocrine, the cardiovascular and the immune systems.

Abnormal glutamate neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In the present study we investigated two potential neuronal glutamatergic markers, the Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 3 (EAAT3) and the Vesicular Glutamate Transporter 1 (VGluT1), in post-mortem striatal tissue from control subjects and from subjects with schizophrenia (n = 15 per group). We also investigated the possible influence of chronic antipsychotic administration (typical and atypical) on striatal VGluT1 expression in the rat brain. We found deficits in EAAT3 in all striatal regions examined in schizophrenia when compared to controls. Following correction for confounding factors (post-mortem interval), these deficits only remained significant in the caudate nucleus (p = 0.019). We also found significant deficits in VGluT1 in the caudate nucleus (p = 0.009) in schizophrenia. There were no significant differences in VGluT1 in the striatum of antipsychotic treated rats when compared to their vehicle treated controls. The data provides additional evidence for a glutamatergic synaptic pathology in the caudate nucleus in schizophrenia and may reflect a loss of glutamatergic cortico-striatal pathways. The absence of an effect of antipsychotic administration on VGluT1 indicates that the deficits in schizophrenia are unlikely to be a consequence of pharmacotherapy and thus likely to be a correlate of the disease process.
Alterations in cholesterol homeostasis are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The role played by specific fractions of serum lipoproteins in modifying the risk of AD, and the interaction with APOE genotype has not yet been investigated. We studied serum lipoprotein profiles using a gradient-density ultracentrifugation method in a cohort of late-onset sporadic AD patients without cerebrovascular lesions and in healthy elderly subjects. In the AD group the lipoprotein cholesterol distribution showed an increase in LDL cholesterol, reaching a significant difference with respect to controls in the LDL sub-fractions representing the transition between small dense-LDL (fraction 11, p = 0.04) and normal-density LDL particles (fraction 12, p = 0.03). APOE genotype and LDL cholesterol were independently associated with AD. The mean concentration of LDL in fractions 11 and 12 increased the risk of developing AD (p = 0.01 and p = 0.025, respectively). These results confirm that an alteration of cholesterol homeostasis is associated with AD and that serum concentrations of LDL cholesterol are higher in AD patients without cerebrovascular pathology than in elderly normal subjects. The presence of the APOE epsilon4+ allele is a risk factor for AD independent of increased serum cholesterol or a modification of other vascular risk factors. Increased levels of specific sub-fractions of LDL cholesterol may be associated with increased risk of AD.
In order to reach a deeper insight into the mechanism of diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC)-induced enhancement of MPTP toxicity in mice, we showed that CYP450 (2E1) inhibitors, such as diallyl sulfide (DAS) or phenylethylisothiocyanate (PIC), also potentiate the selective DA neuron degeneration in C57/bl mice. Furthermore we showed that CYP 2E1 is present in the brain and in the basal ganglia of mice (Vaglini et al., 2004). However, because DAS and PIC are not selective CYP 2E1 inhibitors and in order to provide direct evidence for CYP 2E1 involvement in the enhancement of MPTP toxicity, CYP 2E1 knockout mice (GONZ) and wild type animals (SVI) of the same genetic background were treated with MPTP or the combined DDC + MPTP treatment. In CYP 2E1 knockout mice, DDC pretreatment completely fails to enhance MPTP toxicity, although enhancement of MPTP toxicity was regularly present in the SVI control animals. The immunohistochemical study confirms our results and suggests that CYP 2E1 may have a detoxifying role.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a tool in the neurosciences to study motor functions and nervous disorders, amongst others. Single pulses of TMS applied over the primary motor cortex lead to a so-called cortical silent period in the recording from the corresponding muscle, i.e. a period of approximately 100ms with no muscle activity. We here show that in Parkinson's disease (PD), this cortical silent period in some cases is interrupted by short bursts of EMG activity. We describe in detail these interruptions in two patients with PD. These interruptions may number up to 3 per cortical silent period and show a consistent frequency across trials and hemispheres within a given patient; the two patients described here do differ, however, in the time-delay of the interruptions and hence the induced frequency. For one patient, the frequency of the interruptions proved to be around 13 Hz, the other patient showed a frequency of around 17 Hz. The results corroborate earlier findings of cortical oscillations elicited by pulses of TMS and may be related to abnormal oscillatory activity found in the cortical-subcortical motor system in PD.
Strategies of cell therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) are focused on replacing damaged neurons with cells to restore or improve function that is impaired due to cell population damage. In our studies, we used mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) from mouse bone marrow. Following our novel neuronal differentiation method, we found that the basic cellular phenotype changed to cells with neural morphology that express specific markers including those characteristic for dopaminergic neurons, such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Intrastriatal transplantation of the differentiated MSCs in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned mice led to marked reduction in the amphetamine-induced rotations. Immunohistological analysis of the mice brains four months post transplantation, demonstrated that most of the transplanted cells survived in the striatum and expressed TH. Some of the TH positive cells migrated toward the substantia nigra. In conclusion, transplantation of bone marrow derived stem cells differentiated to dopaminergic-like cells, successfully improved behavior in an animal model of PD suggesting an accessible source of cells that may be used for autotransplantation in patient with PD.
The nature of intracellular communication and integration in the central nervous system remained a source of controversy long after it had been accepted that the brain is intrinsically involved in the reception of external and internal sensory impressions, in the control of both voluntary and involuntary physiological functions, and in the processes associated with consciousness and psychic function in humans. The role of the specific chemistry of the brain in these functions was specifically addressed only in the 20th century, although chemical examination of brain tissue can be traced at least as far back as 1719 to Hensing's Cerebri examen chemicum. Throughout the 1940s and 1950s evidence accumulated from a variety of laboratories that certain chemical substances, such as acetylcholine, noradrenaline and histamine, might be involved in central nervous system neurotransmission, but conclusive evidence for such communication was difficult to obtain. Commencing with Carlsson's 1957 paper on the anti-reserpine effects of DOPA and culminating in the successful amelioration of parkinsonian akinesia by Birkmayer and Hornykiewicz via administration of L-DOPA in 1961, followed by the identification of specific nervous tracts which utilized dopamine as a transmitter, chemical neurotransmission in the brain was ultimately demonstrated through a combination of pharmacological, physiological and clinical research. Neurochemistry had thereby graduated from a branch of general physiology to being centrally involved in models of central nervous system function.
Dichloroacetate (DCA) is an investigational drug for genetic mitochondrial diseases whose use has been mitigated by reversible peripheral neuropathy. We investigated the mechanism of DCA neurotoxicity using cultured rat Schwann cells (SCs) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. Myelinating SC-DRG neuron co-cultures, isolated SCs and DRG neurons were exposed to 1-20 mm DCA for up to 12 days. In myelinating co-cultures, DCA caused a dose- and exposure-dependent decrease of myelination, as determined by immunolabeling and immunoblotting for myelin basic protein (MBP), protein zero (P0), myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). Partial recovery of myelination occurred following a 10-day washout of DCA. DCA did not affect the steady-state levels of intermediate filament proteins, but promoted the formation of anti-neurofilament antibody reactive whirls. In isolated SC cultures, DCA decreased the expression of P0 and PMP22, while it increased the levels of p75(NTR) (neurotrophin receptor), as compared with non-DCA-treated samples. DCA had modest adverse effects on neuronal and glial cell vitality, as determined by the release of lactate dehydrogenase. These results demonstrate that DCA induces a reversible inhibition of myelin-related proteins that may account, at least in part, for its clinical peripheral neuropathic effects.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) formed by brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMVEC), pericytes and astrocytes controls the transport of ions, peptides and leukocytes in and out of the brain. Tight junctions (TJ) composed of TJ proteins (occludin, claudins and zonula occludens) ensure the structural integrity of the BMVEC monolayer. Neuropathologic studies indicated that the BBB was impaired in alcohol abusers; however, the underlying mechanism of BBB dysfunction remains elusive. Using primary human BMVEC, we previously demonstrated that oxidative stress induced by ethanol (EtOH) metabolism in BMVEC activated myosin light chain kinase (MLCK), resulting in the enhanced phosphorylation of either cytoskeletal or TJ proteins, and in BBB impairment. We proposed that EtOH metabolites stimulated inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP(3)R)-operated intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) release, thereby causing the activation of MLCK in BMVEC. Indeed, treatment of primary human BMVEC with EtOH or its metabolites resulted in the increased expression of IP(3)R protein and IP(3)R-gated intracellular Ca(2+) release. These functional changes paralleled MLCK activation, phosphorylation of cytoskeletal/TJ proteins, loss of BBB integrity, and enhanced leukocyte migration across BMVEC monolayers. Inhibition of either EtOH metabolism or IP(3)R activation prevented BBB impairment. These findings suggest that EtOH metabolites act as signaling molecules for the activation of MLCK via the stimulation of IP(3)R-gated intracellular Ca(2+) release in BMVEC. These putative events can lead to BBB dysfunction in the setting of alcoholism, and to neuro-inflammatory disorders promoting leukocyte migration across the BBB.
Mutations in the gene encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been identified as the cause of familial Parkinson's disease (PD) at the PARK8 locus. To begin to understand the physiological role of LRRK2 and its involvement in PD, we have investigated the distribution of LRRK2 mRNA and protein in the adult mouse brain. In situ hybridization studies indicate sites of mRNA expression throughout the mouse brain, with highest levels of expression detected in forebrain regions, including the cerebral cortex and striatum, intermediate levels observed in the hippocampus and cerebellum, and low levels in the thalamus, hypothalamus and substantia nigra. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrate localization of LRRK2 protein to neurones in the cerebral cortex and striatum, and to a variety of interneuronal subtypes in these regions. Furthermore, expression of LRRK2 mRNA in the striatum of VMAT2-deficient mice is unaltered relative to wild-type littermate controls despite extensive dopamine depletion in this mouse model of parkinsonism. Collectively, our results demonstrate that LRRK2 is present in anatomical brain regions of direct relevance to the pathogenesis of PD, including the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, in addition to other regions unrelated to PD pathology, and is likely to play an important role in the normal function of telencephalic forebrain neurones and other neuronal populations.
It is well documented that leptin is a circulating hormone that plays a key role in regulating food intake and body weight via its actions on specific hypothalamic nuclei. However, leptin receptors are widely expressed in the CNS, in regions not generally associated with energy homeostasis, such as the hippocampus, cortex and cerebellum. Moreover, evidence is accumulating that leptin has widespread actions in the brain. In particular, recent studies have demonstrated that leptin markedly influences the excitability of hippocampal neurons via its ability to activate large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels, and also to promote long-term depression of excitatory synaptic transmission. Here, we review the evidence supporting a role for this hormone in regulating hippocampal excitability.
Mitochondrial damage is linked to many neurodegenerative conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These diseases are associated with changes in the splicing pattern of individual mRNAs. Here, we tested the hypothesis that mitochondrial damage modulates alternative splicing, not only of a few mRNAs, but in a general manner. We incubated cultured human neuroblastoma cells with the chemical agent paraquat (a neurotoxin that interferes with mitochondrial function, causing energy deficit and oxidative stress) and analysed the splicing pattern of 13 genes by RT-PCR. For all mRNAs that are alternatively spliced, we observed a dose- and time-dependent increase of the smaller isoforms. In contrast, splicing of all constitutive splicing exons that we monitored did not change. Using other drugs, we show that the modulation of alternative splicing correlates with ATP depletion, not with oxidative stress. Such drastic changes in alternative splicing are not observed in cell lines of non-neuronal origin, suggesting a selective susceptibility of neuronal cells to modulation of splicing. As a significant percentage of all mammalian mRNAs undergo alternative splicing, we predict that mitochondrial failure will unbalance a vast number of isoform equilibriums, which would give an important contribution to neurodegeneration.
Moyamoya disease is a progressive steno-oclusive arteriopathy of the circle of Willis that manifests on cerebral angiography with a characteristic net of vessels at the base of the brain representing collateralization. Described initially in Japan where children present with cerebral ischemia and adults with hemorrhagic stroke, it was recognized to have a more benign course in the United States, mainly causing cerebral ischemic events in young adults. Medical treatment is not intended to stop the progression of the disease and surgery is not exempt of risks. We present a patient with early moyamoya disease in the United States in whom primary transluminal angioplasty, a less invasive procedure, was performed to treat the stenotic arteriopathy with good immediate and sustained clinical and angiographic results, without evidence of restenosis at the site of angioplasty 2 years later.





Down syndrome (DS) is the most common nonheritable cause of mental retardation. DS is the result of the presence of an extra chromosome 21 and its phenotype may be a consequence of overexpressed genes from that chromosome. One such gene is Kcnj6/Girk2, which encodes the G-protein-coupled inward rectifying potassium channel subunit 2 (GIRK2). We have recently shown that the DS mouse model, Ts65Dn, overexpresses GIRK2 throughout the brain and in particular the hippocampus. Here we report that this overexpression leads to a significant increase ( approximately 2-fold) in GABA(B)-mediated GIRK current in primary cultured hippocampal neurons. The dose response curves for peak and steady-state GIRK current density is significantly shifted left toward lower concentrations of baclofen in Ts65Dn neurons compared with diploid controls, consistent with increased functional expression of GIRK channels. Stationary fluctuation analysis of baclofen-induced GIRK current from Ts65Dn neurons indicated no significant change in single-channel conductance compared with diploid. However, significant increases in GIRK channel density was found in Ts65Dn neurons. In normalized baclofen-induced GIRK current and GIRK current kinetics no difference was found between diploid and Ts65Dn neurons, which suggests unimpaired mechanisms of interaction between GIRK channel and GABA(B) receptor. These results indicate that increased expression of GIRK2 containing channels have functional consequences that likely affect the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neuronal transmission.
We studied whether the lateral intraparietal (LIP) area-a subdivision of parietal cortex anatomically interposed between visual cortical areas and saccade executive centers-contains neurons with activity patterns sufficient to contribute to the active process of selecting saccade targets in visual search. Visually responsive neurons were recorded while monkeys searched for a color-different target presented concurrently with seven distractors evenly distributed in a circular search array. We found that LIP neurons initially responded indiscriminately to the presentation of a visual stimulus in their response fields, regardless of its feature and identity. Their activation nevertheless evolved to signal the search target before saccade initiation: an ideal observer could reliably discriminate the target from the individual activation of 60% of neurons, on average, 138 ms after stimulus presentation and 26 ms before saccade initiation. Importantly, the timing of LIP neuronal discrimination varied proportionally with reaction times. These findings suggest that LIP activity reflects the selection of both the search target and the targeting saccade during active visual search.
The distal Ca(2+)-binding domain of synaptotagmin I (Syt I), C2B, has two Ca(2+)-binding sites. To study their function in Drosophila, pairs of aspartates were mutated to asparagines and the mutated syt I was expressed in the syt I-null background (P[syt I(B-D1,2N)] and P[syt I(B-D3,4N)]). We examined the effects of these mutations on nerve-evoked synchronous synaptic transmission and high K(+)-induced quantal events at embryonic neuromuscular junctions. The P[syt I(B-D1,2N)] mutation virtually abolished synaptic transmission, whereas the P[syt I(B-D3,4N)] mutation strongly reduced but did not abolish it. The quantal content in P[syt I(B-D3,4N)] increased with the external Ca(2+) concentration, [Ca(2+)](e), with a slope of 1.86 in double-logarithmic plot, whereas that of control was 2.88. In high K(+) solutions the quantal event frequency in P[syt I(B-D3,4N)] increased progressively with [Ca(2+)](e) between 0 and 0.15 mM as in control. In contrast, in P[syt I(B-D1,2N)] the event frequency did not increase progressively between 0 and 0.15 mM and was significantly lower at 0.15 than at 0.05 mM [Ca(2+)](e). The P[syt I(B-D1,2N)] mutation inhibits high K(+)-induced quantal release in a narrow range of [Ca(2+)](e) (negative regulatory function). When Sr(2+) substituted for Ca(2+), nerve-evoked synchronous synaptic transmission was severely depressed and delayed asynchronous release was appreciably increased in control embryos. In high K(+) solutions with Sr(2+), the quantal event frequency was higher than that in Ca(2+) and increased progressively with [Sr(2+)](e) in control and in both mutants. Sr(2+) partially substitutes for Ca(2+) in synchronous release but does not support the negative regulatory function of Syt I.
Humans and songbirds shape learned vocalizations during a sensorimotor sensitive period or &quot;babbling&quot; phase. The brain mechanisms that underlie the shaping of vocalizations by sensory feedback are not known. We examined song behavior and brain activity in zebra finches during singing as they actively shaped their song toward a tutor model. We now show that the temporal relationship of behavior and activity in the premotor area HVC changes with the development of song behavior. During sensorimotor learning, HVC bursting activity both preceded and followed learned vocalizations by hundreds of milliseconds. Correspondingly, the duration of bursts that occurred during ongoing song motif behavior was prolonged in juveniles, as compared with adults, and was inversely correlated with song maturation. Multielectrode single-unit recording in juveniles revealed that single fast-spiking neurons were active both before and after vocalization. These same neurons responded to auditory stimuli. Collectively, these data indicate that a key aspect of sensory critical periods--prolonged bursting--also applies to sensorimotor development. In addition, prolonged motor discharge and sensory input coincide in single neurons of the developing song system, providing the necessary cellular elements for sensorimotor shaping through activity-dependent mechanisms.
When swimming, the lamprey maintains a definite orientation of its body in the vertical planes, in relation to the gravity vector, as the result of postural vestibular reflexes. Do the vestibular-driven mechanisms also play a role in the control of the direction of swimming in the horizontal (yaw) plane, in which the gravity cannot be used as a reference direction? In the present study, we addressed this question by recording responses to lateral turns in reticulospinal (RS) neurons mediating vestibulospinal reflexes. In intact lampreys, the activity of axons of RS neurons was recorded in the spinal cord by implanted electrodes. Vestibular stimulation was performed by periodical turns of the animal in the yaw plane (60 degrees peak to peak). It was found that the majority of responding RS neurons were activated by the contralateral turn. By removing one labyrinth, we found that yaw responses in RS neurons were driven mainly by input from the contralateral labyrinth. We suggest that these neurons, when activated by the contralateral turn, will elicit the ipsilateral turn and thus will compensate for perturbations of the rectilinear swimming caused by external factors. It is also known that unilateral eye illumination elicits a contralateral turn in the yaw plane (negative phototaxis). We found that a portion of RS neurons were activated by the contralateral eye illumination. By eliciting an ipsilateral turn, these neurons could mediate the negative phototaxis.
Pyrokinin (PK) peptides localize to the central and peripheral nervous systems of arthropods, but their actions in the CNS have yet to be studied in any species. Here, we identify PK peptide family members in the crab Cancer borealis and characterize their actions on the gastric mill (chewing) and pyloric (filtering) motor circuits in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). We identified PK-like immunolabeling in the STG neuropil, in projection neuron inputs to this ganglion, and in the neuroendocrine pericardial organs. By combining MALDI mass spectrometry (MS) and ESI tandem MS techniques, we identified the amino acid sequences of two C. borealis pyrokinins (CabPK-I, CabPK-II). Both CabPKs contain the PK family-specific carboxy-terminal amino acid sequence (FXPRLamide). PK superfusion to the isolated STG had little influence on the pyloric rhythm but excited many gastric mill neurons and consistently activated the gastric mill rhythm. Both CabPKs had comparable actions in the STG and these actions were equivalent to those of Pevpyrokinin (shrimp) and Leucopyrokinin (cockroach). The PK-elicited gastric mill rhythm usually occurred without activation of the projection neuron MCN1. MCN1, which does not contain CabPKs, effectively drives the gastric mill rhythm and at such times is also a gastric mill central pattern generator (CPG) neuron. Because the PK-elicited gastric mill rhythm is independent of MCN1, the underlying core CPG of this rhythm is different from the one responsible for the MCN1-elicited rhythm. Thus neuromodulation, which commonly alters motor circuit output without changing the core CPG, can also change the composition of this core circuit.
The neural integration of afferent inputs evoked by spatiotemporally distributed sensory stimuli is a critical step in the formation of coherent and continuous perceptual representations. Integration mechanisms in various systems include linear and nonlinear summation of sensory responses. One well-known example in the rat barrel system is the suppressive interaction between responses to the consecutive deflection of neighboring whiskers. The mechanism underlying cross-whisker suppression has long been postulated to rely on intracortical postsynaptic inhibition, although this hypothesis has been challenged by recent reports. Here we show, using intracellular and extracellular recordings in vivo, that cross-whisker suppression occurs in the absence of cortical activity. Instead, suppression arises from local circuit operations at multiple levels of the subcortical afferent pathway and is amplified by the nonlinear transformation of synaptic input into spike output in both the thalamus and cortex. Because these cellular processes are common to neural circuits subserving visual and auditory modalities, we propose that the suppressive mechanisms elucidated here are a general property of thalamocortical sensory systems.
Ventral and dorsal visual pathways perform fundamentally different functions. The former is involved in object recognition, whereas the latter carries out spatial localization of stimuli and visual guidance of motor actions. Despite the association of the dorsal pathway with spatial vision, recent studies have reported shape selectivity in the dorsal stream. We compared shape encoding in anterior inferotemporal cortex (AIT), a high-level ventral area, with that in lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP), a high-level dorsal area, during a fixation task. We found shape selectivities of individual neurons to be greater in anterior inferotemporal cortex than in lateral intraparietal cortex. At the neural population level, responses to different shapes were more dissimilar in AIT than LIP. Both observations suggest a greater capacity in AIT for making finer shape distinctions. Multivariate analyses of AIT data grouped together similar shapes based on neural population responses, whereas such grouping was indistinct in LIP. Thus in a first comparison of shape response properties in late stages of the two visual pathways, we report that AIT exhibits greater capability than LIP for both object discrimination and generalization. These differences in the two visual pathways provide the first neurophysiological evidence that shape encoding in the dorsal pathway is distinct from and not a mere duplication of that formed in the ventral pathway. In addition to shape selectivity, we observed stimulus-driven cognitive effects in both areas. Stimulus repetition suppression in LIP was similar to the well-known repetition suppression in AIT and may be associated with the &quot;inhibition of return&quot; memory effect observed during reflexive attention.
The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD) is a visual interneuron of Orthopteran insects involved in collision avoidance and escape behavior. The LGMD possesses a large dendritic field thought to receive excitatory, retinotopic projections from the entire compound eye. We investigated whether the LGMD's receptive field for local motion stimuli can be explained by its electrotonic structure and the eye's anisotropic sampling of visual space. Five locust (Schistocerca americana) LGMD neurons were stained and reconstructed. We show that the excitatory dendritic field and eye can be fitted by ellipsoids having similar geometries. A passive compartmental model fit to electrophysiological data was used to demonstrate that the LGMD is not electrotonically compact. We derived a spike rate to membrane potential transform using intracellular recordings under visual stimulation, allowing direct comparison between experimental and simulated receptive field properties. By assuming a retinotopic mapping giving equal weight to each ommatidium and equally spaced synapses, the model reproduced the experimental data along the eye equator, though it failed to reproduce the receptive field along the ventral-dorsal axis. Our results illustrate how interactions between the distribution of synaptic inputs and the electrotonic properties of neurons contribute to shaping their receptive fields.
Variability is increasingly recognized as a characteristic feature of cellular, synaptic, and network properties. While studies have traditionally focused on mean values, significant effects can result from changes in variance. This study has examined cellular and synaptic variability in the lamprey spinal cord and its modulation by the neuropeptide substance P. Cellular and synaptic variability differed in different types of cell and synapse. Substance P reduced the variability of subthreshold locomotor-related depolarizations and spiking in motor neurons during network activity. These effects were associated with a reduction in the variability of spiking in glutamatergic excitatory network interneurons and with a reduction in the variance of excitatory interneuron-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Substance P also reduced the variance of postsynpatic potentials (PSPs) from crossing inhibitory and excitatory interneurons, but it increased the variance of inhibitory postsynpatic potentials (IPSPs) from ipsilateral inhibitory interneurons. The effects on the variance of different PSPs could occur with or without changes in the PSP amplitude. The reduction in the variance of excitatory interneuron-evoked EPSPs was protein kinase A, calcium, and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) dependent. The NMDA dependence suggested that substance P was acting postsynaptically. This was supported by the reduced variability of postsynaptic responses to glutamate by substance P. However, ultrastructural analyses suggested that there may also be a presynaptic component to the modulation, because substance P reduced the variability of synaptic vesicle diameters in putative glutamatergic terminals. These results suggest that cellular and synaptic variability can be targeted for modulation, making it an additional source of spinal cord plasticity.
Previous studies have shown that corticosterone enhances whole cell calcium currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons, through a pathway involving binding of glucocorticoid receptor homodimers to the DNA. We examined whether glucocorticoids show selectivity for L- over N-type of calcium currents. Moreover, we addressed the putative gene targets that eventually lead to the enhanced calcium currents. Electrophysiological recordings were performed in nucleated patches that allow excellent voltage control. Calcium currents in these patches almost exclusively involve N- and L-type channels. We found that L- but not N-type calcium currents were largely enhanced after treatment with a high dose of corticosterone sufficient to activate glucocorticoid receptors. Voltage dependency and kinetic properties of the currents were unaffected by the hormone. Nonstationary noise analysis suggests that the increased current is not caused by a larger unitary conductance, but rather to a doubling of the number of functional channels. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed that transcripts of the Ca(v)1 subunits encoding for the N- or L-type calcium channels are not upregulated in the mouse CA1 area; instead, a strong, direct, and consistent upregulation of the beta4 subunit was observed. This indicates that the corticosteroid-induced increase in number of L-type calcium channels is not caused by a simple transcriptional regulation of the pore-forming subunit of the channels.
We tested the hypothesis that delay-period activity in premotor cortex is essential to movement preparation. During a delayed-reach task, we used subthreshold intracortical microstimulation to disrupt putative &quot;preparatory&quot; activity. Microstimulation led to a highly specific increase in reach reaction time. Effects were largest when activity was disrupted around the time of the go cue. Earlier disruptions, which presumably allowed movement preparation time to recover, had only a weak impact. Furthermore, saccadic reaction time showed little or no increase. Finally, microstimulation of nearby primary motor cortex, even when slightly suprathreshold, had little effect on reach reaction time. These findings provide the first evidence, of a causal and temporally specific nature, that activity in premotor cortex is fundamental to movement preparation. Furthermore, although reaction times were increased, the movements themselves were essentially unperturbed. This supports the suggestion that movement preparation is an active and actively monitored process and that movement can be delayed until inaccuracies are repaired. These results are readily interpreted in the context of the recently developed optimal-subspace hypothesis.
Hand manipulation neurons in areas 5 and 7b/anterior intraparietal area (AIP) of posterior parietal cortex were analyzed in three macaque monkeys during a trained prehension task. Digital video recordings of hand kinematics synchronized to neuronal spike trains were used to correlate firing rates of 128 neurons with hand actions as the animals grasped and lifted rectangular and round objects. We distinguished seven task stages: approach, contact, grasp, lift, hold, lower, and relax. Posterior parietal cortex (PPC) firing rates were highest during object acquisition; 88% of task-related area 5 neurons and 77% in AIP/7b fired maximally during stages 1, 2, or 3. Firing rates rose 200-500 ms before contact, peaked at contact, and declined after grasp was secured. 83% of area 5 neurons and 72% in AIP/7b showed significant increases in mean rates during approach as the fingers were preshaped for grasp. Somatosensory signals at contact provided feedback concerning the accuracy of reach and helped guide the hand to grasp sites. In error trials, tactile information was used to abort grasp, or to initiate corrective actions to achieve task goals. Firing rates declined as lift began. 41% of area 5 neurons and 38% in AIP/7b were inhibited during holding, and returned to baseline when grasp was relaxed. Anatomical connections suggest that area 5 provides somesthetic information to circuits linking AIP/7b to frontal motor areas involved in grasping. Area 5 may also participate in sensorimotor transformations coordinating reach and grasp behaviors and provide on-line feedback needed for goal-directed hand movements.
We developed a new technique to isolate a whole guinea pig brain with an intact olfactory epithelium (OE) that enables us to access the ventral surface of the brain including olfactory areas with ease during natural odor stimulation. We applied odorants to OE and confirmed that odor-induced local field potentials (LFPs) could be induced in olfactory areas. In the olfactory bulb (OB) and the piriform cortex (PC), odor-induced LFPs consisted of a phasic initial component followed by a fast activity oscillation in the beta range (20 Hz). To understand the neural mechanisms of odor-induced responses especially in the anterior PC, we analyzed odor-induced LFPs, together with unit activity data. We confirmed that the initial component of odor-induced response has a characteristic temporal pattern, generated by a relatively weak direct afferent input, followed by an intra-cortical associative response, which was associated with a phasic inhibition. The beta oscillation might be formed by the repetition of these network activities. These electrophysiological data were consistent with the results of previous studies that used slice or in vivo preparations, suggesting that the olfactory neural network and activities of the brain are preserved in our new in vitro preparation. This study provides the basis for clarifying the sequence of neural activities underlying odor information processing in the brain in vitro following natural olfactory stimulation.
Grafted human neural stem cells (hNSCs) may help to alleviate functional deficits resulting from spinal cord injury by bridging gaps, replacing lost neurons or oligodendrocytes, and providing neurotrophic factors. Previously, we showed that primed hNSCs differentiated into cholinergic neurons in an intact spinal cord. In this study, we tested the fate of hNSCs transplanted into a spinal cord T10 contusion injury model. When grafted into injured spinal cords of adult male rats on either the same day or 3 or 9 days after a moderate contusion injury, both primed and unprimed hNSCs survived for 3 months postengraftment only in animals that received grafts at 9 days postinjury. Histological analyses revealed that primed hNSCs tended to survive better and differentiated at higher rates into neurons and oligodendrocytes than did unprimed counterparts. Furthermore, only primed cells gave rise to cholinergic neurons. Animals receiving primed hNSC grafts on the ninth day postcontusion improved trunk stability, as determined by rearing activity measurements 3 months after grafting. This study indicates that human neural stem cell fate determination in vivo is influenced by the predifferentiation stage of stem cells prior to grafting. Furthermore, stem cell-mediated facilitation of functional improvement depends on the timing of transplantation after injury, the grafting sites, and the survival of newly differentiated neurons and oligodendrocytes.
Numerous studies addressing different methods of head injury prognostication have been published. Unfortunately, these studies often incorporate different head injury prognostication models and study populations, thus making direct comparison difficult, if not impossible. Furthermore, newer artificial intelligence tools such as machine learning methods have evolved in the field of data analysis, alongside more traditional methods of analysis. This study targets the development of a set of integrated prognostication model combining different classes of outcome and prognostic factors. Methodologies such as discriminant analysis, logistic regression, decision tree, Bayesian network, and neural network were employed in the study. Several prognostication models were developed using prospectively collected data from 513 severe closed head-injured patients admitted to the Neurocritical Unit at National Neuroscience Institute of Singapore, from April 1999 to February 2003. The correlation between prognostic factors at admission and outcome at 6 months following injury was studied. Overfitting error, which may falsely distinguish different outcomes, was compared graphically. Tenfold cross-validation technique, which reduces overfitting error, was used to validate outcome prediction accuracy. The overall prediction accuracy achieved ranged from 49.79% to 81.49%. Consistently high outcome prediction accuracy was seen with logistic regression and decision tree. Combining both logistic regression and decision tree models, a hybrid prediction model was then developed. This hybrid model would more accurately predict the 6-month post-severe head injury outcome using baseline admission parameters.
Recently, two candidate analogs for human syncytin, denoted syncytins A and B, were identified in the murine genome. These were found to have expression patterns and functions similar to human syncytin. In addition, the identification of glial cells missing (GCM)-binding motifs in putative promoter regions of the mouse syncytins imply analogous regulation. Transcriptional modulation of syncytin by exogenous agents was recently suggested by studies reporting transactivation of syncytin in human cell lines following virus infections. The authors report that influenza A virus infection increased the levels of transcripts encoding Gcm1 and syncytin B, but not syncytin A, in NIH-3T3 cells as well as in mouse primary neurons or glia. Overexpression of human GCM1 in NIH-3T3 cells resulted in increased levels of transcripts encoding syncytin B but not syncytin A. Systemic administration of neurotropic influenza A virus resulted in a neuronal infection and increased levels of Gcm1-encoding transcripts in brains of young mice. The mouse may therefore be useful for studies on the expression and function of endogenous retroviral envelope genes and transcription factors regulating their expression in the placenta and brain during physiological or pathological conditions.


In this study, we aimed at establishing whether two previously identified thyroid disruptors, the insecticide 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) and Aroclor 1254 (a complex mixture of polychlorinated water), may inhibit thyrotropin (TSH) receptor (TSHr) activity. DDT and Aroclor 1254 were shown to inhibit both the basal and bovine TSH (bTSH)-stimulated accumulation of cAMP in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cells stably transfected with the TSHr. Furthermore, both DDT and Aroclor 1254 did indeed prevent cAMP accumulation, as induced by the constitutive activity of a point mutant TSHr(I486M) transiently transfected in African green monkey kidney fibroblast (COS)-7 cells. Neither trypsin digestion of the extracellular domain (ECD) nor deletion of the ECD in a mutant TSHr trunk transiently transfected in COS-7 cells counteracted the inhibitory activity of DDT and Aroclor 1254. DDT exerted a weak inhibitory activity against forskolin in both CHO-K1 and COS-7 cells, whereas it was nil against the agonists dopamine and 5'-(N-ethyl-carboxamido)-adenosine (NECA) in CHO cells stably transfected with the dopamine D1 receptor and in COS-7 cells transiently transfected with the adenosine type 2a receptor (A2a) receptor. Furthermore, DDT was inactive against the stimulation by isoproterenol of the endogenously expressed beta2 adrenergic receptor in COS-7 cells. Conversely, Aroclor 1254 inhibited completely forskolin activity in CHO-K1 cells but not in COS-7 cells. Furthermore, it did not prevent accumulation of cAMP as induced by NECA in A2a transfected cells. The analog of DDT, diphenylethylene, was inactive against bTSH-induced increase in cAMP in CHO-K1 cells stably transfected with the TSHr. We interpreted these results as indicating that DDT and possibly Aroclor 1254 may have an uncompetitive inverse agonist activity for the TSHr.
The present study characterized nicotine intake, circadian patterns of food and water intake, precipitated somatic signs of withdrawal, and extinction of nicotine-seeking behavior in rats with 23-h access to intravenous self-administration (IVSA). Separate groups of animals were allowed access to nicotine IVSA (0.015, n = 9; 0.03, n = 14; 0.06, n = 16; mg/kg/0.1 ml infusion/s; fixed ratio 1) and trained to nosepoke for food and water 23 h/day for 40 consecutive days. Somatic signs of nicotine withdrawal were examined following saline or mecamylamine administration (1.5 mg/kg i.p.), and extinction of nicotine-seeking behavior was assessed. A dose-dependent decrease in lever responding and an increase in nicotine intake were observed, with the highest nicotine dose producing the lowest amount of lever responding and the highest amount of nicotine intake. Nicotine acutely reduced diurnal and nocturnal food intake, producing smaller and fewer meals, and an increased rate of eating. Differences in rate of nicotine intake between the light and dark phase decreased significantly, especially in rats receiving higher unit nicotine doses (0.03 and 0.06 mg/kg), along with long-term decreases in the circadian profile and amplitude of feeding. Mecamylamine precipitated robust withdrawal signs, the magnitude of which was positively correlated with the total amount of self-administered nicotine. Extinction of nicotine-seeking behavior was observed and was facilitated by removal of nicotine-associated cues. The results demonstrate that rats will self-administer nicotine to the point of producing dependence, as measured by somatic signs, resistance to extinction, and measures of food intake.
Serotonin-2C (5-HT2C) receptor antagonists and agonists have been shown to affect dopamine (DA) neurotransmission, with agonists selectively decreasing mesolimbic DA. As antipsychotic efficacy is proposed to be associated with decreased mesolimbic DA neurotransmission by virtue of DA D2 receptor antagonism, the 5-HT2C-selective receptor agonist, WAY-163909 [(7bR,10aR)-1,2, 3,4,8,9,10,10a-octahydro-7bH-cyclopenta-[b][1,4]diazepino[6,7, 1hi]indole], was evaluated in animal models of schizophrenia and in vivo microdialysis and electrophysiology to determine the effects on mesolimbic and nigrostriatal DA neurotransmission. Similar to clozapine, WAY-163909 (1.7-30 mg/kg i.p.) decreased apomorphine-induced climbing with little effect on stereotypy and no significant induction of catalepsy. WAY-163909 (0.3-3 mg/kg s.c.) more potently reduced phencyclidine-induced locomotor activity compared with d-amphetamine with no effect on spontaneous activity. WAY-163909 (1.7-17 mg/kg i.p.) reversed MK-801 (5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (dizocilpine maleate)- and DOI [1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane]-disrupted prepulse inhibition of startle (PPI) and improved PPI in DBA/2N mice. In conditioned avoidance responding, WAY-163909 (0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.; 1-17 mg/kg p.o.) reduced avoidance responding, an effect blocked by the 5-HT(2B/2C) receptor antagonist SB 206553 [5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3,5-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-f]indole]. WAY-163909 (10 mg/kg s.c.) selectively decreased extracellular levels of DA in the nucleus accumbens without affecting the striatum. Likewise, in vivo electrophysiological recordings showed a decrease in the number of spontaneously firing DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area but not in the substantia nigra with both acute and chronic (21-day) administration of WAY-163909 (1-10 mg/kg i.p.). Thus, the profile of the 5-HT2C selective receptor agonist WAY-163909 is similar to that of an atypical antipsychotic and additionally may have rapid onset properties.
The predominantly human sequence, high-affinity anticocaine monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2E2 was cleared slowly from mouse blood by a first-order process with an elimination t(1/2) of 8.1 days. Infused 2E2 also produced a dramatic dose-dependent increase in plasma cocaine concentrations and a concomitant decrease in the brain cocaine concentrations produced by an i.v. injection of cocaine HCl (0.56 mg/kg). At the highest dose of 2E2 tested (3:1, mAb/drug), cocaine was not detectable in the brain. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that the normal disappearance of cocaine from plasma was described by a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model with distribution t(1/2alpha) and terminal elimination t(1/2beta) values of 1.9 and 26.1 min, respectively. In the presence of an equimolar dose of mAb 2E2, there was a 26-fold increase in the area under the plasma cocaine concentration-time curve (AUC) relative to the AUC in the absence of 2E2. Consequently, 2E2 decreased the volume of distribution of cocaine from 6.0 to 0.20 l/kg, which approximated that of 2E2 (0.28 l/kg). However, cocaine was still rapidly cleared from plasma, and its elimination was now described by a single-compartment model with an elimination t(1/2) of 17 min. Importantly, 2E2 also produced a 4.5-fold (78%) decrease in the cocaine AUC in the brain. Therefore, the effect of 2E2 on plasma and brain cocaine concentrations was predominantly caused by a change in the distribution of cocaine with negligible effects on its rate of clearance. These data support the concept of immunotherapy for drug abuse.
The dorsal raphe (DR) receives a prominent dopamine (DA) input that has been suggested to play a key role in the regulation of central serotoninergic transmission. DA is known to directly depolarize DR serotonin neurons, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Here, we show that activation of D2-like dopamine receptors on DR 5-HT neurons elicits a membrane depolarization and an inward current associated with an increase in membrane conductance. The DA-induced inward current (I(DA)) exhibits a linear I-V relationship and reverses polarity at around -15 mV, suggesting the involvement of a mixed cationic conductance. Consistent with this notion, lowering the extracellular concentration of sodium reduces the amplitude of I(DA) and induces a negative shift of its reversal potential to approximately -45 mV. This current is abolished by inhibiting G-protein function with GDPbetaS. Examination of the downstream signaling mechanisms reveals that activation of the nonselective cation current requires the stimulation of phospholipase C but not an increase in intracellular calcium. Thus, pharmacological inhibition of phospholipase C reduces the amplitude of I(DA). In contrast, buffering intracellular calcium has no effect on the amplitude of I(DA). Bath application of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels blockers, 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate and SKF96365 [1-(beta-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)propoxy]-4-methoxyphenethyl)-1H-imidazole], strongly inhibits I(DA) amplitude, suggesting the involvement of TRP-like conductance. These results reveal previously unsuspected mechanism by which D2-like DA receptors induce membrane depolarization and enhance the excitability of DR 5-HT neurons.
Hippocampal interneuron activity has been linked to epileptogenesis, seizures and the oscillatory synaptic activity detected in behaving rats. Interneurons fire at specific times in the rhythmic cycles that comprise these oscillations; however, the mechanisms controlling these firing patterns remain unclear. We have examined the role of synaptic input in modulating the firing of spontaneously active rat hippocampal interneurons. We find that synaptic glutamate receptor currents of 20-30 pA increase instantaneous firing frequency and reset the phase of spontaneously firing CA1 stratum oriens interneurons. Kainate receptor (KAR)-mediated currents are particularly effective at producing this phase reset, while AMPA receptor currents are relatively ineffective. The efficacy of KAR-mediated currents is probably due to their 3-fold longer decay. Given the small amplitude of the currents needed for this phase reset, coincident activation of only a few KAR-containing synapses could synchronize firing in groups of interneurons. These data suggest that KARs are potent modulators of circuit behaviour and their activation alters hippocampal interneuron output.

To improve knowledge about axonal membrane properties in nociceptive and non-nociceptive C fibres, we studied impulse-dependent velocity changes by in vivo microneurography in the rat sciatic nerve. Cutaneous C fibres were classified, based primarily on their activity-dependent slowing profile, as Type 1A (mechano-responsive nociceptors; CMR; n = 23), Type 1B (mechano-insensitive nociceptors; CMI; n = 24), Type 2 (cold units; n = 2), Type 3 units (unknown function; n = 4) or Type 4 (presumed sympathetics; n = 23) units. They were excited by single, double and triple electrical stimuli to the skin at mean rates of 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 Hz and with interstimulus intervals ranging from 2 to 1000 ms. All CMRs exhibited only postspike subnormality at 0.25 and 0.5 Hz. They gradually developed supernormality with higher stimulation rates, and 12/19 CMRs were supernormal at 1 Hz. The CMIs showed a greater tendency towards supernormality, with 10/21 already supernormal at 0.25 Hz, 17/24 at 0.5 Hz and all were supernormal at 1 Hz. In some CMIs but in none of the CMRs, the supernormal period was directly followed by a peak in late subnormality. Among non-nociceptive fibres, all Type 4 units exhibited long-lasting supernormality independent of the stimulation rate, whereas the cold units showed short-lived supernormality. In both, supernormality increased with higher stimulation rates. Regardless of fibre function or stimulation rate, a second conditioning stimulus always induced additional slowing, providing evidence for a passive origin of supernormality in all rat C fibre subtypes. However, the degree and time-course of extra slowing due to a preconditioning stimulus was highly dependent on fibre function and stimulation rate. These data indicate axonal membrane differences between different functional classes of C fibres, which resemble those previously described in human C fibres.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel family was the last major ion channel family to be discovered. The prototypical member (dTRP) was identified by a forward genetic approach in Drosophila, where it represents the transduction channel in the photoreceptors, activated downstream of a Gq-coupled PLC. In the meantime 29 vertebrate TRP isoforms are recognized, distributed amongst seven subfamilies (TRPC, TRPV, TRPM, TRPML, TRPP, TRPA, TRPN). They subserve a wide range of functions throughout the body, most notably, though by no means exclusively, in sensory transduction and in vascular smooth muscle. However, their precise physiological roles and mechanism of activation and regulation are still only gradually being revealed. Most TRP channels are subject to multiple modes of regulation, but a common theme amongst the TRPC/V/M subfamilies is their regulation by lipid messengers. Genetic evidence supports an excitatory role of diacylglycerol (DAG) for the dTRP's, although curiously only DAG metabolites (PUFAs) have been found to activate the Drosophila channels. TRPC2,3,6 and 7 are widely accepted as DAG-activated channels, although TRPC3 can also be regulated via a store-operated mechanism. More recently PIP2 has been shown to be required for activity of TRPV5, TRPM4,5,7 and 8, whilst it may inhibit TRPV1 and the dTRPs. Although compelling evidence for a direct interaction of DAG with the TRPC channels is lacking, mutagenesis studies have identified putative PIP2-interacting domains in the C-termini of several TRPV and TRPM channels.
This special issue of the Journal of Physiology, Paris, is an outcome of NeuroComp'06, the first French conference in Computational Neuroscience. The preparation for this conference, held at Pont--Mousson in October 2006, was accompanied by a survey which has resulted in an up-to-date inventory of human resources and labs in France concerned with this emerging new field of research (see team directory in http://neurocomp.risc.cnrs.fr/). This thematic JPP issue gathers some of the key scientific presentations made on the occasion of this first interdisciplinary meeting, which should soon become recognized as a yearly national conference representative of a new scientific community. The present introductory paper presents the general scientific context of the conference and reviews some of the historical and conceptual foundations of Systems and Computational Neuroscience in France.
Electrophysiological recordings performed in the mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) aimed at deciphering neural rules supporting neural representation of odors. In spite of a fairly large number of available data, no clear picture emerges yet in the mammalian OB. This paper summarizes some important findings and underlines the fact that difference in experimental conditions still represents a major limitation to the emergence of a synthetic view. More specifically, we examine to what extent the absence or the presence of anaesthetic influence OB neuronal responsiveness. In addition, we will see that recordings of either single cell activity or populational activity provide quite different pictures. As a result some experimental approaches provide data underlying sensory properties of OB neurons while others emphasize their capabilities of integrating incoming sensory information with attention, motivation and previous experience.
We discuss the statistics of spikes trains for different types of integrate-and-fire neurons and different types of synaptic noise models. In contrast with the usual approaches in neuroscience, mainly based on statistical physics methods such as the Fokker-Planck equation or the mean-field theory, we chose the point of the view of the stochastic calculus theory to characterize neurons in noisy environments. We present four stochastic calculus techniques that can be used to find the probability distributions attached to the spikes trains. We illustrate the power of these techniques for four types of widely used neuron models. Despite the fact that these techniques are mathematically intricate we believe that they can be useful for answering questions in neuroscience that naturally arise from the variability of neuronal activity. For each technique we indicate its range of applicability and its limitations.
The machinery behind the visual perception of motion and the subsequent sensori-motor transformation, such as in ocular following response (OFR), is confronted to uncertainties which are efficiently resolved in the primate's visual system. We may understand this response as an ideal observer in a probabilistic framework by using Bayesian theory [Weiss, Y., Simoncelli, E.P., Adelson, E.H., 2002. Motion illusions as optimal percepts. Nature Neuroscience, 5(6), 598-604, doi:10.1038/nn858] which we previously proved to be successfully adapted to model the OFR for different levels of noise with full field gratings. More recent experiments of OFR have used disk gratings and bipartite stimuli which are optimized to study the dynamics of center-surround integration. We quantified two main characteristics of the spatial integration of motion: (i) a finite optimal stimulus size for driving OFR, surrounded by an antagonistic modulation and (ii) a direction selective suppressive effect of the surround on the contrast gain control of the central stimuli [Barthlemy, F.V., Vanzetta, I., Masson, G.S., 2006. Behavioral receptive field for ocular following in humans: dynamics of spatial summation and center-surround interactions. Journal of Neurophysiology, (95), 3712-3726, doi:10.1152/jn.00112.2006]. Herein, we extended the ideal observer model to simulate the spatial integration of the different local motion cues within a probabilistic representation. We present analytical results which show that the hypothesis of independence of local measures can describe the spatial integration of the motion signal. Within this framework, we successfully accounted for the contrast gain control mechanisms observed in the behavioral data for center-surround stimuli. However, another inhibitory mechanism had to be added to account for suppressive effects of the surround.
The quality of the representation of an object's motion is limited by the noise in the sensory input as well as by an intrinsic ambiguity due to the spatial limitation of the visual motion analyzers (aperture problem). Perceptual and oculomotor data demonstrate that motion processing of extended objects is initially dominated by the local 1D motion cues, related to the object's edges and orthogonal to them, whereas 2D information, related to terminators (or edge-endings), takes progressively over and leads to the final correct representation of global motion. A Bayesian framework accounting for the sensory noise and general expectancies for object velocities has proven successful in explaining several experimental findings concerning early motion processing [Weiss, Y., Adelson, E., 1998. Slow and smooth: a Bayesian theory for the combination of local motion signals in human vision. MIT Technical report, A.I. Memo 1624]. In particular, these models provide a qualitative account for the initial bias induced by the 1D motion cue. However, a complete functional model, encompassing the dynamical evolution of object motion perception, including the integration of different motion cues, is still lacking. Here we outline several experimental observations concerning human smooth pursuit of moving objects and more particularly the time course of its initiation phase, which reflects the ongoing motion integration process. In addition, we propose a recursive extension of the Bayesian model, motivated and constrained by our oculomotor data, to describe the dynamical integration of 1D and 2D motion information. We compare the model predictions for object motion tracking with human oculomotor recordings.
High-level specification of how the brain represents and categorizes the causes of its sensory input allows to link &quot;what is to be done&quot; (perceptual task) with &quot;how to do it&quot; (neural network calculation). In this article, we describe how the variational framework, which encountered a large success in modeling computer vision tasks, has some interesting relationships, at a mesoscopic scale, with computational neuroscience. We focus on cortical map computations such that &quot;what is to be done&quot; can be represented as a variational approach, i.e., an optimization problem defined over a continuous functional space. In particular, generalizing some existing results, we show how a general variational approach can be solved by an analog neural network with a given architecture and conversely. Numerical experiments are provided as an illustration of this general framework, which is a promising framework for modeling macro-behaviors in computational neuroscience.
Successful adaptation relies on the ability to learn the consequence of our actions in different environments. However, understanding the neural bases of this ability still represents one of the great challenges of system neuroscience. In fact, the neuronal plasticity changes occurring during learning cannot be fully controlled experimentally and their evolution is hidden. Our approach is to provide hypotheses about the structure and dynamics of the hidden plasticity changes using behavioral learning theory. In fact, behavioral models of animal learning provide testable predictions about the hidden learning representations by formalizing their relation with the observables of the experiment (stimuli, actions and outcomes). Thus, we can understand whether and how the predicted learning processes are represented at the neural level by estimating their evolution and correlating them with neural data. Here, we present a bayesian model approach to estimate the evolution of the internal learning representations from the observations of the experiment (state estimation), and to identify the set of models' parameters (parameter estimation) and the class of behavioral model (model selection) that are most likely to have generated a given sequence of actions and outcomes. More precisely, we use Sequential Monte Carlo methods for state estimation and the maximum likelihood principle (MLP) for model selection and parameter estimation. We show that the method recovers simulated trajectories of learning sessions on a single-trial basis and provides predictions about the activity of different categories of neurons that should participate in the learning process. By correlating the estimated evolutions of the learning variables, we will be able to test the validity of different models of instrumental learning and possibly identify the neural bases of learning.
In awake animals, the cerebral cortex displays an &quot;activated&quot; state, with distinct characteristics compared to other states like slow-wave sleep or anesthesia. These characteristics include a sustained depolarized membrane potential (V(m)) and irregular firing activity. In the present paper, we evaluate our understanding of cortical activated states from a computational neuroscience point of view. We start by reviewing the electrophysiological characteristics of activated cortical states based on recordings and analysis performed in awake cat association cortex. These analyses show that cortical activity is characterized by an apparent Poisson-distributed stochastic dynamics, both at the single-cell and population levels, and that single cells display a high-conductance state dominated by inhibition. We next overview computational models of the &quot;awake&quot; cortex, and perform the same analyses as in the experiments. Many properties identified experimentally are indeed reproduced by models, such as depolarized V(m), irregular firing with apparent Poisson statistics, and the determinant role of inhibitory fluctuations on spiking. However, other features are not well reproduced, such as firing statistics and the conductance state of the membrane, suggesting that the network state displayed by models is not entirely correct. We also show how networks can approach a correct conductance state, suggesting ways by which future models will generate activity fully consistent with experimental data.
In this study, a new technique for the repair of divided peripheral nerves using a flexible controlled-release glass wrap is described and its successful use is reported. Corglaes is a biodegradable and biocompatible glass which, when used as a solid glass tube form as a nerve conduit, allows nerve regeneration. It is now produced as a flexible, porous wrap (CRG-wrap). In this study, the CRG-wrap was used to repair divided median nerves in the upper forelimb of sheep. The wrap was secured in place around the divided nerve ends using fibrin glue or 6/0 polyglactin sutures. Microsurgical epineurial suturing was used to repair the same injury in another group. Twelve sheep were used in each group. A control group of sheep, on which no operations had been carried out, was also examined. The outcome of each repair was assessed at 7 months by measuring transcutaneous stimulated jitter (TSJ), maximum conduction velocity (CVmax), wet muscle mass and morphometric measurements. Testing was carried out on the limb that had been operated upon and the normal contralateral forelimb. The ratio of the measurements taken in the operated and the normal limb (the right and left forelimbs in the control group) was used when carrying out statistical analyses on the results. The mean and variance of the ratios of each of the measured variables in the three repair groups were similar suggesting that nerve regeneration had occurred to a similar degree in all the repair groups (analyses were carried out using one-way ANOVA and Scheff's test, with statistical significance assumed at p&lt;0.05). The repair of peripheral nerves using the CRG-wrap is easy to learn, quicker and cheaper than microsurgical epineurial suturing, and can be carried out by any surgeon with basic surgical skills. It was concluded that CRG-wrap is a useful alternative to microsurgical epineurial suturing for the repair of peripheral nerves.
Both post-mortem and neuroimaging studies have contributed significantly to what we know about the brain and schizophrenia. MRI studies of volumetric reduction in several brain regions in schizophrenia have confirmed early speculations that the brain is disordered in schizophrenia. There is also a growing body of evidence suggesting that a disturbance in connectivity between different brain regions, rather than abnormalities within the separate regions themselves, are responsible for the clinical symptoms and cognitive dysfunctions observed in this disorder. Thus an interest in white matter fiber tracts, subserving anatomical connections between distant, as well as proximal, brain regions, is emerging. This interest coincides with the recent advent of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), which makes it possible to evaluate the organization and coherence of white matter fiber tracts. This is an important advance as conventional MRI techniques are insensitive to fiber tract direction and organization, and have not consistently demonstrated white matter abnormalities. DTI may, therefore, provide important new information about neural circuitry, and it is increasingly being used in neuroimaging studies of psychopathological disorders. Of note, in the past five years 18 DTI studies in schizophrenia have been published, most describing white matter abnormalities. Questions still remain, however, regarding what we are measuring that is abnormal in this disease, and how measures obtained using one method correspond to those obtained using other methods? Below we review the basic principles involved in MR-DTI, followed by a review of the different methods used to evaluate diffusion. Finally, we review MR-DTI findings in schizophrenia.
Currently, there is a lot of interest in cannabis use as a risk factor for the development of schizophrenia. Cognitive dysfunction associated with long-term or heavy cannabis use is similar in many respects to the cognitive endophenotypes that have been proposed as vulnerability markers of schizophrenia. In this overview, we examine the similarities between these in the context of the neurobiology underlying cognitive dysfunction, particularly implicating the endogenous cannabinoid system, which plays a significant role in attention, learning and memory, and in general, inhibitory regulatory mechanisms in the brain. Closer examination of the cognitive deficits associated with specific parameters of cannabis use and interactions with neurodevelopmental stages and neural substrates will better inform our understanding of the nature of the association between cannabis use and psychosis. The theoretical and clinical significance of further research in this field is in enhancing our understanding of underlying pathophysiology and improving the provision of treatments for substance use and mental illness.
The present study aimed to systematically assess acute, dose-related behavioural effects of an extract of guaran plant for the first time in humans. This double-blind, counterbalanced, placebo-controlled study (n=26) assessed the acute mood and cognitive effects throughout the day of four different doses (37.5 mg, 75 mg, 150 mg and 300 mg) of a standardised guaran extract (PC-102). Assessment included the Cognitive Drug Research computerized test battery and Bond-Lader mood scales. Guaran improved secondary memory performance and increased alert and content mood ratings. The two lower doses produced more positive cognitive effects than the higher doses. This research supports previous findings of cognitive improvements following 75 mg guaran and provides the first exploration of different dose effects of guaran in humans. The findings suggest that the effects cannot be attributed to caffeine alone.

The Ca2+ sensor calmodulin (CaM) regulates numerous proteins involved in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling. CaM binds directly to some GPCRs, including the dopamine D2 receptor. We confirmed that the third intracellular loop of the D2 receptor is a direct contact point for CaM binding using coimmunoprecipitation and a polyHis pull-down assay, and we determined that the D2-like receptor agonist 7-OH-DPAT increased the colocalization of the D2 receptor and endogenous CaM in both 293 cells and in primary neostriatal cultures. The N-terminal three or four residues of D2-IC3 were required for the binding of CaM; mutation of three of these residues in the full-length receptor (I210C/K211C/I212C) decreased the coprecipitation of the D2 receptor and CaM and also significantly decreased D2 receptor signaling, without altering the coupling of the receptor to G proteins. Taken together, these findings suggest that binding of CaM to the dopamine D2 receptor enhances D2 receptor signaling.


This article reviews methods that have been developed as part of a clinical initiative on improving outcome measures for motor function assessment in subjects with spinal cord injury (SCI). Physiological motor outcome measures originally developed for limbs-transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex to elicit motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) and mechanical stimulation to elicit spinal reflexes-have been extended to muscles of the trunk. The impetus for this development is the lack of a motor component in the American Spinal Injury Association clinical assessment for the thoracic myotomes. The application of TMS to the assessment of limb muscles is reviewed, followed by consideration of its application to the assessment of paravertebral and intercostal muscles. Spinal reflex testing of paravertebral muscles is also described. The principal markers for the thoracic SCI motor level that have emerged from this clinical initiative are (1) the threshold of MEPs in paravertebral muscles in response to TMS of the motor cortex, (2) the facilitation pattern and latency of MEPs in intercostal muscles during voluntary expiratory effort, and (3) the absence of long-latency reflex responses and the exaggeration of short-latency reflex responses in paravertebral muscles.

An unusual case of unilateral trigeminal neuronopathy in a dog is reported, in which the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and the ipsilateral corticospinal tract were destroyed, apparently by a cerebrovascular accident (stroke). Hemiplegia did not occur. Neuropathological changes are described, including remyelination by Schwann cells in the central nervous system. The case illustrates the importance of central nervous system post-mortem examination when establishing causes of cranial nerve paralysis.
In Mammals, the master circadian clock is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. This clock is synchronized with the astronomical time, essentially by the light/dark cycle. The different zeitgebers studied act on the Per1 and/or Per2 genes from the main molecular loop which initiates the circadian oscillations. Once synchronized with the environment, circadian oscillations are distributed through the organism by efferent signals, and the complex interaction of neural, hormonal and behavioural outputs from the circadian clock drive circadian expression of events, either directly or through coordination of the timing of peripheral oscillators. Melatonin, one of the endocrine output signals of the clock, provides the organism with circadian information, and can be considered as an endogenous synchronizer. Melatonin receptors are present in the suprachiasmatic nuclei which allows the hormone to feed back on the clock. To day, the physiological role of this peculiar feed-back has not yet been established. However, the presence of these receptors indicates that through an action on the circadian clock, exogenous melatonin can affect all levels of the circadian network and its capacity to entrain circadian rhythms to 24 h has been demonstrated. Melatonin is thus a zeitgeber. However, surprisingly, and different from the action mechanism of other zeitgebers on the clock, the chronobiotic effect of melatonin does not implicate Per1 and/or Per2. Rather, Rev-erb alpha could be the link between the physiological action of melatonin and the core of the molecular circadian clock.


This special report traces the path of spinal cord injury (SCI) from ancient times through the present and provides an optimistic overview of promising clinical trials and avenues of basic research. The spinal cord injuries of Lord Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson, President James A. Garfield, and General George Patton provide an interesting perspective on the evolution of the standard of care for SCI. The author details the contributions of a wide spectrum of professionals in the United States, Europe, and Australia, as well as the roles of various government and professional organizations, legislation, and overall advances in surgery, anesthesia, trauma care, imaging, pharmacology, and infection control, in the advancement of care for the individual with SCI.



Neuroendovascular treatment is increasingly being used for treatment of intracranial aneurysms. Postradiation alopecia, commonly seen weeks after radiation for other diseases such as brain tumors, is rarely reported after neuroendovascular procedures for benign lesions because of their delayed manifestations. Although the morbidity and mortality is less compared with surgery, adverse effects related to radiation are probably understated, underreported, and/or often attributed to prolonged bed rest, heparinization, or poor nutrition. We present a case with a delayed onset of a graphic but peculiar geometric alopecia associated with trigeminal nerve pattern dysfunction, which was related to the fluoroscopic radiation for coil embolization of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm.

Previous studies suggested that a major portion of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is absorbed by extracranial lymphatics located in the olfactory turbinates. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) on downstream cervical lymphatic pressures in the rat. Pressures were measured in the deep cervical lymph nodes using a servo-null micropressure system. A catheter was placed in a lateral ventricle and fluid was infused from a reservoir at defined ICPs. When Ringer's solution was infused, elevations of ICP from 10 to 50 cm H2O resulted on average in a reduction of diastolic cervical node pressures. In contrast, when a diluted plasma solution (80% plasma in Ringer's) was infused, downstream diastolic lymphatic pressures increased as ICP was elevated to 50 cm H2O. These data are consistent with the view that much of the CSF-derived water that convects into the lymphatics is absorbed into the ethmoidal or nodal blood vessels. This study supports the concept of fluid continuity between the subarachnoid space and extracranial lymphatics and suggests that this loss of CSF-derived water may act as a safety mechanism to reduce the volume load to the downstream lymphatic vessels.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) is expressed in vascular endothelial cells, and its receptors are localized to the underlying smooth muscle cells. However, the role of NRG-1 in vascular function and injury is largely unknown. First, the expression of NRG-1 and its receptors (erbB receptors) was analyzed after balloon injury to the rat carotid artery. NRG-1 and erbB expression levels were low in uninjured vessels; however, NRG-1 and erbB4 were upregulated following injury. We then examined the effect of NRG-1 on neointimal formation following balloon injury. NRG-1 was administered by tail-vein injection prior to injury and every 2 days following injury. Two weeks after injury, NRG-1-treated animals demonstrated a 50% reduction in lesion size compared with controls receiving the vehicle. To examine possible mechanisms for NRG-1 action, we examined its effects on vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) function. Rat VSMC cultures were pretreated with NRG-1 for 24 h and then stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor. NRG-1 significantly decreased platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated VSMC proliferation and migration. These findings suggest that NRG-1 may be a novel therapeutic candidate for the treatment of restenosis and atherosclerosis.

This video describes the fabrication and use of a microfluidic device to culture central nervous system (CNS) neurons. This device is compatible with live-cell optical microscopy (DIC and phase contrast), as well as confocal and two photon microscopy approaches. This method uses precision-molded polymer parts to create miniature multi-compartment cell culture with fluidic isolation. The compartments are made of tiny channels with dimensions that are large enough to culture neurons in well-controlled fluidic microenvironments. Neurons can be cultured for 2-3 weeks within the device, after which they can be fixed and stained for immunocytochemistry. Axonal and somal compartments can be maintained fluidically isolated from each other by using a small hydrostatic pressure difference; this feature can be used to localize soluble insults to one compartment for up to 20 h after each medium change. Fluidic isolation enables collection of pure axonal fraction and biochemical analysis by PCR. The microfluidic device provides a highly adaptable platform for neuroscience research and may find applications in modeling CNS injury and neurodegeneration.
Many investigations in neuroscience, as well as other disciplines, involve studying small, yet macroscopic pieces or sections of tissue that have been preserved, freshly removed, or excised but kept viable, as in slice preparations of brain tissue. Subsequent microscopic studies of this material can be challenging, as the tissue samples may be difficult to handle. Demonstrated here is a method for obtaining thin cryostat sections of tissue with a thickness that may range from 0.2-5.0 mm. We routinely cut 400 micron thick Vibratome brain slices serially into 5-10 micron coronal cryostat sections. The slices are typically first used for electrophysiology experiments and then require microscopic analysis of the cytoarchitecture of the region from which the recordings were observed. We have constructed a simple device that allows controlled and reproducible preparation and positioning of the tissue slice. This device consists of a cylinder 5 cm in length with a diameter of 1.2 cm, which serves as a freezing stage for the slice. A ring snugly slides over the cylinder providing walls around the slice allowing the tissue to be immersed in freezing compound (e.g., OCT). This is then quickly frozen with crushed dry ice and the resulting wafer can be position easily for cryostat sectioning. Thin sections can be thaw-mounted onto coated slides to allow further studies to be performed, such as various staining methods, in situ hybridization, or immunohistochemistry, as demonstrated here.
The field of neuroscience has always been attractive to engineers. Neurons and their connections, like tiny circuit elements, process and transmit information in a dramatic way that is intimately curious to researchers in the computer science and engineering fields. Of particular interest has been the recent push in applying microtechnology to the field of neuroscience. This review is meant to provide an overview of some of the subtle nuances of the nervous system and outline recent advances in lab on a chip applications in neurobiology. It also aims to highlight some of the challenges the field faces in the hopes of encouraging new engineering researchers to collaborate with neurobiologists to help advance our basic understanding of the nervous system and create novel applications based on neuroengineering principles.

Several studies have shown a right-hemispheric advantage for sound localisation. However, most of these studies used stationary sound stimuli, although in most everyday situations humans are in motion when localising sound, or face a moving sound source. To elucidate the question of a functional asymmetry in cortical processing of auditory motion information, we tested 23 neurologically healthy human participants. Virtual leftward or rightward motion (broadband noise) was presented with variable movement angles (MA) in the horizontal plane (via headphones) in either the participants' left or right hemispace. Participants had to indicate whether the sound moved left or rightward. The frequency of &quot;right&quot; judgements determined as a function of MA had a sigmoidal shape in both hemispaces, indicating significant overall discrimination of motion direction. However, the frequency of correct judgements revealed a significantly better performance for the left than for the right hemispace, suggesting a superiority of the right hemisphere. This finding is in agreement with recent neuroimaging results showing higher right-hemispheric activity during localisation of moving sounds. The results might also point to a supramodal right-hemisphere advantage in the attentional processing of motion perception.
This paper describes the use of a combination of intra-oral sensory stimulation and electropalatography (EPG) in the treatment of a case with severe developmental verbal dyspraxia. A multiple-baseline design was used. The treatment duration was 11 months and started when the subject was 5 years old. The efficacy of the treatment was assessed by calculations of percentage of correctly articulated words, percentage of consonants correct, percentage of phonemes correct and percentage of words correct. Intelligibility assessments were conducted by both nave and expert listeners. The experts also assessed visual deviances in articulatory gestures from video recordings. Qualitative analysis of EPG data was made. The subject's speech was significantly improved by the treatment in all aspects. The results and their generalization to other cases of developmental verbal dyspraxia are discussed.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) was used to determine brain temperature in healthy volunteers. Partially water-suppressed (1)H MRS data sets were acquired at 3T from four different gray matter (GM)/white matter (WM) volumes. Brain temperatures were determined from the chemical-shift difference between the CH(3) of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) at 2.01 ppm and water. Brain temperatures in (1)H MRS voxels of 2 x 2 x 2 cm(3) showed no substantial heterogeneity. The volume-averaged temperature from single-voxel spectroscopy was compared with body temperatures obtained from the oral cavity, tympanum, and temporal artery regions. The mean brain parenchyma temperature was 0.5 degrees C cooler than readings obtained from three extra-brain sites (P &lt; 0.01). (1)H MRS imaging (MRSI) data were acquired from a slice encompassing the single-voxel volumes to assess the ability of spectroscopic imaging to determine regional brain temperature within the imaging slice. Brain temperature away from the center of the brain determined by MRSI differed from that obtained by single-voxel MRS in the same brain region, possibly due to a poor line width (LW) in MRSI. The data are discussed in the light of proposed brain-body temperature gradients and the use of (1)H MRSI to monitor brain temperature in pathologies, such as brain trauma.
We have begun to study the genetic basis of deterioration of cardiac function in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster as an age-related cardiac disease model. For this purpose we have developed heart function assays in Drosophila and found that the fly's cardiac performance, as that of the human heart, deteriorates with age: aging fruit flies exhibit a progressive increase in electrical pacing-induced heart failure as well as in arrhythmias. The insulin receptor and associated pathways have a dramatic and heart-autonomous influence on age-related cardiac performance in flies, suggestive of potentially similar mechanisms in regulating cardiac aging in vertebrates. Compromised KCNQ and K(ATP) ion channel functions also seem to contribute to the decline in heart performance in aging flies, suggesting that the corresponding vertebrate gene functions may similarly decline with age, in addition to their conserved role in protecting against arrhythmias and hypoxia/ischemia, respectively. The fly heart is thus emerging as a promising genetic model for studying the age-dependent decline in organ function.
The organizer, the signaling center that specifies vertebrate axial polarity and the nervous system, is a dorsal midline mesodermal domain in the gastrula that will form prechordal plate and anterior notochord. We show that in zebrafish the organizer is not a single domain when it first arises in the nascent mesoderm at the onset of gastrulation. Rather, in the presumptive prechordal plate region, the organizer is subdivided into two side-by-side cellular fields. Within minutes, concurrent medial and anterior cellular movements merge, or 'coalesce', the two fields to form the well-known singular midline field. Coalescence forms a symmetrical domain because the cell movements on the left and right sides initiate simultaneously and occur synchronously. However, in embryos with reduced function of the T-box transcription factor Tbx16 (Spadetail) or its genetic target paraxial protocadherin (Papc), synchrony is lost, coalesence is disrupted, and the midline domain is misshaped. Furthermore, with combined loss of Tbx16 and Wnt11 (Silberblick), coalesence is essentially absent. Possibly as a consequence, both the anterior movement of presumptive prechordal plate and organizer function, as assayed by eye-field separation, are disrupted. Our findings thus reveal that Tbx16, in combination with Wnt11, are critical components not only in morphogenesis but also in initial assembly of the organizer.
Despite hundreds of published articles about humankind's eusocial behaviours, most scholars still regard the origin of human altruism and cooperation as an enduring puzzle, because it seems incompatible with two central tenets of evolution, namely, the competition between individuals and the consequent selective advantages of selfish traits. This &quot;puzzle&quot;, however, rather than being due to insurmountable scientific difficulties, is to be attributed to two powerful ideologies, which are politically opposite, but nevertheless concurred to prevent scholars from solving it. One ideology rejects the concept of genetic determinism, whereas the other dislikes the concept of group selection. As a consequence, these widespread ideologies, which are common in the scientific community, too, kept scholars from realising that the puzzle of human altruism and cooperation can only be solved by proposing a theoretical model that is based precisely on both genetic determinism and group selection. This model, which was never advanced in published papers, is presented here. This article also proposes to regard ancestral environments as determinants of human eusociality. By contrast, virtually all previous articles about it leave primitive habitats unmentioned. To support the hypothesis that human unselfish behaviours represent genetically conserved traits that evolved ancestrally, not products of cultural transmission, this paper also discusses six groups of arguments in the section &quot;Genes versus culture&quot;. Finally, this article advances a purely genetic evolutionary explanation for the uniqueness of human eusociality, thereby challenging prevailing cultural explanations for the incomparably developed levels of cooperation in humankind, which are observed in no other social species.
Perhaps the biggest challenge facing neuroscience at the dawn of the 21st century is understanding the relationship between mind, consciousness and the brain. Editorials in recent years have highlighted the difficulties faced by cognitive neuroscience in attempting to answer questions regarding the nature, as well as the mechanism by which subjective experiences and our sense of consciousness may arise through neuronal processes. Current scientific views regarding the origin of consciousness vary widely and range from an 'epiphenomenon' arising from neuronal networks, to neuronal quantum processes, to a separate undiscovered scientific entity. Although there has been a lack of experimental studies to test these theories, recent studies have indicated that the study of the human mind during cardiac arrest may hold the key to solving the mystery of consciousness. Four published prospective studies of cardiac arrest survivors have demonstrated that paradoxically human mind and consciousness may continue to function during cardiac arrest. This is despite the well demonstrated finding that cerebral functioning as measured by electrical activity of the brain ceases during cardiac arrest, thus raising the possibility that human mind and consciousness may continue to function in the absence of brain function. In this article the broad theories for the causation of consciousness are reviewed as well as a novel method to study consciousness during cardiac arrest. This may provide a unique experimental method to determine the nature of human mind and consciousness as well as its relationship with the brain.
Amateau and McCarthy's findings published in Nature Neuroscience (June 2004) are noteworthy for suggesting a role for prostaglandins in sexual development. However, evidence suggests that in manipulating PGE2, they unknowingly implicated 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase [E.C. 1.1.1.50], 3(or 17)alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase [E.C. 1.1.1.209] and their respective products, androsterone (ADT) and epitestosterone (EpiT), in the developmental masculinization of sex behavior. EpiT is generally regarded as a hormonally inactive 17alpha-epimer of testosterone (T). In rats, the kidney is the primary site of EpiT formation, whereas in humans it originates from the gonads, with only a small contribution secreted by the adrenals. Because the ratio of T to EpiT is nearly constant, it is presently used for assessing steroid abuse in competitive sports, where the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) considers a T/EpiT ratio &gt;4 evidence of T doping. Despite its central role in the detection of illict anabolic steroid use, our knowledge of factors effecting EpiT production is poor. Clues in the literature, however, reveal that prostaglandin-mediated processes, such as LHRH release, may influence its production. Antimycotics, NSAIDs, and opioid analgesics used in sports medicine are all known to effect prostaglandin E2 synthesis. Primary PGs are potent inhibitors of ADT oxidation, while indomethacin, a prostaglandin blocker, powerfully inhibits 3alpha-HSD reduction and ADT oxidation. This is significant because ADT inhibits the oxidation of EpiT, and may modulate its antiandrogenic and neuroprotective effects. It is hypothesized that the T/EpiT ratio is increased by COX-2 inhibitors and opiod analgesics, and decreased by antimycotics that do not impair testosterone biosynthesis. Given the devastating personal and career consequences that may result from false positive drug tests, substantive research on the effects of PGE2 manipulations on EpiT is warranted.
Pellagra is a curable dietary illness that unchecked leads to dementia, diarrhoea, dermatitis and death due to lack of the precursors for NAD(H). In addition it caused a wide range of monosyndromic degenerative and functional neurological disorders as well as profound developmental, premature aging and metabolic syndromes. Pellagrins harbour many chronic infections including tuberculosis, yeasts and malaria, that may be symbionts supplying nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide {NAD(H)} when the diet is poor. Many common diseases and aging may be caused by electrogenic energy mismatches from lack of a timely supply of NAD(H) creating disturbed metabolic fields and &quot;protonopathies&quot;. Initially these may present in compartments fronted by homeostatic corrections from chronic symbiotic infections to inflammatory disease, cancer and degenerative/autophagic diseases that can all release NAD(H).
Down's syndrome is characterized not only by a typical &quot;habitus&quot;, mental retardation of variable gravity and several alterations of the cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrenteric and immunitary system, but also by specific attitudes and characteristics that are in common with the Oriental population. Starting from the origin of the term mongolism, replaced with other terms such as Trisomy 21, Down's syndrome, and anomaly of Down because of the racist use made in the last century, we propose, in the light of modern knowledge about the heredity of features, a reflection on those aspects and attitudes which highlight a very particular twinning between a Down person and Asiatic peoples.
Since the launch in 1998 of the anti-impotence drug sildenafil (viagra), the American food and drug administration has identified 50 cases of drug-related blindness, the so-called nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. This, very serious, side effect frequently leads to sudden, mostly irreversible loss of vision, and there is no proven effective treatment to cure patients or to prevent recurrence. The mechanism of ischemic optic neuropathy is not clear, but it could be related to the fact that the ophthalmic and central retinal arteries have an autoregulation of their own blood flow without any autonomic nerve supply; vasoreactivity could be lower albeit efficient, and therefore more vulnerable to systemic modifications of the circulation. But decreased visual acuity and loss of visual ability also are, although uncommon, anesthesiological and surgical complications. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that sildenafil, surgery and anesthesia, taken together, could be a potentially dangerous cocktail of risk factors for sudden irreversible loss of vision. To reduce the risk, sildenafil use should be avoided at least one week before surgical operations, since the reported cases of blindness developed 36h after drug ingestion.
We propose to carry out cooperatively both tissue and structure segmentations by distributing a set of local and cooperative models in a unified MRF framework. Tissue segmentation is performed by partitionning the volume into subvolumes where local MRFs are estimated in cooperation with their neighbors to ensure consistency. Local estimation fits precisely to the local intensity distribution and thus handles nonuniformity of intensity without any bias field modelization. Structure segmentation is performed via local MRFs that integrate localization constraints provided by a priori general fuzzy description of brain anatomy. Structure segmentation is not reduced to a postprocessing step but cooperates with tissue segmentation to gradually and conjointly improve models accuracy. The evaluation was performed using phantoms and real 3T brain scans. It shows good results and in particular robustness to nonuniformity and noise with a low computational cost.
It is generally accepted that locomotion in vertebrate species is produced by signals coded and integrated by neurons of the spinal cord. In fact, the basic features of locomotion, including patterns and rhythms, are generated by a network of neurons called the CPG (central pattern generator) essentially localized in the lumbar segments of the spinal cord. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying the rhythmic aspect of CPG-generated locomotion are not fully understood. Here, we report data of studies that focus on the role of Ca(2+)-related mechanisms involved in the expression of the pacemaker property of lumbar motoneurons that innervate the hindlimbs. In fact, it has become increasingly clear that Ca(2+) plays a determinant function in the expression of this active and conditional rhythmic property. In addition to NMDA-mediated currents (NMDA is an agonist of the calcium permeable ionotropic glutamatergic receptor) and to a Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) current that were found twenty years ago to contribute to intrinsic voltage oscillations in motoneurons, a pivotal role for voltage-gated channels (e.g., CaV1.3) and intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)]i) have recently been shown. Increasing evidence of a role for metabotropic receptor subtypes, calmodulin (a calcium binding protein), ryanodine and IP3-sensitive intracellular stores of Ca(2+) suggests that additional mechanisms are yet to be identified. A detailed understanding of the complex role of Ca(2+) in mediating the auto-rhythmic property of spinal neurons may contribute to the development of novel therapeutic approaches to induce locomotion after spinal cord injury.
Research into patients' experience of medium secure psychiatric services is in its infancy despite growing interest in user involvement in mental health care as a whole. The work reported here aimed to provide an opportunity for patients to reflect upon their understanding of their route into secure psychiatric provision and their time spent in one large unit in the West Midlands. Most (65%) of the patients taking part were admitted to medium security through the criminal justice system. The average length of stay was 18 months (range, two months to two years six months). The experience of being admitted to secure care was generally described as frightening though many patients expressed relief that they were now receiving help. Half of those interviewed thought they had no choice about treatment. Nevertheless, eight said they trusted their doctors to make the right decision about medication. Generally patients thought their relationships with multi-disciplinary team members were positive and felt able to approach them with any concerns. Overall, patients who participated in this study were optimistic about their experience of medium secure care. They felt the advantages of hospital care compensated for the disadvantages, particularly as their mental state stabilised and they gained insight into their illness. Areas of concern for patients were lack of privacy and uncertainty about how long they were likely to remain in hospital.

Lorenzo Tenchini was born in Brescia and studied Medicine in Pavia where he became lecturer of Anatomy in 1880. In 1881, at the age of 29 years, he was appointed Professor of Anatomy at the University of Parma. In this city Tenchini began to study the morphology of the brains of criminals, later founding the &quot;Museum of Criminal Anthropology&quot;. He collected brains of delinquents and their wax masks and studied the relationship between neuroanatomy and criminality. He promoted the building of a lunatic asylum in the province of Parma and was interested in social medicine, including the pellagra scourge in Northern Italy. Tenchini conducted important research work in the field of neuropsychiatry and anthropology. He was one of the founders of criminal anthropology in Italy and sought to explain criminal behavior through the study of neuroanatomy.
The article aims at illustrating the contribution of German and British scientists to the origin and the transmission of the nervous impulses. The debate originated at a time when physiologists tried to ascertain whether the stimulation wave is concomitant with the nervous impulse.
In developing neurohistology, neither Golgi nor Cajal paid much attention to the findings of the physiologists who at that time worked on the nervous system, possibly because they felt that the microscope alone could answer functional as well as structural questions. Cajal was personally acquainted with Sherrington but surprisingly did not use his findings on the role of synapses in reflex mechanisms to support the neuron theory. Golgi did not trust the physiologists' concepts in general and therefore did not pay attention to the physiological literature, an attitude rightly criticized by Luciani, a prominent neurophysiologist of those times. In recent years, attempts to resurrect Golgi's theory of the diffuse nerve net have been based on the evidence of extrasynaptic communications between neurons through tight junctions or the so-called volume transmission. Here are mentioned earlier efforts to reconcile the neuron theory with Golgi's theory by Antonio Pensa, a pupil of Golgi who influenced the scientific development of the great neurophysiologist Giuseppe Moruzzi. The article also argues that the known mechanisms of extrasynaptic communication by no means prove the existence of a neural net a la Golgi, that is of a net predicated on a fusion of neurites. The greatness of Golgi must be sought in his immortal contributions to various fields of biology and medicine, rather than in his only major scientific mistake: a stubborn defense of an indefensible theory.
The black reaction, also known nowadays as &quot;Golgi staining&quot; or &quot;Golgi impregnation&quot;, paved the way to the development of modern neuroscience at the end of XIX century. By this staining, the silhouette of the nerve cell appears in all its morphological complexity with all its ramifications, which could be followed and analyzed even at a great distance from the cell body. However the reaction has been fundamental for discoveries in several other areas of biomedical research: cytology, myology, bacteriology. With the aid of the black reaction, for example, it was possible to observe: the Golgi apparatus, the T system related to the function of the sarcoplasmatic reticulum, the Mller-Golgi canaliculi of the peptic glands and many more; this wide and various success is due to its character of morphological amplification of fine structures. In spite of its still controversial biochemical nature, the black reaction has been an unavoidable versatile tool in different areas of biology, so we propose to consider this method as an ante litteram &quot;cognitive&quot; biotechnology.
Cognitive Neuroscience is an interdisciplinary area of research that combines measurement of brain activity (mostly by means of neuroimaging) with a simultaneous performance of cognitive tasks by human subjects. These investigations have been successful in the task of connecting the sciences of the brain (Neurosciences) and the sciences of the mind (Cognitive Sciences). Advances on this kind of research provide a map of localization of cognitive functions in the human brain. Do these results help us to understand how mind relates to the brain? In my view, the results obtained by the Cognitive Neurosciences lead to new investigations in the domain of Molecular Neurobiology, aimed at discovering biophysical mechanisms that generate the activity measured by neuroimaging instruments. In this context, I argue that the understanding of how ionic/molecular processes support cognition and consciousness cannot be made by means of the standard reductionist explanations. Knowledge of ionic/molecular mechanisms can contribute to our understanding of the human mind as long as we assume an alternative form of explanation, based on psycho-physical similarities, together with an ontological view of mentality and spirituality as embedded in physical nature (and not outside nature, as frequently assumed in western culture).
Down Syndrome (DS) caused by trisomy 21 is characterized by a variety of phenotypes and involves multiple organs. Sequencing of human chromosome 21 (HSA21) and subsequently of its orthologues on mouse chromosome 16 have created an unprecedented opportunity to explore the complex relationship between various DS phenotypes and the extra copy of approximately 300 genes on HSA21. Advances in genetics together with the ability to generate genetically well-defined mouse models have been instrumental in understanding the relationships between genotype and phenotype in DS. Indeed, elucidation of these relationships will play an important role in understanding the pathophysiological basis of this disorder and helping to develop therapeutic interventions. A successful example of using such a strategy is our recent studies exploring the relationship between failed nerve growth factor (NGF) transport and amyloid precursor protein (App) overexpression. We found that increased dosage of the gene for App is linked to failed NGF signaling and cholinergic neurodegeneration in a mouse model of DS. Herein, we discuss several mouse models of DS and explore the emergence of exciting new insights into genotype-phenotype relationships, particularly those related to nervous system abnormalities. An important conclusion is that uncovering these relationships is enhanced by working from carefully defined phenotypes to the genes responsible.
Of the recent advances in education-related research in Down syndrome, the characterization of the Down syndrome behavioral phenotype has become a potentially critical tool for shaping education and intervention in this population. This article briefly reviews the literature on brain-behavior connections in Down syndrome and identifies aspects of the Down syndrome behavioral phenotype that are potentially relevant to educators. Potential challenges to etiologically informed educational planning are discussed.



Synaptic plasticity, the ability of neuronal synapses to undergo morphological and biochemical changes in response to various stimuli, forms the underlying basis of long-term memory storage. Regulated mRNA translation at synapses is required for this plasticity. However, the mechanism by which translation at synapses is controlled and how the encoded proteins modulate persistent changes in synaptic morphology and functional integration in response to different input stimulations remain mostly unclear (Schuman et al., 2006; Sutton and Schuman, 2006). One approach to investigating the relationship between protein synthesis and plasticity is to identify factors, such as RNA binding proteins that control translation in the neurons and then determine the identities of the mRNAs to which they are bound. Molecular and cellular techniques have been employed in cultured neurons to study sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins, for example, the Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding protein (CPEB) (Huang et al., 2002, 2003) and the Fragile-X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP) (Vanderklish and Edelman, 2005; Zalfa et al., 2006) for their functions in localizing and regulating translation of mRNAs. Although several CPE-containing neuronal RNAs that undergo activity-dependent polyadenylation (Du and Richter, 2005; Wu et al., 1998) and FMRP-interacting mRNAs have been identified (Brown et al., 2001; Miyashiro et al., 2003), the validation of these targets whose translation is important for plasticity in vivo remains to be demonstrated (Darnell et al., 2005). In general, primary neurons in culture are difficult to manipulate. For example, they do not proliferate and their transfection efficiency is low ( approximately 1 to 10% of cells); this low efficiency is reduced even further as the cells age in culture, which hampers their practical use for biochemical analysis. When biochemical approaches are applied, they are often carried out in other more facile model systems, such as oocytes, in the case of CPEB, or in brains derived from knockout mice, for both CPEB and FMRP. However, the development of various viral delivery systems, shRNA knockdown techniques, reporter assays with high sensitivity, and neuron culture protocols have allowed investigators to analyze translational control in these cells, which may ultimately be used to investigate key mechanisms of synaptic plasticity. We have employed these procedures to investigate the function of CPEB3, a novel RNA-binding protein, in primary rat hippocampal neurons (Huang et al., 2006); here, we describe the experimental details of our methods, which could be used for any RNA binding protein.
Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) has been proven to be a powerful tool to visualize and quantify the signaling cascades in live cells with high spatiotemporal resolutions. Here we describe the development of the genetically encoded and FRET-based biosensors for imaging of integrin-related signaling cascades. The construction of a FRET biosensor for Src kinase, an important tyrosine kinase involved in integrin-related signaling pathways, is used as an example to illustrate the construction procedure and the pitfalls involved. The design strategies and considerations on improvements of sensitivity and specificity are also discussed. The FRET-based biosensors provide a complementary approach to traditional biochemical assays for the analysis of the functions of integrins and their associated signaling molecules. The dynamic and subcellular visualization enabled by FRET can shed new light on the molecular mechanisms regulating integrin signaling and advance our knowledge in the understanding of integrin-related pathophysiological processes.


Hypofunctioning of glutamate synaptic transmission in the central nervous system (CNS) has been proposed as a factor that may contribute to cognitive deficits associated with various neurological and psychiatric disorders. Positive allosteric modulation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) subtype of glutamate receptors has been proposed as a novel therapeutic approach, because these receptors mediate the majority of rapid excitatory neurotransmission and are intimately involved in long-term changes in synaptic plasticity thought to underlie mnemonic processing. By definition, positive allosteric modulators do not affect AMPA receptor activity alone but can markedly enhance ion flux through the ion channel pore in the presence of bound agonist. Despite this commonality, positive allosteric modulators can be segregated on the basis of the preferential effects on AMPA receptor subunits, their alternatively spliced variants and/or their biophysical mechanism of action. This chapter provides a detailed description of the methodologies used to evaluate the potency/efficacy and biophysical mechanism of action of positive allosteric modulators of AMPA receptors.
The binding between peptide epitopes and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins is a major event in the cellular immune response. Accurate prediction of the binding between short peptides and class I or class II MHC molecules is an important task in immunoinformatics. SVRMHC which is a novel method to model peptide-MHC binding affinities based on support rector machine regression (SVR) is described in this chapter. SVRMHC is among a small handful of quantitative modeling methods that make predictions about precise binding affinities between a peptide and an MHC molecule. As a kernel-based learning method, SVRMHC has rendered models with demonstrated appealing performance in the practice of modeling peptide-MHC binding.
A critical goal of neuroscience is to fully understand neural processes and their relations to mental processes, and cognitive, affective, and behavioral disorders. Computational modeling, although still in its infancy, continues to play a central role in this endeavor. Presented here is a review of different aspects of computational modeling that help to explain many features of neuropsychological syndromes and psychiatric disease. Recent advances in computational modeling of epilepsy, cortical reorganization after lesions, Parkinson's and Alzheimer diseases are also reviewed. Additionally, this chapter will also identify some trends in the computational modeling of brain functions.
Receptor distributions in the brain are studied by autoradiographic mapping in brain slices, which is a labor-intensive and expensive procedure. To keep track of the results of such studies, we have designed CoReDat, a multi-user relational database system that is available for download from www.cocomac.org/coredat. Here, we describe the data model and provide an architectural overview of CoReDat for the neuroscientist who wants to use this database, adapt it for related purposes, or build a new one.
Quantifying the effect of a genetic manipulation or disease is a complicated process in a population of animals. Probabilistic brain atlases can capture population variability and be used to quantify those variations in anatomy as measured by structural imaging. Minimum deformation atlases (MDAs), a subclass of probabilistic atlases, are intensity-based averages of a collection of scans in a common space unbiased by selection of a single target image. Here, we describe a method for generating an MDA from a set of magnetic resonance microscopy images. First, the images are segmented to remove any non-brain tissue and bias field corrected to remove field inhomogeneities. The corrected images are then linearly aligned to a representative scan, the geometric mean of all the transformations is calculated, and a minimum deformation target (MDT) is produced by averaging the volumes in this new space. The brains are then non-linearly aligned to the MDT to produce the MDA. Finally, the images are linearly aligned to the MDA using a full-affine transformation to spatially and intensity normalize them, removing global differences in size, shape, and position but retaining anatomically significant differences.
The electrical activity of individual neurons and neuronal networks is shaped by the complex interplay of a large number of non-linear processes, including the voltage-dependent gating of ion channels and the activation of synaptic receptors. These complex dynamics make it difficult to understand how individual neuron or network parameters-such as the number of ion channels of a given type in a neuron's membrane or the strength of a particular synapse-influence neural system function. Systematic exploration of cellular or network model parameter spaces by computational brute force can overcome this difficulty and generate comprehensive data sets that contain information about neuron or network behavior for many different combinations of parameters. Searching such data sets for parameter combinations that produce functional neuron or network output provides insights into how narrowly different neural system parameters have to be tuned to produce a desired behavior. This chapter describes the construction and analysis of databases of neuron or neuronal network models and describes some of the advantages and downsides of such exploration methods.
Data integration is particularly difficult in neuroscience; we must organize vast amounts of data around only a few fragmentary functional hypotheses. It has often been noted that computer simulation, by providing explicit hypotheses for a particular system and bridging across different levels of organization, can provide an organizational focus, which can be leveraged to form substantive hypotheses. Simulations lend meaning to data and can be updated and adapted as further data come in. The use of simulation in this context suggests the need for simulator adjuncts to manage and evaluate data. We have developed a neural query system (NQS) within the NEURON simulator, providing a relational database system, a query function, and basic data-mining tools. NQS is used within the simulation context to manage, verify, and evaluate model parameterizations. More importantly, it is used for data mining of simulation data and comparison with neurophysiology.
One of the more important recent additions to the NEURON simulation environment is a tool called ModelView, which simplifies the task of understanding exactly what biological attributes are represented in a computational model. Here, we illustrate how ModelView contributes to the understanding of models and discuss its utility as a neuroinformatics tool for analyzing models in online databases and as a means for facilitating interoperability among simulators in computational neuroscience.
The insufficiency of terminological standards in neuroscience is increasingly recognized as a serious obstacle to interoperability. Adoption of a controlled vocabulary is a successful solution for small numbers of groups that work closely together but is impractical for large numbers of groups who represent diverse areas of research, index information by various legitimate nomenclatures, or publish in different languages. Interoperability among such disparate databases requires a translation mechanism, or &quot;mediator,&quot; to enable communication and data sharing among databases. Shared ontologies are essential components of a mediator. An ontology codifies the relations between terms of multiple nomenclatures and the concepts they represent. Neuroanatomy is central to neuroscience, and neuroanatomical terminology represents a core portion of the vocabulary of neuroscience. We have created in NeuroNames an ontology of 2500 neuroanatomical concepts referenced by 15,000 terms in seven languages. NeuroNames is the mediator for BrainInfo, a portal to neuroanatomy on the Web. We hope that a description of our experience in establishing interoperability between BrainInfo and other neuroscience Web sites may be useful to others engaged in the development of ontologies for neuroscience.
EXtensible Markup Language (XML) technology provides an ideal representation for the complex structure of models and neuroscience data, as it is an open file format and provides a language-independent method for storing arbitrarily complex structured information. XML is composed of text and tags that explicitly describe the structure and semantics of the content of the document. In this chapter, we describe some of the common uses of XML in neuroscience, with case studies in representing neuroscience data and defining model descriptions based on examples from NeuroML. The specific methods that we discuss include (1) reading and writing XML from applications, (2) exporting XML from databases, (3) using XML standards to represent neuronal morphology data, (4) using XML to represent experimental metadata, and (5) creating new XML specifications for models.
To determine effective database architecture for a specific neuroscience application, one must consider the distinguishing features of research databases and the requirements that the particular application must meet. Research databases manage diverse types of data, and their schemas evolve fairly steadily as domain knowledge advances. Database search and controlled-vocabulary access across the breadth of the data must be supported. We provide examples of design principles employed by our group as well as others that have proven successful and also introduce the appropriate use of entity-attribute-value (EAV) modeling. Most important, a robust architecture requires a significant metadata component, which serves to describe the individual types of data in terms of function and purpose. Recording validation constraints on individual items, as well as information on how they are to be presented, facilitates automatic or semi-automatic generation of robust user interfaces.
Data interoperability between well-defined domains is currently performed by leveraging Web services. In the biosciences, more specifically in neuroscience, robust data interoperability is more difficult to achieve due to data heterogeneity, continuous domain changes, and the constant creation of new semantic data models (Nadkarni et al., J Am Med Inform Assoc 6, 478-93, 1999; Miller et al., J Am Med Inform Assoc 8, 34-48, 2001; Gardner et al., J Am Med Inform Assoc 8, 17-33, 2001). Data heterogeneity in neurosciences is primarily due to its multidisciplinary nature. This results in a compelling need to integrate all available neuroscience information to improve our understanding of the brain. Researchers associated with neuroscience initiatives such as the human brain project (HBP) (Koslow and Huerta, Neuroinformatics: An Overview of the Human Brain Project, 1997), the Bioinformatics Research Network (BIRN), and the Neuroinformatics Information Framework (NIF) are exploring mechanisms to allow robust interoperability between these continuously evolving neuroscience databases. To accomplish this goal, it is crucial to orchestrate technologies such as database mediators, metadata repositories, semantic metadata annotations, and ontological services. This chapter introduces the importance of database interoperability in neurosciences. We also describe current data sharing and integration mechanisms in genera. We conclude with data integration in bioscience and present approaches on neuroscience data sharing.
Processing text from scientific literature has become a necessity due to the burgeoning amounts of information that are fast becoming available, stemming from advances in electronic information technology. We created a program, NeuroText ( http://senselab.med.yale.edu/textmine/neurotext.pl ), designed specifically to extract information relevant to neuroscience-specific databases, NeuronDB and CellPropDB ( http://senselab.med.yale.edu/senselab/ ), housed at the Yale University School of Medicine. NeuroText extracts relevant information from the Neuroscience literature in a two-step process: each step parses text at different levels of granularity. NeuroText uses an expert-mediated knowledge base and combines the techniques of indexing, contextual parsing, semantic and lexical parsing, and supervised and non-supervised learning to extract information. The constrains, metadata elements, and rules for information extraction are stored in the knowledge base. NeuroText was created as a pilot project to process 3 years of publications in Journal of Neuroscience and was subsequently tested for 40,000 PubMed abstracts. We also present here a template to create domain non-specific knowledge base that when linked to a text-processing tool like NeuroText can be used to extract knowledge in other fields of research.
Short basic amino acid sequences, often called cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs), allow the delivery of proteins and other molecules into cells and across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Although the ability of basic proteins to facilitate such trafficking is known for a long time, only the application of genetic methods and overexpression of fusion proteins in Escherichia coli has lead to a wide application of CPP in many research areas, including signal transduction, cancer, angiogenesis, apoptosis, bone development, cardioprotection, cell cycle, neurobiology, and many others. For the neuroscientist, CPPs are particularly attractive, as a number of articles in the last 5 years have reported their use for neuronal rescue in a number of models for neurodegenerative diseases in vitro and in vivo in rats, mice, or gerbils. Here, we give a detailed description of the protein purification methodology and applications in neuroscience.
Organotypic slice cultures of the brain are widely used as a tool to study fundamental questions in neuroscience. In this chapter, we focus on a protocol based on organotypic slice cultures of mouse entorhinal cortex and hippocampus that can be employed to study axonal regeneration and collateral sprouting in the central nervous system in vitro. Using pharmacological as well as genetic approaches, axonal regeneration and sprouting can be influenced, and some of the molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in these processes can be identified. The protocol describes in detail (1) the generation of organotypic entorhino-hippocampal slice cultures, (2) the conditions needed for the analysis of axonal regeneration and collateral sprouting, respectively, (3) the lesioning technique, (4) tracing techniques to visualize regenerating entorhinal axons, and (5) an immunohistochemical technique to visualize sprouting fibers.
Using the vital marker GFP and its spectral variants, it is possible to visualize multiple proteins in individual cells and thereby monitor embryonic development on a cellular and molecular level. In the following chapter we describe how to prepare Drosophila embryos or larvae for live imaging or immunohistochemical staining and provide some guidelines for optimal GFP detection.
Myosin-1c is an unconventional myosin involved in hair-cell mechanotransduction, a process that underlies our senses of hearing and balance. To study the interaction of myosin-1c with other components of the hair-cell transduction complex, we have developed an in situ binding assay that permits visualization of myosin-1c binding to hair-cell proteins. In this chapter we describe in detail the methods needed for the expression and purification of recombinant myosin-1c fragments and their use in the in situ binding assay.
Metabolomics is the systematic and theoretically comprehensive study of the small molecules that comprise a biological sample, e.g., sera or plasma. Metabolomics, in conjunction with other &quot;-omics&quot; approaches, offers a new window onto the study of aging and caloric restriction. Here, we present the methodology that we are using, high-performance liquid chromatography separations coupled with coulometric electrode array detection, to probe the metabolome of aging and caloric-restricted animals. This system has unique advantages, notably sensitivity and high quantitative precision, but also has unique disadvantages, such as the ability to obtain little structural information on the metabolites of interest and limited scale-up capacity. The system also only detects redox-active compounds, which can be either a benefit or a detriment, depending on the experimental goals and design.
The emergence of microarray technology as a novel tool in molecular biology has led to significant progress in many biomedical disciplines, including gerontology. Both cDNA and oligonucleotide-based DNA microarrays are now widely used to identify the basic physiological mechanisms of aging and to uncover the molecular mechanisms underlying the biological effects of anti-aging drugs. Two different protocols covering both cDNA and oligonucleotide microarray platforms, with radioactive and nonradioactive (fluorescent) labeling, are detailed in the manuscript. These in-depth protocols provide a background for the technical aspects of everyday work with DNA microarrays.
Immunocytochemistry (ICC) is a sensitive and powerful method that is used to localize and identify cells containing a particular antigen. This chapter is dedicated to ICC of suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) slices. After a brief introduction to the technique, the materials and methods sections describe two different methods to obtain SCN slices--the first one for fixed tissue, the second one for fresh frozen tissue--followed by the description of two methods of antibody detection: the indirect method and the avidin-biotin complex one. In addition, some remedies to the most common problems encountered while performing ICC and some alternative protocols are discussed.
Brain slices prepared from early postnatal rodents can be maintained in culture from many weeks to months. In culture, brain slices retain their original characteristic cytoarchitecture (organotypic) and continue to differentiate and mature in vitro resembling the characteristics of the original tissue in vivo. Therefore, this fascinating approach allows us to investigate fundamental issues of structure, function, and development of the central nervous system. This chapter introduces two techniques for culturing slices of mammalian brain tissue that are most commonly used at present.
Quantitative PCR (qPCR) has entered widespread use with the increasing availability of real-time PCR. By the incorporation of fluorescent dyes in the reaction mixture, increases in amplification products can be monitored throughout the reaction, enabling measurements to be taken in the exponential phase of the reaction, before the reaction plateau. Whatever the platform or chemistry involved, the starting point of a real-time assay is a tissue-specific RNA and the end point of a real-time reaction is an amplification plot. As such, rather than focusing on specific platforms or chemistries, herein we address the basic principles that underlie sample preparation, experimental design, use of internal controls, assay considerations, and approaches to data analysis. The advent of real-time PCR has enabled high-throughput analysis of multiple transcripts from small tissue samples, with an unparalleled dynamic range and sensitivity. However, to new users, this technique may seem to require extensive optimization and troubleshooting to obtain reliable data; this is further compounded by the mass of technical variations present throughout the literature. The aim of this article is to provide the necessary basics to get a quantitative real-time PCR assay up and running, and to address some of the problems that may arise and how these may be resolved.
Purification of intact RNA is the primary step of many molecular biology techniques, including Northern blotting, RNase protection, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and microarray assays. RNA extraction is typically conducted using either a phenol-chloroform or a solid phase method. This article concentrates primarily on the former approach, which is highly versatile, and is easily adapted to different tissues ranging from whole organs down to submillimeter biopsy punches. The major problem with RNA extraction is the ubiquitous nature of RNases, enzymes that rapidly degrade RNA. RNases may be difficult to eliminate, although with care and appropriate countermeasures, reproducible extraction of high-quality RNA from important biological samples should be attainable. This article focuses on the isolation of RNA from the tissue collection step, homogenization all the way through to the quantification of the purified nucleic acid, providing guidelines for the prevention of the problems associated with RNAse contamination.
Many of the behavioral parameters exhibited by an organism show daily fluctuations. These may persist under constant environmental conditions, demonstrating that they are governed by an endogenous (circadian) clock. The monitoring of locomotor activity in rodents is probably one of the most common methods to track this endogenous timing system. The analysis of locomotor activity rhythms can provide several parameters that may be used to describe the status of this endogenous clock. In the past few years several companies have developed hardware and software systems that allow the collection and the analysis of activity data using a personal computer.
Research over the past decade has focused increasingly on the photoreceptor mechanisms that regulate the circadian system in all forms of life. Some of the results to emerge are surprising. For example, the rods and cones within the mammalian eye are not required for the alignment (entrainment) of circadian rhythms to the dawn-dusk cycle. There exists a population of directly light-sensitive ganglion cells within the eye that act as brightness detectors; these regulate both circadian rhythms and melatonin synthesis. An understanding of these &quot;circadian photoreceptor&quot; pathways, and the features of the light environment used for entrainment, have been and will continue to be heavily dependent on the appropriate use and measurement of light stimuli. Furthermore, if results from different laboratories, or species, are to be compared in any meaningful sense, standardized methods for light measurement and manipulation need to be adopted by circadian biologists. To this end, we describe light measurement in terms of both radiometric and photometric units and consider the appropriate use of light as a stimulus in circadian experiments. In addition, the construction of action spectra has been very helpful in associating photopigments with particular responses in a broad range of photobiological systems. Because the identity of the photopigments mediating circadian responses to light are often not known, we have also taken this opportunity to provide a step-by-step approach to conducting action spectra, including the construction of irradiance response curves, the calculation of relative spectral sensitivities, photopigment template fitting, and the underlying assumptions behind this approach. The aims of this chapter are to provide an accessible introduction to photobiological methods and explain why these approaches need to be applied to the study of circadian systems.
Our understanding of basic cell structure and function has been greatly aided by the identification of proteins at the ultrastructural level. However, the current methods for high-resolution labeling of proteins in situ, and for directly correlating observations made by light microscopy (LM) and electron microscopy (EM) although invaluable, have a number of substantial limitations. These range from poor label penetration, difficulty to perform simultaneous multiprotein labeling, or the need to take the samples all the way to the electron microscope to evaluate labeling efficacy. Here we demonstrate an approach using quantum dots for pre-embedding immunolabeling of multiple diverse proteins for both LM and EM that overcomes many of these problems.
Robust and reliable methods for the manipulation of neural cell lines, by passaging, plating, dye labeling, imaging, fixation, and immunocytochemistry, are required to enable consistent, reproducible screens to be performed. We describe herein procedures and processes we have established to maximize the level of consistency of cell plating, fixation, and dye or antibody labeling, to ensure that assays which we are running on a routine basis remain consistent across long periods of time. These procedures involve a variety of fully or semiautomated steps, using high-quality commercially available liquid handling and dispensing technology.
One of the most remarkable features of the mammalian central nervous system is its ability to store large amounts of information for periods approaching a lifetime. However, during the aging process cognitive domains, such as long-term (declarative) memory and working memory decline in some, but by far not all individuals. It is essential to understand the physiological changes that cause memory decline and also to elucidate why preserved memory abilities vary so greatly across individuals and memory tasks. A generally accepted hypothesis has been that long-lasting activity-dependent changes in the efficacy of synaptic transmission in the mammalian brain are considered to be of fundamental importance for the storage of information. There is now a more detailed understanding of the changes in neuronal plasticity during aging at the molecular and systems levels. This review discusses recent findings on age-related changes in neuronal plasticity, which have opened up novel sites of action for therapeutic intervention.
Myotilin, palladin, and myopalladin form a novel small subfamily of cytoskeletal proteins that contain immunoglobulin-like domains. Myotilin is a thin filament-associated protein localized at the Z-disk of skeletal and cardiac muscle cells. The direct binding to F-actin, efficient cross-linking of actin filaments, and prevention of induced disassembly of filaments are key roles of myotilin that are thought to be involved in structural maintenance and function of the sarcomere. Missense mutations in the myotilin-encoding gene cause dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1A and spheroid body myopathy and are the molecular defect that can cause myofibrillar myopathy. Here we describe the generation and analysis of mice that lack myotilin, myo(-/-) mice. Surprisingly, myo(-/-) mice maintain normal muscle sarcomeric and sarcolemmal integrity. Also, loss of myotilin does not cause alterations in the heart or other organs of newborn or adult myo(-/-) mice. The mice develop normally and have a normal life span, and their muscle capacity does not significantly differ from wild-type mice even after prolonged physical stress. The results suggest that either myotilin does not participate in muscle development and basal function maintenance or other proteins serve as structural and functional compensatory molecules when myotilin is absent.
Polyglutamine diseases are characterized by neuronal intranuclear inclusions of expanded polyglutamine proteins, which are also ubiquitinated, indicating impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. E2-25K (Hip2), an ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, interacts directly with huntingtin and may mediate ubiquitination of the neuronal intranuclear inclusions in Huntington disease. E2-25K could thus modulate aggregation and toxicity of expanded huntingtin. Here we show that E2-25K is involved in aggregate formation of expanded polyglutamine proteins and polyglutamine-induced cell death. Both a truncated mutant, lacking the catalytic tail domain, as well as a full antisense sequence, reduce aggregate formation. Strikingly, both E2-25K mutants also reduced polyglutamine-induced cell death. In postmortem brain material of both Huntington disease and SCA3, E2-25K staining of polyglutamine aggregates was observed in a subset of neurons bearing intranuclear neuronal inclusions. These results demonstrate that targeting by ubiquitination plays an important role in the pathology of polyglutamine diseases.
Individual sympathetic neurons in co-cultures with cardiac myocytes store acetylcholine and noradrenaline in two different populations of synaptic vesicles and release both neurotransmitters from single presynaptic terminals. Neurotrophic factors selectively and acutely stimulate differential release of the two types of neurotransmitters from these bimodal neurons. Here we investigated the acute effects of neurotrophic factors on two pivotal marker proteins for catecholaminergic and cholinergic synaptic vesicle populations: the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. We observed that separation of the two fluorescence labeled transporters is not restricted to the varicosities, but can also be observed in the neurites as well as in the cell soma. Application of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and ciliary neuronotrophic factor caused acute alterations in transporter segregation. These results point to a novel function of neurotrophic factors during the short-term regulation of synaptic protein sorting in neurons.
Type IV pili (Tfp) are multifunctional surface appendages expressed by many Gram negative species of medical, environmental and industrial importance. The N-terminally localized, so called alpha-helical spine is the most conserved structural feature of pilin subunits in these organelles. Prevailing models of pilus assembly and structure invariably implicate its importance to membrane trafficking, organelle structure and related functions. Nonetheless, relatively few studies have examined the effects of missense substitutions within this domain. Using Neisseria gonorrhoeae as a model system, we constructed mutants with single and multiple amino acid substitutions localized to this region of the pilin subunit PilE and characterized them with regard to pilin stability, organelle expression and associated phenotypes. The consequences of simultaneous expression of the mutant and wild-type PilE forms were also examined. The findings document for the first time in a defined genetic background the phenomenon of pilin intermolecular complementation in which assembly defective pilin can be rescued into purifiable Tfp by coexpression of wild-type PilE. The results further demonstrate that pilin subunit composition can impact on organelle dynamics mediated by the PilT retraction protein via a process that appears to monitor the efficacy of subunit-subunit interactions. In addition to confirming and extending the evidence for PilE multimerization as an essential component for competence for natural genetic transformation, this work paves the way for detailed studies of Tfp subunit-subunit interactions including self-recognition within the membrane and packing within the pilus polymer.
Norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs) are high-affinity transport proteins that mediate the synaptic clearance of NE after vesicular release. NETs represent a major therapeutic target for antidepressants and are targets of multiple psychostimulants including amphetamine (AMPH) and cocaine. Recently, we demonstrated that syntaxin 1A (SYN1A) regulates NET surface expression and, through binding to the transporter's NH(2) terminus, regulates transporter catalytic function. AMPH induces NE efflux and may also regulate transporter trafficking. We monitored NET distribution and function in catecholaminergic cell lines (CAD) stably transfected with either full-length human NET (CAD-hNET) or with an hNET N-terminal deletion (CAD-hNETDelta(28-47) cells). In hNET-CAD cells, AMPH causes a slow and small reduction of surface hNET with a modest increase in hNET/SYN1A associations at the plasma membrane. In contrast, in CAD-hNETDelta(28-47) cells, AMPH induces a rapid and substantial reduction in surface hNETDelta(28-47) accompanied by a large increase in plasma membrane hNETDelta(28-47)/SYN1A complexes. We also found that AMPH in CAD-hNETDelta(28-47) cells induces a robust increase in cytosolic Ca2+ and concomitant activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Inhibition of either the increase in intracellular Ca2+ or CaMKII activity blocks AMPH-stimulated hNETDelta(28-47) trafficking and the formation of hNETDelta(28-47)/SYN1A complexes. Here, we demonstrate that AMPH stimulation of CAMKII stabilizes an hNET/SYN1A complex. This hNET/SYN1A complex rapidly redistributes, upon AMPH treatment, when mechanisms supported by the transporter's NH2 terminus are eliminated.
GM1-gangliosidosis is a glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage disease caused by autosomal recessive deficiency of lysosomal acid beta-galactosidase (betagal), and characterized by accumulation of GM1-ganglioside and GA1 in the brain. Here we examined the effect of neonatal intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector encoding mouse betagal on enzyme activity and brain GSL content in GM1-gangliosidosis (betagal(-/-)) mice. Histological analysis of betagal distribution in 3-month-old AAV-treated betagal(-/-) mice showed that enzyme was present at high levels throughout the brain. Biochemical quantification showed that betagal activity in AAV-treated brains was 7- to 65-fold higher than in wild-type controls and that brain GSL levels were normalized. Cerebrosides and sulfatides, which were reduced in untreated betagal(-/-) mice, were restored to normal levels by AAV treatment. In untreated betagal(-/-) brains, cholesterol was present at normal levels but showed abnormal cellular distribution consistent with endosomal/lysosomal localization. This feature was also corrected in AAV-treated mice. The biochemical and histological parameters analyzed in this study showed that normal brain neurochemistry was achieved in AAV-treated betagal(-/-) mice. Therefore we show for the first time that neonatal AAV-mediated gene delivery of lysosomal betagal to the brain may be an effective approach for treatment of GM1-gangliosidosis.

Despite the importance of learning abilities and disabilities in education and child development, little is known about their genetic and environmental origins in the early school years. We report results for English (which includes reading, writing, and speaking), mathematics, and science as well as general cognitive ability in a large and representative sample of U.K. twins studied at 7, 9, and 10 years of age. Although preliminary reports of some of these data have been published, the purpose of this monograph is to present new univariate, multivariate, and longitudinal analyses that systematically examine genetic and environmental influences for the entire sample at all ages for all measures for both the low extremes (disabilities) and the entire sample (abilities). English, mathematics, and science yielded similarly high heritabilities and modest shared environmental influences at 7, 9, and 10 years despite major changes in content across these years. We draw three conclusions that go beyond estimating heritability. First, the abnormal is normal: Low performance is the quantitative extreme of the same genetic and environmental influences that operate throughout the normal distribution. Second, continuity is genetic and change is environmental: Longitudinal analyses suggest that age-to-age stability is primarily mediated genetically, whereas the environment contributes to change from age to age. Third, genes are generalists and environments are specialists: Multivariate analyses indicate that genes largely contribute to similarity in performance within and between the three domains--and with general cognitive ability--whereas the environment contributes to differences in performance. These conclusions have far-reaching implications for education and child development as well as for molecular genetics and neuroscience.
We systematically examined 226 epilepsy patients in a tertiary-referral center and found 6 (5.04%) to have valproate-induced Parkinsonism. There was a significantly higher prevalence of patients with Parkinsonism in the group of patients treated with valproate compared to those who were on other antiepileptic drugs (6 [5.04%] of 119 vs. 0 [0%] of 107; chi2 = 5.54; P = 0.025). These six patients had been on valproate for more than 3 years (mean, 75.67 +/- 25.32 months) at an average dose of 750 +/- 273.86 mg/day. The valproate doses were decreased or discontinued with supplementation from another antiepileptic medication. The mean UPDRS motor score significantly improved from 10.67 +/- 5.1 to 4.75 +/- 2.75 (P &lt; 0.05). There was no relapse of seizures. Clinicians working in tertiary-referral centers should have a high index of suspicion for valproate-induced Parkinsonism. Early recognition and switching into another antiepileptic medication may help reduce unnecessary suffering in these patients.
We report on 2 essential tremor patients who experienced marked improvement in upper extremity tremor with the use of pregabalin (Lyrica, PGB). On PGB 200 mg/day, tremor amplitude was reduced by at least 40% in the worst affected hand in both patients as measured by accelerometry. Both patients also reported moderate reduction in tremor on the Clinical Global Impression Scale, and Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Part I scores were markedly improved.
Cognitive impairment is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), yet difficult to detect during routine neurologic examination. Therefore, brief screening tests that identify patients who may benefit from a more thorough assessment or treatment are needed. We investigated the utility of the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) as a screen for cognitive dysfunction because it can be administered and scored in about 5 minutes. One hundred MS patients and 50 healthy controls, matched on demographic variables, participated in the study. Examination procedures included the neuropsychological (NP) tests included in the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS (MACFIMS) battery. Patients were considered impaired if they performed one and a half standard deviations below controls on two or more MACFIMS variables, excluding the SDMT. Bayesian statistics showed that a total score of 55 or lower on the SDMT accurately categorized 72% of patients, yielding sensitivity of 0.82, specificity of 0.60, positive predictive value (PPV) of 0.71, and negative predictive value (NPV) of 0.73. These results suggest that the effectiveness of the SDMT as a screen for cognitive impairment in MS is roughly equal to that of other psychometric and questionnaire methods.
Nuclear proteins are selectively imported into the nucleus by transport factors such as importin-alpha and importin-beta. Here, we show that the expression of importin-alpha subtypes is strictly regulated during neural differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, and that the switching of importin-alpha subtype expression is critical for neural differentiation. Moreover, reproducing the switching of importin-alpha subtype expression in undifferentiated ES cells induced neural differentiation in the presence of leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and serum, coordinated with the regulated expression of Oct3/4, Brn2 and SOX2, which are involved in ES-neural identity determination. These transcription factors were selectively imported into the nucleus by specific subtypes of importin-alpha. Thus, importin-alpha subtype switching has a major impact on cell differentiation through the regulated nuclear import of a specific set of transcription factors. This is the first study to propose that transport factors should be considered as major players in cell-fate determination.
Recognition molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily have important roles in neuronal interactions during ontogeny, including migration, survival, axon guidance and synaptic targeting. Their downstream signal transduction events specify whether a cell changes its place of residence or projects axons and dendrites to targets in the brain, allowing the construction of a dynamic neural network. A wealth of recent discoveries shows that cell adhesion molecules interact with attractant and repellent guidance receptors to control growth cone and cell motility in a coordinate fashion. We focus on the best-studied subclasses, the neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM and the L1 family of adhesion molecules, which share important structural and functional features. We have chosen these paradigmatic molecules and their interactions with other recognition molecules as instructive for elucidating the mechanisms by which other recognition molecules may guide cell interactions during development or modify their function as a result of injury, learning and memory.
It is widely accepted that the striatum of the basal ganglia is a primary substrate for the learning and performance of skills. We provide evidence that two regions of the rat striatum, ventral and dorsal, play distinct roles in instrumental conditioning (skill learning), with the ventral striatum being critical for learning and the dorsal striatum being important for performance but, notably, not for learning. This implies an actor (dorsal) versus director (ventral) division of labor, which is a new variant of the widely discussed actor-critic architecture. Our results also imply that the successful performance of a skill can ultimately result in its establishment as a habit outside the basal ganglia.
The hair cell's mechanoreceptive organelle, the hair bundle, is highly sensitive because its transduction channels open over a very narrow range of displacements. The synchronous gating of transduction channels also underlies the active hair-bundle motility that amplifies and tunes responsiveness. The extent to which the gating of independent transduction channels is coordinated depends on how tightly individual stereocilia are constrained to move as a unit. Using dual-beam interferometry in the bullfrog's sacculus, we found that thermal movements of stereocilia located as far apart as a hair bundle's opposite edges showed high coherence and negligible phase lag. Because the mechanical degrees of freedom of stereocilia are strongly constrained, a force applied anywhere in the hair bundle deflects the structure as a unit. This feature assures the concerted gating of transduction channels that maximizes the sensitivity of mechanoelectrical transduction and enhances the hair bundle's capacity to amplify its inputs.
When attention is voluntarily directed to a spatial location, visual sensitivity increases at that location. What causes this improved sensitivity? Studies of single neuron spike rates in monkeys have provided mixed results in regard to whether attending to a stimulus increases its effective contrast (contrast gain) or multiplicatively boosts stimulus-driven neural responses (response or activity gain). We monitored frequency-tagged steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) in humans and found that voluntary sustained attention multiplicatively increased stimulus-driven population electrophysiological activity. Analyses of intertrial phase coherence showed that this attentional response gain was at least partially due to the increased synchronization of SSVEPs to stimulus flicker. These results suggest that attention operates in a complementary manner at different levels; attention seems to increase single-neuron spike rates in a variety of ways, including contrast, response and activity gains, while also inducing a multiplicative boost on neural population activity via enhanced response synchronization.
Sleep replay of awake experience in the cortex and hippocampus has been proposed to be involved in memory consolidation. However, whether temporally structured replay occurs in the cortex and whether the replay events in the two areas are related are unknown. Here we studied multicell spiking patterns in both the visual cortex and hippocampus during slow-wave sleep in rats. We found that spiking patterns not only in the cortex but also in the hippocampus were organized into frames, defined as periods of stepwise increase in neuronal population activity. The multicell firing sequences evoked by awake experience were replayed during these frames in both regions. Furthermore, replay events in the sensory cortex and hippocampus were coordinated to reflect the same experience. These results imply simultaneous reactivation of coherent memory traces in the cortex and hippocampus during sleep that may contribute to or reflect the result of the memory consolidation process.
According to the rules of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) subunit assembly, alpha4 and alpha6 subunits are considered to be the natural partners of delta subunits. These GABA(A)Rs are a preferred target of low, sobriety-impairing concentrations of ethanol. Here we demonstrate a new naturally occurring GABA(A)R subunit partnership: delta subunits of hippocampal interneurons are coexpressed and colocalized with alpha1 subunits, but not with alpha4, alpha6 or any other alpha subunits. Ethanol potentiates the tonic inhibition mediated by such native alpha1/delta GABA(A)Rs in wild-type and in alpha4 subunit-deficient (Gabra4(-/-)) mice, but not in delta subunit-deficient (Gabrd(-/-)) mice. We also ruled out any compensatory upregulation of alpha6 subunits that might have accounted for the ethanol effect in Gabra4(-/-) mice. Thus, alpha1/delta subunit assemblies represent a new neuronal GABA(A)R subunit partnership present in hippocampal interneurons, mediate tonic inhibitory currents and are highly sensitive to low concentrations of ethanol.
The development of dendritic spines is thought to be crucial for synaptic plasticity. Dendritic spines are retracted upon Eph receptor A4 (EphA4) activation, but the mechanisms that control this process are not well understood. Here we report an important function of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) in EphA4-dependent spine retraction in mice. We found that blocking Cdk5 activity inhibits ephrin-A1-triggered spine retraction and reduction of mEPSC frequency at hippocampal synapses. The activation of EphA4 resulted in the recruitment of Cdk5 to EphA4, leading to the tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of Cdk5. EphA4 and Cdk5 then enhanced the activation of ephexin1, a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor that regulates activation of the small Rho GTPase RhoA. The association between EphA4 and ephexin1 was significantly reduced in Cdk5(-/-) brains and Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation of ephexin1 was required for the ephrin-A1-mediated regulation of spine density. These findings suggest that ephrin-A1 promotes EphA4-dependent spine retraction through the activation of Cdk5 and ephexin1, which in turn modulates actin cytoskeletal dynamics.
Chronic morphine administration (via subcutaneous pellet) decreases the size of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a key reward region in the brain, yet the molecular basis and functional consequences of this effect are unknown. In this study, we used viral-mediated gene transfer in rat to show that chronic morphine-induced downregulation of the insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2)-thymoma viral proto-oncogene (Akt) signaling pathway in the VTA mediates the decrease in dopamine cell size seen after morphine exposure and that this downregulation diminishes morphine reward, as measured by conditioned place preference. We further show that the reduction in size of VTA dopamine neurons persists up to 2 weeks after morphine withdrawal, which parallels the tolerance to morphine's rewarding effects caused by previous chronic morphine exposure. These findings directly implicate the IRS2-Akt signaling pathway as a critical regulator of dopamine cell morphology and opiate reward.
Efficient and long-lasting transfection of primary neurons is an essential tool for addressing many questions in current neuroscience using functional gene analysis. Neurons are sensitive to cytotoxicity and difficult to transfect with most methods. We provide a protocol for transfection of cDNA and RNA interference (short hairpin RNA (shRNA)) vectors, using magnetofection, into rat hippocampal neurons (embryonic day 18/19) cultured for several hours to 21 d in vitro. This protocol even allows double-transfection of DNA into a small subpopulation of hippocampal neurons (GABAergic interneurons), as well as achieving long-lasting expression of DNA and shRNA constructs without interfering with neuronal differentiation. This protocol, which uses inexpensive equipment and reagents, takes 1 h; utilizes mixed hippocampal cultures, a transfection reagent, CombiMag, and a magnetic plate; shows low toxicity and is suited for single-cell analysis. Modifications done by our three laboratories are detailed.
New neurons are continuously generated in the subgranular zone of the hippocampus throughout adulthood, and there is increasing interest as to whether these new neurons become functionally integrated into memory circuits. This protocol describes the immunohistochemical procedures to visualize the recruitment of new neurons into circuits supporting spatial memory in intact mice. To label adult-generated granule cells, mice are injected with the proliferation marker 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). At different delays after BrdU treatment, mice are trained to locate a hidden platform in the Morris water maze, and spatial memory can then be tested in a probe test with the platform removed from the pool. Ninety minutes after this probe test, mice are perfused and tissue is sectioned. Immunohistochemical procedures are used to quantify BrdU-labeled cells and expression of the immediate early gene, Fos. Because Fos expression is regulated by neuronal activity, the degree of overlap between BrdU-labeled and Fos-labeled neurons provides an indication of whether adult-generated granule neurons have been incorporated into spatial memory circuits.
It has become increasingly important to assess mood states in laboratory animals. Tests that reflect reward, reduced ability to experience reward (anhedonia) and aversion (dysphoria) are in high demand because many psychiatric conditions that are currently intractable in humans (e.g., major depression, bipolar disorder, addiction) are characterized by dysregulated motivation. Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) can be utilized in rodents (rats, mice) to understand how pharmacological or molecular manipulations affect the function of brain reward systems. Although many different methodologies are possible, we will describe in this protocol the use of medial forebrain bundle (MFB) stimulation together with the 'curve-shift' variant of analysis. This combination is particularly powerful because it produces a highly reliable behavioral output that enables clear distinctions between the treatment effects on motivation and the treatment effects on the capability to perform the task.
Aggressive behavior is a complex social behavior that is difficult to measure. Here, we describe a simple method for the quantitative analysis of aggression in male Drosophila melanogaster. Traditional measurements of aggressive behavior have relied on a territorial context with a food territory and a female as factors that induce or enhance aggression. The protocol described here is devoid of a food territory or a female, making it simpler than most existing methods used to measure aggressive behavior. Multiple pairs of males are tested simultaneously to obtain an average fighting score. Four parameters are used to quantify the behavior: frequency, index, latency and intensity of fighting based on unambiguous offensive fighting behaviors. The assay takes 15 min, during which time a frequency score is obtained for 20-35 pairs simultaneously. More in-depth analysis, including latency, index and intensity, can be performed on the videotaped record of the experiment. The assay is highly reproducible and requires limited resources in a simple setup.
This protocol describes a double retrograde tracing method to chart divergent projections in the CNS using light microscope techniques. It is based on immunohistochemical visualization of retrograde transport of cholera toxin b-subunit (CTb) and silver enhancement of a gold-lectin conjugate. Production of the gold-lectin is explained in detail, and a technique is offered to record through the injection pipettes, to help guide accurate placement of injections. Visualization of the two tracers results in light brown staining of CTb-labeled neurons and labeling by black particles of gold-lectin-containing neurons. Both types of label are easily recognized in the same neuron. The labeling is permanent and is well suited for studies in which large areas of the brain need to be surveyed. The whole procedure (excluding survival time) takes approximately 5-7 d to complete.
The ability to isolate oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs) provides a powerful means to characterize their differentiation, properties and potential for myelin repair. Although much knowledge is available for isolation of OPCs from the rat central nervous system, preparation and maintenance of mouse OPCs has been until recently a challenge owing to difficulties in obtaining a sufficient quantity of purified OPCs. Here, we describe protocols to prepare highly enriched rat OPCs and nearly homogenous mouse OPCs. The mouse method generates predominantly OPCs from cortical neural progenitor cells as clonal aggregates called &quot;oligospheres&quot; by taking advantage of molecular genetic tools. Isolated OPCs can be further differentiated into oligodendrocytes. Collectively, we describe simple and efficient methods for the preparation and in vitro maintenance of enriched OPCs from rats and mice. Isolation and culture of a large, homogenous population of rodent OPCs should significantly facilitate studies on OPC lineage progression and their utility in myelin repair after injury.
A detailed protocol is described allowing the generation of essentially pure populations of glutamatergic neurons from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. It is based on the culture of ES cells that are kept undifferentiated by repeated splitting and subsequently amplified as non-adherent cell aggregates. Treatment with retinoic acid causes these ES cells to essentially become neural progenitors with the characteristics of Pax6-positive radial glial cells. As they do in vivo, these progenitors differentiate in glutamatergic pyramidal neurons that form functional synaptic contacts and can be kept in culture for long periods of time. This protocol does not require the use of ES lines expressing resistance or fluorescent markers and can thus be applied in principle to any wild-type or mutant ES line of interest. At least 2 weeks are required from starting ES cell culture until plating progenitors and differentiating neurons establish synaptic transmission within about 10 days.
Chemical synaptic transmission depends on neurotransmitter-gated ion channels concentrated in the postsynaptic membrane of specialized synaptic contacts. The functional characteristics of these neurotransmitter receptor channels are important for determining the properties of synaptic transmission. Whole-cell recording of postsynaptic currents (PSCs) and outside-out patch recording of transmitter-evoked currents are important tools for estimating the single-channel conductance and the number of receptors contributing to the PSC activated by a single transmitter quantum. When single-channel activity cannot be directly resolved, non-stationary noise analysis is a valuable tool for determining these parameters. Peak-scaled non-stationary noise analysis can be used to compensate for quantal variability in synaptic currents. Here, we present detailed protocols for conventional and peak-scaled non-stationary noise analysis of spontaneous PSCs and responses in outside-out patches. In addition, we include examples of computer code for individual functions used in the different stages of non-stationary noise analysis. These analysis procedures require 3-8 h.
In this protocol, we present a procedure to analyze and visualize models of neuronal input-output functions that have a quadratic, a linear and a constant term, to determine their overall behavior. The suggested interpretations are close to those given by physiological studies of neurons, making the proposed methods particularly suitable for the analysis of receptive fields resulting from physiological measurements or model simulations.
The parallel rod floor test is a new model of ataxia in mice. It allows the simultaneous measurement of ataxia and locomotor activity. This protocol is designed for researchers examining ethanol-induced motor incoordination in mice, but it should be applicable to other sedative/hypnotic drugs and to testing cerebellar mutant mice or mice with engineered genetic defects. This protocol takes 3 d, with the time per day depending on how many animals are tested. The test allows researchers to quantify differences in motor coordination among genotypes of mice that may differ in locomotor activity. Unlike many other methods for assessing incoordination, the parallel rod floor test yields similar patterns of genetic sensitivity across a range of variant forms of the apparatus.
We provide a protocol that describes imaging of single fluorescently labeled axons in the spinal cord of living mice. This method takes advantage of transgenic mouse lines in which the thy1-promoter drives the expression of variants of the green fluorescent protein in a small percentage (less than 1%) of sensory neurons. As a consequence, single axons can be resolved in the surgically exposed dorsal column using wide-field epifluorescence microscopy. This approach allows direct observation of axonal degeneration and regeneration in mouse models of spinal cord pathology for several hours or repetitively over the course of several days.
Dissociated primary sensory neurons are commonly used to study growth factor-dependent cell survival, axon outgrowth, differentiation and basic mechanisms of sensory physiology and pain. Spinal or trigeminal sensory neurons can be collected from embryos, neonates or adults, treated with enzymes that degrade the extracellular matrix, triturated and grown in defined media with or without growth factors and additional animal sera. Production of cultures can take as little as 2.5 h. Cells can be used almost immediately or maintained for as long as 1 month. Ease of production and the ability to control growth conditions make sensory neuron culture a powerful model system for studying basic neurobiology of central and peripheral nervous systems.
The expression 'painful' can be used to describe both an embarrassing moment and a cut on the finger. An explanation for this dichotomy can be found in the convoluted history of ideas about pain. Whether pain is an independent sensation and the product of dedicated neural mechanisms continues to be a topic of debate. This overview concentrates on the issue of specificity together with other notable information regarding pain that has emerged since 1800.
Approximately 40 million people worldwide are infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Despite HIV's known propensity to infect the CNS and cause neurological disease, HIV neurocognitive disorders remain under-recognized. Although combination antiretroviral therapy has improved the health of millions of those living with HIV, the penetration into the CNS of many such therapies is limited, and patients' quality of life continues to be diminished by milder, residual neurocognitive impairment. Synaptodendritic neuronal injury is emerging as an important mediator of such deficits in HIV. By carefully selecting specific antiretrovirals and supplementing them with neuroprotective agents, physicians might be able to facilitate innate CNS repair, promoting enhanced synaptodendritic plasticity, neural function and clinical neurological status.
Dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral mesodiencephalon are essential for the control of voluntary movement and the regulation of emotion, and are severely affected in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease. Recent advances in molecular biology and mouse genetics have helped to unravel the mechanisms involved in the development of mesodiencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons, including their specification, migration and differentiation, as well as the processes that govern axonal pathfinding and their specific patterns of connectivity and maintenance. Here, we follow the developmental path of these neurons with the goal of generating a molecular code that could be exploited in cell-replacement strategies to treat diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
We have described elsewhere an adaptive filter model of cerebellar learning in which the cerebellar microcircuit acts to decorrelate motor commands from their sensory consequences (Dean, Porrill, &amp; Stone, 2002). Learning stability required the cerebellar microcircuit to be embedded in a recurrent loop, and this has been shown to lead to a simple and modular adaptive control architecture when applied to the linearized 3D vestibular ocular reflex (Porrill, Dean, &amp; Stone, 2004). Here we investigate the properties of recurrent loop connectivity in the case of redundant and nonlinear motor systems and illustrate them using the example of kinematic control of a simulated two-joint robot arm. We demonstrate that (1) the learning rule does not require unavailable motor error signals or complex neural reference structures to estimate such signals (i.e., it solves the motor error problem) and (2) control of redundant systems is not subject to the nonconvexity problem in which incorrect average motor commands are learned for end-effector positions that can be accessed in more than one arm configuration. These properties suggest a central functional role for the closed cerebellar loops, which have been shown to be ubiquitous in motor systems (e.g., Kelly &amp; Strick, 2003).
The motion of an object (such as a wheel rotating) is seen as consistent independent of its position and size on the retina. Neurons in higher cortical visual areas respond to these global motion stimuli invariantly, but neurons in early cortical areas with small receptive fields cannot represent this motion, not only because of the aperture problem but also because they do not have invariant representations. In a unifying hypothesis with the design of the ventral cortical visual system, we propose that the dorsal visual system uses a hierarchical feedforward network architecture (V1, V2, MT, MSTd, parietal cortex) with training of the connections with a short-term memory trace associative synaptic modification rule to capture what is invariant at each stage. Simulations show that the proposal is computationally feasible, in that invariant representations of the motion flow fields produced by objects self-organize in the later layers of the architecture. The model produces invariant representations of the motion flow fields produced by global in-plane motion of an object, in-plane rotational motion, looming versus receding of the object, and object-based rotation about a principal axis. Thus, the dorsal and ventral visual systems may share some similar computational principles.
Very large networks of spiking neurons can be simulated efficiently in parallel under the constraint that spike times are bound to an equidistant time grid. Within this scheme, the subthreshold dynamics of a wide class of integrate-and-fire-type neuron models can be integrated exactly from one grid point to the next. However, the loss in accuracy caused by restricting spike times to the grid can have undesirable consequences, which has led to interest in interpolating spike times between the grid points to retrieve an adequate representation of network dynamics. We demonstrate that the exact integration scheme can be combined naturally with off-grid spike events found by interpolation. We show that by exploiting the existence of a minimal synaptic propagation delay, the need for a central event queue is removed, so that the precision of event-driven simulation on the level of single neurons is combined with the efficiency of time-driven global scheduling. Further, for neuron models with linear subthreshold dynamics, even local event queuing can be avoided, resulting in much greater efficiency on the single-neuron level. These ideas are exemplified by two implementations of a widely used neuron model. We present a measure for the efficiency of network simulations in terms of their integration error and show that for a wide range of input spike rates, the novel techniques we present are both more accurate and faster than standard techniques.
In a network of dynamical systems, concurrent synchronization is a regime where multiple groups of fully synchronized elements coexist. In the brain, concurrent synchronization may occur at several scales, with multiple &quot;rhythms&quot; interacting and functional assemblies combining neural oscillators of many different types. Mathematically, stable concurrent synchronization corresponds to convergence to a flow-invariant linear subspace of the global state space. We derive a general condition for such convergence to occur globally and exponentially. We also show that, under mild conditions, global convergence to a concurrently synchronized regime is preserved under basic system combinations such as negative feedback or hierarchies, so that stable concurrently synchronized aggregates of arbitrary size can be constructed. Robustnesss of stable concurrent synchronization to variations in individual dynamics is also quantified. Simple applications of these results to classical questions in systems neuroscience and robotics are discussed.
To investigate how neuronal activity in the prefrontal cortex changes in an animal model of schizophrenia, we recorded single unit activity in the medial prefrontal cortex of urethane-anesthetized and awake rats following methamphetamine (MA) administration. Systemic MA injection (4 mg/kg, IP) induced inconsistent changes, that is, both enhancement and reduction, in unit discharge rate, with a subset of neurons transiently (&lt;30 min) elevating their activities. The direction of firing rate change was poorly predicted by the mean firing rate or the degree of burst firing during the baseline period. Also, simultaneously recorded units showed opposite directions of firing rate change, indicating that recording location is a poor predictor of the direction of firing rate change. These results raise the possibility that systemic MA injection induces random bidirectional changes in prefrontal cortical unit activity, which may underlie some of MA-induced psychotic symptoms.
Anxiety is most common among Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an age at onset under age 65. Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) is a risk factor for developing AD at an earlier age and might contribute to this effect. In mice, apoE plays a role in the regulation of anxiety, which might involve histamine receptor-mediated signaling and steroidogenesis in the adrenal gland. In addition, human apoE isoforms have differential effects on anxiety in adult mice lacking apoE and probable AD patients. Compared to wild-type mice, mice lacking apoE and apoE4 mice showed pathological alterations in the central nucleus of the amygdala, which is involved in regulation of anxiety. ApoE4, but not mice lacking apoE, or apoE3 mice showed impaired dexamethasone suppression of plasma corticosterone. Understanding how apoE modulates measures of anxiety might help the developments of therapeutic targets to reduce or even prevent measures of anxiety in health and in dementing illnesses.
Target-derived neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) regulate sympathetic neuron survival. Here, NGF and NT-3 protein and transcript were examined in sympathetic neurons and targets in order to determine their role in age-related neuronal atrophy. One obvious alteration was a dramatic increase (up to 50-fold) in NGF protein forms, corresponding to proNGF-B, in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and targets where sympathetic innervation shows atrophy. In the iris, where sympathetic innervation is protected into old age, proNGF-B was decreased. Alterations in NGF transcript paralleled changes in NGF protein, albeit to a lesser degree. Though significantly increased in aged SCG, NT-3 protein, found primarily as the 'mature' form, showed only minor changes in most tissues, though NT-3 mRNA generally was decreased. In contrast, both NT-3 transcript and NT-3 precursors were increased in iris. The dramatic increases in proNGF, together with minimal changes in NT-3, suggest that alterations in NGF regulation may contribute to the loss of sympathetic innervation observed in many aged peripheral targets.
Age-related molecular and cellular alterations in the central nervous system are known to show selectivity for certain cell types and brain regions. Among them age-related accumulation of nuclear (n) DNA damage can lead to irreversible loss of genetic information content. In the present study on the aging mouse brain, we observed a substantial increase in the amount of nDNA single-strand breaks in hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells as well as in cerebellar granule cells but not in cerebellar Purkinje cells. The reverse pattern was found for age-related reductions in total numbers of neurons. Only the total number of cerebellar Purkinje cells was significantly reduced during aging whereas the total numbers of hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells as well as of cerebellar granule cells were not. This formerly unknown inverse relation between age-related accumulation of nDNA damage and age-related loss of neurons may reflect a fundamental process of aging in the central nervous system.
Status epilepticus (SE) triggers neuronal death, reactive gliosis and remodeling of synaptic circuitry, thus leading to profound pathological alterations in CNS physiology. These processes are, in part, regulated by the rapid upregulation of both cytotoxic and cytoprotective genes. One pathway that may couple SE to transcriptionally dependent alterations in CNS physiology is the CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein)/CRE (cAMP response element) cascade. Here, we utilized the pilocarpine model of SE on a mouse strain transgenic for a CRE-reporter construct (beta-galactosidase) to begin to characterize how seizure activity regulates the activation state of the CREB/CRE pathway in both glia and neurons of the hippocampus. SE triggered a rapid (4-8 h post-SE) but transient increase in CRE-mediated gene expression in the neuronal sublayers. In contrast to neurons, SE induced a lasting increase (up to 20 days) in CRE-mediated transcription in both reactive astrocytes and microglia. CRE-mediated gene expression correlated with expression of the pro-inflammatory enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). To examine the role of CREB in SE-induced COX-2 expression, we generated a transgenic mouse strain that expresses A-CREB, a potent repressor of CREB-dependent transcription. In these animals, the capacity of SE to stimulate COX-2 expression was markedly attenuated, indicating that CREB is a key intermediate in SE-induced COX-2 expression. Collectively these data show that SE triggers two waves of CREB-mediated gene expression, a transient wave in neurons and a long-lasting wave in reactive glial cells, and that CREB couples SE to COX-2 expression.
We recently proposed the involvement of diffusible modulators in signalling astrocytes to increase glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) expression after selective dopaminergic injury by H2O2 or L-DOPA. Here we report that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is involved in this crosstalk between injured neurons and astrocytes. IL-1beta was detected only in the media from challenged neuron-glia cultures. Exogenous IL-1beta did not change GDNF protein levels in astrocyte cultures, and diminished GDNF levels in neuron-glia cultures. This decrease was not due to cell loss, as assessed by the MTT assay and immunocytochemistry. Neither H2O2 nor L-DOPA induced microglia proliferation or appeared to change its activation state. The IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) prevented GDNF up-regulation in challenged cultures, showing that IL-1beta is involved in the signalling between injured neurons and astrocytes. Since IL-1ra decreased the number of dopaminergic neurons in H2O2-treated cultures, we propose that IL-1 has a neuroprotective role in this system involving GDNF up-regulation.
A rodent model of diencephalic amnesia, pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), was used to investigate the dynamic role of hippocampal and striatal acetylcholine (ACh) efflux across acquisition of a nonmatching-to-position (NMTP) T-maze task. Changes in ACh efflux were measured in rats at different time points in the acquisition curve of the task (early=day 1, middle=day 5, and late=day 10). Overall, the control group had higher accuracy scores than the PTD group in the latter sessions of NMTP training. During the three microdialysis sampling points, all animals displayed significant increases in ACh efflux in both hippocampus and striatum, while performing the task. However, on day 10, the PTD group showed a significant behavioral impairment that paralleled their blunted hippocampal--but not striatal--ACh efflux during maze training. The results support selective diencephalic-hippocampal dysfunction in the PTD model. This diencephalic-hippocampal interaction appears to be critical for successful episodic and spatial learning/memory.
Adenosine receptors in the central nervous system have been implicated in the modulation of different behavioural patterns and cognitive functions although the specific role of A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) subtype in learning and memory is still unclear. In the present work we establish a novel transgenic rat strain, TGR(NSEhA2A), overexpressing adenosine A(2A)Rs mainly in the cerebral cortex, the hippocampal formation, and the cerebellum. Thereafter, we explore the relevance of this A(2A)Rs overexpression for learning and memory function. Animals were behaviourally assessed in several learning and memory tasks (6-arms radial tunnel maze, T-maze, object recognition, and several Morris water maze paradigms) and other tests for spontaneous motor activity (open field, hexagonal tunnel maze) and anxiety (plus maze) as modification of these behaviours may interfere with the assessment of cognitive function. Neither motor performance and emotional/anxious-like behaviours were altered by overexpression of A(2A)Rs. TGR(NSEhA2A) showed normal hippocampal-dependent learning of spatial reference memory. However, they presented working memory deficits as detected by performance of constant errors in the blind arms of the 6 arm radial tunnel maze, reduced recognition of a novel object and a lack of learning improvement over four trials on the same day which was not observed over consecutive days in a repeated acquisition paradigm in the Morris water maze. Given the interdependence between adenosinic and dopaminergic function, the present results render the novel TGR(NSEhA2A) as a putative animal model for the working memory deficits and cognitive disruptions related to overstimulation of cortical A(2A)Rs or to dopaminergic prefrontal dysfunction as seen in schizophrenic or Parkinson's disease patients.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis and progression of neurodegenerative disorders and antioxidants potentially have a major role in neuroprotection. Optimum levels of glutathione (gamma-glutamylcysteinyl glycine), an endogenous thiol antioxidant are required for the maintenance of the redox status of cells. Cystathionine gamma-lyase is the rate-limiting enzyme for the synthesis of cysteine from methionine and availability of cysteine is a critical factor in glutathione synthesis. In the present study, we have examined the role of cystathionine gamma-lyase in maintaining the redox homeostasis in brain, particularly with reference to mitochondrial function since the complex I of the electron transport chain is sensitive to redox perturbation. Inhibition of cystathionine gamma-lyase by l-propargylglycine caused loss of glutathione and decrease in complex I activity in the brain although the enzyme activity in mouse brain was 1% of the corresponding hepatic activity. We then examined the effect of this inhibition on the neurotoxicity mediated by the excitatory amino acid, l-beta-oxalyl amino-l-alanine, which is the causative factor of a type of motor neuron disease, neurolathyrism. l-beta-Oxalyl amino-l-alanine toxicity was exacerbated by l-propargylglycine measured as loss of complex I activity indicating the importance of cystathionine gamma-lyase in maintaining glutathione levels and in turn the mitochondrial function during excitotoxicity. Oxidative stress generated by l-beta-oxalyl amino-l-alanine itself inhibited cystathionine gamma-lyase, which could be prevented by prior treatment with thiol antioxidant. Thus, cystathionine gamma-lyase itself is susceptible to inactivation by oxidative stress and this can potentially exacerbate oxidant-induced damage. Cystathionine gamma-lyase is present in neuronal cells in human brain and its activity is several-fold higher compared to mouse brain. It could potentially play an important role in maintaining glutathione and protein thiol homeostasis in brain and hence afford neuroprotection.
Evidence is accumulating that the exclusive dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia has to be abandoned. Instead, a more integrative approach combines different neurotransmitter systems, in which glutamatergic, GABAergic and dopaminergic pathways interact. This paradigm shift coincides with the recognition that, while typical and modern atypical antipsychotic drugs have efficiently controlled the dramatic psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia, their impact on negative and cognitive symptoms is negligible. Indeed, cognitive decline is now believed to represent the core of schizophrenic morbidity and in this context, impairment of glutamate and more specifically NMDA function is of major importance. Given that astrocytes are important in controlling glutamate homeostasis, it is necessary to assign a significant role to glial-neuronal interactions in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Indeed, recent data from several animal and human studies corroborate this notion. This review outlines current neurotransmitter hypotheses and evidence for glial impairment in schizophrenia. Furthermore, findings from recent studies of (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in experimental models of schizophrenia and NMDA hypofunction are presented and their implications for future research on glial-neuronal interactions discussed.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) causes neuropathic pain with demyelination in sensory fibers. In dorsal root (DR) ex vivo culture, the addition of 0.1 microM LPA caused a characteristic demyelination at 24h in scanning and transmission electron microscopy analyses. Moreover, direct contact between C-fibers due to loss of partition by Schwann cell in Remak bundles was observed. LPA-induced demyelination of DR was concentration-dependent in the range between 0.01 and 1M, and was abolished by BoNT/C3 and Y-27632, a RhoA and Rho kinase inhibitor, respectively. The demyelination was equivalent between the preparations with and without dorsal root ganglion. LPA also caused a down-regulation of myelin proteins, such as myelin basic protein (MBP) and myelin protein zero (MPZ) to approximately 70% of control. All these findings suggest that the demyelination observed in the neuropathic pain due to nerve injury occurs through a direct action of LPA on Schwann cells.
To produce antibodies that permit the immunohistochemical discrimination of choline acetyltransferase of the common type (cChAT) from its splice variant of a peripheral type (pChAT), we immunized rabbits with a cChAT specific recombinant protein encoded by ChAT exons 7 and 8 of the rat cChAT gene. Successful antibody production was proved by Western blotting on rat brain and on HEK293 cells expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP), cChAT-GFP and pChAT-GFP. By immunohistochemistry our antiserum clearly labeled known cholinergic structures in rat brain, but gave no positive staining in the trigeminal ganglion which contained many neurons positive with pChAT antiserum.
The I93M mutation in ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) was reported in one German family with autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). The causative role of the mutation has, however, been questioned. We generated transgenic (Tg) mice carrying human UCHL1 under control of the PDGF-B promoter; two independent lines were generated with the I93M mutation (a high- and low-expressing line) and one line with wild-type human UCH-L1. We found a significant reduction in the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the dopamine content in the striatum in the high-expressing I93M Tg mice as compared with non-Tg mice at 20 weeks of age. Although these changes were absent in the low-expressing I93M Tg mice, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment profoundly reduced dopaminergic neurons in this line as compared with wild-type Tg or non-Tg mice. Abnormal neuropathologies were also observed, such as silver staining-positive argyrophilic grains in the perikarya of degenerating dopaminergic neurons, in I93M Tg mice. The midbrains of I93M Tg mice contained increased amounts of insoluble UCH-L1 as compared with those of non-Tg mice, perhaps resulting in a toxic gain of function. Collectively, our data represent in vivo evidence that expression of UCHL1(I93M) leads to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons.
Large and protracted elevations of intracellular [Ca(2+)] and [Na(+)] play a crucial role in neuronal injury in ischemic conditions. In addition to excessive glutamate receptor activation, other ion channels may contribute to disruption of intracellular ionic homeostasis. During episodes of ischemia, extracellular [Ca(2+)] falls significantly. Here we report the emergence of an inward current in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in acute brain slices from adult mice upon reduction/removal of [Ca(2+)](e). The magnitude of the current was 100-300pA at -65mV holding potential, depending on intracellular constituents. The current was accompanied by intense neuronal discharge, observed in both whole-cell and cell-attached patch configurations. Sustained currents and increased neuronal firing rates were both reversed by restoration of physiological levels of [Ca(2+)](e), or by application of spermine (1mM). The amplitudes of the sustained currents were strongly reduced by raising intracellular [Mg(2+)], but not by extracellular [Mg(2+)] increases. Elevated intracellular ATP also reduced the current. This conductance is similar in several respects to the &quot;calcium-sensing, non-selective cation current&quot; (csNSC), previously described in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons of embryonic origin. The dependence on intracellular [ATP] and [Mg(2+)] shown here, suggests a possible role for this current in disruption of ionic homeostasis during metabolic stress that accompanies excessive neuronal stimulation.
Ammonia is a key neurotoxin involved in the neurological complications of acute liver failure. The present study was undertaken to study the effects of exposure to pathophysiologically relevant concentrations of ammonium chloride on cultured brain capillary endothelial cells in order to identify mechanisms by which ammonia may alter blood-brain barrier function. Conditionally immortalized mouse brain capillary endothelial cells (TM-BBB) were used as an in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier. Gene expression of a series of blood-brain barrier transporters and tight junction proteins was assessed by quantitative real time PCR analysis. Exposure to ammonia (5mM for 72h) resulted in significant increases in mRNA levels of taurine transporter (TAUT; 2.0-fold increase) as well as creatine transporter (CRT; 1.9-fold increase) whereas claudin-12 mRNA expression was significantly reduced to 67.7% of control levels. Furthermore, [(3)H]taurine and [(14)C]creatine uptake were concomitantly increased following exposure to ammonia, suggesting that up-regulation of both TAUT and CRT under hyperammonemic conditions results in an increased function of these two transporters in TM-BBB cells. TAUT and CRT are respectively involved in osmoregulation and energy buffering in the brain, two systems that are thought to be affected in acute liver failure. Furthermore, claudin-12 down-regulation suggests that hyperammonemia may also affect tight junction integrity. Our results provide evidence that ammonia can alter brain capillary endothelial cell gene expression and transporter function. These findings may be relevant to pathological situations involving hyperammonemia, such as liver disease.
LPS-induced inflammation and changes in protein phosphorylation and the JAK-STAT pathway accompanying glial activation after LPS treatment, were followed by analyzing secreted proinflammatory cytokine levels. The administration of LPS caused tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 in retinae and induced glial fibrillary acidic protein. (GFAP) from the nerve fiber layer to the ganglion cell layer. Our results suggest that the LPS-induced activation of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway may play a key role in the induction of astrogliosis. However, no significant increase in vimentin, OX-42 or inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expressions were observed after LPS administration. Sphingosine kinase catalyzes the conversion of sphingosine to sphingosine-1-phosphate (So-1-P), a sphingolipid metabolite that plays important roles in angiogenesis, inflammation, and cell growth. In the present study, it was found that sphingolipid metabolite levels were elevated in the serum and retinae of LPS-injected rats. To further investigate the chronic effect of increased So-1-P in the retina, So-1-P was infused intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) into rats using an osmotic minipump at 100 pmol/10 microl h(-1) for 7 days, and was found to increase retinal GFAP expression. These observations suggest that LPS induces the activation of retinal astrocytes via JAK2/STAT3 and that LPS affects So-1-P generation. Our findings also suggest that elevated So-1-P in the retina and/or in serum could induce cytochemical alterations in LPS treated or inflamed retinae.




Drug delivery to the brain has remained one of the most vexing problems in translational neuroscience research. This review rationalizes the strategies to target drugs to the brain. Factors such as the speed of intervention, the scale of intervention, the state of BBB, and the permissible risks, will all be critical in deciding how best to deliver drugs to a target site in the brain for a specific clinical situation.

Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven, NovoNordisc, Danemark) has been approved for the treatment of patients with hemophilia with inhibitors, further indications, at least in some countries, include the treatment of factor VII deficiency and Glanzmann thrombasthenia refractory to conventional therapy. Apart from these indications, the agent is increasingly used for the treatment of severe and potentially life-threatening bleeding manifestations, irrespective of the underlying hemostatic abnormality. The agent has successfully been used for the treatment of both inherited and acquired coagulopathies as well as thrombocytopathia or thrombocytopenia, however, most information on off-label use derives from case reports and retrospective studies and therefore publication bias can-not be excluded. In this review, we focus on the use of rFVIIa for the treatment of spontaneous and perioperative intracranial hemorrhage as well as trauma patients. We review the current knowledge regarding the physiology of hemostasis, the pharmacology of rFVIIa, and its clinical use in neurosciences. Further studies are urgently needed to define the efficacy and safety of recombinant activated factor VII in patients without hemophilia, factor VII deficiency, or Glanzmann thrombasthenia. At time, its use can be justified in life-threatening bleeding situations refractory to conventional treatment.

We describe a woman with congestive heart failure who presented with acute cardiac decompensation followed by ischemic stroke. The management of the patient posed unique challenges for thrombolytic treatment (due to existing coagulopathy) and subsequent optimization of hemodynamic status. Issues related to rethrombosis and use of platelet glycoprotein IIB/IIIA inhibitors are also discussed.
S100B is a protein biomarker that reflects CNS injury. It can be measured in the CSF or serum with readily available immunoassay kits. The excellent sensitivity of S100B has enabled it to confirm the existence of subtle brain injury in patients with mild head trauma, strokes, and after successful resuscitation from cardiopulmonary arrest. The extent of S100B elevation has been found to be useful in predicting clinical outcome after brain injury. Elevations of S100B above certain threshold levels might be able to reliably predict brain death or mortality. A normal S100B level reliably predicts the absence of significant CNS injury. The specificity of S100B levels as a reflection of CNS injury is compromised by the findings that extra-cranial injuries can lead to elevations in the absence of brain injury. This potential problem can most likely be avoided by measuring serial S100B levels along with other biomarkers and carefully noting peripheral injuries. Serum markers GFAP and NSE are both more specific for CNS injury and have little to no extra-cranial sources. Sustained elevations of S100B over 24 h along with elevations of GFAP and NSE can more reliably predict the extent of brain injury and clinical outcomes. In the future, S100B measurements might reliably predict secondary brain injury and enable physicians to initiate therapeutic interventions in a timelier manner. S100B levels have been shown to rise hours to days before changes in ICP, neurological examinations, and neuroimaging tests. S100B levels may also be used to monitor the efficacy of treatments.


Although stem cells persist in restricted regions of the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS), replacement of neurons does not take place in most regions in intact conditions or after injury. In the last years, proliferative multipotent cells have been isolated from the parenchyma of many CNS regions considered constitutively nonneurogenic, suggesting that the nonneurogenic CNS parenchyma is endowed with a latent neurogenic potential that might be exploited for neuronal replacement. However, neurogenic fate determinants acting during development and in the germinative zones are not expressed in the intact brain and after lesion, thus arguing against the presence of neurogenic competence in parenchymal precursors. Conversely, the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Olig2 is widely expressed in subsets of glia cells and progenitors, and it is strongly induced at different sites by both acute and chronic injury, albeit with different mechanisms. Antagonizing Olig2 function in cells proliferating after an acute lesion leads to the upregulation of the neurogenic determinant Pax6 and results in a significant number of newly generated immature neurons. Therefore, Olig2 acts as a repressor of neurogenesis in cells reacting to brain injury. Finding the proper way to fully derepress the neurogenic determinants in these cells, together with providing favorable environmental signals, may represent an effective approach towards evoking neuronal repair from parenchymal precursors.


Tau is a microtubule-associated protein involved in microtubule assembly and stabilization. Filamentous deposits made of tau constitute a major defining characteristic of several neurodegenerative diseases known as tauopathies including Alzheimer's disease. The involvement of tau in neurodegeneration has been clarified by the identification of genetic mutations in the tau gene in cases with familial frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Although the mechanism through which tau mutations lead to neuronal death is still unresolved, it is clear that tau mutations lead to formation of tau filaments that have a different morphology, contain different types of tau isoforms and produce distinct tau deposits. The range of tau pathology identified in FTDP-17 recapitulates the tau pathology present in sporadic tauopathies and indicates that tau dysfunction plays a major role also in these diseases.



Previous studies have shown that the total number of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-stained neurons in the human hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) increases with age. To determine whether this age-related change depends on gender and whether circulating sex hormones play a role, we analyzed the total number of CRH-immunoreactive neurons by means of immunocytochemistry and image analysis in the postmortem hypothalamic PVN of 22 control subjects (11 males and 11 females) between the ages of 22 and 89 years, and of 10 subjects with abnormal sex hormone status. Our data show that men have a significantly larger number of CRH neurons than women (p = 0.004) and that the total number of CRH neurons increases significantly with age, but only in male controls (p = 0.032), not in female controls (p = 0.733). Female controls do not show a significant change in the total number of CRH neurons either before or after the age (50 years) of menopause (p = 0.792). Male subjects with low testosterone levels due to castration showed significantly fewer CRH neurons than well-matched intact males (p = 0.008), while castrated male-to-female (M-F) transsexuals with estrogen replacement showed normal numbers of CRH neurons. One male case, who had high estrogen levels due to an estrogen-producing tumor, showed a large number of CRH neurons. Thus, although circulating androgens and estrogens both seem to play a stimulatory role with respect to CRH neurons, the age-dependent increase in the number of CRH neurons in the PVN of men, which has been interpreted to reflect activation of the CRH neurons with age, seems to result from factors other than age-related changes of circulating sex hormone levels.
The aim of this study was to review all publications related to the incidence and prevalence of neurological disorders in Libya, and to estimate the burden of these disorders in the country. The PubMed and the Libyan Medical Index were searched using different combinations of keywords. The references in all relevant papers were reviewed for any additional publications. An estimation of the number of patients with neurological disorders was made based on the reviewed data and adjusted using the Libyan Nationwide Official Census of 2006. Sixteen papers were identified. Incidence rate is available for twelve disorders and the prevalence rate for nine. Data for some of the most common neurological problems such as headaches, or for important disorders such as dementia, are lacking. Therefore, the estimate of 6,892 new neurological cases per year and a total of 11,908 neurological patients in 2006 in Libya is largely underestimating the burden of the neurological disorders in this country and should be regarded as the lowest possible estimation. Further neuroepidemiological studies in Libya are needed.

Visceral hypersensitivity (perception of gastrointestinal sensory events at a lower-than-normal threshold) is considered to be an important pathophysiological mechanism in the development of functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs), such as irritable bowel syndrome, non-cardiac chest pain and functional dyspepsia. These disorders are associated with significant health care and socioeconomic costs due to factors such as repeated visits to consultants, hospitalizations and work absenteeism. Despite the presence of extensive evidence linking visceral hypersensitivity and FGIDs, the mechanism(s) underlying visceral hypersensitivity has not been fully elucidated. Suggested hypotheses include sensitization of afferent neurones, both at the level of the enteric and the (afferent) autonomic nervous system (peripheral sensitization), sensitization of spinal cord dorsal horn neurones (central sensitization) and psychosocial factors/psychiatric comorbidity influencing the processing of afferent signals at the level of the brain. Importantly, these hypotheses may be complementary rather than mutually exclusive. However, the degree to which each of these mechanisms contributes to the overall perception of visceral pain, and therefore the generation of symptoms, still remains unclear. This article discusses the mechanisms that may underlie visceral hypersensitivity, with reference to FGIDs. Understanding these mechanisms is essential in order to improve the diagnosis and treatment of patients with these disorders.
This study has shown that murine monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Ma) can be labeled simply and efficiently with large, green-fluorescent, micrometer-sized particles of iron-oxide (MPIO). Neither size nor proliferation rate of the Mo/Ma is significantly affected by this labeling. The labeled Mo/Ma have been administered intravenously to rats that had developed a glioma following stereotactic injection of C6 cells. The labeled Mo/Ma were shown to target the brain tumors, a process that could be monitored non-invasively using T2*-weighted MRI. MRI observations were confirmed by Prussian blue staining, lectin staining and fluorescence histology. Overall, the results of this study suggest that the use of Mo/Ma may be envisaged in the clinic for vectorizing therapeutic agents towards gliomas.
Neuroimaging investigations reliably describe a left-lateralized network of areas as underlying the representations of knowledge about familiar tools. Among the critical 'nodes' of the network, an area centered within the left intraparietal sulcus (IPS) is thought to be related to the motoric representations associated with familiar tools and their usage. This area is in the vicinity of an area implicated in the control of object-directed grasping actions: the anterior intraparietal area, AIP. The current study aimed to evaluate whether this tool-related intraparietal activity could be accounted for by the graspable nature of tools or whether it was due to additional factors such as the functionality of tools. First, we found that during a naming task activation within a discrete region of the left anterior intraparietal cortex was higher for tools than for graspable objects, but did not differ between graspable and non-graspable objects. In addition, the peak activity associated with tool naming was found to be largely distinct and consistently posterior to that associated with real object grasping. A separate region, anterior to the tool-selective focus and possibly overlapping with AIP, demonstrated weak selectivity for both tools and graspable objects relative to non-graspable objects. These findings indicate that this tool-selective area at the anterior end of the left IPS is both separable from the grasp-related intraparietal activity and, consistently, it does not simply reflect the processing of grasping affordances. Taken together, these results suggest that object graspability alone cannot account for the left intraparietal activity driven by the naming of tools. Instead, this activity may relate to learned motor representations associated with the skillful use of familiar tools.
The fronto-parietal network has been implicated in the processing of multisensory information for motor control. Recent methodological advances with both fMRI and TMS provide the opportunity to dissect the functionality of this extensive network in humans and may identify distinct contributions of local neural populations within this circuit that are not only related to motor planning, but to goal oriented behavior as a whole. Herein, we review and make parallels between experiments in monkeys and humans on a broad array of motor as well as non-motor tasks in order to characterize the specific contribution of a region in the parietal lobe, the anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS). The intent of this article is to review: (1) the historical perspectives on the parietal lobe, particularly the aIPS; (2) extend and update these perspectives based on recent empirical data; and (3) discuss the potential implications of the revised functionality of the aIPS in relationship to complex goal oriented behavior and social interaction. Our contention is that aIPS is a critical node within a network involved in the higher order dynamic control of action, including representation of intended action goals. These findings may be important not only for guiding the design of future experiments investigating related issues but may also have valuable utility in other fields, such social neuroscience and biomedical engineering.
Although regions within the medial frontal cortex are known to be active during voluntary movements their precise role remains unclear. Here we combine functional imaging localisation with psychophysics to demonstrate a strikingly selective contralesional impairment in the ability to inhibit ongoing movement plans in a patient with a rare lesion involving the right pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), but sparing the supplementary motor area (SMA). We find no corresponding delay in simple reaction times, and show that the inhibitory deficit is sensitive to the presence of competition between responses. The findings demonstrate that the pre-SMA plays a critical role in exerting control over voluntary actions in situations of response conflict. We discuss these findings in the context of a unified framework of pre-SMA function, and explore the degree to which extant data on this region can be explained by this function alone.

We can often understand when actions done by others do or do not reflect their intentions. To investigate the neural basis of this capacity we carried out an fMRI study in which volunteers were presented with video-clips showing actions that did reflect the intention of the agent (intended actions) and actions that did not (non-intended actions). Observation of both types of actions activated a common set of areas including the inferior parietal lobule, the lateral premotor cortex and mesial premotor areas. The contrast non-intended vs. intended actions showed activation in the right temporo-parietal junction, left supramarginal gyrus, and mesial prefrontal cortex. The converse contrast did not show any activation. We conclude that our capacity to understand non intended actions is based on the activation of areas signaling unexpected events in spatial and temporal domains, in addition to the activity of the mirror neuron system. The concomitant activation of mesial prefrontal areas, known to be involved in self-referential processing, might reflect how deeply participants are involved in the observed scenes.

Many studies have investigated the temporal properties of BOLD signal responses to task performance in regions of interest, often noting significant departures from the conventionally modelled response shape, and significant variation between regions. However, these investigations are rarely extended across the whole brain nor incorporated into the routine analysis of fMRI studies. As a result, little is known about the range of response shapes generated in the brain by common paradigms. The present study finds such temporal dynamics can be complex. We made a detailed investigation of BOLD signal responses across the whole brain during a two minute motor-sequence task, and tracked changes due to learning. The multi-component OSORU (Onset, Sustained, Offset, Ramp, Undershoot) linear model, developed by Harms and Melcher (J.Neurophysiology, 2003), was extended to characterise responses. In many regions, signal transients persisted for over thirty seconds, with large signal spikes at onset often followed by a dip in signal below the final sustained level of activation. Training altered certain features of the response shape, suggesting that different features of the response may reflect different aspects of neuro-vascular dynamics. Unmodelled, this may give rise to inconsistent results across paradigms of varying task durations. Few of the observed effects have been thoroughly addressed in physiological models of the BOLD response. The complex, extended dynamics generated by this simple, often employed task, suggests characterisation and modelling of temporal aspects of BOLD responses needs to be carried out routinely, informing experimental design and analysis, and physiological modelling.
In recent years, multiple brain MR imaging modalities have emerged; however, analysis methodologies have mainly remained modality-specific. In addition, when comparing across imaging modalities, most researchers have been forced to rely on simple region-of-interest type analyses, which do not allow the voxel-by-voxel comparisons necessary to answer more sophisticated neuroscience questions. To overcome these limitations, we developed a toolbox for multimodal image analysis called biological parametric mapping (BPM), based on a voxel-wise use of the general linear model. The BPM toolbox incorporates information obtained from other modalities as regressors in a voxel-wise analysis, thereby permitting investigation of more sophisticated hypotheses. The BPM toolbox has been developed in Matlab with a user-friendly interface for performing analyses, including voxel-wise multimodal correlation, ANCOVA, and multiple regression. It has a high degree of integration with the SPM (statistical parametric mapping) software relying on it for visualization and statistical inference. Furthermore, statistical inference for a correlation field, rather than a widely used T-field, has been implemented in the correlation analysis for more accurate results. An example with in vivo data is presented, demonstrating the potential of the BPM methodology as a tool for multimodal image analysis.
We present a general method for the classification of independent components (ICs) extracted from functional MRI (fMRI) data sets. The method consists of two steps. In the first step, each fMRI-IC is associated with an IC-fingerprint, i.e., a representation of the component in a multidimensional space of parameters. These parameters are post hoc estimates of global properties of the ICs and are largely independent of a specific experimental design and stimulus timing. In the second step a machine learning algorithm automatically separates the IC-fingerprints into six general classes after preliminary training performed on a small subset of expert-labeled components. We illustrate this approach in a multisubject fMRI study employing visual structure-from-motion stimuli encoding faces and control random shapes. We show that: (1) IC-fingerprints are a valuable tool for the inspection, characterization and selection of fMRI-ICs and (2) automatic classifications of fMRI-ICs in new subjects present a high correspondence with those obtained by expert visual inspection of the components. Importantly, our classification procedure highlights several neurophysiologically interesting processes. The most intriguing of which is reflected, with high intra- and inter-subject reproducibility, in one IC exhibiting a transiently task-related activation in the 'face' region of the primary sensorimotor cortex. This suggests that in addition to or as part of the mirror system, somatotopic regions of the sensorimotor cortex are involved in disambiguating the perception of a moving body part. Finally, we show that the same classification algorithm can be successfully applied, without re-training, to fMRI collected using acquisition parameters, stimulation modality and timing considerably different from those used for training.
Limited data exist concerning the mechanisms that underlie the different motor features of Parkinson's disease (PD) and their course over time. Our aims were (1) to identify longitudinal changes in PD patients and (2) to determine the neural correlates of the changes in movement initiation and velocity that occur in the course the disease. Thirteen early stage PD patients were scanned twice off antiparkinsonian medication with H(2)15O PET. Imaging was performed at baseline and again after 2 years while the subjects performed a motor task that was kinematically controlled across time. Paced reaching movements were made towards targets that were presented in a predictable order. Measures of movement onset time (OT) and mean velocity (MV) were recorded during PET. OT and MV decreased significantly from baseline to follow-up. With advancing disease, increasing subcortical activation was detected in the pallidum bilaterally and in the left putamen. In the cortex, motor-related activation increased in the right pre-SMA, anterior cingulate cortex and the left postcentral gyrus. Progressive delays in movement initiation (OT) correlated with increases in the right dorsal premotor cortex (dPMC). Slowing of movement (MV) was associated with declining activation in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and dPMC. Our data suggest that with advancing PD, motor performance is associated with the recruitment of brain regions normally involved in the execution of more complex tasks.
This note derives the variational free energy under the Laplace approximation, with a focus on accounting for additional model complexity induced by increasing the number of model parameters. This is relevant when using the free energy as an approximation to the log-evidence in Bayesian model averaging and selection. By setting restricted maximum likelihood (ReML) in the larger context of variational learning and expectation maximisation (EM), we show how the ReML objective function can be adjusted to provide an approximation to the log-evidence for a particular model. This means ReML can be used for model selection, specifically to select or compare models with different covariance components. This is useful in the context of hierarchical models because it enables a principled selection of priors that, under simple hyperpriors, can be used for automatic model selection and relevance determination (ARD). Deriving the ReML objective function, from basic variational principles, discloses the simple relationships among Variational Bayes, EM and ReML. Furthermore, we show that EM is formally identical to a full variational treatment when the precisions are linear in the hyperparameters. Finally, we also consider, briefly, dynamic models and how these inform the regularisation of free energy ascent schemes, like EM and ReML.
To investigate the motor control related to sound production, we studied cortical rhythmic changes during continuous vocalization such as singing. Magnetoencephalographic (MEG) responses were recorded while subjects spoke in the usual way (speaking), sang (singing), hummed (humming) and imagined (imagining) a popular song. The power of alpha (8-15 Hz), beta (15-30 Hz) and low-gamma (30-60 Hz) frequency bands was changed during and after vocalization (singing, speaking and humming). In the alpha band, the oscillatory changes for singing were most pronounced in the right premotor, bilateral sensorimotor, right secondary somatosensory and bilateral superior parietal areas. The beta oscillation for the singing was also confirmed in the premotor, primary and secondary sensorimotor and superior parietal areas in the left and right hemispheres where were partly activated even for imagined a song (imaging). These regions have been traditionally described as vocalization-related sites. The cortical rhythmic changes were distinct in the singing condition compared with the other vocalizing conditions (speaking and humming) and thus we considered that more concentrated control of the vocal tract, diaphragm and abdominal muscles is responsible. Furthermore, characteristic oscillation in the high-gamma (60-200 Hz) frequency band was found in Broca's area only in the imaging condition and might occur singing rehearsal and storage process in Broca's area.
Functional imaging during movement of the hand affected by a stroke has shown excess activation of the contralesional motor network, implying less physiological hemisphere activation balance. Although this may be adaptive, the relationship between the severity of motor deficit and the hemisphere activation balance for the four major cortical motor areas has not been systematically studied. We prospectively studied 19 right-handed patients with first-ever stroke (age range 61+/-10 years) in the stable phase of recovery (&gt;3 months after onset), using auditory-paced index-thumb (IT) tapping of the affected hand at 1.25 Hz as the fMRI paradigm. The hemisphere activation balance for the primary motor (M1), primary somatosensory (S1), supplementary motor (SMA) and dorsal premotor (PMd) areas was measured by a modified weighted laterality index (wLI), and correlations with motor performance (assessed by the affected/unaffected ratio of maximum IT taps in 15 s, termed IT-R) were computed. There were statistically significant negative correlations between IT-R and the wLI for M1 and S1, such that the more the hemispheric balance shifted contralesionally, the worse the performance. Furthermore, worse performance was related to a greater amount of contralesional, but not ipsilesional, activation. No significant correlation between IT-R and the wLI was obtained for the SMA and PMd, which functionally have stronger bilateral organization. These findings suggest that the degree of recovery of fine finger motion after stroke is determined by the extent to which activation balance in the primary sensory motor areas--where most corticospinal fibers originate--departs from normality. This observation may have implications for therapy.
The identification of specialized, functional regions of the human cortex is a vital precondition for neuroscience and clinical neurosurgery. Functional imaging modalities are used for their delineation in living subjects, but these methods rely on subject cooperation, and many regions of the human brain cannot be activated specifically. Diffusion tractography is a novel tool to identify such areas in the human brain, utilizing underlying white matter pathways to separate regions of differing specialization. We explore the reproducibility, generalizability and validity of diffusion tractography-based localization in four functional areas across subjects, timepoints and scanners, and validate findings against fMRI and post-mortem cytoarchitectonic data. With reproducibility across modalities, clustering methods, scanners, timepoints, and subjects in the order of 80-90%, we conclude that diffusion tractography represents a useful and objective tool for parcellation of the human cortex into functional regions, enabling studies into individual functional anatomy even when there are no specific activation paradigms available.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were obtained in human visual cortex using sub-millimeter voxels at a field strength of 3 T. Reliable functional signals were largely confined to the gray matter and these responses measure the retinotopic organization of visual cortex. Functional signals were further characterized with respect to their laminar position within the cortical gray matter. The laminar response profiles during our visuospatial attention task, normalized for cortical thickness, had a stereotypical shape, with a peak in the superficial gray matter and declining in the deeper layers. The thickness of the sheet producing functional signals was in excellent agreement with the estimated structural thickness of the gray matter throughout early visual cortex (error &lt; 0.5 mm). Thickness measurements were highly repeatable from session-to-session (error &lt; 0.4 mm). Hence, it is feasible and useful to use high-resolution fMRI to measure laminar activity profiles. The ability to distinguish signals arising in different lamina has significant potential scientific and clinical applications.

Traumatic brain injury is one of the leading causes of incapacity and death among young people. Injury to the brain elicits a potent inflammatory response, comprising recruitment of inflammatory cells, reactive astrogliosis and activation of brain macrophages. Under the influence of presumably several cytokines and growth factors, a cascade of events is activated that result ultimately in increased oxidative stress and tissue damage, but also in activation of counterregulatory factors and tissue regeneration. The complexity of this response is being unraveled by high-throughput methodologies such as microarrays. The combination of these modern techniques with the comparison of normal and genetically modified mice boosts the significance of the results obtained. With this approach, we have demonstrated that a cytokine such as interleukin-6 is one of the key players in the response of the brain to injury.
One of the leading experts in the field of Neuroendocrinology and Neuroimmunmodulation, Samuel Mac Donald McCann, known by all his friends as 'Don', passed away in 2007. This article pays tribute to his outstanding scientific contribution and a glimpse on his fascinating personality. A member of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States and pioneer in the field of neuroendocrine regulation, he identified numerous hormones and peptides and set the stage for basic concepts in physiology and clinical medicine.

Neuroimaging technologies produce large and complex datasets. The challenge of comprehensively analysing the recorded dynamics remains an important field of research. The whole-brain linear modelling of hypothesised response dynamics and experimental effects must utilise simple basis sets, which may not detect unexpected or complex signal effects. These unmodelled effects can influence statistical mapping results, and provide important additional clues to the underlying neural dynamics. They can be detected via exploration of the raw signal, however this can be difficult. Specialised visualisation tools are required to manage the huge number of voxels, events and scans. Many effects can be occluded by noise in individual voxel time-series. This paper describes a visualisation framework developed for the assessment of entire neuroimaging datasets. While currently available tools tend to be tied to a specific model of experimental effects, this framework includes a novel metadata schema that enables the rapid selection and processing of responses based on easily-adjusted classifications of scans, brain regions, and events. Flexible event-related averaging and process pipelining capabilities enable users to investigate the effects of preprocessing algorithms and to visualise power spectra and other transformations of the data. The framework has been implemented as a MATLAB package, REX (Response Exploration), which has been utilised within our lab and is now publicly available for download. Its interface enables the real-time control of data selection and processing, for very rapid visualisation. The concepts outlined in this paper have general applicability, and could provide significant further functionality to neuroimaging databasing and process pipeline environments.
Uric acid is a major antioxidant in the blood of humans that can protect cultured neurons against oxidative and metabolic insults. However, uric acid has a very low solubility which compromises its potential clinical use for neurodegenerative disorders. Here we describe the synthesis, characterization and preclinical development of neuroprotective methyl- and sulfur-containing analogs of uric acid with increased solubility. In vitro and cell culture screening identified 1,7-dimethyluric acid (mUA2) and 6,8-dithiouric acid (sUA2) as two analogs with high antioxidant and neuroprotective activities. When administered intravenously in mice, uric acid analogs mUA2 and sUA2 lessened damage to the brain and improved functional outcome in an ischemia-reperfusion mouse model of stroke. Analogs sUA2 and mUA2 were also effective in reducing damage to the cerebral cortex when administered up to 4 h after stroke onset in a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion mouse model. These findings suggest a therapeutic potential for soluble analogs of uric acid in the treatment of stroke and related neurodegenerative conditions.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are important for the propagation of seizures. To understand the role of NR1 subunits in the propagation of seizures we knocked down the NR1 subunit by intracranial injection of antisense deoxyoligonucleotides (NR1-AS-ODNs) into the right hippocampus during a window of maximal seizure susceptibility in development. Control missense and sense ODNs followed by focal injection of NMDA (2.5-25 nmoles) into the hippocampal CA1 and sensorimotor cortex of P15 rat pups resulted in behavioral and electrographic (EEG) seizures. After NR1 knockdown, low- and high-doses produced little or no spike activity in the hippocampus and overlying sensorimotor cortex as predicted. Despite reduced activity in the hippocampal and cortical EEG, intracranial NMDA or peripheral kainate (KA)-induced seizures led to paradoxical cell death of CA1 neurons, which is not typically observed in this age group. Histological changes were modest or absent in the cortex away from the infusion site. Signal specificity of the targeted CA1 or cortex was observed in autoradiograms, immunohistochemistry and Western blots. After knockdown, Ca2+ influx was suppressed as both NMDA and muscimol-stimulated Ca2+ permeability of the immature CA1 was blocked in ex-vivo slices measured with FURA-2AM optical dye imaging. Data suggest that certain constituent levels of NMDA receptors distributed on excitatory and/or inhibitory interneurons may be developmentally required for survival of CA1 pyramidal neurons during a critical period when ictal activity is present. Moreover, selective NR1 subunit downregulation simultaneously reduces NMDA and GABA A receptor Ca2+ ion permeability properties that may contribute to a premature cell death mechanism.
Clostridial light chain (LC) inhibits synaptic transmission by digesting a vesicle-docking protein, synaptobrevin, without killing neurons. We here report the feasibility of creating a rat hemiparkinsonism model through LC gene expression in the substantia nigra (SN), inhibiting nigrostriatal transmission. 40 adult Sprague Dawley rats were divided into four groups for SN injections of PBS, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), or adenoviral vectors for the expression of LC (AdLC), or GFP (AdGFP). Amphetamine and apomorphine induced rotations were assessed before and after SN injection, revealing significant rotational alterations at 8 or 10 days after injection in both AdLC and 6-OHDA but not PBS and AdGFP groups. Induced rotation recovered by one month in AdLC rats but persisted in 6-OHDA rats. Histological analysis of the SN revealed LC and GFP expression with corresponding synaptobrevin depletion in the LC, but not the GFP groups. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) immunohistochemistry (IHC) showed markedly decreased staining in ipsilateral SN and striatum in 6-OHDA but not AdLC or AdGFP rats. Similarly, compared with contralateral, ipsilateral striatal dopamine level only decreased in 6-OHDA but not AdLC, AdGFP, or PBS treated rats. Thus, LC expression induces nigral synaptobrevin depletion with resulting inhibition of nigrostriatal synaptic transmission. Unlike 6-OHDA, LC expression inhibits synaptic activity without killing neurons. This approach, therefore, represents a potentially reversible means of nigrostriatal pathway inhibition as a model for Parkinson's disease. Such a model might facilitate transient and controlled nigral inhibition for studying striatal recovery, dopaminergic re-innervation, and normalization of striatal receptors following the recovery of nigrostriatal transmission.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons and descending motor tracts of the CNS. We have evaluated the CNS of a murine model of familial ALS based on the over-expression of mutant human superoxide dismutase (mSOD; G93A) using magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Three-dimensional volumetric analysis was performed from 3D T2*-weighted images acquired at 17.6 T at isotropic resolutions of 40 mum. Compared to controls, mSOD mice had significant reductions in the volumes of total brain, substantia nigra, striatum, hippocampus, and internal capsule, with decreased cortical thickness in primary motor and somatosensory cortices. In the spinal cord, mSOD mice had significantly decreased volume of both the total grey and white matter; in the latter case, the volume change was confined to the dorsal white matter. Increased apoptosis, GFAP positive astrocytes, and/or activated microglia were observed in all those CNS regions that showed volume loss except for the hippocampus. The MRM findings in mSOD over-expressing mice are similar to data previously obtained from a model of ALS-parkinsonism dementia complex (ALS-PDC), in which neural damage occurred following a diet of washed cycad flour containing various neurotoxins. The primary difference between the two models involves a significantly greater decrease in spinal cord white matter volume in mSOD mice, perhaps reflecting variations in degeneration of the descending motor tracts. The extent to which several CNS structures are impacted in both murine models of ALS argues for a reevaluation of the nature of the pathogenesis of ALS since CNS structures involved in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases appear to be affected as well.
Gulf War illness (GWI) affects a significant percentage of veterans of the 1991 conflict, but its origin remains unknown. Associated with some cases of GWI are increased incidences of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurological disorders. Whereas many environmental factors have been linked to GWI, the role of the anthrax vaccine has come under increasing scrutiny. Among the vaccine's potentially toxic components are the adjuvants aluminum hydroxide and squalene. To examine whether these compounds might contribute to neuronal deficits associated with GWI, an animal model for examining the potential neurological impact of aluminum hydroxide, squalene, or aluminum hydroxide combined with squalene was developed. Young, male colony CD-1 mice were injected with the adjuvants at doses equivalent to those given to US military service personnel. All mice were subjected to a battery of motor and cognitive-behavioral tests over a 6-mo period postinjections. Following sacrifice, central nervous system tissues were examined using immunohistochemistry for evidence of inflammation and cell death. Behavioral testing showed motor deficits in the aluminum treatment group that expressed as a progressive decrease in strength measured by the wire-mesh hang test (final deficit at 24 wk; about 50%). Significant cognitive deficits in water-maze learning were observed in the combined aluminum and squalene group (4.3 errors per trial) compared with the controls (0.2 errors per trial) after 20 wk. Apoptotic neurons were identified in aluminum-injected animals that showed significantly increased activated caspase-3 labeling in lumbar spinal cord (255%) and primary motor cortex (192%) compared with the controls. Aluminum-treated groups also showed significant motor neuron loss (35%) and increased numbers of astrocytes (350%) in the lumbar spinal cord. The findings suggest a possible role for the aluminum adjuvant in some neurological features associated with GWI and possibly an additional role for the combination of adjuvants.
Roy Walford, a physician and scientist who pioneered research on the anti-aging effects of caloric restriction and subjected himself to a low-energy diet, recently died from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Information from his case, epidemiological findings, and recent controlled studies in mouse models of ALS suggest that low-energy diets might render motor neurons vulnerable to degeneration, whereas high-energy diets are ameliorative. This contrasts with the effects of low-energy diets on various neuronal populations in the brain that respond adaptively, activating pathways that promote plasticity and resistance to disease. One reason that motor neurons might be selectively vulnerable to low-energy diets is that they are unable to engage neuroprotective responses to energetic stress response involving the protein chaperones, such as, heat-shock protein-70.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) resembles memory in that it is initially unstable and then, over about 30 min, becomes increasingly resistant to disruption. Here we present an hypothesis to account for this initial consolidation effect and consider implications that follow from it. Anatomical studies indicate that LTP is accompanied by changes in spine morphology and therefore likely involves cytoskeletal changes. Accordingly, theta bursts initiate calpain-mediated proteolysis of the actin cross-linking protein spectrin and trigger actin polymerization in spine heads, two effects indicative of cytoskeletal reorganization. Polymerization occurs within 2 min, has the same threshold as LTP, is dependent on integrins, and becomes resistant to disruption over 30 min. We propose that the stabilization of the new cytoskeletal organization, and thus of a new spine morphology, underlies the initial phase of LTP consolidation. This hypothesis helps explain the diverse array of proteins and signaling cascades implicated in LTP, as well as the often-contradictory results about contributions of particular molecules. It also provides a novel explanation for why LTP is potently modulated by factors likely to be released during theta trains (e.g., BDNF). Finally, building on evidence that normal patterns of activity reverse LTP, we suggest that consolidation provides a delay that allows brain networks to sculpt newly formed memories.
One response of the brain to stressors is to increase microglial activation with the consequent production of proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), which has been shown to exert an inhibitory effect on long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. It has been consistently shown, particularly in vitro, that amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides increase activation of microglia, while its inhibitory effect on LTP is well documented, and associated with the Abeta-induced increase in IL-1beta. Here we set out to establish whether the Abeta-induced inhibition of LTP in perforant path-granule cell synapses, was coupled with evidence of microglial activation and to assess whether atorvastatin, which is used primarily in the treatment of hyperlipidaemia but which possesses anti-inflammatory properties, might modulate the effect of Abeta on LTP. We report that intracerebroventricular injection of Abeta increased expression of several markers of microglial activation, and in parallel, inhibited LTP in dentate gyrus. The data show that atorvastatin abrogated the Abeta-induced microglial activation and the associated deficit in LTP. On the basis of the evidence presented, we propose that the action of atorvastatin is mediated by its ability to increase production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-4, which we report mimics several of the actions of atorvastatin in the rat hippocampus.
The study of long-term potentiation (LTP) has for many years been the centre of a raging debate as to whether the process is expressed by presynaptic or postsynaptic mechanisms. Here we present evidence that two forms of synaptic plasticity at CA3-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus are expressed by presynaptic changes. One form is short-term potentiation (STP) and the other a neonatal form of early-LTP (E-LTP). We review recent experimental data that suggests that this latter form of LTP involves an increase in the probability of neurotransmitter release (Pr). We describe how this is caused by the rapid down-regulation of a high affinity kainate receptor, which otherwise responds to ambient levels of l-glutamate by depressing Pr.
Visual experience and deprivation bidirectionally modify the NR2A and NR2B subunit composition of NMDARs, and these changes in turn modify the properties of synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex. Deprivation-induced lowering of the NR2A/2B ratio can occur by altering either NR2A or NR2B protein levels, but how a reduction in synaptic activity regulates these changes in a subunit-specific manner is poorly understood. Here, we find that visual deprivation in juvenile mice by dark-rearing or monocular lid suture reduces the NR2A/2B ratio in the deprived cortex in temporally distinct phases--initially by increasing NR2B protein levels, and later by decreasing NR2A protein levels. Brief dark-exposure of juvenile rats likewise produces an increase in NR2B expression. Furthermore, we are able to model the early increase in NR2B by blocking NMDARs in vitro, and we find that translation of NR2B is likely a major point of regulation. Translation of NR2A is not regulated in this manner. Therefore, the differential translational regulation of NR2A and NR2B may contribute to experience-dependent modification of NMDAR subunit composition.
The hippocampal slice is a popular model system in which to study the cellular properties of long-term potentiation (LTP). Synaptogenesis induced by exposure to ice-cold artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF), however, raises the concern that morphological correlates of LTP might be obscured, especially in mature slices. Here we demonstrate that preparation of mature hippocampal slices at room temperature (approximately 25 degrees C) maintains excellent ultrastructure and a synapse density comparable to perfusion-fixed hippocampus. These results suggest that slices prepared at room temperature might provide a better basis from which to detect LTP-related changes in synapse number and morphology.


Atypical antipsychotics like olanzapine are more efficacious in treating negative symptoms and have less side effects. Nevertheless, important adverse effects of olanzapine are, for example, weight gain and hyperglycemia. Perazine in combination with carbamazepine has shown satisfying results in several single-schizophrenia patients, leading to the hypothesis of being equal or even superior to atypical antipsychotic monotherapy. The aim of the present study was to survey the hypothesis that perazine in combination with carbamazepine have an outcome and risk of side effects comparable to olanzapine. Eleven patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia received 14.0 +/- 5.0 mg/day olanzapine and 12 patients received 360.0 +/- 196.0 mg/day perazine in combination with 404.0 +/- 229.0 mg/day carbamazepine. Symptoms and neuropsychological state were assessed 3 times (days 0, 7, 21) using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. The neuropsychological state was assessed by the following neuropsychological tests: Benton, d2, ZVT, VLMT and MWT-B. Data were analyzed of variance for multiple dependent variables and repeated-measures multivariate analysis of variance. Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale scores showed superior improvement in the group receiving olanzapine. Olanzapine offers a more favorable response in positive symptoms than does perazine in combination with carbamazepine. The effect on negative symptoms is favorable in both forms of therapy and no significant differences between the groups could be determined. In both groups, treatment was associated with improved performance in cognitive tests; however, no differences were determined in the effects of the drugs. Results suggest that olanzapine offers a better response in positive symptoms than perazine in combination with carbamazepine.
Twenty-six patients suffering from damage to the right side of the brain, 19 of whom exhibited signs of left neglect, as well as 32 matched controls, ran 3 spatial cuing tasks. Patients were also tested with 2 cancellation tests, a line-bisection test, the copy of a complex drawing, and a visual extinction procedure. Results first showed correlations between extinction and cancellation tests performance on one hand, and between line bisection and copy on the other hand. Second, results demonstrated that an engagement deficit toward contralesional targets appeared to be the most striking feature of neglect, and the engagement score was correlated with the cancellation score and extinction. Most patients with neglect also presented a deficit in disengagement, a deficit of inhibition of return, and probably a deficit of alertness. Deficits in engagement and in disengagement, as well as poor scores in cancellation tests, seemed to be related with posterior cortical and subcortical lesions. Most important, even if an endogenous deficit (frequently related with a thalamic lesion) could aggravate the neglect behavior, neglect syndrome was mainly explained by a deficit of exogenous attention.
Patients with autopsy-confirmed frontotemporal dementia (FTD; n = 16) and Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 32) were compared on first-letter and semantic category fluency tasks. Despite being matched on age, education, and dementia severity, FTD patients performed worse overall and showed similar impairment in letter and semantic category fluency, whereas AD patients showed greater impairment in semantic category than letter fluency. A measure of the disparity between letter and semantic category fluency (the semantic index) was effective in differentiating FTD from AD patients, and this disparity increased with increasing severity of dementia. These unique patterns of letter and semantic category fluency deficits may be indicative of differences in the relative contribution of frontal-lobe-mediated retrieval deficits and temporal-lobe-mediated semantic deficits in FTD and AD.
Serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) do not have to be administered continuously to be effective for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), but can be given during luteal phases only. This is of practical importance, but also of theoretical interest since it suggests that the onset of action of SRIs is shorter in PMDD than in, for example depression. In this study, both continuous and intermittent SRI administration was compared with placebo, with the special purpose of analyzing if different PMDD symptoms respond differently depending on the treatment regimen. To this end, women meeting slightly modified DSM-IV criteria for PMDD (mean+/-SD age, 37+/-6.3 years) were treated for three menstrual cycles with paroxetine continuously, paroxetine during the luteal phase only, or placebo, the population completing at least one treatment cycle comprising 55-56 subjects per group. Continuous treatment with paroxetine reduced premenstrual symptoms effectively with a response rate of 85%. The effect size was highest for irritability (1.4) and lowest for lack of energy (0.5). Intermittent treatment was as effective as continuous treatment in reducing irritability, affect lability, and mood swings, but had a somewhat weaker effect on depressed mood and somatic symptoms. The study indicates that the response rate when treating PMDD with SRIs is high, and that irritability is a key target symptom. Symptoms such as irritability, affect lability, and mood swings appear to be more inclined to respond rapidly to SRIs, enabling intermittent treatment, than are, for example, the somatic symptoms.
Transient reductions in serotonin levels during tryptophan depletion (TD) are thought to impair reward processing in healthy volunteers, while another facet of the serotonergic system, the serotonin transporter (5-HTTLPR) short allele polymorphism, is implicated in augmented processing of aversive stimuli. We examined the impact and interactions of TD and the serotonin promoter polymorphism genotype on reward and punishment via two forms of instrumental learning: passive avoidance and response reversal. In this study, healthy volunteers (n=35) underwent rapid TD or control procedures and genotyping (n=26) of the 5-HTTLPR for long and short allele variants. In the passive avoidance task, tryptophan-depleted volunteers failed to respond sufficiently to rewarded stimuli compared to the control group. Additionally, long allele homozygous individuals (n=11) were slower to learn to avoid punished stimuli compared to short allele carriers (n=15). TD alone did not produce measurable deficits in probabilistic response reversal errors. However, a significant drug group by genotype interaction was found indicating that in comparison to short allele carriers, tryptophan-depleted individuals homozygous for the long allele failed to appropriately use punishment information to guide responding. These findings extend prior reports of impaired reward processing in TD to include instrumental learning. Furthermore, they demonstrate behavioral differences in responses to punishing stimuli between long allele homozygotes and short allele carriers when serotonin levels are acutely reduced.
Evidence indicates that dopaminergic medication in Parkinson's disease may impair certain aspects of cognitive function, such as reversal learning. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging in patients with mild Parkinson's disease to investigate the neural site at which L-DOPA acts during reversal learning. Patients were scanned both ON and OFF their normal dopamine-enhancing L-DOPA medication during the performance of a probabilistic reversal learning task. We demonstrate that L-DOPA modulated reversal-related activity in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the dorsal striatum or the prefrontal cortex. These data concur with evidence from studies with experimental animals and indicate an important role for the human nucleus accumbens in the dopaminergic modulation of reversal learning.
In the striatum, dopamine and acetylcholine (ACh) modulate dopamine release by acting, respectively, on dopamine D(2) autoreceptors and nicotinic ACh (nACh) heteroreceptors localized on dopaminergic nerve terminals. The possibility that functional interactions exist between striatal D(2) autoreceptors and nACh receptors was studied with in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. Local perfusion of nicotine in the ventral striatum (shell of the nucleus accumbens) produced a marked increase in the extracellular levels of dopamine, which was completely counteracted by co-perfusion with either the non-alpha(7) nACh receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine or the D(2-3) receptor agonist quinpirole. Local perfusion of the D(2-3) receptor antagonist raclopride produced an increase in the extracellular levels of dopamine, which was partially, but significantly, counteracted by coperfusion with dihydro-beta-erythroidine. These findings demonstrate a potent crosstalk between G protein-coupled receptors and ligand-gated ion channels in dopaminergic nerve terminals, with the D(2) autoreceptor modulating the efficacy of non-alpha(7) nACh receptor-mediated modulation of dopamine release. We further demonstrate physical interactions between beta(2) subunits of non-alpha(7) nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and D(2) autoreceptors in co-immunoprecipitation experiments with membrane preparations from co-transfected mammalian cells and rat striatum. These results reveal that striatal non-alpha(7) nicotinic acetylcholine receptors form part of heteromeric dopamine autoreceptor complexes that modulate dopamine release.


The final pattern of the origin and termination of the corticospinal tract is shaped during development by the balance between projection and withdrawal of axons. In animals, unilateral inhibition of the sensorimotor cortex during development results in a sparse contralateral projection from this cortex and retention of a greater number of ipsilateral projections from the more active cortex. Similarly in subjects with hemiplegic cerebral palsy if transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the damaged motor cortex fails to evoke responses in the paretic upper limb, TMS of the undamaged ipsilateral motor cortex evokes abnormally large and short-onset responses. Rather than representing a &quot;reparative plasticity in response to injury&quot;, this review presents evidence that increased ipsilateral projections from the non-infarcted motor cortex arise from perturbation of ongoing developmental processes, whereby reduced activity in the damaged hemisphere, leads to increased withdrawal of its surviving contralateral corticospinal projections because their terminals have been displaced by the more active ipsilateral projections of the undamaged hemisphere and thereby adding to the degree of long-term motor impairment.
Transient laminae containing circuitry elements (synapses, postsynaptic neurons and presynaptic axons) appear in the cerebral wall from the eighth postconceptional week (PCW) and disappear with the resolution of the subplate zone after the sixth postnatal month. The first endogeneous synaptic circuitry develops in two laminae, above and below the cortical plate. Mid- and late fetal period (15-23PCW) shows lamination pattern with a thick subplate zone containing GABAergic, glutamatergic and peptidergic neurons, synapses and thalamocortical afferents which are waiting and accumulating in the superficial subplate zone between 21 and 23PCW and these mark regional boundaries. In preterm infants, some thalamocortical fibers relocate to the cortical plate in visual, somatosensory, auditory and associative cortices, forming a framework for sensory-driven connectivity, while other remain engaged in the endogeneous subplate zone circuitry. Corticocortical pathways continue to grow. In the neonatal period, there is a major reorganization of callosal projections and development of short corticocortical connections, dendritic spines and synapses. In conclusion, transient neuronal circuitry underlies transient functions during the fetal, perinatal and early postnatal life and determines developmental plasticity of the cerebral cortex and moderates effects of lesion of the developing brain.
Scale-free organizations, characterized by uneven distributions of linkages between nodal elements, describe the structure and function of many life-based complex systems developing under evolutionary pressures. We explore motivated behavior as a scale-free map toward a comprehensive translational theory of addiction. Motivational and behavioral repertoires are reframed as link and nodal element sets, respectively, comprising a scale-free structure. These sets are generated by semi-independent information-processing streams within cortical-striatal circuits that cooperatively provide decision-making and sequential processing functions necessary for traversing maps of motivational links connecting behavioral nodes. Dopamine modulation of cortical-striatal plasticity serves a central-hierarchical mechanism for survival-adaptive sculpting and development of motivational-behavioral repertoires by guiding a scale-free design. Drug-induced dopamine activity promotes drug taking as a highly connected behavioral hub at the expense of natural-adaptive motivational links and behavioral nodes. Conceptualizing addiction as pathological alteration of scale-free motivational-behavioral repertoires unifies neurobiological, neurocomputational and behavioral research while addressing addiction vulnerability in adolescence and psychiatric illness. This model may inform integrative research in defining more effective prevention and treatment strategies for addiction.
A cardinal feature of most developmental and adult onset neurodegenerative diseases is the death of specific populations of neurons. Largely as a result of the progress made in elucidating the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the neuronal death that occurs during development, approaches ameliorating them often focus on the manipulation of neuronal death pathways. Recent evidence derived from the study of animal models of various neuropathological conditions, however, has revealed that damage to axons and synapses long precedes the activation of death pathways. We recently extended these findings to the most commonly studied animal model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS). Inhibiting the cell death pathway by deletion of the pro-apoptotic gene Bax completely rescued spinal MNs yet failed to prevent disease in fALS transgenic mice. However, we observed distinct abnormalities within presynaptic terminals of spinal MNs at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), as well as profound denervation. These results suggest that therapies aimed at preserving the synapse rather than the soma may be more effective at treating these neuropathologies.
The final phase of spinal cord development follows the arrival of descending pathways which brings about a reorganisation that allows mature motor behaviours to emerge under the control of higher brain centres. Observations made during typical human development have shown that low threshold stretch reflexes, including excitatory reflexes between agonist and antagonist muscle pairs are a feature of the newborn. However, perinatal lesions of the corticospinal tract can lead to abnormal development of spinal reflexes that includes retention and reinforcement of developmental features that do not emerge in adult stroke victims, even though they also suffer from spasticity. This review describes investigations in animal models into how corticospinal input may drive segmental maturation. It compares their findings with observations made in humans and discusses how therapeutic interventions in cerebral palsy might aim to correct imbalances between descending and segmental inputs, bearing in mind that descending activity may play the crucial role in development.
Recent evidence suggests that the molecular defects associated with the development of diabetes also contribute to an increased risk of all types of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia and Pick's disease. Indeed, the presence of type II diabetes mellitus results in a two to three fold higher risk of developing dementia [Fontbonne et al., 2001. Changes in cognitive abilities over a 4-year period are unfavourably affected in elderly diabetic subjects: results of the Epidemiology of Vascular Aging Study. Diabetes Care 24, 366-370; Gregg et al., 2000. Is diabetes associated with cognitive impairment and cognitive decline among older women? Study of Osteoporotic Fractures Research Group. Archives of Internal Medicine 160, 174-180; Peila et al., 2002. Type 2 diabetes, APOE gene, and the risk for dementia and related pathologies: The Honolulu-Asia Aging Study. Diabetes 51, 1256-1262]. There are currently 250 million people worldwide (&gt;2 million in the UK) diagnosed with diabetes, and this number is predicted to double within the next 20 years, therefore the associated risk translates into a potential explosion in the appearance of dementia in the population. This review primarily focuses on the proposed molecular links between insulin action, Diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, while discussing the potential for therapeutic intervention to alleviate these disorders. In particular, we will review the regulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) and its neuronal substrates.
In traditional accounts, fluctuations in sustained and focused attention and associated attentional lapses during task performance are regarded as the result of failures of top-down and effortful higher order processes. The current paper reviews an alternative hypothesis: that spontaneous patterns of very low frequency (&lt;0.1 Hz) coherence within a specific brain network ('default-mode network') thought to support a pattern of generalized task-non-specific cognition during rest, can persist or intrude into periods of active task-specific processing, producing periodic fluctuations in attention that compete with goal-directed activity. We review recent studies supporting the existence of the resting state default network, examine the mechanism underpinning it, describe the consequent temporally distinctive effects on cognition and behaviour of default-mode interference into active processing periods, and suggest some factors that might predispose to it. Finally, we explore the putative role of default-mode interference as a cause of performance variability in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
The use of pigs in neuroscience research has increased in the past decade, which has seen broader recognition of the potential of pigs as an animal for experimental modeling of human brain disorders. The volume of available background data concerning pig brain anatomy and neurochemistry has increased considerably in recent years. The pig brain, which is gyrencephalic, resembles the human brain more in anatomy, growth and development than do the brains of commonly used small laboratory animals. The size of the pig brain permits the identification of cortical and subcortical structures by imaging techniques. Furthermore, the pig is an increasingly popular laboratory animal for transgenic manipulations of neural genes. The present paper focuses on evaluating the potential for modeling symptoms, phenomena or constructs of human brain diseases in pigs, the neuropsychiatric disorders in particular. Important practical and ethical aspects of the use of pigs as an experimental animal as pertaining to relevant in vivo experimental brain techniques are reviewed. Finally, current knowledge of aspects of behavioral processes including learning and memory are reviewed so as to complete the summary of the status of pigs as a species suitable for experimental models of diverse human brain disorders.
At its most basic level, the function of mammalian sleep can be described as a restorative process of the brain and body; recently, however, progressive research has revealed a host of vital functions to which sleep is essential. Although many excellent reviews on sleep behavior have been published, none have incorporated contemporary studies examining the molecular mechanisms that govern the various stages of sleep. Utilizing a holistic approach, this review is focused on the basic mechanisms involved in the transition from wakefulness, initiation of sleep and the subsequent generation of slow-wave sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Additionally, using recent molecular studies and experimental evidence that provides a direct link to sleep as a behavior, we have developed a new model, the cellular-molecular-network model, explaining the mechanisms responsible for regulating REM sleep. By analyzing the fundamental neurobiological mechanisms responsible for the generation and maintenance of sleep-wake behavior in mammals, we intend to provide a broader understanding of our present knowledge in the field of sleep research.
Several rodent models of deep brain stimulation (DBS) have been developed in recent years. Electrophysiological and neurochemical studies have been performed to examine the mechanisms underlying the effects of DBS. In vitro studies have provided deep insights into the role of ion channels in response to brain stimulation. In vivo studies reveal neural responses in the context of intact neural circuits. Most importantly, recording of neural responses to behaviorally effective DBS in freely moving animals provides a direct means for examining how DBS modulates the basal ganglia thalamocortical circuits and thereby improves motor function. DBS can modulate firing rate, normalize irregular burst firing patterns and reduce low-frequency oscillations associated with the Parkinsonian state. Our current efforts are focused on elucidating the mechanisms by which DBS effects on neural circuitry improve motor performance. New behavioral models and improved recording techniques will aide researchers conducting future DBS studies in a variety of behavioral modalities and enable new treatment strategies to be explored, such as closed-loop stimulations based on real-time computation of ensemble neural activity.
Influences of the habenular complex on electrophysiological and neurochemical aspects of brain functioning are well known. However, its role in cognition has been sparsely investigated until recently. The habenular complex, composed of medial and lateral subdivisions, is a node linking the forebrain with midbrain and hindbrain structures. The lateral habenula is the principal actor in this direct dialogue, while the medial habenula mostly conveys information to the interpeduncular nucleus before this modulates further regions. Here we describe neuroanatomical and physiological aspects of the habenular complex, and its role in cognitive processes, including new behavioral, electrophysiological and imaging findings. Habenular complex lesions result in deficits in learning, memory and attention, some of which decline during repeated testing, while others become worse, consistent with multiple roles in cognition. The habenular complex is particularly responsive to feedback about errors. Electrophysiological studies indicate a role in metaplasticity, the modulation of neuroplasticity. These studies thus reveal important roles of the habenular complex in learning, memory and attention.
Rats and mice are attracted by novel objects. They readily approach novel objects and explore them with their vibrissae, nose and forepaws. It is assumed that such a single explorative episode leaves a lasting and complex memory trace, which includes information about the features of the object explored, as well as where and even when the object was encountered. Indeed, it has been shown that rodents are able to discriminate a novel from a familiar object (one-trial object recognition), can detect a mismatch between the past and present location of a familiar object (one-trial object-place recognition), and can discriminate different objects in terms of their relative recency (temporal order memory), i.e., which one of two objects has been encountered earlier. Since the novelty-preference paradigm is very versatile and has some advantages compared to several other memory tasks, such as the water maze, it has become a powerful tool in current neurophamacological, neuroanatomical and neurogenetical memory research using both rats and mice. This review is intended to provide a comprehensive summary on key findings delineating the brain structures, neurotransmitters, molecular mechanisms and genes involved in encoding, consolidation, storage and retrieval of different forms of one-trial object memory in rats and mice.
Animal models that are characterised by long-lasting conditioned fear responses as well as generalised behavioural sensitisation to novel stimuli following short-lasting but intense stress have a phenomenology that resembles that of PTSD in humans. These models include brief sessions of shocks, social confrontations, and a short sequence of different stressors. Subgroups of animals with different behavioural traits or coping styles during stress exposure show a different degree or pattern of long-term sensitisation. Weeks to months after the trauma, treated animals on average also show a sensitisation to novel stressful stimuli of neuroendocrine, cardiovascular and gastrointestinal motility responses as well as altered pain sensitivity and immune function. Functional neuroanatomical and pharmacological studies in these animal models have provided evidence for involvement of amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex, and of brain stem areas regulating neuroendocrine and autonomic function and pain processing. They have also generated a number of neurotransmitter and neuropeptide targets that could provide novel avenues for treatment in PTSD.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a chronic, debilitating psychiatric disorder that can follow exposure to extreme stressful experiences. It is characterised by hyperarousal and increased startle responses, re-experiencing of the traumatic event, withdrawal or avoidance behaviour and emotional numbing. The focus of this review is on aspects that have received less attention. PTSD develops only in a substantial minority of people exposed to traumatic stress, and possible individual traits that increase vulnerability are discussed. An overview is given of the wide variety of physiological disturbances that accompany PTSD and may contribute to disability, including neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and immune function and pain sensitivity. Brain imaging and pharmacological studies have generated some insight into the circuitry that may be involved in the generation of PTSD symptoms. Major limitations of human studies so far are the issue of causality and our lack of understanding of the underlying molecular substrates in the brain, which are easier to address in relevant animal models and will be discussed in a companion paper.
The amyloid Abeta-peptide (Abeta) is suspected to play a critical role in the cascade leading to AD as the pathogen that causes neuronal and synaptic dysfunction and, eventually, cell death. Therefore, it has been the subject of a huge number of clinical and basic research studies on this disease. Abeta is typically found aggregated in extracellular amyloid plaques that occur in specific brain regions enriched in nAChRs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) brains. Advances in the genetics of its familiar and sporadic forms, together with those in gene transfer technology, have provided valuable animal models that complement the traditional cholinergic approaches, although modeling the neuronal and behavioral deficits of AD in these models has been challenging. More recently, emerging evidence indicates that intraneuronal accumulation of Abeta may also contribute to the cascade of neurodegenerative events and strongly suggest that it is an early, pathological biomarker for the onset of AD and associated cognitive and other behavioral deficits. The present review covers these studies in humans, in in vitro and in transgenic models, also providing more evidence that adult 3xTg-AD mice harboring PS1M146V, APPSwe, tauP301L transgenes, and mimicking many critical hallmarks of AD, show cognitive deficits and other behavioral alterations at ages when overt neuropathology is not yet observed, but when intraneuronal Abeta, synaptic and cholinergic deficits can already be described.
Early experiences have profound influences on individual developmental trajectories. For example alcohol exposure during central nervous system development relates to a number of pathological consequences in adulthood. An increased risk of developing psychiatric disorders, like major depression and impulse-control-related pathologies is associated with alcohol exposure during fetal life and/or during adolescence. Additionally, adverse life experiences occurring early in development may exacerbate these consequences, while impinging on the same neural systems affected by precocious alcohol exposure. Conversely, a protective and/or stimulating environment may mitigate these alcohol-related negative outcomes. Experimental research in animal models constitutes a primary source of information in understanding both functional and dysfunctional human adaptations to these events. In this review, a selection of rodent and primate studies shows that developmental ethanol exposure on the one hand, and environmental treatments aimed at modifying the mother-offspring interaction on the other hand, independently modulate similar neuro-endocrine systems. In particular, we discuss the effects that the above-mentioned independent variables exert on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis and on brain serotonergic pathways. Experimental evidence indicates that pathological adaptations of these systems are valuable predictors of human neuro-behavioral abnormalities like depression, impaired impulse control and alcohol abuse. Finally, a working hypothesis is proposed, which combines primate and rodent studies aimed: (i) at studying functional and pathological individual development following early ethanol consumption, and (ii) at heading towards a better definition of potential intervention strategies.
Genetic factors and early life adversity both play a major role in the etiology of mood and anxiety disorders. Previous studies have shown that postnatal maternal separation (MS) can produce lasting abnormalities in emotion-related behavior and neuroendocrine responses to stress in rodents. The present study sought to examine the effects of repeated MS in eight different inbred strains of mice (129S1/SvImJ, 129P3/J, A/J, BALB/cJ, BALB/cByJ C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, FVB/NJ). Pups were separated from their dam and littermates for 180 min/day ('MS') or 15 min/day ('handling'), or left undisturbed ('facility-reared') from postnatal days P0-P13, and tested as adults for anxiety- and depression-related behaviors. Results demonstrated no clear and consistent effects of MS or handling on behavioral phenotypes in any of the strains tested. In all strains, MS produced an increase in maternal care on reunion with pups, which may have modified MS effects. Data demonstrate that the MS procedure employed does not provide a robust model of early life stress effects on the anxiety- and depression-related behaviors in the mouse strains tested.
Changes in activity of the medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of dorsal and ventral striatum result in alterations of motor performance, ranging from rapid increases or decreases in locomotor activity, to long-term modifications of motor behaviours. In the dorsal striatum, MSNs can be distinguished based on the organization of their connectivity to substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) and internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi), which, in turn, control thalamocortical neurons. Approximately half of the MSNs project directly to SNpr and GPi, their activation leading to disinhibition of thalamocortical neurons and increased motor activity. The other subpopulation of MSNs connects to SNpr and GPi indirectly and when activated promotes inhibition of thalamocortical neurons, thereby reducing motor activity. The dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) is a modulator of the cAMP signalling pathway, highly expressed in MSNs. This review discusses the regulation of DARPP-32 exerted by psychoactive substances in specific populations of striatal projection neurons and its involvement in short- and long-term motor responses.

This study examined whether glial cells in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (Sp5C) were necessary for orofacial nociception and nociceptive processing induced by subcutaneously (s.c.) injection of 5% formalin into left mystacial vibrissae. The immunohistochemical, immunoelectron microscopical methods and behavior assessment were used in this study. Two hours after administration of carbenoxolone (CBX, a gap junction blocker) or fluorocistrate (FCA, a glail metabolic inhibitor) into the cerebellomedullary cistern, the nociceptive behavior and scratching-cumulative time reduced significantly (P&lt;0.01). FCA attenuated obviously the expression of Fos/NeuN-immunoreactive (-IR) neurons (mean+/-S.E.M.=29+/-2.5) and Fos/glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-IR astrocytes (7.2+/-2.2) in Sp5C. CBX decreased the number of Fos/NeuN-IR neurons (25+/-1.7), but did not affect Fos/GFAP-IR astrocytes (16.2+/-5.4), compared with vehicle-preadministered rats (Fos/NeuN-IR neurons 135+/-4.2, and Fos/GFAP-IR astrocytes 25.8+/-4). Immunoelectron microscopy established that Cx32/Cx43 heterotypic gap junctions (HGJs) were present on junction areas between astrocytes and neurons within Sp5C. The number of HGJs increased significantly following formalin s.c. injection. It suggests that the Sp5C astrocytes may play an active regulating role in orofacial nociception via Cx32/Cx43 HGJs between astrocytes and neurons of Sp5C.
Recent technologies and developments in neuroscience have contributed to remarkable scientific discoveries, and have also raised many new philosophical, ethical, legal, and social issues. Research in &quot;neuroethics&quot; has identified various ethical issues, which will be difficult for current biomedical ethics to resolve from both an experimental and a social perspective, such as criminal applications of brain scans, incidental findings during non-clinical brain imaging, and cognitive enhancement. Although American and European neuroscience societies have demonstrated immediate, concrete reactions to these ethical issues, including academic conferences, study programs, and publications, Japanese neuroscientists have so far produced little response. Ethics is tightly linked with one's religion, nationality, culture, and social background, whereas science is tightly linked with the demand, economics, and politics of the society to which individuals belong. Taken together, it is important and necessary for Japanese neuroscientists to consider the ethical problems in Japanese neuroscience. In this paper, we first review the history of neuroethics in the world, and then report the less-developed ethical issues in the Japanese neuroscience community, focusing on neuroimaging and manipulative neuroscience as a first step in discussing how to apply principles in neuroethics to this rapidly progressing field of research.




Kyphoplasty is a minimally invasive procedure that is increasingly used to treat pain caused by compression fractures of vertebral bodies. A 56-year-old woman who had a compression fracture on the vertebral body of L5 vertebra was admitted to the Algology Department with a severe low back and leg pain. Kyphoplasty was planned for pain relief. She suffered severe pain in her back and left leg immediately after the procedure because of a leakage of injected cement through the fracture line. After injection of triamcinolone and bupivacaine transforaminally into the L5-S1 anterior epidural space, her pain complaints ended. If radicular pain symptoms caused by cement leakage are secondary to a chemically mediated non-cellular inflammatory reaction, transforaminal epidural steroid injection should be useful.
We present 3 cases of spontaneous regression of lumbar herniated disc. The disc regression correlated with clinical improvement documented by MRI studies. Although the phenomenon of spontaneous disappearance of decrease in size of herniated disc fragments is well known, the exact mechanism underlying this process remains unclear. We discuss 3 possible explanations for disc regression: retraction into the vertebral space, dehydration/shrinkage, and resorption due to inflammatory reaction.
Takayasu`s arteritis is a well-known systemic disease that involves the aorta, major aortic branches, and pulmonary arteries. Conventional catheter angiography remains the gold standard for disease diagnosis, in correlation with clinical data and laboratory findings. Multislice computed tomography angiography (MSCTA) has the advantage of non-invasively providing the angiographic data and combining morphological mural assessment with luminal evaluation. We present 2 such cases diagnosed by 16-slice MSCTA.
Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous, multisystemic disorder of unknown origin usually affecting young Black-American adults. Bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and skin or eyelid lesions are the most common symptoms noted. Except for lacrimal gland enlargement, orbital involvement with sarcoidosis is rare and is usually unilateral when it occurs. The aim of this article is to report an isolated case of sarcoidosis that initially presented as an orbital tumor, and to document the CT and MR appearance of the lesions.
Myeloma involvement of the nervous system is rare. Extensive literature review revealed only a few cases reported from different parts of the world. The presence of CNS symptoms and detection of plasma cells in the CSF is the usual basis of diagnosis. In addition, immunoelectrophoresis and immunofixation for detection of monoclonal protein confirm the diagnosis in some cases, while some authors used flow cytometry and cytogenetic studies on CSF. Reports of multiple myeloma also include unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities of chromosome 13. We report a case with relapsed CNS multiple myeloma with the detection of elevated b-2 microglobulin (b2M) as a tumor marker in the CSF.
Neurogenic stunned myocardium (NSM) is a well-known complication of subarachnoidal hemorrhage, but has been reported rarely in association with other central nervous system disorders. A case of NSM is described in a patient with hemorrhagic brain contusion associated with cerebral edema. An 18-year-old man was admitted with severe cranial trauma following a car roll-over. Six days after admission, he developed findings suggestive for NSM. The troponin T and creatine kinase-MB level were elevated and echocardiogram showed apical and inferoposterior hypokinesis and diffuse left ventricular akinesis with severely reduced ejection fraction (18%). Invasive measurements confirmed low cardiac output. His cardiac function resolved completely within 6 days after decompressive craniotomy. This case supports the presumed unifying role of the increased intracranial pressure, probably triggering a vigorous sympathetic outflow hyperactivity leading to NSM.











Methylphenidate remains the mainstay of pharmacological management in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Despite having been available for over half a century, methylphenidates original formulation has been modified with the main purpose of extending its duration of action. This article will present a brief review of how these new formulations vary and how these should be selected, considering the evidence available on their effectiveness and on the individual needs of the patient.

The discovery of active adult neurogenesis in mammals, a process of generating functional neurons from neural stem cells, suggests that the adult brain is more dynamic than once imagined. The coincidence of this phenomenon occurring in the hippocampus, a region critical to the learning process, begs the question of whether adult neurogenesis is involved in memory formation. Here, the authors review rapidly accumulating evidence showing a strong correlation between certain types of memory functions and adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus. Establishment of the potential link between memory formation and adult neurogenesis is instrumental, at a basic science level, to understand the function of neural networks and is essential, at a clinical level, to develop effective therapies for various cognitive dysfunctions.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) with the Gamma Knife and linear accelerator has revolutionized neurosurgery over the past 20 years. The most common indications for radiosurgery today are tumors and arteriovenous malformations of the brain. Functional indications such as treatment of movement disorders or intractable pain only contribute a small percentage of treated patients. Although SRS is the only noninvasive form of treatment for functional disorders, it also has some limitations: neurophysiological confirmation of the target structure is not possible, and one therefore must rely exclusively on anatomical targeting. Furthermore, lesion sizes may vary, and shielding adjacent radiosensitive neural structures may be difficult or impossible. The most common indication for functional SRS is the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. Radiosurgical treatment for epilepsy and certain psychiatric illnesses is performed in several centers as part of strict research protocols, and radiosurgical pallidotomy or medial thalamotomy is no longer recommended due to the high risk of complications. Radiosurgical ventrolateral thalamotomy for the treatment of tremor in patients with Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis, as well as in the treatment of essential tremor, may be indicated for a select group of patients with advanced age, significant medical conditions that preclude treatment with open surgery, or patients who must receive anticoagulation therapy. A promising new application of SRS is high-dose radiosurgery delivered to the pituitary stalk. This treatment has already been successfully performed in several centers around the world to treat severe pain in patients with end-stage cancer.
Surgical approaches to treat orbital disease should provide a good exposure of intraorbital anatomical structures, allow their functional preservation, and provide good cosmetic results. The authors describe a minimally invasive, combined transconjunctival-eyebrow approach to all orbital quadrants in a step-wise manner. The indications, advantages, and limitations of the technique are highlighted. A transconjunctival approach via the postseptal area is described. It allows exposure of the medial, inferior, and lateral parts of the orbit. Depending on the orbital space to be exposed, a lateral or a medial eyebrow incision is then made. The eyebrow and the conjunctival incisions are connected by subperiosteal dissection. This combined access provides exposure to all intraconal muscles and to the superior, medial, lateral, and inferior portions of the optic nerve. The combined transconjunctival-eyebrow approach provides an excellent orbital exposure, with minimal damage to the circumjacent structures. It requires less operative time than other approaches and yields good cosmetic results. Intracranial or intrafacial tumor extension and tumors located purely in the orbital apex are limitations for the use of this technique.
Since the early 19th century, significant controversy has persisted over the competing claims of two men, Charles Bell and Franois Magendie, to a pivotal discovery: that the dorsal spinal roots subserve sensation, whereas the ventral spinal roots subserve motion. However, the foundations of neuroanatomy on which Bell and Magendie built their research was formed two millennia in advance. Exploration of the work of four ancient scholars--Herophilus, Erasistratus, Aretaeus, and Galen--reveals a remarkable early appreciation of the separate neural pathways (if not the correct physiology) responsible for sensory and motor control.
In 25 years, the Mongolian army of Genghis Khan conquered more of the known world than the Roman Empire accomplished in 400 years of conquest. The recent revised view is that Genghis Khan and his descendants brought about &quot;pax Mongolica&quot; by securing trade routes across Eurasia. After the initial shock of destruction by an unknown barbaric tribe, almost every country conquered by the Mongols was transformed by a rise in cultural communication, expanded trade, and advances in civilization. Medicine, including techniques related to surgery and neurological surgery, became one of the many areas of life and culture that the Mongolian Empire influenced.
Anatomical and physiological understandings of the structure and function of the brain have worked to establish it as the &quot;seat of the soul.&quot; As an organ of reflection, meditation, and memory, the brain becomes synonymous with what defines the &quot;self&quot; through the existence of consciousness--of mind. Thus, the brain has been associated with a range of transcendent concepts--the soul, spirit, mind, and consciousness--that all relate in fundamental ways to each other both in terms of their perceived location within the brain and because of the way each works ultimately to define the person to whom the brain belongs. In this article, the author provides a brief exploration of how interrelated these categories have been when seen in the context of ancient, Renaissance, early modern, and modern philosophical and medical concerns; how the brain has variously been perceived as home to these intimate states of being; and how practitioners from the neurosciences have reflected on these questions. The author provides novel insights into the interrelationships of philosophy, theology, and medicine by examining these issues through the lens of the history of neuroscience.
Guido da Vigevano was an Italian physician and engineer who lived in the 13th and 14th centuries. He was the first scientist who used pictures to illustrate his anatomical descriptions, developing for the first time a close relationship between anatomical studies and artistic drawings. This was further developed in the Renaissance. In his textbook Anathomia are displayed six plates showing for the first time neuroanatomical structures and techniques: dissection of the head by means of trephination, and depictions of the meninges, cerebrum, and spinal cord. On the surface of the brain painting it is possible to recognize a vague patterning of cortical convolutions. Ventricles are also described and shown. This book constituted the first attempt in the history of neuroscience to illustrate an anatomical description with schematic pictures to achieve a better understanding of such complex structures.
Endogenous Cushing syndrome (CS) results from hypercortisolemia caused by excess adrenocorticotropic hormone production in a pituitary adenoma or ectopic tumor, or by an adrenal tumor that directly produces excess cortisol. The diagnosis can usually be ascertained with a reasonable degree of certainty based on clinical and laboratory findings of hypercortisolism. There are patients, however, in whom the production of excess cortisol exhibits a cyclic or intermittent pattern, and, as a result, the clinical symptoms may be quite complex and varied. In these patients the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis may be normal between cycles, and dexamethasone suppression testing may produce a paradoxical response. In the present article, the authors provide a definition of cyclic Cushing syndrome, review the causes and its potential pathophysiological mechanisms, and discuss the treatment options based on a review of the available literature.



This review considers how recent advances in the physiology of ion channels and other potential molecular targets, in conjunction with new information on the genetics of idiopathic epilepsies, can be applied to the search for improved antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Marketed AEDs predominantly target voltage-gated cation channels (the alpha subunits of voltage-gated Na+ channels and also T-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels) or influence GABA-mediated inhibition. Recently, alpha2-delta voltage-gated Ca2+ channel subunits and the SV2A synaptic vesicle protein have been recognized as likely targets. Genetic studies of familial idiopathic epilepsies have identified numerous genes associated with diverse epilepsy syndromes, including genes encoding Na+ channels and GABA(A) receptors, which are known AED targets. A strategy based on genes associated with epilepsy in animal models and humans suggests other potential AED targets, including various voltage-gated Ca2+ channel subunits and auxiliary proteins, A- or M-type voltage-gated K+ channels, and ionotropic glutamate receptors. Recent progress in ion channel research brought about by molecular cloning of the channel subunit proteins and studies in epilepsy models suggest additional targets, including G-protein-coupled receptors, such as GABA(B) and metabotropic glutamate receptors; hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation (HCN) channel subunits, responsible for hyperpolarization-activated current Ih; connexins, which make up gap junctions; and neurotransmitter transporters, particularly plasma membrane and vesicular transporters for GABA and glutamate. New information from the structural characterization of ion channels, along with better understanding of ion channel function, may allow for more selective targeting. For example, Na+ channels underlying persistent Na+ currents or GABA(A) receptor isoforms responsible for tonic (extrasynaptic) currents represent attractive targets. The growing understanding of the pathophysiology of epilepsy and the structural and functional characterization of the molecular targets provide many opportunities to create improved epilepsy therapies.
This introduction to the special issue of Neurotoxicology and Teratology on &quot;Risk of neurobehavioral toxicity in adolescence&quot; begins by broadly considering the ontogeny and phylogeny of adolescence, and the potential value of animal models of adolescence. Major findings from the emerging neuroscience of adolescence are then highlighted to establish the importance of studies of adolescent neurotoxicity. A variety of methodological issues that are of particular relevance to adolescent exposures are then discussed. These include consideration of pharmacokinetic factors, inclusion of other-aged comparison group(s), and issues involving timing, route of administration, and exposure-induced alterations in growth rate. Despite such methodological challenges, research to determine whether adolescence is a time of increased vulnerability (or greater resiliency) to specific drugs and environmental toxicants is progressing rapidly, as exemplified by the work presented in the articles of this special issue.
Administration of methylphenidate (MPH, Ritalin) to children affected by attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is an elective therapy, which however raises concerns for public health, due to possible persistent neuro-behavioral alterations. We investigated potential long-term consequences at adulthood of MPH exposure during adolescence, by means of behavioral and brain MRS assessment in drug-free state. Wistar adolescent rats (30- to 44-day-old) were treated with MPH (0 or 2 mg/kg once/day for 14 days) and then left undisturbed until adulthood. Levels of impulsive behavior were assessed in the intolerance-to-delay task: Food-restricted rats were tested in operant chambers with two nose-poking holes, delivering one food pellet immediately, or five pellets after a delay whose length was increased over days. MPH-exposed animals showed a less marked shifting profile from the large/late to the small/soon reward, suggesting reduced basal levels of impulsivity, compared to controls. In vivo MRI-guided 1H MRS examinations at 4.7 T in anaesthetised animals revealed long-term biochemical changes in the dorsal striatum (STR), nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of MPH-exposed rats. Notably, total creatine and taurine, metabolites respectively involved in bioenergetics and synaptic efficiency, were up-regulated in the STR and conversely down-regulated in the NAcc of MPH-exposed rats. A strong correlation was evident between non-phosphorylated creatine in the STR and behavioral impulsivity. Moreover, unaltered total creatine and increased phospho-creatine/creatine ratio were detected in the PFC, suggesting improved cortical energetic performance. Because of this enduring rearrangement in the forebrain function, MPH-exposed animals may be more efficient when faced with delay of reinforcement. In summary, MPH exposure during adolescence produced enduring MRS-detectable biochemical modifications in brain reward-related circuits, which may account for increased self-control capacity of adult rats.
In adolescence, consuming a large number of drinks over a short interval of time (e.g. binging) is not an uncommon occurrence. Since adolescence is an important neurodevelopmental period, the effect of binge drinking on brain and behavior has become a significant health concern. The present study evaluated event-related potentials (ERPs) in young adult Southwest California Indians who had a history of binge drinking during their adolescence. One hundred twenty five participants who were currently 18-25 yrs of age who were free of Axis I psychiatric diagnoses were categorized as: 1) reporting no binge drinking during adolescence (&gt;5 drinks per occasion before age 18) or drug dependence diagnoses 2) reporting binge drinking during adolescence with no drug dependence diagnoses 3) reporting binge drinking during adolescence and drug dependence diagnoses. ERPs were collected using a facial discrimination task. Adolescent alcohol and drug exposure was found to be associated with decreases in the latency of an early P3 component (P350). Decreases in a later component amplitude (P450) were also found in young adults exposed to alcohol, and those exposed to alcohol and drugs. However, that finding appears to be a combined result of predisposing factors such as family history of alcoholism and presence of other externalizing diagnoses. Taken together these preliminary studies suggests that adolescent binge drinking may result in a decreases in P3 component latencies and amplitudes perhaps reflecting a loss or delay in the development of inhibitory brain systems.
Sex differences in patterns of drinking and rates of alcohol abuse and dependence begin to emerge during the transition from late puberty to young adulthood. Increases in pubertal hormones, including gonadal and stress hormones, are a prominent developmental feature of adolescence and could contribute to the progression of sex differences in alcohol drinking patterns during puberty. This paper reviews experimental and correlational studies of gonadal and stress-related hormone changes and their effects on alcohol drinking and other associated actions of alcohol. Mechanisms are suggested by which reproductive hormones and stress-related hormones may modulate neural circuits within the brain reward system to produce sex differences in alcohol drinking patterns and vulnerability to alcohol abuse and dependence which become apparent during the late pubertal period.
The effects of two environmental endocrine disruptors, the synthetic pharmaceutical estrogen 17-ethinylestradiol (EE) and bisphenol-A (BPA), were analysed in male and female rats in a very sensitive developmental period, puberty. Immunohistochemistry was used to evaluate changes in the number of cells expressing estrogen receptors (ER-alpha) in the arcuate nucleus (ARC), ventromedial nucleus (VMH) and medial preoptic area (MPA) of the hypothalamus. Animals were treated during early puberty, from PND 23 to PND 30, with EE and BPA given orally every day. They were then sacrificed and perfused on PND 37 or PND 90, and blood and brains were collected for hormonal determination (testosterone and estradiol) and immunohistochemistry (estrogen receptors, ER). At PND 37, ER-labelled neurons were higher in males than in females in the ARC and MPA. EE and BPA increased ER-labelled neurons in the ARC and MPA. At PND 90, females showed higher ER-labelled neurons in the VMH. EE and BPA increased ER-labelled neurons in the MPA in females. EE increased testosterone in males at PND 37 and estradiol in females at PND 90. These results indicate the ability of estrogenic chemicals to change the reproductive neural circuits during puberty in male and female rats.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases and may result from excessive free radical production due to increased local metabolism. Non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists (MK-801 and phencyclidine) increase glucose metabolism in many brain areas and induce cytoplasmic vacuoles, heat shock protein and necrotic cell death in neurones of the rodent posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. We have investigated the effect of several antioxidants with differing properties on MK-801-induced neuronal loss. Free radical scavengers (dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and alpha-tocopherol) and spin traps (N-tert-butyl-alpha-(2-sulfophenyl)-nitrone (S-PBN) and 5-(diethoxyphosphoryl)-5-methyl-1-pyrrole N-oxide (DEPMPO)), produced marked attenuation of MK-801-induced neuronal necrosis in the rat posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. Further, administration of DMSO could be delayed by up to 4 h after MK-801 dosing and still achieve between 80 and 86% reduction in neuronal loss. We also show that MK-801 administration rapidly induced a four-fold and prolonged increase in cerebral blood flow in the posterior cingulate. This elevated regional blood flow was only transiently reduced by DMSO administration. The anterior cingulate, a region which undergoes no neuronal loss, showed only a two-fold increase in regional blood flow following MK-801 administration. These results support a hypothesis that oxidative stress plays a role in MK-801-induced neuronal necrosis since pathological changes can be attenuated by several antioxidants.

Despite a rich neuroscience literature on sensitization, this phenomenon has been neglected in clinical nicotine research. This paper offers a primer on the neuroscience of nicotine sensitization for behavioral scientists, identifying key concepts, potential theoretical and clinical implications, and directions for future research. Sensitization to a drug occurs when repeated exposures to the same dose produce greater responses. In animals, sensitization to nicotine, morphine, alcohol, cocaine, amphetamine, and methamphetamine manifests as increased locomotor activity. In animals, sensitization to nicotine begins with the first dose and is maximal within 5-7 days. It involves multiple neurotransmitters, receptors, and brain structures and cannot be attributed to any single alteration. The processes involved in its induction and expression are not identical. The neurologic changes associated with sensitization are not consistent across drugs, suggesting that sensitization is not an accident of neurophysiology but perhaps an exaggerated adaptive response. Sensitization is incorporated into two theories of addiction: incentive-sensitization and sensitization-homeostasis. Whether sensitization occurs in humans and how it is expressed is unclear, as is its role in human addiction.
The accurate assessment of pain is needed to control cancer pain and its treatment. Pain itself is subjective experience and is difficult to estimate quantitatively. Until now, there is no precise method to quantitate the cancer pain objectively. First, we show the tools to assess cancer pain by patient's description, including visual analogue scales, verval rating scales and numerical rating scales and so on. These scales have been used to evaluate the intensity of clinical pain, however they cannot assess the quality of cancer pain and only McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) has specificity for the qualitative and quantitative properties of clinical pain. Molecular biological approach has been advanced in the neuroscience field to find the candidate of neuropathic pain. In this article, we would like to show the results of the proteomics research for neuropathic pain. We also tried to discuss about the biomarker and its possibility whether it can reflect cancer pain and effect of cancer treatment.


Visual experience depends critically on visual attention, which selects a particular aspect of a visual display. Recent clinical, neuroimaging, and animal studies revealed that visual attention was divided into active and passive or top-down and bottom-up attention. Although these dichotomies are clear-cut in definition, visual attention could be modulated by many factors. Detailed observation of brain-injured patients provides with evidence for dynamic and fine control of visual attention. We observed patients with dorsal simultanagnosia and that with callosal disconnection syndrome. Patients with dorsal simultanagnosia demonstrated that extent of visual attention was dynamically changed depending on the level of visual processing. Despite the ability to read a kanji character and to describe its components correctly, a patient could not notice a component that he had just written and could not assemble individual components to make up a correct kanji character. He could point to an overlapping area of two figures. But once he started to color the overlapping area, he missed the margin of the area and colored much larger area. Another patient with dorsal simultanagnosia missed borderlines between columns of a newspaper and read letters continuously across columns. In contrast, he could point to lines between figures or meaningless patterns easily. These findings indicated that visual attention was directed automatically to meaningful characters. A patients with callosal disconnection syndrome demonstrated left unilateral spatial neglect only when he used his right hand to draw figures. Right hand movement, controlled by the left hemisphere, elicited visual attention to the right hemispace, resulting in the left unilateral spatial neglect. Thus visual attention is not simply top-down or bottom up, but is implicitly affected by the visual recognition as well as motor component of the task.

The objective of this study was to investigate the long-term psychological and mental health outcomes among survivors of a disastrous hotel fire. A 25-year follow-up investigation among adolescent and young adult survivors of a fire disaster was conducted in Bors, Sweden. A self-evaluation questionnaire and four self-rating scales - the IES-22, PTSS-10, GHQ-28 and SoC - were sent by mail to the participants. The results from the self-reported data showed low levels of psychiatric illness. Moreover, the respondents reported a low level of traumatic stress symptoms. More than 50% of the participants stated that the fire had a determining effect on their lives. Sixteen (21.3%) respondents indicated that the fire still had an impact on their daily lives. Differences between men and women were reported in most of the self-rating scales. The results indicate that a traumatizing experience (such as a fire disaster) still had a small effect on psychological health in a long-term perspective.
The aim of the present study was to compare the psychosocial profiles of criminal homicide victims with those of a matched sample of perpetrators. The hypothesis was that chance determines whether someone becomes a victim or a perpetrator. In a retrospective examination of forensic psychiatric records as well as hospital records, the following variables were studied: nationality, education, substance abuse and psychiatric diagnoses. A comparative study was performed of 88 perpetrators and 83 victims in Sweden during a time period of 17 years (1978-1994). All subjects had been treated as psychiatric inpatients before the homicide. The results support the hypothesis that perpetrators and victims of homicide are similar with regard to psychiatric morbidity and social functioning. The majority were born in Sweden, and the educational level was low in both groups. Substance abuse was common in both groups: 96.7% of male and 65.3% of female victims compared with 76.6% of male and 75% of female perpetrators. Many in both of the groups had criminal records. The only major difference between the groups was recorded for psychotic disorder diagnoses, with a higher rate among perpetrators as well as a lower rate of substance abuse in this group.
The study is aimed at investigating the impact of a personality disorder (PD) diagnosis, in terms of functional impairment and subjective distress, in order to better understand the burden of this diagnosis and its implications. Among the 462 consecutive psychiatric patients diagnosed with the DSM structured interview for Axis I, II and V diagnoses, almost 60% had PD. Patients with PD displayed considerable vulnerability and suffering in many domains, including finances and interpersonal relationships. Despite the educational and occupational similarities of PD patients and non-PD patients, the PD patients had more problems maintaining permanent job positions. They also had more symptomatic suffering and concerns about health than non-PD patients. Generally, the results were in line with findings in the literature but more thoroughly captured the challenges that PD patients face in various areas of life. Awareness of the frequent comorbidity of PD with Axis I disorders seems crucial in developing future treatment plans with an emphasis on psychosocial rehabilitation, vocational training and social support.
The objective of the study was to analyse 10-year mortality among persons with schizophrenia from an epidemiological perspective. This cohort study included all persons with schizophrenia (n=255) living in the northern catchment area in Uppsala in 1991, and 1275 subjects from the national population register matched for sex, age and living area. The prevalence of schizophrenia was 0.37% and the mortality rate for individuals with schizophrenia was higher than for referents: 23.0% vs. 11.2%. The higher mortality among those with schizophrenia was mainly the result of unnatural causes and cardiovascular disease, especially in men. Excess mortality from cardiovascular disease was more pronounced in middle age, irrespective of gender. Multivariate analysis revealed higher mortality among individuals with schizophrenia living in the city than among those living in less urbanized areas. People with schizophrenia die more often than those without schizophrenia from unnatural causes or circulatory diseases. Individuals with schizophrenia die sooner from circulatory diseases than those without schizophrenia. Having schizophrenia and living in the city also results in higher mortality than having schizophrenia and living in other areas. The risk of early death from circulatory disease needs to be studied in more detail to reveal the potential respective contributions of intrinsic patient vulnerability, lifestyle factors and side-effects from psychotropic drugs.
The aim was to investigate the relationship between life events and social phobia. An inventory assessing life events during childhood, adulthood as well as life events experienced in relation to the onset of the disorder was administrated to 30 subjects with a DSM-IV diagnosis of social phobia. They were recruited by announcement and diagnosed by the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV for axes I and II disorders. Seventy-five controls were selected by matching age and gender from the local population register. Individuals with social phobia reported significantly more life events during childhood and more life events with negative impact during the social phobia debuting year. Conversely, they described fewer events in the adult life than the controls. Close relatives with disabling conditions in the childhood, conflicts with wife/husband/cohabitant and divorces or similar were significantly more common in the debuting year in social phobic group. In adult life, the healthy individuals described significantly more often increased authority at work. A gender-specific analysis revealed significantly more experiences of a death of a relative/close friend during the year before the social phobia debut and significantly more negative life events in the women's adult life. In summary, the present results support that life events have a role in social phobia that may be gender influenced.
The aim was to investigate the psychometric properties, i.e. reliability (internal consistency) and validity (factor structure and relationships with other scales) of the Dissociative Experiences Scale (DES) in a random sample from the Swedish population. Six hundred subjects between 18 and 59 years of age were randomly sampled from the population of a catchment area in a suburb of Stockholm and 181 patients with a range of post-traumatic disorders were included. A second-order analysis revealed two components, which reflected normal and pathological dissociation, and could readily be summed into one scale. The internal consistency was high (Cronbach's alpha=0.87). High scorers in the DES had more fearful attachment, more interpersonal problems, more severe symptoms and lower sense of coherence. A subgroup of patients with significant dissociation was identified. The psychometric properties are sufficient for use of the DES as a screening instrument for dissociative symptoms.
The socio-demographics and psychiatric diagnoses in a clinical sample of women with a history of mainly intrafamilial childhood sexual abuse (CSA) are described. The women were referred to five psychiatric centres for incest group psychotherapy. Data were gathered using interviews and self-administered questionnaires. Over a period of 2.5 years, 385 women with mean age of 33 years were referred with a history of CSA. Three hundred and forty of those had experienced intrafamilial CSA. The average age at first abuse was 6.8 years, and it lasted for a mean of 6 years. The women had been abused by a mean of 1.5 perpetrators. A quarter of the women had been subjected to violence in connection with the sexual abuse. The likelihood of violence having occurred rose significantly if there was more than one perpetrator and/or if penetration had been part of the sexual abuse. Violence was less common if the perpetrator was a brother. The women suffered from a broad spectrum of psychiatric symptoms and illnesses. More than half of the women had previously received psychiatric treatment. Compared to a random sample of the general female population, these women were less advantaged with regards to education, financial circumstances and cohabitation. The results emphasize the importance of offering comprehensive social and psychiatric intervention to help reducing the problems following CSA in women.
Previous studies on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) investigated a variety of treatments and included mostly patients victims of sexual and combat assault. This study aimed to determine the short-term efficacy of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) in occupation-based PTSD. Employees of the public transportation system in Stockholm, who had been experiencing a person-under-train accident or had been assaulted at work were recruited. Subjects with trauma exposure since more than 3 months but less than 6 years were included. Twenty-four subjects who fulfilled the DSM-IV criteria for PTSD were randomized to either EMDR therapy (n=13) or waiting list (WL, n=11). They were assessed pre-treatment and shortly after completion of treatment or WL period. The pre-defined primary outcome variable was full PTSD diagnosis. Secondary outcome variables were the results of various psychometric scales. Twelve participants began and completed five sessions of EMDR and nine completed the WL. After therapy, eight subjects in the EMDR group (67%) and one (11%) in WL did not fulfil the criteria for PTSD diagnosis (difference, P=0.02). Among the secondary outcome variables, there were significant differences post-treatment between the groups EMDR/WL in Global Assessment of Function (GAF) score and Hamilton Depression (HAM-D) score. This study indicates that EMDR has a short-term effect on PTSD in public transportation workers exposed to occupational traumatic events. Such intensive and brief therapy might be further validated in larger samples of exposed workers with longer periods of follow-up.
The objective of this study was to investigate associations between suicidal intent and psychiatric symptoms, and to study the usefulness of the Suicidal Intent Scale (SIS) and the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) for suicide risk assessment in an inpatient population. One hundred and ninety-six suicide attempters, of whom 15 eventually committed suicide, were admitted to a psychiatric ward. They were assessed by means of the SIS and the CPRS. Cox regression analyses were performed in order to adjust the relationships between the individual CPRS subscales and suicide for age and gender. The patients who later completed suicide had higher scores on the CPRS than the patients who did not complete suicide. We found no associations between symptoms and suicidal intent. The severity of psychopathology, in terms of high CPRS scores, shows a stronger association with future suicide than the level of suicidal intent (SIS) among inpatient suicide attempters. Suicidal intent is evidently scored regardless of psychiatric symptoms.
The thalamocortical (TC) projection in the mammalian brain is a well characterized system in terms of laminar specificity of neocortical circuits. To understand the mechanisms that underlie lamina-specific TC axon targeting, we studied the role of extracellular and cell surface molecules that are expressed in the upper layers of the developing cortex in in vitro culture techniques. The results demonstrated that multiple upper layer molecules co-operated to produce stop behaviour of TC axons in the target layer. Activity dependency of TC axon branching was also investigated in organotypic co-cultures of the thalamus and cortex. TC axon branches were formed dynamically by addition and elimination during the second week in vitro, when spontaneous firing increased in thalamic and cortical cells. Pharmacological blockade of firing or synaptic activity reduced the remodelling process, in particular branch addition, in the target layer. Together, these findings suggest that TC axon targeting mechanisms involve the regulation with multiple lamina-specific molecules and modification of the molecular mechanisms via neural activity.
The techniques and concepts of modern molecular biology and experimental neurobiology give new insights into molecular mechanisms involved in neuronal migration within the cerebral cortex. The findings collectively indicate that a diverse family of genes and transcription factors co-operate in orchestrating the multistage, interrelated phenomena that include control of mode of cell proliferation, fate determination, establishment of polarity, detachment from the local substrate and migration to the proper laminar and a real position in the cortex. Herein, we will review some new data from our laboratory on the initiation of migration, nuclear translocation and attainment of final positions. We can now propose working models of the sequence of gene expression, cascade of multiple molecular pathways and cell-cell interactions that are involved in neuronal migration. Disruption or even slowing down of any step in neuronal migration during embryonic development can result in either gross or subtle abnormalities in neuronal positioning that may only later, during postnatal life, affect the formation of synaptic circuits and eventually behaviour.
Cortical GABAergic interneurons in mice are largely derived from the subpallium. Work from our laboratory and others over the past five years has demonstrated that a developmental logic in space and time underlies the emergence of specific cortical interneuronal subtypes. Following on from the seminal work of the Rubenstein laboratory, we set out to fate map the output of the subpallial ganglionic eminences. Our initial approach utilized ultrasound backscatter microscopy to perform homotopic and heterotopic transplants of genetically marked progenitors from the lateral, medial and caudal ganglionic eminences (LGE, MGE and CGE, respectively) to unmarked host brains. The LGE, at least in the context of our transplant studies, did not appear to generate cortical interneurons. By contrast, we found that that approximately eighty percent of cortical interneurons arise from the MGE, while the remaining twenty percent were generated by the CGE. Hence, the majority of interneuron subtypes, including all fast spiking parvalbumin-positive basket cells and somatostatin-positive Martinotti cells appear to arise from the MGE. A more restricted set of cortical interneurons seems to be generated in the CGE, the majority of which are bipolar calretinin/VIP-positive interneurons. Complementing these results, we have recently demonstrated using inducible genetic fate mapping that the MGE produces specific cortical interneuron subtypes at discrete timepoints during development. These studies demonstrate that cortical interneurons arise from a precise developmental programme that acts in both space and time. Beyond this however, it seems likely that postmitotic events influence the specific function of subclasses of cortical interneurons. A primary challenge in the future will be to investigate what aspects of interneuron diversity are determined by intrinsic genetic programmes within each lineage versus those properties imposed by the local environment in the cortex.
There is increasing evidence linking mitochondrial dysfunction to neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondria are critical regulators of cell death, a key feature of neurodegeneration. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA and oxidative stress both contribute to ageing, which is the greatest risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases. This is the case in Alzheimer's disease, in which there is evidence that both beta-amyloid and the amyloid precursor protein may directly interact with mitochondria, leading to increased free radical production. In the case of Huntington's disease (HD), recent evidence suggests that the coactivator PGC1alpha, a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis in respiration, is down-regulated in patients with HD and in several animal models of this neurodegenerative disorder. In Parkinson's disease, the autosomal recessive genes parkin, DJ1 and PINK1 are all linked to either oxidative stress or mitochondrial dysfunction. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, there is strong evidence that mutant superoxide dismutase directly interacts with the outer mitochondrial membrane as well as the intermembrane space and matrix. Therefore, an impressive number of disease specific proteins interact with mitochondria. Therapies that target basic mitochondrial processes such as energy metabolism in free radical generation, or specific interactions of disease-related protein with mitochondria, hold great promise.
The mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) is a high conductance channel of the inner membrane whose opening leads to an increase of permeability to solutes with molecular masses up to about 1500Da, the 'permeability transition'. This potentially catastrophic event has long been known, yet the molecular bases for its occurrence remain unsolved despite its established importance in several in vivo models of pathology. Recent studies based on inactivation of genes encoding putative pore components (such as the adenine nucleotide translocators and the voltage-dependent anion channel) have raised major questions about the involvement of these proteins in PTP formation, yet they have conclusively demonstrated the role of matrix cyclophilin D as the mitochondrial receptor for the desensitizing effects of cyclosporin A. While the nature of the components forming the PTP remains controversial, the identification of novel inhibitors that can be used as affinity labels is offering new perspectives towards the molecular definition of the PTP.
Empathy is a lay term that is becoming increasingly used in the field of cognitive neuroscience. In this paper, it is argued that empathy is a loose collection of partially dissociable neurocognitive systems. Two forms of 'emotional' empathy were considered: First, responding to emotional expressions, particularly angry expressions, leading to response reversal. Secondly, responding to emotional expressions, particularly fearful and sad expressions, leading to stimulus-reinforcement learning. The implications of these forms of empathy for understanding specific psychiatric conditions are briefly considered.
The emerging fields of social neuroscience and neuroeconomics have started to investigate the neural foundations of empathy and fairness. Even though not frequently linked, both concepts point to humans as altruistic beings who care for others. Recently social neuroscientists have measured brain activity associated with different empathic processes and revealed common neural responses when feeling sensations such as disgust, touch or pain in ourselves, and when perceiving someone else being disgusted, touched or in pain. At the same time, research in neuroeconomics has used game theoretical paradigms to study our sense of fairness. Several functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies show involvement of anterior insula and anterior cingulate cortex in response to unfair compared with fair offers during such monetary exchange games. Interestingly, the same brain regions are also involved in empathy for pain or disgust of others. More generally, anterior insula cortex is suggested to subserve neural representations of feeling and bodily states in the self and may play a crucial role for the emergence of social emotions related to others.
Recombination cloning encompasses a set of technologies that transfer gene sequences between vectors through site-specific recombination. Due in part to the instability of linear DNA in bacteria, both the initial capture and subsequent transfer of gene sequences is often performed using purified recombination enzymes. However, we find linear DNAs flanked by loxP sites recombine efficiently in bacteria expressing Cre recombinase and the lambda Gam protein, suggesting Cre/lox recombination of linear substrates can be performed in vivo. As one approach towards exploiting this capability, we describe a method for constructing large (&gt;1 x 10(6) recombinants) libraries of gene mutations in a format compatible with recombination cloning. In this method, gene sequences are cloned into recombination entry plasmids and whole-plasmid PCR is used to produce mutagenized plasmid amplicons flanked by loxP. The PCR products are converted back into circular plasmids by transforming Cre/Gam-expressing bacteria, after which the mutant libraries are transferred to expression vectors and screened for phenotypes of interest. We further show that linear DNA fragments flanked by loxP repeats can be efficiently recombined into loxP-containing vectors through this same one-step transformation procedure. Thus, the approach reported here could be adapted as general cloning method.
Meta-prediction seeks to harness the combined strengths of multiple predicting programs with the hope of achieving predicting performance surpassing that of all existing predictors in a defined problem domain. We investigated meta-prediction for the four-compartment eukaryotic subcellular localization problem. We compiled an unbiased subcellular localization dataset of 1693 nuclear, cytoplasmic, mitochondrial and extracellular animal proteins from Swiss-Prot 50.2. Using this dataset, we assessed the predicting performance of 12 predictors from eight independent subcellular localization predicting programs: ELSPred, LOCtree, PLOC, Proteome Analyst, PSORT, PSORT II, SubLoc and WoLF PSORT. Gorodkin correlation coefficient (GCC) was one of the performance measures. Proteome Analyst is the best individual subcellular localization predictor tested in this four-compartment prediction problem, with GCC = 0.811. A reduced voting strategy eliminating six of the 12 predictors yields a meta-predictor (RAW-RAG-6) with GCC = 0.856, substantially better than all tested individual subcellular localization predictors (P = 8.2 x 10(-6), Fisher's Z-transformation test). The improvement in performance persists when the meta-predictor is tested with data not used in its development. This and similar voting strategies, when properly applied, are expected to produce meta-predictors with outstanding performance in other life sciences problem domains.
Eukaryotic genomes contain many endogenous retroviral sequences (ERVs). ERVs are often severely mutated, therefore difficult to detect. A platform independent (Java) program package, RetroTector (ReTe), was constructed. It has three basic modules: (i) detection of candidate long terminal repeats (LTRs), (ii) detection of chains of conserved retroviral motifs fulfilling distance constraints and (iii) attempted reconstruction of original retroviral protein sequences, combining alignment, codon statistics and properties of protein ends. Other features are prediction of additional open reading frames, automated database collection, graphical presentation and automatic classification. ReTe favors elements &gt;1000-bp long due to its dependence on order of and distances between retroviral fragments. It detects single or low-copy-number elements. ReTe assigned a 'retroviral' score of 890-2827 to 10 exogenous retroviruses from seven genera, and accurately predicted their genes. In a simulated model, ReTe was robust against mutational decay. The human genome was analyzed in 1-2 days on a LINUX cluster. Retroviral sequences were detected in divergent vertebrate genomes. Most ReTe detected chains were coincident with Repeatmasker output and the HERVd database. ReTe did not report most of the evolutionary old HERV-L related and MalR sequences, and is not yet tailored for single LTR detection. Nevertheless, ReTe rationally detects and annotates many retroviral sequences.
Aprataxin is the causative gene product for early-onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia/ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1 (EAOH/AOA1), the clinical symptoms of which are predominantly neurological. Although aprataxin has been suggested to be related to DNA single-strand break repair (SSBR), the physiological function of aprataxin remains to be elucidated. DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) continually produced by endogenous reactive oxygen species or exogenous genotoxic agents, typically possess damaged 3'-ends including 3'-phosphate, 3'-phosphoglycolate, or 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends. These damaged 3'-ends should be restored to 3'-hydroxyl ends for subsequent repair processes. Here we demonstrate by in vitro assay that recombinant human aprataxin specifically removes 3'-phosphoglycolate and 3'-phosphate ends at DNA 3'-ends, but not 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends, and can act with DNA polymerase beta and DNA ligase III to repair SSBs with these damaged 3'-ends. Furthermore, disease-associated mutant forms of aprataxin lack this removal activity. The findings indicate that aprataxin has an important role in SSBR, that is, it removes blocking molecules from 3'-ends, and that the accumulation of unrepaired SSBs with damaged 3'-ends underlies the pathogenesis of EAOH/AOA1. The findings will provide new insight into the mechanism underlying degeneration and DNA repair in neurons.
The publication of a complete genome sequence is usually accompanied by annotations of its genes. In contrast to protein coding genes, genes for ribosomal RNA (rRNA) are often poorly or inconsistently annotated. This makes comparative studies based on rRNA genes difficult. We have therefore created computational predictors for the major rRNA species from all kingdoms of life and compiled them into a program called RNAmmer. The program uses hidden Markov models trained on data from the 5S ribosomal RNA database and the European ribosomal RNA database project. A pre-screening step makes the method fast with little loss of sensitivity, enabling the analysis of a complete bacterial genome in less than a minute. Results from running RNAmmer on a large set of genomes indicate that the location of rRNAs can be predicted with a very high level of accuracy. Novel, unannotated rRNAs are also predicted in many genomes. The software as well as the genome analysis results are available at the CBS web server.
Tap/NXF1, the founding member of the evolutionarily conserved NXF (Nuclear RNA export Factor) family of proteins, is required for the nuclear export of bulk poly(A)+ RNAs. In mice, three additional NXF family genes (NXF2, NXF3, NXF7) have been identified and characterized to date. Cumulative data suggest that NXF family members play roles, not only in nuclear mRNA export, but also in various aspects of post-transcriptional mRNA metabolism. In order to better understand the functional role of NXF2, we searched for its binding partners by yeast two-hybrid screening and identified several cytoplasmic motor proteins, including KIF17. The interaction of NXF2 with KIF17, which was confirmed by GST pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays, is mediated by the N-terminal domain of NXF2, which is required for the punctate localization patterns in dendrites of primary neurons. We also found that the NXF2-containing dendritic granules, which were co-localized with KIF17, mRNA and Staufen1, a known component of neuronal mRNA granules, moved bidirectionally along dendrites in a microtubule-dependent manner. These results suggest that NXF2, a nucleo-cytoplasmic mRNA transporter, plays additional roles in the cytoplasmic localization of mRNAs through interactions with cytoplasmic motor proteins.
3-methyladenine DNA glycosylases initiate repair of cytotoxic and promutagenic alkylated bases in DNA. We demonstrate by comparative modelling that Bacillus cereus AlkD belongs to a new, fifth, structural superfamily of DNA glycosylases with an alpha-alpha superhelix fold comprising six HEAT-like repeats. The structure reveals a wide, positively charged groove, including a putative base recognition pocket. This groove appears to be suitable for the accommodation of double-stranded DNA with a flipped-out alkylated base. Site-specific mutagenesis within the recognition pocket identified several residues essential for enzyme activity. The results suggest that the aromatic side chain of a tryptophan residue recognizes electron-deficient alkylated bases through stacking interactions, while an interacting aspartate-arginine pair is essential for removal of the damaged base. A structural model of AlkD bound to DNA with a flipped-out purine moiety gives insight into the catalytic machinery for this new class of DNA glycosylases.
In the 19th century progress in communication systems induced Hermann von Helmholtz and Emil du Bois-Reymond to compare nervous fibres to telegraph wires aiming to familiarize the neural net already independently described. Owing to neurophysiological developments, this metaphorical way of speaking collapsed. In the 1820's Edgar Adrian chose the Morse code, shifting the paradigm from a mechanical to a semantical model: the fibre served to communicate information by means of a code based on frequencies of impulses. Later the term 'neural code' became simply a metaphor, thus helping to fill a cognitive gap: this move, however, could lead to snags neurophysiologists might encounter adopting it.
This position paper will: 1. Provide an update on relevant current developments in the education, training and positioning of clinician nurse scientists; 2. Provide and promote a rational argument for the development of the clinician nurse scientist role; and 3. Discuss issues related to capacity building in clinical research in neuroscience nursing, with specific reference to and support for the cerebrovascular (stroke) specialty nursing area.
The field of omega-3 fatty acid deficiencies as reversible risk factors in major psychiatric disorders has flourished in the last decade. Treatment recommendations of the American Psychiatric Association may be considered for application to more normative states of psychiatric health. Considered here is the proposition that an increased risk of personality disorders, and an increased sense of despair in normative populations, might be considered as symptoms of deficiencies of omega-3 fatty acids. The major changes in the essential fatty acid composition of the food supply, including increased availability of the omega-6 linoleic acid, may be correlated not only with increased risks of homicide, but also increased risks of suicide and suboptimal social cohesion.


Neurons in the latero-capsular part of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), a region now called the &quot;nociceptive amygdala&quot;, receive predominantly nociceptive information from the dorsal horn through afferent pathways relayed at the nucleus parabrachialis (PB). Excitatory synaptic transmission between the PB afferents and these neurons is reported to become potentiated within a few hours of the establishment of arthritic or visceral pain, making it a possible mechanism linking chronic pain and unpleasant negative emotional experiences. However, it remains unknown whether such synaptic potentiation is consolidated or becomes adaptively extinct in the longer-lasting form of chronic pain, such as neuropathic pain, an as yet serious and frequent type of pain of important clinical concern. To address this issue, we recorded postsynaptic currents in CeA neurons evoked by PB tract stimulation in acute brain slices from young rats with neuropathic pain, as evaluated by tactile allodynic responses, following unilateral spinal nerve ligature made 1 week earlier. CeA neurons contralateral to the nerve ligation showed significantly larger-amplitude postsynaptic currents than those in the ipsilateral CeA and sham- and non-operated groups. The degree of synaptic potentiation, as compared between two sides, was positively correlated to that of tactile allodynia responses. In addition, blockade of NMDA receptors did not affect this potentiation. We conclude that potentiation of the PB-CeA synapse is consolidated in long-lasting neuropathic pain but that this potentiation results from a molecular mechanism distinct from that in arthritic and visceral pain.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a unique member of the CDK family. It is predominantly expressed in postmitotic neurons and has been implicated in neuronal plasticity. The present study showed that Cdk5 and p35 were expressed in primary sensory and dorsal horn neurons, while p25, an N-terminal truncated derivative of p35, could only be detected in the dorsal horn neurons. Importantly, in the case of control rats, the p35 protein level was much higher in small- and medium-diameter DRG neurons than it was in large neurons. Following CFA injection, Cdk5 activity was upregulated in both primary sensory and dorsal horn neurons. Cdk5 activation in DRG neurons required p35, whereas p25 was required in the dorsal horn. Intrathecal pretreatment with Roscovitine, a specific inhibitor of Cdk5 activity, and intrathecal delivery of the DN-Cdk5(N144) gene both alleviated CFA-induced heat hyperalgesia but not mechanical allodynia. In contrast, overexpression of Cdk5, p35 or p25 in primary sensory and dorsal horn neurons significantly enhanced heat hyperalgesia. We conclude that Cdk5/p35 and Cdk5/p25 complexes in primary sensory and dorsal horn neurons may potentially be involved in nociceptive transmission after inflammation and may be employed in synaptic plasticity underlying pain hypersensitization.
The exact mechanisms underlying the dysfunction of the basal ganglia (BG) that leads to movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and dystonia still remain unclear. The classic model, based on two distinct pathways and described nearly 20 years ago by Albin and Delong, fails to explain why lesion or stimulation of the globus pallidus interna improves dyskinesias and why lesion or stimulation of the thalamus does not cause prominent bradykinesia. These paradoxes, initially highlighted out by Marsden and Obeso, led to the proposition that the pattern of neuronal discharge determines pathological function. Accordingly, over the past decade, attention has switched from considerations of discharge rate to the characterisation of synchronised activity within BG networks. Here we would like to briefly review current knowledge about synchronised oscillatory activity in the BG and focus on its relationship to abnormal motor function. In particular, we hypothesise that the frequency of synchronisation helps determine the nature of any motor deficit, perhaps as a consequence of the different tuning properties of basal ganglia-cortical sub-circuits.
Tremor, a rhythmical involuntary oscillatory movement, is the most common movement disorder to afflict man. It is classified on both phenomenonological and aetiological grounds and can be measured using clinical rating scales or physiological techniques. Investigation of tremor is guided by the clinical scenario but where appropriate may include neurophysiological tests, imaging the nigro-striatal dopaminergic system with SPECT or PET, cerebral MR imaging and also genetic testing. Treatment of tremor depends on the severity and cause of tremor and includes medical therapy and stereotactic surgery including deep brain stimulation.
Cerebellar disturbances can induce a variety of motor deficits, ranging from severe ataxia to mild deficits of fine motor control. Although motor disturbances appear as an important clinical feature in many neurological disorders, mild disturbances are often difficult to assess properly. Eye movement recordings using video-oculography in a group of patients with a paraneoplastic neurological disorder revealed subtle saccadic and smooth pursuit deficits when compared to controls. We conclude that an easy quantification of eye movement control may assist in the diagnosis and follow-up of mild motor disturbances in patients with neurological disorders, especially when such signs are not overt during clinical neurological examination.
In this article the value of structural and functional imaging in aiding the diagnosis and management of Parkinson's disease is reviewed. The underlying pathological mechanisms leading to tremor, coexistent dementia and depression in PD are considered and the role of imaging as a biomarker for testing neuroprotective agents debated.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons leading to bradykinesia, rest tremor and rigidity. Although the majority of PD is sporadic, rare genetic causes of PD are providing tremendous insight into the pathogenesis of PD. Here I shortly review the major genes implicated in autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive PD. Understanding how mutations in these PD associated genes holds particular promise for development of new therapies to treat PD.



Subdural empyema is a surgical emergency; if not recognized and managed early, it may prove fatal. In most of the cases, condition is preceded by paranasal sinusitis, otitis media or trauma. The authors report a previously undescribed case of spontaneous subdural empyema associated with Gaucher disease that had a good outcome following burr hole evacuation of subdural empyema and parenteral antibiotics. Patients with Gaucher disease may be vulnerable to severe bacterial infections, due to defective function of phagocytic cells and hypersplenism.
Ossified cephalhematoma is a rare clinical entity and a pathological curiosity. Even though cephalhematoma is frequently encountered, ossified cephalhematoma is seen only sporadically and is restricted to only few case reports in the literature. Its pathogenesis is unclear, and the clinical course is different in neonates and juveniles. The risk factors are known, but why it gets ossified in some cases is not understood. We report a case of ossified cephalhematoma which developed in a 10-week-old male child in the right parietal region and discuss its possible pathogenesis.

We describe a case of a giant third ventricular colloid cyst occurring in a 10-year-old child with unusual imaging features and discuss the causes for these imaging findings.

The glucocorticoid dexamethasone (Dex) is widely used in preterm infants for the prevention of chronic lung disease. However, major concern has arisen about the long-term sequelae of this therapy. Here we report that neonatal treatment with dexamethasone significantly shortens the lifespan by 25% of male rats (28.6 +/- 1.1 to 21.3 +/- 0.8 mo) and by 18% of female rats (26.9 +/- 1.8 to 22.0 +/- 0.7 mo). Histopathological examination indicated end-stage cardiac and renal failure as the cause of premature death. Furthermore, Dex-treated rats showed symptoms of hypertension at young adult age, which worsened with increasing age. Thus, a brief period of glucocorticoid treatment during early life results in untimely death presumably due to cardiovascular and renal disease later in life. These serious, adverse long-term consequences call for prudence with glucocorticoid treatment of human preterm infants and careful follow-up of young adults with a history of neonatal glucocorticoid treatment.
Enticin is one of three Aplysia proteins released during egg laying that act in concert with the pheromone attractin to attract other Aplysia and stimulate mating behavior. Whereas the enticin cDNA predicts a 69-residue mature protein, enticin isolated from the albumen gland was found to be posttranslationally processed in vivo by cleavage at Arg(50) residue to generate a smaller 49-residue mature peptide. The Arg(50) cleavage site is conserved in enticin from both Aplysia californica and Aplysia brasiliana. In order to generate sufficient enticin for structural studies, recombinant full-length protein was produced in a soluble form in Escherichia coli using a cold shock promoter-based protein expression system. The enticin cDNA was cloned into the bacterial vector pCold III, and efficiently expressed, as determined by amino acid microsequence and immunoblot analyses. Recombinant enticin, which contained an additional N-terminal 13-residue translation-enhancing element, was purified by reversed-phase HPLC and compared to enticin isolated from the albumen gland. The three disulfide bonds in enticin were characterized by endoproteinase Glu-C proteolysis followed by mass spectrometric characterization of the fragments. The cysteine pairing, for both recombinant and native enticin, was I-II, III-IV, and V-VI, confirming that the protein produced in the bacterial system was correctly folded. The circular dichroism spectrum of the recombinant protein indicated it was predominantly alpha-helical. While this was consistent with fold recognition server results indicating a fold for enticin similar to that of attractin, the disulfide bonding pattern differs. A model for enticin was prepared based on its helical structure and these disulfide constraints.
There is controversy over whether stream segregation is an attention-dependent process. Part of the argument is related to the initial formation of auditory streams. It has been suggested that attention is needed only to form the streams, but not to maintain them once they have been segregated. The question of whether covert attention at the beginning of a to-be-ignored set of sounds will be enough to initiate the segregation process remains open. Here, we investigate this question by (1) using a methodology that does not require the participant to make an overt response to assess how the unattended sounds are organized and (2) structuring the test sound sequence to account for the covert attention explanation. The results of four experiments provide evidence to support the view that attention is not always required for the formation of auditory streams.
Our ability to track an object as the same persisting entity over time and motion may primarily rely on spatiotemporal representations which encode some, but not all, of an object's features. Previous researchers using the 'object reviewing' paradigm have demonstrated that such representations can store featural information of well-learned stimuli such as letters and words at a highly abstract level. However, it is unknown whether these representations can also store purely episodic information (i.e. information obtained from a single, novel encounter) that does not correspond to pre-existing type-representations in long-term memory. Here, in an object-reviewing experiment with novel face images as stimuli, observers still produced reliable object-specific preview benefits in dynamic displays: a preview of a novel face on a specific object speeded the recognition of that particular face at a later point when it appeared again on the same object compared to when it reappeared on a different object (beyond display-wide priming), even when all objects moved to new positions in the intervening delay. This case study demonstrates that the mid-level visual representations which keep track of persisting identity over time--e.g. 'object files', in one popular framework can store not only abstract types from long-term memory, but also specific tokens from online visual experience.
A central tenet of Gestalt psychology is that the visual scene can be separated into figure and ground. The two illusions we present demonstrate that Gestalt processes can group spatial contrast information that cuts across the figure/ground separation. This finding suggests that visual processes that organise the visual scene do not necessarily require structural segmentation as their primary input.
In a series of exploratory experiments we investigated interrelations between structure and shape of architectural indoor spaces on the one hand, and affective experience and navigation behaviour on the other hand. For this, isovist-based descriptions of 16 virtual indoor scenes were correlated with behavioural data from the experimental tasks. For all tasks-two active navigation tasks and an introspective appraisal of experiential qualities--strong correlations between subjects' behaviour and a small set of quantitative measurands derived from the isovists were found. The outcomes suggest that isovist analysis captures behaviourally relevant properties of space and is therefore a promising general means for predicting central experiential qualities of architecture and navigation behaviour.
We show that the flash-induced fading effect can be influenced by grouping based on colour and shape similarity. In flash-induced fading, peripherally presented elements perceptually disappear after a flash has been presented around or next to the element(s) (Kanai and Kamitani, 2003 Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 15 664-672). In the present study, two elements (which could either be similar or different in both colour and shape) were presented at an eccentricity of 2.6 degrees from a fixation cross. After 2 s, a short flash (40 ms) was presented around one of the elements. The two elements remained on the screen for 2.5 s after the flash. We found a higher percentage of mutual perceptual disappearance when the two elements were similar in colour or in shape. These results converge with other findings showing that perceptual fading phenomena are influenced by effects of perceptual grouping. This indicates that, besides low-level adaptation, more global processes play a part in perceptual fading as well and should thus be taken into account in giving a full explanation of perceptual fading in general.
The corridor illusion was recently demonstrated in baboons with background pictures containing rich depth information (Barbet and Fagot 2002, Behavioural Brain Research 132 111-115). In the current research we determined the contribution of gradient texture and perspective lines to that illusion. In experiment 1, the corridor illusion was tested in two baboons, with pictures of a hallway as backgrounds, or the same image of the hallway represented by perspective lines. Findings confirmed that the baboons experience the corridor illusion with the picture of the hallway, and showed that this illusion remained with the perspective-line backgrounds. The same procedure was adopted in experiment 2, but with a hallway drawn from gradient textures. The two baboons experienced the illusion in this experiment too. Thus both gradient and perspective line cues convey sufficient information to control the corridor illusion in baboons. In baboons, the processing of these two kinds of depth cues interacts with the perception of object size, suggesting homologous processes of pictorial depth perception in humans and non-human primates.
Our aim has been to study visual search in hierarchical patterns through a computational neuroscience perspective. In this way we were able to analyse the relationship between the global precedence effect and attention. The theoretical part of our investigations extended a model built upon the biased-competition hypothesis. An important feature of this extension is that different spatial frequencies are processed with different time constants. Simulations with this model resulted in specific predictions that were confirmed with a novel visual-search experiment utilising hierarchical patterns. Both experiment and simulations suggest that the global-precedence effect prevails under the condition of visual search.
We investigated the perceptual development of motion transparency in 3- to 5-month-old infants. In two experiments we tested a total of 55 infants and examined their preferential looking behaviour. In experiment 1, we presented transparent motion as a target, and uniform motion as a non-target consisting of random-dot motions. We measured the time during which infants looked at the target and non-target stimuli. In experiment 2, we used paired-dot motions (Qian et al, 1994 Journal of Neuroscience 14 7357-7366) as non-targets and also measured target looking time. We calculated the ratio of the target looking time to the total target and no-target looking time. In both experiments we controlled the dot size, speed, the horizontal travel distance of the dots, and the motion pattern of the dots. The results demonstrated that 5-month-old infants showed a statistically significant preference for motion transparency in almost all stimulus conditions, whereas the preference in 3- and 4-month-old infants depended on stimulus conditions. These results suggest that the sensitivity to motion transparency was robust in 5-month-olds, but not in 3- and 4-month-olds.
The present study examined the impact of repeated administration of a synthetic cannabinoid agonist, WIN 55,212-2 on the coeruleo-cortical pathway, a circuit implicated in anxiety. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received repeated systemic injections of WIN 55,212-2 (3.0 mg/kg). A separate group of rats received repeated WIN 55,212-2 injections followed by a period of abstinence. Control animals received vehicle injections. Ninety minutes following the last injection on day 8, anxiety-related behavior was assessed using the elevated plus maze. The abstinent group was tested after another 8 days. Following behavioral testing, brain tissue was extracted from the locus coeruleus (LC) and probed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression. In a separate group of animals, in vivo microdialysis was used to monitor extracellular norepinephrine efflux in the frontal cortex following repeated WIN 55,212-2 administration and following a period of abstinence. Repeated administration of WIN 55,212-2 evoked an anxiogenic-like response that was accompanied by an increase in TH protein expression in the LC. A similar neurochemical profile was observed using in vivo microdialysis where an augmented increase in cortical norepinephrine efflux was identified in response to a systemic injection of WIN 55,212-2 on day 8. Anxiety-like behavior, catecholamine synthesizing enzyme levels and NE efflux returned to control values after 8 days of abstinence. The present findings indicate that repeated administration of a synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist induces transient anxiety-like behaviors that correlate with increases in catecholamine synthesizing enzyme expression in the LC and augmented norepinephrine efflux in response to a challenge injection of WIN 55,212-2.
We reported previously that social stressors in adolescence (SS: one-hour isolation and new cage partners daily for 16 days) increased locomotor activity to nicotine and to amphetamine in females, but not in males, when tested as adults. Here, we investigated whether effects of stressors in adolescence on locomotor responses to nicotine would be observed in both sexes if tested closer in time to the stressor exposure. We also tested whether social instability was necessary to alter nicotine's effects on locomotor activity by including a group that underwent daily isolation but was housed with the same partner (ISO). The locomotor-activating effects of nicotine were lower in SS rats compared to ISO and non-stressed control rats. In males, but not in females, there were effects of nicotine treatment and of stress condition on Fos immunoreactive (Fos-ir) cell counts in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus: SS males had higher Fos-ir counts than did ISO and non-stressed control males, and higher Fos-ir counts in the PVN were found in repeated-nicotine groups than in acute-nicotine and saline groups. These results add to evidence that adolescents are uniquely vulnerable to stressors due to ongoing brain development, and also indicate that effects are sex- and stressor-specific.
Although the behavioral-stimulant and reinforcing effects of cocaine and related psychomotor stimulants have been attributed to their actions at the dopamine transporter (DAT), the reinforcing effectiveness of these compounds varies. The properties that confer these differences are important considerations when developing agonist pharmacotherapies for the treatment of stimulant abuse. The present studies focused on the time course of action and pharmacological specificity of six 3-phenyltropane analogs of cocaine (RTI-112, RTI-126, RTI-150, RTI-171, RTI-177, and RTI-336) by observing their behavioral-stimulant, neurochemical, and reinforcing effects in squirrel monkeys. The faster-onset analogs (RTI-126, RTI-150, and RTI-336), and one of the slower-onset DAT selective analogs (RTI-177 and RTI-171) produced behavioral-stimulant effects, while the slower-onset nonselective analog RTI-112 did not. The time to the peak behavioral-stimulant effect and the peak caudate dopamine levels was strongly correlated, but the area under the curve of the time course of behavioral-stimulant effect and dopamine levels was not correlated. These results suggest that the rate of onset plays a more important role than duration of action in the stimulant effect of these analogs. In addition, the slower-onset nonselective analog (RTI-112) clearly did not exhibit any reinforcing effects while the faster-onset nonselective (RTI-126) and all the DAT-selective analogs showed robust reinforcing effects (RTI-150, and RTI-177) or showed trends towards reinforcing effects (RTI-336 and RTI-171). Hence, there was a general trend for compounds that had a faster onset and/or DAT selectivity to produce significant behavioral-stimulant and reinforcing effects.
The activation of specific subtypes of serine/threonine protein phosphatases (PPs) plays a role in the antinociceptive effect of acute morphine, but it is not known whether these enzymes are involved in morphine-induced antinociception in morphine-tolerant animals. We evaluated the effects of both okadaic acid (a selective inhibitor of some serine/threonine PPs) and its inactive analogue L-norokadaone on the antinociception induced by morphine in morphine-naive and -tolerant female mice in the tail-flick test. Okadaic acid (0.01 and 1 pg/mouse, i.c.v.), but not L-norokadaone (1 pg/mouse, i.c.v.), antagonized in a dose-dependent way the antinociception induced by morphine (1-16 mg/kg, s.c.) in morphine-naive animals. However, both okadaic acid (0.01 and 1 pg/mouse, i.c.v.) and L-norokadaone (1 pg/mouse, i.c.v.) were unable to modify the antinociceptive effect of morphine in morphine-tolerant mice. These results suggest that in morphine-induced thermal analgesia, the role of serine/threonine PPs highly sensitive to okadaic acid is different in morphine-tolerant and morphine-naive female mice.
There have been significant advances in the treatment of depression since the serendipitous discovery that modulating monoaminergic neurotransmission may be a pathological underpinning of the disease. Despite these advances, particularly over the last 15years with the introduction of selective serotonin and/or norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), there still remain multiple unmet clinical needs that would represent substantial improvements to current treatment regimens. In terms of efficacy there have been improvements in the percentage of patients achieving remission but this can still be dramatically improved and, in fact, issues still remain with relapse. Furthermore, advances are still required in terms of improving the onset of efficacy as well as addressing the large proportion of patients who remain treatment resistant. While this is not well understood, collective research in the area suggests the disease is heterogeneous in terms of the multiple parameters related to etiology, pathology and response to pharmacological agents. In addition to efficacy further therapeutic advances will also need to address such issues as cognitive impairment, pain, sexual dysfunction, nausea and emesis, weight gain and potential cardiovascular effects. With these unmet needs in mind, the next generation of antidepressants will need to differentiate themselves from the current array of therapeutics for depression. There are multiple strategies for addressing unmet needs that are currently being investigated. These range from combination monoaminergic approaches to subtype selective agents to novel targets that include mechanisms to modulate neuropeptides and excitatory amino acids (EAA). This review will discuss the many facets of differentiation and potential strategies for the development of novel antidepressants.
Methadone and L-alpha-acetylmethadol (LAAM) are used as treatment for opiate addiction. Using a cellular model, we aimed to determine if methadone, LAAM and their main metabolites are substrates of the human P-glycoprotein transporter (P-gp), which is encoded by the ABCB1 gene, and whether methadone transport exhibits stereoselectivity. Pig kidney epithelial cells (control) and human ABCB1-transfected cells were incubated with methadone, LAAM and their metabolites, and their intra- and extracellular concentrations were measured. The intra- to extracellular ratios of methadone, LAAM and their metabolites were all decreased in ABCB1-transfected cells compared to controls (p &lt; 0.05), thus indicating that they are substrates of P-gp. A weak stereoselectivity in methadone transport was observed towards the (S)-enantiomer. P-gp may therefore affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of methadone and LAAM.
In this study, we investigated the activation of the serum response element (SRE) by the D2 dopamine receptor (D2R) agonist quinpirole. Stimulation of CHO cells expressing the D2R by quinpirol evoked a dose-dependent SRE activation, which was completely blocked by overnight treatment of pertussis toxin or by co-expression of the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase C-terminus, implicating the involvement of Galpha(i )and Gbetagamma in the signal transduction. Furthermore, using MEK inhibitors and dominant negative mutants of RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42, we showed that the Gbetagamma-mediated activation of the SRE in CHO cells utilizes both MAPK and Rho pathways. Expression of either regulator of G protein signaling 2 or 4 (RGS2 or RGS4) proteins significantly attenuated the quinpirole-induced SRE activation. These results delineate the signaling pathways which couple D2 receptor to the transcriptional activation of SRE and demonstrate a modulatory role for RGS proteins in these processes.
We suggest a method for suppression of collective synchrony in an ensemble of all-to-all interacting units. The suppression is achieved by organizing an interaction between the ensemble and a passive oscillator. Technically, this can be easily implemented by a simple feedback scheme. The important feature of our approach is that the feedback signal vanishes as soon as the control is successful. The technique is illustrated by the simulation of a model of an isolated population of neurons. We discuss the possible application of the technique in neuroscience.
The hippocampus has the capacity for reactivating recently acquired memories and it is hypothesized that one of the functions of sleep reactivation is the facilitation of consolidation of novel memory traces. The dynamic and network processes underlying such a reactivation remain, however, unknown. We show that such a reactivation characterized by local, self-sustained activity of a network region may be an inherent property of the recurrent excitatory-inhibitory network with a heterogeneous structure. The entry into the reactivation phase is mediated through a physiologically feasible regulation of global excitability and external input sources, while the reactivated component of the network is formed through induced network heterogeneities during learning. We show that structural changes needed for robust reactivation of a given network region are well within known physiological parameters.
To understand the contribution of potassium (K+) channels, particularly alpha-dendrotoxin (D-type)-sensitive K+ channels (Kv.1, Kv1.2 or Kv1.6 subunits), to the generation of neuronal spike output we must have detailed information of the functional role of these channels in the neuronal membrane. Conventional intracellular recording methods in current clamp mode were used to identify the role of alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX)-sensitive K+ channel currents in shaping the spike output and modulation of neuronal properties of cerebellar Purkinje neurons (PCs) in slices. Addition of alpha-DTX revealed that D-type K+ channels play an important role in the shaping of Purkinje neuronal firing behavior. Repetitive firing capability of PCs was increased following exposure to artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) containing alpha-DTX, so that in response to the injection of 0.6 nA depolarizing current pulse of 600 ms, the number of action potentials insignificantly increased from 15 in the presence of 4-AP to 29 action potentials per second after application of DTX following pretreatment with 4-AP. These results indicate that D-type K+ channels (Kv.1, Kv1.2 or Kv1.6 subunits) may contribute to the spike frequency adaptation in PCs. Our findings suggest that the activation of voltage-dependent K+ channels (D and A types) markedly affect the firing pattern of PCs.
Recent brain imaging studies using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have implicated a frontal-parietal network in the top-down control of attention. However, little is known about the timing and sequence of activations within this network. To investigate these timing questions, we used event-related electrical brain potentials (ERPs) and a specially designed visual-spatial attentional-cueing paradigm, which were applied as part of a multi-methodological approach that included a closely corresponding event-related fMRI study using an identical paradigm. In the first 400 ms post cue, attention-directing and control cues elicited similar general cue-processing activity, corresponding to the more lateral subregions of the frontal-parietal network identified with the fMRI. Following this, the attention-directing cues elicited a sustained negative-polarity brain wave that was absent for control cues. This activity could be linked to the more medial frontal-parietal subregions similarly identified in the fMRI as specifically involved in attentional orienting. Critically, both the scalp ERPs and the fMRI-seeded source modeling for this orienting-related activity indicated an earlier onset of frontal versus parietal contribution ( approximately 400 versus approximately 700 ms). This was then followed ( approximately 800-900 ms) by pretarget biasing activity in the region-specific visual-sensory occipital cortex. These results indicate an activation sequence of key components of the attentional-control brain network, providing insight into their functional roles. More specifically, these results suggest that voluntary attentional orienting is initiated by medial portions of frontal cortex, which then recruit medial parietal areas. Together, these areas then implement biasing of region-specific visual-sensory cortex to facilitate the processing of upcoming visual stimuli.






Following offset of an appropriate masking stimulus, tinnitus may remain suppressed for a period, typically less than a minute. This phenomenon is known as &quot;residual inhibition&quot; (RI). This chapter reviews the psychoacoustic properties of RI and their relation to hearing impairment, tinnitus spectra, and the spectra of masking stimuli. RI is also contrasted with tinnitus suppression produced by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) the cortical effects of which do not require the ear to reach the brain. Although the two procedures act in different ways, both may reduce tinnitus by interrupting abnormal synchronous activity among networks of neurons that generate tinnitus. Therapies that induce tinnitus suppression by these methods have been reported to reduce tinnitus distress by processes that are not well understood.
Recent accounts of tinnitus development and maintenance assign an important role to central mechanisms. Residual inhibition is a frequent phenomenon in individuals with tinnitus, and refers to the fact that tinnitus can temporarily be reduced by presenting sounds or noises that inhibit tinnitus for a limited time even after termination of the sound. This kind of stimulation-induced inhibition of tinnitus could potentially be used for treatment by combining it with additional interventions to enhance the extinction of tinnitus. Here we propose a training program aimed at the amplification and the extension in time of residual inhibition as well as the extinction of negative emotional responses to the tinnitus. The program is tested alone or in combination with a pharmacological intervention that is aimed at decreasing central hyperactivity. Treatment effects are assessed by tinnitus questionnaires, electroencephalographic measures (reduction in the amplitude of the N(100) component of the event-related potential as an indicator of habituation) as well as skin conductance responses to 1000 Hz tones or tinnitus-like tones. This training is an example of the use of centrally acting and mechanism-oriented tinnitus treatments.
Conducting tinnitus research on humans poses challenges for investigators because of its subjective nature, the complexities involved in establishing underlying generator sites, the diversity of potential causes, and the inherent difficulties in dissociating reactive changes in the central nervous system (CNS), secondary to peripheral hearing loss, from those effects that may be due to tinnitus. One area of considerable interest concerns biomarker development, particularly in the areas of metabolism and biochemistry. Establishing a biomarker or a profile of metabolic and neurobiochemical constituents of tinnitus-related activity within the CNS could be of considerable importance for understanding the fundamental properties of this disorder. Therefore, in an effort to gain greater insight into mechanisms of tinnitus, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is being proposed as one of the several tools that can address pertinent issues. Apart from its long-standing use in analytical chemistry and physics, MRS is also being applied with greater frequency in the neurosciences to gain insight into human brain function under normal and pathological states. By considering the history of this method and advances made to date, MRS has the potential to: (1) identify unique in vivo metabolic and neurobiochemical biomarkers associated with tinnitus in specific regions of the CNS, (2) clarify and track disease pathogenesis, (3) monitor short and long-term treatment effects, and (4) serve as a tool in testing of drugs that may be used in treatment of tinnitus.
A common goal of computational neuroscience and of artificial intelligence research based on statistical learning algorithms is the discovery and understanding of computational principles that could explain what we consider adaptive intelligence, in animals as well as in machines. This chapter focuses on what is required for the learning of complex behaviors. We believe it involves the learning of highly varying functions, in a mathematical sense. We bring forward two types of arguments which convey the message that many currently popular machine learning approaches to learning flexible functions have fundamental limitations that render them inappropriate for learning highly varying functions. The first issue concerns the representation of such functions with what we call shallow model architectures. We discuss limitations of shallow architectures, such as so-called kernel machines, boosting algorithms, and one-hidden-layer artificial neural networks. The second issue is more focused and concerns kernel machines with a local kernel (the type used most often in practice) that act like a collection of template-matching units. We present mathematical results on such computational architectures showing that they have a limitation similar to those already proved for older non-parametric methods, and connected to the so-called curse of dimensionality. Though it has long been believed that efficient learning in deep architectures is difficult, recently proposed computational principles for learning in deep architectures may offer a breakthrough.
There are two basic problems in the statistical analysis of neural data. The &quot;encoding&quot; problem concerns how information is encoded in neural spike trains: can we predict the spike trains of a neuron (or population of neurons), given an arbitrary stimulus or observed motor response? Conversely, the &quot;decoding&quot; problem concerns how much information is in a spike train, in particular, how well can we estimate the stimulus that gave rise to the spike train? This chapter describes statistical model-based techniques that in some cases provide a unified solution to these two coding problems. These models can capture stimulus dependencies as well as spike history and interneuronal interaction effects in population spike trains, and are intimately related to biophysically based models of integrate-and-fire type. We describe flexible, powerful likelihood-based methods for fitting these encoding models and then for using the models to perform optimal decoding. Each of these (apparently quite difficult) tasks turn out to be highly computationally tractable, due to a key concavity property of the model likelihood. Finally, we return to the encoding problem to describe how to use these models to adaptively optimize the stimuli presented to the cell on a trial-by-trial basis, in order that we may infer the optimal model parameters as efficiently as possible.
In the past, computational motor control has been approached from at least two major frameworks: the dynamic systems approach and the viewpoint of optimal control. The dynamic system approach emphasizes motor control as a process of self-organization between an animal and its environment. Nonlinear differential equations that can model entrainment and synchronization behavior are among the most favorable tools of dynamic systems modelers. In contrast, optimal control approaches view motor control as the evolutionary or development result of a nervous system that tries to optimize rather general organizational principles, e.g., energy consumption or accurate task achievement. Optimal control theory is usually employed to develop appropriate theories. Interestingly, there is rather little interaction between dynamic systems and optimal control modelers as the two approaches follow rather different philosophies and are often viewed as diametrically opposing. In this paper, we develop a computational approach to motor control that offers a unifying modeling framework for both dynamic systems and optimal control approaches. In discussions of several behavioral experiments and some theoretical and robotics studies, we demonstrate how our computational ideas allow both the representation of self-organizing processes and the optimization of movement based on reward criteria. Our modeling framework is rather simple and general, and opens opportunities to revisit many previous modeling results from this novel unifying view.
Here we describe a multi-level approach to study upper limb control. By using non-human primates we were able to examine several different levels of motor organization within the same individual including their voluntary behavior, musculoskeletal plant, and neural activity. This approach revealed several parallels in the global patterns of activity of upper arm muscles and neurons in primary motor cortex (M1). For example, during postural maintenance both arm muscles and arm-related M1 neurons exhibit a bias in torque-related activity towards whole-limb flexion and whole-limb extension torque. A similar bias could be reproduced with a mathematical model of muscle recruitment that minimized the effects of motor noise suggesting a common constraint for the population activation of muscles and cortical neurons. That said, M1 neurons were not merely &quot;upper motor neurons&quot; as they exhibited substantial context-dependency in torque-related activity compared to arm muscles. This flexible association with low-level processing is consistent with M1 having a pivotal role in an optimal feedback controller.
Simulations performed with neuromechanical models are providing insight into the neural control of locomotion that would be hard if not impossible to obtain in any other way. We first discuss the known properties of the neural mechanisms controlling locomotion, with a focus on mammalian systems. The rhythm-generating properties of central pattern generators (CPGs) are discussed in light of results indicating that cycle characteristics may be preset by tonic drive to spinal interneuronal networks. We then describe neuromechanical simulations that have revealed some basic rules of interaction between CPGs, sensory-mediated switching mechanisms and the biomechanics of locomotor movements. We posit that the spinal CPG timer and the sensory-mediated switch operate in parallel, the former being driven primarily by descending inputs and the latter by the kinematics. The CPG timer produces extensor and flexor phase durations, which covary along specific lines in a plot of phase- versus cycle-duration. We coined the term &quot;phase-duration characteristics&quot; to describe such plots. Descending input from higher centers adjusts the operating points on the phase-duration characteristics according to anticipated biomechanical requirements. In well-predicted movements, CPG-generated phase durations closely match those required by the kinematics, minimizing the corrections in phase duration required of the sensory switching mechanism. We propose the term &quot;neuromechanical tuning&quot; to describe this process of matching the CPG to the kinematics.
The lamprey is one of the few vertebrates in which the neural control system for goal-directed locomotion including steering and control of body orientation is well described at a cellular level. In this report we review the modeling of the central pattern-generating network, which has been carried out based on detailed experimentation. In the same way the modeling of the control system for steering and control of body orientation is reviewed, including neuromechanical simulations and robotic devices.
A key goal of computational neuroscience is to link brain mechanisms to behavioral functions. The present article describes recent progress towards explaining how laminar neocortical circuits give rise to biological intelligence. These circuits embody two new and revolutionary computational paradigms: Complementary Computing and Laminar Computing. Circuit properties include a novel synthesis of feedforward and feedback processing, of digital and analog processing, and of preattentive and attentive processing. This synthesis clarifies the appeal of Bayesian approaches but has a far greater predictive range that naturally extends to self-organizing processes. Examples from vision and cognition are summarized. A LAMINART architecture unifies properties of visual development, learning, perceptual grouping, attention, and 3D vision. A key modeling theme is that the mechanisms which enable development and learning to occur in a stable way imply properties of adult behavior. It is noted how higher-order attentional constraints can influence multiple cortical regions, and how spatial and object attention work together to learn view-invariant object categories. In particular, a form-fitting spatial attentional shroud can allow an emerging view-invariant object category to remain active while multiple view categories are associated with it during sequences of saccadic eye movements. Finally, the chapter summarizes recent work on the LIST PARSE model of cognitive information processing by the laminar circuits of prefrontal cortex. LIST PARSE models the short-term storage of event sequences in working memory, their unitization through learning into sequence, or list, chunks, and their read-out in planned sequential performance that is under volitional control. LIST PARSE provides a laminar embodiment of Item and Order working memories, also called Competitive Queuing models, that have been supported by both psychophysical and neurobiological data. These examples show how variations of a common laminar cortical design can embody properties of visual and cognitive intelligence that seem, at least on the surface, to be mechanistically unrelated.
During early infancy, visual capabilities are quite limited. Nevertheless, patterned visual input during this period is necessary for the later development of normal vision for some, but not all, aspects of visual perception. The evidence comes from studies of children who missed early visual input because it was blocked by dense, central cataracts in both eyes. In this article, we review the effects of bilateral congenital cataracts on two aspects of low-level vision--acuity and contrast sensitivity, and on three aspects of higher-level processing of faces. We end by discussing the implications for understanding the developmental mechanisms underlying normal perceptual and cognitive development.
Selective deprivations, such as the lack of sensory input, of social contacts and of language during the critical (sensitive) period of brain development have profound consequences for the structure and function of the adult brain. The field is largely uncharted since only the consequences of the most severe forms of deprivation are known, and that too only in a few systems. It is similarly unknown if the opposite of deprivation, selective over-stimulation in development, which appears to enhance the acquisition of certain skills, for example musical skills, has collateral deprivation-like effects in other domains. In spite of these uncertainties, I propose that the common mechanism underlying the effects of deprivation may be the altered stabilization of neuronal morphologies, particularly connectivity, in the period when their exuberant development is down regulated.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating and complex psychiatric disorder that involves multiple neural circuits and genetic and non-genetic risk factors. In the quest for elucidating the neurobiological basis of MDD, hippocampal neurogenesis has emerged as a candidate substrate, both for the etiology as well as treatment of MDD. This chapter critiques the advances made in the study of hippocampal neurogenesis as they relate to the neurogenic hypothesis of MDD. While an involvement of neurogenesis in the etiology of depression remains highly speculative, preclinical studies have revealed a novel and previously unrecognized role for hippocampal neurogenesis in mediating some of the behavioral effects of antidepressants. The implications of these findings are discussed to reevaluate the role of hippocampal neurogenesis in MDD.
The dentate gyrus has the capacity for numerous types of synaptic plasticity that use diverse mechanisms and are thought essential for the storage of information in the hippocampus. Here we review the various forms of synaptic plasticity that involve afferents and efferents of the dentate gyrus, and, from a computational perspective, relate how these plastic processes might contribute to sparse, orthogonal encoding, and the selective recall of information within the hippocampus.
Dentate granule cells are enriched with receptors for the stress hormone corticosterone, i.e., the high-affinity mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), which is already extensively occupied with low levels of the hormone, and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), which is particularly activated after stress. More than any other cell type in the brain studied so far, dentate granule cells require hormone levels to be within the physiological range. In the absence of corticosteroids, proliferation and apoptotic cell death are dramatically enhanced. Dendritic morphology and synaptic transmission are compromised. Conversely, prolonged exposure of animals to a high level of corticosterone suppresses neurogenesis and presumably makes dentate granule cells more vulnerable to delayed cell death. These corticosteroid effects on dentate cell and network function are translated into behavioral consequences, in health and disease.
Opiate drugs alter cognitive performance and influence hippocampal excitability, including long-term potentiation (LTP) and seizure activity. The dentate gyrus (DG) contains two major opioid peptides, enkephalins and dynorphins, which have opposing effects on excitability. Enkephalins preferentially bind to delta- and mu-opioid receptors (DORs and MORs) while dynorphins preferentially bind to kappa-opioid receptors (KORs). Opioid receptors can also be activated by exogenous opiate drugs such as the MOR agonist morphine. Enkephalins are contained in the mossy fiber pathway, in the lateral perforant path (PP) and in scattered GABAergic interneurons. MORs and DORs are predominantly in distinct subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons known to inhibit granule cells, and are present at low levels within granule cells. MOR and DOR agonists increase excitability and facilitate LTP in the molecular layer. Anatomical and physiological evidence is consistent with somatodendritic and axon terminal targeting of both MORs and DORs. Dynorphins are in the granule cells, most abundantly in mossy fibers but also in dendrites. KORs have been localized to granule cell mossy fibers, supramammillary afferents to granule cells, and PP terminals. KOR agonists, including endogenous dynorphins, diminish the induction of LTP. Recent evidence indicates that opiates and opioids also modulate other processes in the hippocampal formation, including adult neurogenesis, the actions of gonadal hormones, and development of neonatal transmitter systems.
Interneurons of the dentate gyrus are a diverse group of neurons that use GABA as their primary neurotransmitter. Morphological studies of these neurons have been challenging since no single neuroanatomical method provides a complete view of these interneurons. However, through the integration of findings obtained from multiple methods, an interesting picture of this complex group of neurons is emerging, and this review focuses on studies in rats and mice. In situ hybridization of mRNAs for the two isoforms of the GABA synthesizing enzyme, glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65 and GAD67), demonstrates the abundance of GABA neurons in the dentate gyrus and their high concentration in the hilus and along the base of the granule cell layer. Likewise, immunohistochemical studies, particularly of GAD65, demonstrate the rich fields of GABA terminals not only around the somata of granule cells but also in the dendritic regions of the molecular layer. This broad group of GABA neurons and their terminals can be subdivided according to their morphological characteristics, including the distribution of their axonal plexus, and their neurochemical identity. Intracellular labeling of single interneurons has been instrumental in demonstrating the extensiveness of their axonal plexus and the relatively specific spatial distribution of their axonal fields. These findings have led to the broad classification of interneurons into those that terminate primarily at perisomatic regions and those that innervate the dendrites of granule cells. The interneurons also can be classified according to their neuropeptide and calcium-binding protein content. These and other molecules contribute to the rich diversity of dentate interneurons and may provide opportunities for selectively regulating specific groups of GABA neurons in the dentate gyrus in order to enhance their function or protect vulnerable neurons from damage.
The dentate gyrus is one of the small number of forebrain areas that have continued adult neurogenesis. During development the dentate gyrus acquires the capacity for neurogenesis by generating a new neurogenic stem cell niche at the border between the hilus and dentate granule cell layer. This is in distinction to the other prominent zone of continued neurogenesis in the subventricular zone where neurons are born in a structure directly descended from the mid-gestation subventricular zone. The ability to generate this newly formed dentate neurogenic niche is controlled by the action of a number of genes during prenatal and early postnatal development that regulate the fate, survival, migration, expansion, and differentiation of the cellular components of the dentate neurogenic niche. In this review, we provide an updated framework discussing the molecular steps and genes involved in these early stages of dentate gyrus formation. We previously described a molecular framework for dentate gyrus morphogenesis that can be associated with specific gene defects (Li, G., Pleasure, S.J. (2005). Dev. Neurosci., 27, 93-99), and here we add additional recently described molecular players and discuss this framework.
This paper provides a comprehensive description of the organization of projections from the entorhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus, which together with projections to other subfields of the hippocampal formation form the so-called perforant pathway. To this end, data that are primarily from anatomical studies in the rat will be summarized, complimented with comparative data from other species. The analysis of the organization of any of the connections of the hippocampus, including that of the entorhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus, is severely hampered because of the complex three-dimensional shape of the hippocampus. In particular in rodents, but to a lesser extent also in primates, all traditional planes of sectioning will result in sections that at some point or another do not cut through the hippocampus at an angle that is perpendicular to its long axis. To amend this, we will describe own unpublished tracing data obtained in the rat with the use of the so-called extended preparation. A number of issues will be addressed. First, data will be summarized which will clarify the laminar origin of the perforant pathway within the entorhinal cortex. Second, we will discuss whether or not a radial organization, along the proximo-distal dendritic axis of granule cells, characterizes the entorhinal-dentate projection. Third, we will discuss whether this projection is governed by any transverse organization, and fourth, we will focus on the organization along the longitudinal axis. Finally, the synaptic organization and the contralateral entorhinal-dentate projection will be described briefly. Taken together, the available data suggest that the projection from the entorhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus is a fairly well conserved connection, present in all species studied, exhibiting a grossly similar organization.
The dentate gyrus is a simple cortical region that is an integral portion of the larger functional brain system called the hippocampal formation. In this review, the fundamental neuroanatomical organization of the dentate gyrus is described, including principal cell types and their connectivity, and a summary of the major extrinsic inputs of the dentate gyrus is provided. Together, this information provides essential information that can serve as an introduction to the dentate gyrus--a &quot;dentate gyrus for dummies.&quot;
Brain damage as a result of hyperthermia or heat-stress has been the focus of attention in many areas of neuroscience in recent years. Heat-induced alterations in structural components of the central nervous system (CNS) will obviously also influence the relevant transmitter systems, which may be involved in a variety of different behaviors. Indeed, many studies have indicated that excitatory amino acids, and monoaminergic and peptidergic systems are affected during hyperthermia. This chapter will address past and current research on various neuropeptides that have been implicated in the consequences of hyperthermia and various other heat disorders. However, considering the large and even increasing number of identified neuroactive peptides, it is necessary to limit this chapter to a few peptides or peptide systems, which have received particular attention in relation to hyperthermia. Among these are the opioid peptides, the tachykinins, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and peptides belonging to the angiotensin system. Most of these neuropeptides are not only affected by hyperthermia and abnormal alterations in the body temperature but also are involved in the endogenous mechanisms of regulating body temperature. This review does not endeavor to fully cover the field but it does aim to give the reader an idea of how various neuropeptides may be involved in the control of body heat and how peptidergic systems are affected during various thermal changes, including both immediate and long-term consequences.
Contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) can result in necrosis of the spinal cord, but often long white matter tracts outside of the central necrotic core are demyelinated. One experimental strategy to improve functional outcome following SCI is to transplant myelin-forming cells to remyelinate these axons and improve conduction. This review focuses on transplantation studies using olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) to improve functional outcome in experimental models of SCI and demyelination. The biology of the OEC, and recent experimental research and clinical studies using OECs as a potential cell therapy candidate are discussed.
Repetitive traumatic brain injury (TBI) occurs in a significant portion of trauma patients, especially in specific populations, such as child abuse victims or athletes involved in contact sports (e.g. boxing, football, hockey, and soccer). A continually emerging hypothesis is that repeated mild injuries may cause cumulative damage to the brain, resulting in long-term cognitive dysfunction. The growing attention to this hypothesis is reflected in several recent experimental studies of repeated mild TBI in vivo. These reports generally demonstrate cellular and cognitive dysfunction after repetitive injury using rodent TBI models. In some cases, data suggests that the effects of a second mild TBI may be synergistic, rather than additive. In addition, some studies have found increases in cellular markers associated with Alzheimer's disease after repeated mild injuries, which demonstrates a direct experimental link between repetitive TBI and neurodegenerative disease. To complement the findings from humans and in vivo experimentation, my laboratory group has investigated the effects of repeated trauma in cultured brain cells using a model of stretch-induced mechanical injury in vitro. In these studies, hippocampal cells exhibited cumulative damage when mild stretch injuries were repeated at either 1-h or 24-h intervals. Interestingly, the extent of damage to the cells was dependent on the time between repeated injuries. Also, a very low level of stretch, which produced no cell damage on its own, induced cell damage when it was repeated several times at a short interval (every 2 min). Although direct comparisons to the clinical situation are difficult, these types of repetitive, low-level, mechanical stresses may be similar to the insults received by certain athletes, such as boxers, or hockey and soccer players. This type of in vitro model could provide a reliable system in which to study the mechanisms underlying cellular dysfunction following repeated injuries. As this area of TBI research continues to evolve, it will be imperative that models of repetitive injury replicate injuries in humans as closely as possible. For example, it will be important to model appropriately concussive episodes versus even lower level injuries (such as those that might occur during boxing matches). Suitable inter-injury intervals will also be important parameters to incorporate into models. Additionally, it will be crucial to design and utilize proper controls, which can be more challenging than experimental approaches to single mild TBI. It will also be essential to combine, and compare, data derived from in vitro experiments with those conducted with animals in vivo. These issues, as well as a summary of findings from repeated TBI research, are discussed in this review.
Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating neurological disorder that can affect any individual at a given instance. Current treatment options for SCI include the use of high dose methylprednisolone sodium succinate, a corticosteroid, surgical interventions to stabilize and decompress the spinal cord, intensive multisystem medical management, and rehabilitative care. While utility of these therapeutic options provides modest benefits, there is a critical need to identify novel approaches to treat or repair the injured spinal cord in hope to, at the very least, improve upon the patient's quality of life. Thankfully, several discoveries at the preclinical level are now transitioning into the clinical arena. These include the Surgical Treatment for Acute Spinal Cord Injury Study (STASCIS) Trial to evaluate the role and timing of surgical decompression for acute SCI, neuroprotection with the semisynthetic second generation tetracycline derivative, minocycline; aiding axonal conduction with the potassium channel blockers, neuroregenerative/neuroprotective approaches with the Rho antagonist, Cethrin; the use of anti-NOGO monoclonal antibodies to augment plasticity and regeneration; as well as cell-mediated repair with stem cells, bone marrow stromal cells, and olfactory ensheathing cells. This review overviews the pathobiology of SCI and current treatment choices before focusing the rest of the discussion on the variety of promising neuroprotective and cell-based approaches that have recently moved, or are very close, to clinical testing.
The chronic pain that develops as a result of spinal cord injury (SCI) is extremely debilitating and remains largely unmanageable by current therapeutic strategies. Voltage-gated sodium channels regulate the biophysical properties, and thus firing characteristics, of neurons. After SCI the repertoire of sodium channels produced by dorsal horn nociceptive neurons is altered, enabling neurons to fire at higher than normal rates in response to unchanged peripheral stimuli as well as to generate spontaneous discharges in the absence of stimuli, resulting in the genesis of neuropathic pain. Our results have shown increased expression of the Nav1.3 sodium channel in the spinal cord and thalamus. Nav1.3 upregulation allows dorsal horn neurons to generate ramp currents, enhanced persistent currents, and shifts in steady-state activation and inactivation. Further downstream, Nav1.3 causes increased spontaneous and evoked firing of neurons in the ventroposterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus. Nav1.3 also underlies changes in burst firing properties of VPL neurons. The combination of spinal and thalamic generation and amplification of pain by Nav1.3 dysregulation contributes to post-SCI chronic pain. If proven to be similar in humans, targeting of this system after SCI may offer hope for treatment of clinical pain.
Before energy metabolism can take place, brain cells must be supplied with oxygen and glucose. Only then, in combination with normal mitochondrial function, sufficient energy (adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP)) can be produced. Glucose is virtually the sole fuel for the human brain. The brain lacks fuel stores and requires a continuous supply of glucose and oxygen. Therefore, continuous cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral oxygen tension and delivery, and normal mitochondrial function are of vital importance for the maintenance of brain function and tissue viability. This review focuses on three main issues: (1) Cerebral oxygen transport (CBF, and oxygen partial pressure (PO2) and delivery to the brain); (2) Energy metabolism (glycolysis, mitochondrial function: citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation); and (3) The role of the above in the pathophysiology of severe head injury. Basic understanding of these issues in the normal as well as in the traumatized brain is essential in developing new treatment strategies. These issues also play a key role in interpreting data collected from monitoring techniques such as cerebral tissue PO2, jugular bulb oxygen saturation (SjvO2), near infra red spectroscopy (NIRS), microdialysis, intracranial pressure monitoring (ICP), laser Doppler flowmetry, and transcranial Doppler flowmetry--both in the experimental and in the clinical setting.
The dorsal striatum (caudate putamen) contains two types of GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) that are distinguished by the expression of either the opioid peptide, enkephalin, or the opioid peptide, dynorphin, as well as the tachykinin substance P. Pharmacological studies suggest that these peptides modulate local neurotransmission in the striatum in response to direct and indirect dopamine agonists. In contrast, GABA appears to have minimal impact within the striatum under these conditions. The actions of the peptide cocktail are dependent on the cellular distribution of their receptors in the striatal network. The net result of their actions is a homeostatic response that regulates striatal output and balances dopamine and glutamate receptor stimulation.
Presynaptic receptors provide plasticity to GABAergic synapses in the basal ganglia network, in which GABA neurons outnumber all other neurons. Presynaptic receptors, mostly of the metabotropic type, enhance or reduce the strength of synaptic inhibition and are activated by ligands being released from the GABA terminals themselves (autoreceptors) or by ligands coming from other sources (heteroreceptors), including the target neurons innervated by the GABA terminals. The latter mechanism, termed retrograde signaling, is given particular emphasis as far as it occurs in substantia nigra.
At least 70% of the afferents to substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons are GABAergic. The vast majority of these arise from the neostriatum, the external globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Nigral dopaminergic neurons express both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, and are inhibited by local application of GABA(A) or GABA(B) agonists in vivo and in vitro. However, in vivo, synaptic responses elicited by stimulation of neostriatal or pallidal afferents, or antidromic activation of nigral pars reticulata GABAergic projection neurons are mediated predominantly or exclusively by GABA(A) receptors. The clearest and most consistent role for the nigral GABA(B) receptor in vivo is as an inhibitory autoreceptor that presynaptically modulates GABA(A) synaptic responses that originate from all three principal GABAergic inputs. The firing pattern of dopaminergic neurons is also effectively modulated by GABAergic inputs in vivo. Local blockade of nigral GABA(A) receptors causes dopaminergic neurons to shift to a burst firing pattern regardless of the original firing pattern. This is accompanied by a modest increase in spontaneous firing rate. The GABAergic inputs from the axon collaterals of the pars reticulata projection neurons seem to be a particularly important source of a GABA(A) tone to the dopaminergic neurons, inhibition of which leads to burst firing. The globus pallidus exerts powerful control over the pars reticulata input, and through the latter, disynaptically over the dopaminergic neurons. Inhibition of pallidal output leads to a slight decrease in firing of the dopaminergic neurons due to disinhibition of the pars reticulata neurons whereas increased firing of pallidal neurons leads to burst firing in dopaminergic neurons that is associated with a modest increase in spontaneous firing rate and a significant increase in extracellular levels of dopamine in the neostriatum. The pallidal disynaptic disinhibitory control of the dopaminergic neurons dominates the monosynaptic inhibitory influence because of a differential sensitivity to GABA of the two nigral neuron types. Nigral GABAergic neurons are more sensitive to GABA(A)-mediated inhibition than dopaminergic neurons, in part due to a more hyperpolarized GABA(A) reversal potential. The more depolarized GABA(A) reversal potential in the dopaminergic neurons is due to the absence of KCC2, the chloride transporter responsible for setting up a hyperpolarizing Cl(-) gradient in most mature CNS neurons. The data reviewed in this chapter have made it increasingly clear that in addition to the effects that nigral GABAergic output neurons have on their target nuclei outside of the basal ganglia, local interactions between GABAergic projection neurons and dopaminergic neurons are crucially important to the functioning of the nigral dopaminergic neurons.
This is the introductory chapter to an edited volume comprising 18 chapters written by 38 specially selected authors covering the anatomy, physiology, biochemistry/pharmacology and behavioral aspects of GABA in the basal ganglia. In this chapter the various nuclei of the basal ganglia are defined and their cellular structure, connections and function reviewed in brief in order to provide an orientation for the subsequent 17 chapters.
The acquisition of a cancerous phenotype by epithelial cells involves the disruption of intercellular adhesions. The reorganization of the E-cadherin/beta-catenin complex in adherens junctions during cell transformation is widely recognized. Instead the implication of tight junctions (TJs) in this process is starting to be unraveled. The aim of this article is to review the role of TJ proteins in cell proliferation and cancer.
At some point during the history of organismal evolution, unicellular, unipotent and mitotically active cells acquired an ability to undergo a special type of cell division called asymmetric division. By this special type of cell division, these cells could divide to generate two different progeny or to self-renew and at the same time generate a progeny that is committed to become a cell different from the mother cell. This type of cell division, which forms the basis for the functioning of totipotent or multipotent stem cells, underlies the fundamental basis for the developmental evolution of organisms. It is not clear if the asymmetric division without self-renewal preceded the asymmetric division with self-renewal. It is reasonable to assume that the asymmetric division without self-renewal preceded the asymmetric division with self-renewal. In this review we explore the genetic regulation of these two types of asymmetric divisions using the Drosophila central nervous system (CNS) as a model system. The results from recent studies argue that for cells to undergo a self-renewing asymmetric division, certain &quot;stem cell&quot; proteins must be maintained or up-regulated, while genes encoding proteins responsible for differentiation must be repressed or down-regulated. As long as a balance between these two classes of proteins is maintained via asymmetric segregation and activation/repression, the progeny that receives stem cell proteins/maintains stem cell competence will have the potential to undergo self-renewing asymmetric division. The other progeny will commit to differentiate. In non-self-renewing asymmetric division, down-regulation of stem cell proteins/competence combined with asymmetric segregation of cell identity specifying factors (either cell-autonomous or a combination of cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous signals) cause the two progeny to assume different differentiated identities. Identification of mutations that confer a stem cell type of division to nonstem cell precursors, or mutations that eliminate asymmetric division, has led the way in elucidating the molecular basis for these divisions. Given that there is a considerable degree of conservation of genes and their function, these studies should provide clear insight into how the self-renewing asymmetric division of stem cells in neural and other lineages is regulated not only in Drosophila but also in vertebrates including humans.
Regulation of neuritic growth is crucial for neural development, adaptation and repair. The intrinsic growth potential of nerve cells is determined by the activity of specific molecular sets, which sense environmental signals and sustain structural extension of neurites. The expression and function of these molecules are dynamically regulated by multiple mechanisms, which adjust the actual growth properties of each neuron population at different ontogenetic stages or in specific conditions. The neuronal potential for axon elongation and regeneration are restricted at the end of development by the concurrent action of several factors associated with the final maturation of neurons and of the surrounding tissue. In the adult, neuronal growth properties can be significantly modulated by injury, but they are also continuously tuned in everyday life to sustain physiological plasticity. Strict regulation of structural remodelling and neuritic elongation is thought to be required to maintain specific patterns of connectivity in the highly complex mammalian CNS. Accordingly, procedures that neutralize such mechanisms effectively boost axon growth in both intact and injured nervous system. Even in these conditions, however, aberrant connections are only formed in the presence of unusual external stimuli or experience. Therefore, growth regulatory mechanisms play an essentially permissive role by setting the responsiveness of neural circuits to environmental stimuli. The latter exert an instructive action and determine the actual shape of newly formed connections. In the light of this notion, efficient therapeutic interventions in the injured CNS should combine targeted manipulations of growth control mechanisms with task-specific training and rehabilitation paradigms.
Phospholipase A2 (PLA(2)) has been implicated in neurodevelopmental processes and in the early development of the nervous system. We investigated the effects of the inhibition of calcium-dependent and calcium-independent subtypes of cytosolic PLA2 (cPLA2 and iPLA2) on the development and viability of primary cultures of cortical and hippocampal neurons. PLA2 in these cultures was continuously inhibited with methylarachidonyl-fluorophosphonate (MAFP), an irreversible inhibitor of cPLA2 and iPLA2, or with bromoenol lactone (BEL), an irreversible selective iPLA2 inhibitor. The effect of PLA2 inhibitors on the development of neuronal cultures was ascertained by total cell count and morphological characterisation. Neuronal viability was quantified with MTT assays. Inhibition of PLA2 resulted in reduction of neuritogenesis and neuronal viability, disrupting neuronal homeostasis and leading to neuronal death. We conclude that the functional integrity of both calcium-dependent and calcium-independent cytosolic PLA2 is necessary for the in vitro development of cortical and hippocampal neurons.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) decay utilizes both exoribonucleolytic and endoribonucleolytic enzymes where the latter are generally more prone to be transcript-specific. An erythroid-enriched endoribonuclease, ErEN, can destabilize the alpha-globin mRNA through directing a site-specific cleavage within the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) both in vitro and in vivo. ErEN activity is sequence- and/or local structure-specific as the minimal recognition/cleavage sequence can be conferred onto a heterologous RNA and mutations at the cleavage site immunize the mRNA from ErEN hydrolysis. Interestingly, the ErEN cleavage activity is regulated by an mRNA stability complex (alpha-complex). An interaction between the alpha-complex and the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) accentuates alpha-complex binding to a region overlapping the ErEN cleavage site and further prevents premature ErEN-mediated decay. At present the identity of ErEN remains elusive, yet its identification will provide mechanistic and functional insights into the general processes of endoribonuclease-mediated mRNA turnover and erythropoiesis.

Social experiences are largely intersubjective in nature, offering an abundance of pre-reflective, simulative knowledge of others' subjective experiences. In the last decades, special mirror neurons have been found in the premotor area and in the posterior parietal cortex. They directly link perception to action: the perception of actions activates the relevant parts of the observer's motor system. Emotional expressions evoke resonance states inside the observer in a similar way. Besides underscoring the prereflective and implicit nature of intersubjectivity, this can provide an access to the neuronal basis of empathy and intuition. Moreover, a new integration of psychoanalysis and neuroscience seems to be possible, which shifts the psychoanalytic technique toward non-verbal and non-interpretative methods, and can explain psychoanalytic phenomena, such as introjection, projection, transference, counter-transference, and the very complex enactments.
We investigated the effects of visual speech information (articulatory gestures) on the perception of second language (L2) sounds. Previous studies have demonstrated that listeners often fail to hear the difference between certain non-native phonemic contrasts, such as in the case of Spanish native speakers regarding the Catalan sounds /epsilon/ and /e/. Here, we tested whether adding visual information about the articulatory gestures (i.e., lip movements) could enhance this perceptual ability. We found that, for auditory-only presentations, Spanish-dominant bilinguals failed to show sensitivity to the /epsilon/-/e/ contrast, whereas Catalan-dominant bilinguals did. Yet, when the same speech events were presented audiovisually, Spanish-dominants (as well as Catalan-dominants) were sensitive to the phonemic contrast. Finally, when the stimuli were presented only visually (in the absence of sound), none of the two groups presented clear signs of discrimination. Our results suggest that visual speech gestures enhance second language perception at the level of phonological processing especially by way of multisensory integration.
When accepting a parcel from another person, we are able to use information about that person's movement to estimate in advance the weight of the parcel, that is, to judge its weight from observed action. Perceptual weight judgment provides a powerful method to study our interpretation of other people's actions, but it is not known what sources of information are used in judging weight. We have manipulated full form videos to obtain precise control of the perceived kinematics of a box lifting action, and use this technique to explore the kinematic cues that affect weight judgment. We find that observers rely most on the duration of the lifting movement to judge weight, and make less use of the durations of the grasp phase, when the box is first gripped, or the place phase, when the box is put down. These findings can be compared to the kinematics of natural box lifting behaviour, where we find that the duration of the grasp component is the best predictor of true box weight. The lack of accord between the optimal cues predicted by the natural behaviour and the cues actually used in the perceptual task has implications for our understanding of action observation in terms of a motor simulation. The differences between perceptual and motor behaviour are evidence against a strong version of the motor simulation hypothesis.
Two influential models of recognition memory, the unequal-variance signal-detection model and a dual-process threshold/detection model, accurately describe the receiver operating characteristic, but only the latter model can provide estimates of recollection and familiarity. Such estimates often accord with those provided by the remember-know procedure, and both methods are now widely used in the neuroscience literature to identify the brain correlates of recollection and familiarity. However, in recent years, a substantial literature has accumulated directly contrasting the signal-detection model against the threshold/detection model, and that literature is almost unanimous in its endorsement of signal-detection theory. A dual-process version of signal-detection theory implies that individual recognition decisions are not process pure, and it suggests new ways to investigate the brain correlates of recognition memory.
Behavioral inhibition (BI) is an adaptive defensive response to threat; however, extreme BI is associated with anxiety-related psychopathology. When rats are exposed to a natural predator they display stress- and anxiety-related behavioral alterations and physiological activation. To develop a preclinical rodent model to study mechanisms underlying human BI and anxiety, we examined the extent to which ferret exposure elicits anxiety-related BI and HPA and amygdala activation of the CRF system. In the first experiment, BI and other behaviors were assessed in the presence or absence of a ferret. In the second experiment, ferret-induced corticosterone release and changes in brain c-fos expression were assessed. In the final experiment, gene chip and quantitative real time-PCR analyses were performed on amygdala tissue from control and ferret-exposed rats. Ferret exposure increased BI and submissive posturing, as well as plasma corticosterone and the number of Fos-positive cells in several brain regions including the amygdala. Gene expression analysis revealed increased amygdalar mRNA for CRF-binding protein, but not the CRF1 receptor, CRF2 receptor or CRF. In rodents, ferret exposure can be used to elicit anxiety-related BI, which is associated with HPA and amygdala activation. Since the amygdala and the CRF system have been implicated in adaptive and maladaptive anxiety responses in humans, these data support use of our rodent model to further investigate mechanisms underlying anxiety-related psychopathology in humans.
In the acute phase of Graves' thyrotoxicosis patients often have subjective cognitive complaints. Continuing controversy exists about the nature of these symptoms and whether they persist after treatment. This prospective study included 31 consecutively referred, newly diagnosed, and untreated patients with Graves' thyrotoxicosis. A control group of 34 individuals matched for age, education and premorbid intelligence was also included. At baseline all patients and control subjects were examined with psychiatric rating scales and a comprehensive neuropsychological battery. The effect of treatment on affective symptomatology was examined in the patient group after reaching euthyroidism and 1 year after treatment initiation. At initial examination patients had significantly higher scores on psychiatric rating scales as compared with controls, and the majority reported memory and concentration problems. No significant differences between the patient and the control group on neuropsychological test performances were found. Thyroid levels did not correlate with the neuropsychological test performances or psychiatric ratings. After reaching euthyroidism the level of affective symptoms (including reports of cognitive deficits) had decreased significantly, with further normalisation 1-year after treatment initiation. In conclusion, patients had subjective reports of cognitive deficits in the toxic phase of Graves' thyrotoxicosis but comprehensive neuropsychological testing revealed no cognitive impairment. Reports of cognitive dysfunction may reflect affective and somatic manifestations of thyrotoxicosis and in most patients these symptoms disappear after treatment of Graves' thyrotoxicosis.










After a cue directing attention to one side, anterior event-related potentials (ERPs) show contralateral negativity (anterior directing attention negativity, ADAN). It is unclear whether ADAN effects are contaminated by contralateral negativity arising from residual gaze shifts. Conversely, it is possible that ADAN-related potentials contaminate the horizontal electrooculogram (HEOG), via volume conduction. To evaluate these possibilities, we used high-resolution infrared eye tracking while recording EEG and HEOG in a cued spatial-attention task. We found that, after conventional ERP and HEOG preprocessing exclusions, small but systematic residual gaze shifts in the cued direction can remain, as revealed by the infrared measure. Nevertheless, by using this measure for more stringent exclusion of small gaze shifts, we confirmed that reliable ADAN components remain for preparatory spatial attention in the absence of any systematic gaze shifts toward the cued side.




This article reviews several areas of new and interesting development in the fields of psychosomatics and psychotherapy published in the literature during 2006. These areas are: (1) cardiovascular illness and its interplay with depression; (2) risks and predisposing factors in the areas of mental illness and physical illness; (3) new developments in chronic fatigue syndrome, and (4) new or newly explored/modified (psycho)therapies, especially cognitive-behavioral therapy. In addition, an important area of conflict of interest in psychiatry in particular and in biomedical science in general is discussed, as this issue has reached prominence in the biomedical literature.
Current progress in the cognitive and affective neurosciences is constantly influencing the development of psychoanalytic theory and practice. However, despite the emerging dialogue between neuroscience and psychoanalysis, the neuronal processes underlying psychoanalytic constructs such as defense mechanisms remain unclear. One of the main problems in investigating the psychodynamic-neuronal relationship consists in systematically linking the individual contents of first-person subjective experience to third-person observation of neuronal states. We therefore introduced an appropriate methodological strategy, 'first-person neuroscience', which aims at developing methods for systematically linking first- and third-person data. The utility of first-person neuroscience can be demonstrated by the example of the defense mechanism of sensorimotor regression as paradigmatically observed in catatonia. Combined psychodynamic and imaging studies suggest that sensorimotor regression might be associated with dysfunction in the neural network including the orbitofrontal, the medial prefrontal and the premotor cortices. In general sensorimotor regression and other defense mechanisms are psychoanalytic constructs that are hypothesized to be complex emotional-cognitive constellations. In this paper we suggest that specific functional mechanisms which integrate neuronal activity across several brain regions (i.e. neuronal integration) are the physiological substrates of defense mechanisms. We conclude that first-person neuroscience could be an appropriate methodological strategy for opening the door to a better understanding of the neuronal processes of defense mechanisms and their modulation in psychoanalytic psychotherapy.

Does vision play a role in the elaboration of the semantic representation of small and large numerosities, notably in its spatial format? To investigate this issue, we decided to compare in the auditory modality the performance of congenitally and early blind people with that of a sighted control group, in two number comparison tasks (to 5 and to 55) and in one parity judgement task. Blind and sighted participants presented exactly the same distance and SNARC (Spatial Numerical Association of Response Codes) effects, indicating that they share the same semantic numerical representation. In consequence, our results suggest that the spatial dimension of the numerical representation is not necessarily attributable to the visual modality and that the absence of vision does not preclude the elaboration of this representation for 1-digit (Experiment 1) and 2-digit numerosities (Experiment 2). Moreover, as classical semantic numerical effects were observed in the auditory modality, the postulate of the amodal nature of the mental number line for both small and large magnitudes was reinforced.
Mass spectrometric methods based on stable isotopes have shown great promise for identification and quantitation of complex mixtures. Stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) is a straightforward and accurate procedure for quantitation of proteins from cell lines, that are cultured in media containing the natural amino acid or its isotopically labelled analogue, giving rise to either 'light' or 'heavy' proteins. The two cell populations are pooled and treated as a single sample, which allows the use of various protein purification methods without introducing errors into the quantitative analysis. The quantitation of the proteins is based on the intensities of the light and heavy peptides. The increased number of peptides in a quantitative experiment arising from peptide pairs implies that prefractionation is critical prior to liquid chromatography/mass spectrometric (LC/MS) analysis to minimise signal suppression effects and errors in measurements of the intensity ratios. In this study, the effect of a prefractionation step on identification and quantitation of proteins in a SILAC experiment was evaluated. We show that micro-scale liquid-phase isoelectric focusing in the Micro Rotofor separates proteins into well-defined fractions and reduces the sample complexity. Furthermore, the fractionation enhanced the number of identified proteins and improved their quantitation.
Due to defined molecular lesions and signaling pathway disruptions, brain tumors represent good candidates for targeted therapy. However, in brain tumors the blood-brain barrier may prevent the transfer of progress in the molecular neurosciences to the development of effective therapeutic strategies. In this article, the most advanced forms of targeted therapy for the treatment of brain tumors and their clinical results are presented.
The first evidence that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain was reported in rodents in the early 1960s, using [(3)H]-thymidine autoradiography. In the 1980s and 90s, the advent of new techniques and protocols for studying cell proliferation in situ, and particularly bromodeoxyuridine labeling, helped to confirm that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells reside in the adult CNS, including in humans. Bromodeoxyuridine labeling is currently the method most commonly used for studying neurogenesis in the adult brain. However, this procedure is not without limitations, and controversies. In this article, I will review recent protocols for studying adult neurogenesis, particularly new protocols for studying cell kinetics and cell proliferative history, using halopyrimidines. I will review these techniques, and discuss their implications for the field of adult neurogenesis.


The journal Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience (RNN) is now published in its 25th volume since its inception in 1989. RNN focuses on the emerging field of brain plasticity, repair and rehabilitation, including original and review papers both in basic research (animal experiments, in vitro studies) and in the clinical domain, including brain imaging studies. During the last decade RNN has experienced a steady progress in its reference value and scientific impact. The ISI-impact factor has risen from 1.117 (1997) to 2.862 (2006). This places the journal at the 81st rank among all 200 neuroscience journals, i.e. 60% of all neuroscience journals have a lower impact factor. When compared to other journals in the field of rehabilitation, RNN ranks number 1. Causes for this positive development are, among others: (1) the field of neuroplasticity, regeneration, recovery and rehabilitation is an emerging field in medicine and therefore the number of publications and their citation rate overall increases, (2) the special issues strategy, (3) a top level editorial board, and (4) the quality of papers submitted to RNN continuously improves as RNN is gaining increasing acceptance in the scientific community. Thus, in the space of neuroscience in general, and rehabilitation in particular, RNN has become a visible, high impact journal and a leading source of original scientific information pertaining to brain plasticity , rehabilitation and repair. RNN is likely to gain more momentum as the field matures further.





Recent perinal advances have made possible that premature newborns survive increasingtly in earlier developmental stages. This babies requires sophisticated and costly critical intensive care to address the problems associated with inmadurity of the respiratory system. In addition respiratory instability and apnea reflecting inmaturity of the respiratory control system are major causes of morbidity and prolonged hospitalization in this highly vulnerable group of patients. These concerns have contributed to the development of research in respiratoy evolutionary neurobiology. While the majority of researchers working in this field use rodents as an animal model, recent research using in vitro brainstem preparations from bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) have reveled the technical advantages of this model to study the basic principles underlying respiratory control and its ontogeny between vertebrates. The present article review the recent advances in the area of research with special interest on episodic breathing and the role of serotoninergic and GABAergic modulation of respiratory control during development.

Bright light therapy is a treatment that emerged in the eighties of the last century. It can be used in different pathologies such as seasonal affective disorders, major depressions, and many disorders of the wake-sleep rhythm, whether they are of primary or secondary origin. Important progress made at the basic neuroscience levels, allows today a sound understanding of the bright light mode of action. Moreover, the main indications are now the subject of consensus reports and meta-analyses which show good levels of evidence-based medicine. Bright light therapy constitutes a first choice indication in seasonal affective disorder. It is also perfectly possible to prescribe bright light therapy in the major depression disorders. It has been demonstrated that the effect size is the same as with antidepressants of reference. It is admitted nowadays that bright light therapy may be at least, an adjunct to pharmacotherapy, in order to accelerate the antidepressant effect onset, or to prolong this effect after withdrawal of the drug. Bright light therapy can also be viewed as an alternative to the pharmacological approach especially when this one is impossible, not tolerated or not accepted by the patient. The contraindications are rare.

We have gained enormous insight into the mechanisms underlying both activity-dependent and (to a lesser degree) -independent plasticity of excitatory synapses. Recently, cortical inhibition has been shown to play a vital role in the formation of critical periods for sensory plasticity. As such, sculpting of neuronal circuits by inhibition may be a common mechanism by which activity organizes or reorganizes brain circuits. Disturbances in the balance of excitation and inhibition in the neocortex provoke abnormal activities, such as epileptic seizures and abnormal cortical development. However, both the process of experience-dependent postnatal maturation of neocortical inhibitory networks and its underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Mechanisms that match excitation and inhibition are central to achieving balanced function at the level of individual circuits. The goal of this review is to reinforce our understanding of the mechanisms by which developing inhibitory networks are able to adapt to sensory inputs, and to maintain their balance with developing excitatory networks. Discussion is centered on the following questions related to experience-dependent plasticity of neocortical inhibitory networks: 1) What are the roles of GABAergic inhibition in the postnatal maturation of neocortical circuits? 2) Does the maturation of neocortical inhibitory circuits proceed in an activity-dependent manner or do they develop independently of sensory inputs? 3) Does activity regulate inhibitory networks in the same way it regulates excitatory networks? 4) What are the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie the activity-dependent maturation of inhibitory networks? 5) What are the functional advantages of experience-dependent plasticity of inhibitory networks to network processing in sensory cortices?
Stress is one of the most significant influences on behaviour and performance. The classical account is that stress mainly affects functions of the limbic system, such as learning, memory and emotion. Recent evidence, however, suggests that stress also modulates motor system function and influences the pathology of movement disorders. Most parts of the motor system show the presence of glucocorticoid receptors that render their circuits susceptible to the influence of stress hormones. Stress and glucocorticoids have been shown to modulate temporal and spatial aspects of motor performance. Skilled movements seem to be most prone to stress-induced disturbances, but locomotion and posture can also be affected. Stress can modulate movement through activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and via stress-associated emotional changes. The dopaminergic system seems to play a central role in mediating the effects of stress on motor function. This route might also account for the finding that stress influences the pathology of dopamine-related diseases of the motor system, such as Parkinson's disease. Clinical observations have indicated that stress might lead to the onset of Parkinsonian symptoms or accelerate their progression. Glucocorticoids are modulators of neuronal plasticity, thus determining the degree of structural and functional compensation of the damaged motor system. This may particularly affect slowly progressive neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. That stress represents a significant modulator of motor system function in both the healthy and the damaged brain should be recognized when developing future therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
A variety of gene mutations can cause familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD) or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutations in the synaptic protein alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) cause PD. Mutations in the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) cause ALS. The mechanisms of human mutant a-Syn and SOD1 toxicity to neurons are not known. Transgenic (tg) mice expressing human mutant alpha-Syn or SOD1 develop profound fatal neurologic disease characterized by progressive motor deficits, paralysis, and neurodegeneration. Ala-53--&gt;Thr (A53T)-mutant alpha-Syn and Gly-93--&gt;Ala (G93A)-mutant SOD1 tg mice develop prominent mitochondrial abnormalities. Interestingly, although nigral neurons in A53T mice are relatively preserved, spinal motor neurons (MNs) undergo profound degeneration. In A53T mice, mitochondria degenerate in neurons, and complex IV activity is reduced. Furthermore, mitochondria in neurons develop DNA breaks and have p53 targeted to the outer membrane. Nitrated a-Syn accumulates in degenerating MNs in A53T mice. mSOD1 mouse MNs accumulate mitochondria from the axon terminals and generate higher levels of reactive oxygen/nitrogen species than MNs in control mice. mSOD1 mouse MNs accumulate DNA single-strand breaks prior to double-strand breaks occurring in nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. Nitrated and aggregated cytochrome c oxidase subunit-I and nitrated SOD2 accumulate in mSOD1 mouse spinal cord. Mitochondria in mSOD1 mouse MNs accumulate NADPH diaphorase and inducible NOS (iNOS)-like immunoreactivity, and iNOS gene deletion significantly extends the lifespan of G93A-mSOD1 mice. Mitochondrial changes develop long before symptoms emerge. These experiments reveal that mitochondrial nitrative stress and perturbations in mitochondrial trafficking may be antecedents of neuronal cell death in animal models of PD and ALS.
The demonstration that progenitor cells in regions of the adult mammalian brain such as the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus can undergo mitosis and generate new cells that differentiate into functionally integrated neurons throughout life has marked a new era in neuroscience. In recent years, a wide range of investigations has been directed at understanding the physiological mechanisms and functional relevance of this form of brain plasticity. Our current knowledge of adult hippocampal neurogenesis indicates that the production of new cells in the brain follows a multi-step process during which newborn cells are submitted to various regulatory factors that influence cell proliferation, maturation, fate determination and survival. As details of the dynamics of morphological maturation and functional integration of newborn neurons in corticohippocampal circuits have become clearer, an increasing number of studies have examined how environmental and/or behavioural factors can modulate neurogenesis and affect hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. In this article we present an overview of recent literature that relates neurogenesis to hippocampal function on the basis of correlative studies investigating the modulation of neurogenesis by learning and behavioural experience, and the consequences of the loss of hippocampal neurogenesis for memory function. We also highlight experimental evidence that immature neurons exhibit unique electrophysiological characteristics and therefore may constitute a specific cell population particularly inclined to undergo activity-dependent plasticity. Moreover, we review recent work that reveals an unsuspected mechanistic link between synaptic plasticity and the proliferation and survival of new hippocampal neurons. From the present background of research, we argue that the incorporation of functional adult-generated neurons into existing neural networks provides a higher capacity for plasticity, which may favour the encoding and storage of certain types of memories. Depending on their birth date and maturation stage, new neurons might be implicated in the encoding/storage process of the task at hand or may help future learning experience. Finally, we highlight critical issues to be addressed in order to decipher the exact contribution of newly generated neurons to cognitive functions.
Since the studies of Ramon y Cajal, a central postulate in neuroscience has been the view that the adult brain lacks the ability to regenerate its neurons. This dogma has been challenged in the last few decades, and mounting evidence has accumulated showing the existence of a phenomenon designated 'adult neurogenesis'. De novo generation of neurons by neural progenitor cells in the adult brain is thought to be preserved only in restricted brain areas, such as the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle. Data in the last decade coming mostly from rodent models have clearly documented that precursor cells residing in the anterior portion of SVZ and the subgranular zone of DG are responsible for adding new neurons in the olfactory bulb and DG, respectively. This raised significant interest in the clinical potential of neural progenitor cells, and recent studies have documented that brain injury is capable of activating an endogenous program of neurogenesis resulting in neuronal replacement in various cerebral regions of rodents and primates. If the newly generated neurons in the adult brain prove to be functional, it could have a tremendous impact for cell replacement therapies. Here, we summarize current knowledge of the mechanisms affecting adult hippocampal neurogenesis in both rodents and primates, and discuss its implications in developing novel strategies for the treatment of human neurological diseases.
We herein report a 60-year-old man demonstrating multiple system atrophy of the cerebellar type (MSA-C) with a five-year of clinical history, who developed severe constipation followed by watery diarrhea. An abdominal CT scan showed free air in the abdominal cavity and extensive pericolic gas accumulation in the ascending and transverse colon. He was diagnosed to have pneumatosis intestinalis (PI). The air in the abdominal cavity as well as in the wall of the colon thereafter disappeared after nine days' of conservative therapy. The presense of chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction due to severe dysautonomia and a longstanding bed-ridden state may have been the cause of PI in this patient. This is the first case report of PI associated with MSA; however, the association of PI may have been overlooked in this disorder because of severe constipation and diarrhea, the two cardinal symptoms of PI, which happen to also be two of the typical symptoms of MSA itself.
The aim of this study was to explore aspects of the meaning of home as experienced by very old single-living people in Sweden. A grounded theory approach was used, and interviews were conducted with 40 men and women aged 80-89. The findings indicate that home has a central place in the lives of very old people because it is where they live and spend so much time. The significance of the home is based on the fact that it means so many different things to the participants. The theme comprises two key categories: home means security and home means freedom. Each of these has three sub-categories. In home means security, these are: living in a familiar neighborhood, everything functions, and having memories to live on. Home means freedom comprises a place for reflection, a social meeting-point, and leaving your own mark. Home is part of the environment and influences the meaning and selection of activities that very old people decide to engage in. When occupational therapists prescribe assistive devices or recommend changes in the home environment, they must be very well aware of and reflect on what home means to their clients and base their measures on that.




From phenomenological and experimental perspectives, research in schizophrenia has emphasized deficits in &quot;higher&quot; cognitive functions, including attention, executive function, as well as memory. In contrast, general consensus has viewed dysfunctions in basic perceptual processes to be relatively unimportant in the explanation of more complex aspects of the disorder, including changes in self-experience and the development of symptoms such as delusions. We present evidence from phenomenology and cognitive neuroscience that changes in the perceptual field in schizophrenia may represent a core impairment. After introducing the phenomenological approach to perception (Husserl, the Gestalt School), we discuss the views of Paul Matussek, Klaus Conrad, Ludwig Binswanger, and Wolfgang Blankenburg on perception in schizophrenia. These 4 psychiatrists describe changes in perception and automatic processes that are related to the altered experience of self. The altered self-experience, in turn, may be responsible for the emergence of delusions. The phenomenological data are compatible with current research that conceptualizes dysfunctions in perceptual processing as a deficit in the ability to combine stimulus elements into coherent object representations. Relationships of deficits in perceptual organization to cognitive and social dysfunction as well as the possible neurobiological mechanisms are discussed.
The subjective experience of time is a fundamental constituent of human consciousness and can be disturbed under conditions of mental disorders such as schizophrenia or affective disorders. Besides the scientific domain of psychiatry, time consciousness is a topic that has been extensively studied both by theoretical philosophy and cognitive neuroscience. It can be shown that both approaches exemplified by the philosophical analysis of time consciousness (Husserl) and the neuroscientific theory of cross-temporal contingencies (binding of cognitive processes over time) as the neurophysiological basis of human consciousness implemented in the prefrontal cortex (Fuster) converge in 2 respects. Firstly, a tripartite conception of consciousness divides human cognition in 3 different temporal domains comprising retention, presentation, and protention (Husserl) and the past, the present, and the future corresponding to working memory, interference control, and preparatory set (Fuster). Secondly, both concepts refer to the present as an extended duration that integrates information from the recent past and the future. We propose that the integration of phenomenological and neuroscientific approaches can stimulate the development of enriched pathophysiological concepts of mental disorders. This approach appears to be particularly fruitful with respect to schizophrenia that is interpreted as a structural disturbance of time consciousness.
To identify altered mRNA expression of regulator of G-protein signalling 4 (RGS4) in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) in schizophrenia mRNA expression of RGS4 was measured from post-mortem STG tissue from 13 individuals with schizophrenia and 13 matched non-psychiatric controls using relative real-time PCR. Significantly decreased expression of RGS4 mRNA in the STG in schizophrenia was identified in 10 of the 13 matched pairs. Altered expression of RGS4 in cortical regions previously implicated in schizophrenia, such as the STG further supports the notion of RGS4 as a potential genetic and functional biological marker of schizophrenia.


Pulmonary thromboembolism induced by deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which is known as economy-class syndrome, is one of sudden death in psychiatric patients under physical restraint. (1) A decrease in venous blood flow, (2) damage to vessel walls, and (3) the enhancement of blood clotting are the major risk factors for DVT (Virchow triad). It has been speculated that physical restraint inhibits venous blood flow, and that antipsychotic drugs facilitate blood clotting. In order to prevent sudden death due to DVT, prophylactic measures and early diagnosis are crucial. Whereas Doppler ultrasonography and contrast venography are the gold standards for the diagnosis of DVT, more simplified methods are now under development. Of those, D-dimer measurement, which can be conducted with a small blood sample, is the most potent candidate for the biochemical diagnosis of DVT. Although there are many prophylactic measures, including anticoagulant medications and physical therapies, it is not clear which is the most effective and suitable in psychiatric practice. Psychiatric professionals should pay closer attention to DVT in psychiatric patients under physical restraint.





The human brain is inherently able to understand the world in moral ways, endowing most of us with an intuitive sense of fairness, concern for others, and observance of cultural norms. We have argued that this moral sensitivity ability depends on a sophisticated integration of cognitive, emotional, and motivational mechanisms, which are modulated by individual experience in different cultural milieus. Different lines of investigation on agency and morality have pointed to overlapping neural systems. Therefore, understanding the relationships between morality and agency may provide key insights into the mechanisms underlying human behavior in several clinical and societal settings. We used functional MRI to investigate the contribution of agency and of specific moral emotions to brain activation using action scripts. Results showed that emotionally neutral agency recruited neural networks previously associated with agency, intentionality and moral cognition, encompassing ventral and subgenual sectors of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), insula, anterior temporal cortex and superior temporal sulcus (STS). Compared to emotionally neutral agency, different categories of moral emotions led to distinct activation patterns: (1) prosocial emotions (guilt, embarrassment, compassion) activated the anterior medial PFC and STS, with (2) empathic emotions (guilt and compassion) additionally recruiting the mesolimbic pathway; (3) other-critical emotions (disgust and indignation) were associated with activation of the amygdala-parahippocampal and fusiform areas. These findings indicate that agency related to norm-abiding social behaviors of emotionally neutral scripts share neural substrates both with the &quot;default mode&quot; of brain function and with the moral sensitivity network. Additional activation in specific components of this network is elicited by different classes of moral emotions, in agreement with recent integrative models of moral cognition and emotion.
Interpersonal sensitivity refers to our ability to perceive and respond with care to the internal states (e.g., cognitive, affective, motivational) of another, understand the antecedents of those states, and predict the subsequent events that will result. This special issue brings together new research findings from empirical studies, including work with adults and children, genetics, functional neuroimaging, individual differences, and behavioral measures, which examine how we process and respond to information about our fellow individuals. By combining biological and psychological approaches, social neuroscience sheds new light on the complex and multi-faceted phenomenon of interpersonal sensitivity, including empathy. One should, however, be aware of the challenges and limits of such an approach.
Humans are frequently confronted with goal-directed tasks that can not be accomplished alone, or that benefit from co-operation with other agents. The relatively new field of social cognitive neuroscience seeks to characterize functional neuroanatomical systems either specifically or preferentially engaged during such joint-action tasks. Based on neuroimaging experiments conducted on critical components of joint action, the current paper outlines the functional network upon which joint action is hypothesized to be dependant. This network includes brain areas likely to be involved in interpersonal co-ordination at the action, goal, and intentional levels. Experiments focusing specifically on joint-action situations similar to those encountered in real life are required to further specify this model.

Early 20th century artists including Duchamp and Balla tried to portray moving objects on a static canvas by superimposing objects in successive portrayals of an action. We investigated whether implied motion in those paintings is associated with activation of motion-sensitive area MT+. In Experiment 1, we found that observers rated these kinds of paintings higher in portraying motion than they did other abstract paintings in which motion is not intended. We also found that observers who had previously experienced abstract paintings with implied motion tended to give higher motion ratings to that class of paintings. In Experiment 2, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure brain activity of observers while viewing abstract paintings receiving the highest and the lowest motion rating scores in Experiment 1. We found MT+, but not primary visual cortex (V1), showed greater BOLD responses to abstract paintings with implied motion than to abstract paintings with little motion impression, but only in observers with prior experience viewing those kinds of paintings. These results imply that the neural machinery ordinarily engaged during perception of real visual motion is activated when people view paintings explicitly designed to convey a sense of visual motion. Experience, however, is necessary to achieve this sense of motion.
Colour constancy is generally assumed to arise from a combination of perceptual constancy mechanisms operating to partially discount illumination changes and relational mechanisms involved in judging the colour relationships between object surfaces. Here we examined the characteristics of these mechanisms using a 'yes/no' task. Subjects judged whether a target colour patch embedded in an array of coloured patches (a) stayed the same across a simulated temporal illuminant change (local colour judgement), or (b) changed in a manner consistent with the illuminant change (relational colour judgement). The colour of the target patch remained constant in one-third of the trials, changed in accord with the illuminant shift in another third, and shifted partially with the illuminant change in the remaining third. We found that perceptual constancy was relatively weak and relational constancy strong, as assessed using a modified colour constancy index. Randomising the spatial positions of coloured patches across the illuminant change did not affect subjects' constancy indices. Application of signal detection analysis revealed some otherwise hidden effects. In the case of relational judgements, subjects adopted more conservative criteria (fewer true and false positives) with randomisation, maintaining a constant level of discrimination performance (d'). For local judgements, randomisation led to small increases in performance but no changes in criteria. We conclude that signal detection theory provides a useful tool to supplement conventional approaches to understanding colour constancy.


A key challenge to optimising marathon running performance is to train with adequate frequency, duration and intensity as well as get enough recovery to optimise biological adaptations underlying performance. Some marathon runners train inadequately and underperform, while others perform poorly because they become injured or develop staleness in response to overtraining. Staleness, a depression-like syndrome, could plausibly be caused by overtraining-induced molecular and cellular changes in brain circuits involved in depression or other related mood states such as anger, fatigue, vigor and confusion. The central thesis of this paper is that easily assessed resting and/or exercise symptoms, valid markers of either difficult-to-access, expensive-to-assess or unmeasurable brain circuits, can be used to optimise marathon running performance by helping to avoid either inadequate training or excessive training resulting in staleness. Available models of human performance and relevant data, admittedly incomplete at the present time, suggest that marathon runners may benefit from systematically using symptom responses to training in order to aid in adjusting training loads for the purpose of optimising training. As this approach is better linked with neuroscience and neuroimaging findings, it could be refined and prove to be useful for elite as well as non-elite marathon runners.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a class of morphogens that are critical regulators of the central nervous system (CNS), peripheral nervous system, and craniofacial development. Modulation of BMP signaling also appears to be an important component of the postnatal stem cell niche. However, describing a comprehensive model of BMP actions is complicated by their paradoxical effects in precursor cells, which include dorsal specification, promoting proliferation or mitotic arrest, cell survival or death, and neuronal or glial fate. In addition, in postmitotic neurons BMPs can promote dendritic growth, act as axonal chemorepellants, and stabilize synapses. Although many of these responses depend on interactions with other incoming signals, some reflect the recruitment of distinct BMP signal transduction pathways. In this review, we classify the diverse effects of BMPs on neural cells, focus on the known mechanisms that specify distinct responses, and discuss the remaining challenges in identifying the cellular basis of BMP pleiotropism. Addressing these issues may have importance for stem cell mobilization, differentiation, and cell integration/survival in reparative therapies.
In their Atlas of Cytoarchitectonics of the Adult Human Cerebral Cortex, Economo and Koskinas defined 54 'ground,' 76 'variant,' and 107 'modification' areas. The 107 modifications are topographically distributed as 35 frontal, 13 superior limbic, 6 insular, 18 parietal, 7 occipital, 14 temporal and 14 inferior limbic (or hippocampal). One way to make the Economo-Koskinas system more practical is to encode the complex symbol notations of the 107 cortical areas with numbers EK 1 through EK 107. The present study does that, and it further correlates Economo-Koskinas areas with Brodmann areas, based on an overview of the classical and modern neurohistological literature.
The monumental Atlas of Cytoarchitectonics of the Adult Human Cerebral Cortex of Economo and Koskinas represents a gigantic intellectual and technical effort, never sufficiently recognized. One reason might have been the limited number of copies produced; another, the complex (albeit logical and precise) symbol notation, which comprises a Roman capital (from the initial of the respective lobe), a calligraphic capital (the sequence of a gyrus within a lobe), and a Latin or Greek subscript (for microscopic features). Economo and Koskinas defined 107 cortical areas, as opposed to Brodmann's 44 areas for the human brain. Their cytoarchitectonic criteria confer the advantage of a more detailed parcellation scheme, despite the traditional familiarity of neuroscientists with Brodmann numbers. The system of 107 areas of Economo and Koskinas may be especially useful for modern studies on functional localization.





In this work, we provide an effective solution to the communication and power supply problems in miniature medical devices implanted within the human body. The volume conduction property of the human tissue is utilized as a natural cable for the delivery of both information and energy. A practical design is presented consisting of a small, simple, and convenient external device called an energy pad.
In the past decade, the use of virtual reality for clinical and research applications has become more widespread. However, the diffusion of this approach is still limited by three main issues: poor usability, lack of technical expertise among clinical professionals, and high costs. To address these challenges, we introduce NeuroVR (http://www.neurovr.org--http://www.neurotiv.org), a cost-free virtual reality platform based on open-source software, that allows non-expert users to adapt the content of a pre-designed virtual environment to meet the specific needs of the clinical or experimental setting. Using the NeuroVR Editor, the user can choose the appropriate psychological stimuli/stressors from a database of objects (both 2D and 3D) and videos, and easily place them into the virtual environment. The edited scene can then be visualized in the NeuroVR Player using either immersive or non-immersive displays. Currently, the NeuroVR library includes different virtual scenes (apartment, office, square, supermarket, park, classroom, etc.), covering two of the most studied clinical applications of VR: specific phobias and eating disorders. The NeuroVR Editor is based on Blender (http://www.blender.org), the open source, cross-platform suite of tools for 3D creation, and is available as a completely free resource. An interesting feature of the NeuroVR Editor is the possibility to add new objects to the database. This feature allows the therapist to enhance the patient's feeling of familiarity and intimacy with the virtual scene, i.e., by using photos or movies of objects/people that are part of the patient's daily life, thereby improving the efficacy of the exposure. The NeuroVR platform runs on standard personal computers with Microsoft Windows; the only requirement for the hardware is related to the graphics card, which must support OpenGL.
Transcranial Electrical Stimulation (TES) is an important procedure in intraoperative motor monitoring. When neurosurgery is performed at certain difficult locations within the central nervous system (CNS), TES evaluates CNS functions during surgical manipulations to prevent post-operative complications. In TES, electrical stimulation is provided to the motor cortex through electrodes placed on the scalp, generating action potentials which travel through the nervous system. Despite widespread use, the sites of activation (AP generation) within the brain are not well understood. We have integrated computational and neurophysiologic models including a 3D volume conduction head model computed using the finite element method, a realistic corticospinal tract (CST) model, and a geometry-specific axon activation model for the CST to predict the sites of activation along the CST as a function of electrode placement and stimulation voltage, which have been verified by epidural recordings. We then develop a simple meshing and rendering algorithm to display the activating function along the CST. We have found that the AP generation appears closely linked to regions of high CST curvature. Our model and rendering algorithm provide a window to visualize the effects of TES in the brain.
In the last decade, the potential role of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and prostaglandins (PGs) in brain diseases has been extensively studied. COX-2 over-expression has been associated with neurotoxiticy in acute conditions, such as hypoxia/ischemia and seizures, as well as in inflammatory chronic diseases, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the role played by COX-2 in neurodegenerative diseases is still controversial and further clinical and experimental studies are warranted. In addition, the emerging role of COX-2 in behavioural and cognitive functions strongly indicates that studies aimed at improving our knowledge of the physiological role of COX-2 in the central nervous system are crucial to fully understand the pros and cons of its manipulation in disabling neurological diseases.
A diachronic and synchronic interpretation of man and his relationship with the environment, with the contribution of the neurosciences and genetics, have made it possible to gain a better understanding of how organic, psychological, and environmental factors interact and contribute to the genesis of disease, whether mental or physical. The concepts of somatic configuration and interactional synchrony on which our model is based offer a unified approach to the relationship between man and his environment in which motor and relational capacities are aspects of a single process - one that aims to establish the best equilibrium with the environment in every moment depending on the individual's condition.

Subsecond dopamine (DA) concentration transients have previously been observed in behaving rats. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that DA transients can be pharmacologically induced in anesthetized rats. Coadministration of the D2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol, and the DA uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, results in significantly more DA transients than either drug alone. The results show that both D2 autoreceptors and the dopamine transporter regulate subsecond DA neurotransmission.
Prescription switch is a phenomenon of major interest for most of current questions in pharmacoepidemiology and pharmacoeconomics. However, only a few drug utilization studies focus on prescription switch description and analysis. Prescription switch can be considered at two different levels: global (drug market changes) or individual (description of patient's treatments patterns). The objective of this article is to describe the different types of prescription switch studies, according to this distinction. Objectives, type of data needed, and limits of each type of prescription switch study are presented.

For the last three decades torture has been highly prevalent in Iraq. Surveys indicate that close to 50% of households have family members who have been tortured. The traumas of two subsequent wars further add to the traumatisation of the population as does the persistent violence. Re-traumatisation makes healing difficult. As a result trauma-related disorders are likely to be the number one public health problem in Iraq. In December 2004, the author was tasked with the responsibility of planning and implementing rehabilitation activities for victims of torture in Iraq. Basra, in southern Iraq, was chosen as the place for the first clinical treatment and rehabilitation Centre, the Al-Fuad Centre for Rehabilitation of Torture Victims (FRCT). The Centre was to function as a training institution for the entire country. In a effort to bridge the gap between vast needs and limited resources, the Centre has begun applying a public health perspective, which means to develop its work in relation to the concepts of illness prevention and health promotion. Treatment and rehabilitation, i.e the secondary and tertiary levels of prevention, can be multiplied through the training of professionals who will be able to establish treatment facilities in new areas of Iraq. By training GPs, psychiatrists and physicians and by expanding FRCT services to victims' families, signs and symptoms of trauma can be addressed at early stages of disorder and long-term illness averted. Human Rights advocacy and legal work at the Centre will address the primary level of prevention through diminishing human rights abuses. Finally, engaging in the reconstruction of the civil society alongside other NGOs and government authorities is to build democracy, which is a cornerstone of health promotion, especially so when the illness panorama is related to violence.
Centrosomes serve as microtubule-organizing centers. However, centrosome function depends on microtubule organization and protein transport because the formation, positioning and maintenance of centrosomes require microtubule-dependent retrograde transport. Linker proteins that associate with the motor protein dynein, organelles and microtubules facilitate loading of cargos for retrograde transport and thus contribute to the composition and placement of the centrosome and other juxtanuclear protein complexes. Members of the hook family of proteins may function as adaptors to link various organelle cargos to dynein for transport and have also been implicated directly in centrosome positioning. Here, we show that mammalian hook2, a previously uncharacterized member of the hook family, localizes to the centrosome through all phases of the cell cycle, the C-terminal domain of hook2 directly binds to centriolin/CEP110, the expression of the C-terminal domain of centriolin/CEP110 alters the distribution of endogenous hook2 and mislocalized wild-type or mutant hook2 proteins perturb endogenous centrosomal and pericentrosomal proteins in cultured mammalian cells. In addition, interference with hook2 function results in the loss of the radial organization of microtubules and a defect in regrowth of microtubules following their nocodazole-induced depolymerization. Thus, we propose that hook2 contributes to the establishment and maintenance of centrosomal structure and function.
Current views of the parietal cortex have difficulty accommodating the human inferior parietal lobe (IPL) within a simple dorsal versus ventral stream dichotomy. In humans, lesions of the right IPL often lead to syndromes such as hemispatial neglect that are seemingly in accord with the proposal that this region has a crucial role in spatial processing. However, recent imaging and lesion studies have revealed that inferior parietal regions have non-spatial functions, such as in sustaining attention, detecting salient events embedded in a sequence of events and controlling attention over time. Here, we review these findings and show that spatial processes and the visual guidance of action are only part of the repertoire of parietal functions. Although sub-regions in the human superior parietal lobe and intraparietal sulcus contribute to vision-for-action and spatial functions, more inferior parietal regions have distinctly non-spatial attributes that are neither conventionally 'dorsal' nor conventionally 'ventral' in nature.
How does the brain represent number and perform mathematical calculations? According to a recent and provocative study by Tang and colleagues, it depends on which language you learn. They found that the divergent linguistic and cultural experiences of native Chinese and native English speakers are associated with distinct patterns of brain activity during mathematical processing. Their results raise important questions about the cognitive and neural specificity of cultural influences on mathematical processes and the core nature of mathematical cognition.
A factor that is common to the most-frequent neurodegenerative diseases is the accumulation of abnormal proteins that are associated with cellular dysfunction. Contrary to years of speculation, recent evidence suggests that soluble intermediates--not the visible pathological aggregates associated with disease--are the cause of neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that aggregate formation might be an adaptive stress response that is facilitated by neuronal protein triage molecules. In particular, the molecular co-chaperone CHIP (C terminus of HSC70-interacting protein) has been linked to several of these disorders, serving as a crucial catalyst for the ubiquitination of several heat shock protein (HSP)70 client proteins that are involved in neurodegenerative disease. Therefore, understanding the mechanisms that are involved in CHIP-mediated protein trafficking might provide invaluable clues to neuronal function, both in normal and diseased conditions.
In recent times, the perception of functional gastrointestinal disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has shifted fundamentally. Such disorders are now thought of as serious diseases characterized by perturbations in the neuronal regulation of gastrointestinal function. The concept of visceral hypersensitivity, the characterization of neuronal networks in the 'brain-gut axis' and the identification of several novel 5-HT-mediated mechanisms have contributed to this shift. Here, we review how some of the more promising of these new mechanisms (e.g. those involving 5-HT transporters and the 5-HT(2B), 5-HT(7) and putative 5-HT(1p) receptors) might lead to a range of second-generation therapies that could revolutionize the treatment of functional gastrointestinal disorders, particularly IBS.
Given that the action potential output of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) determines the nature of the visual information that is transmitted from the retina, an understanding of their intrinsic impulse firing characteristics is critical for an appreciation of the overall processing of visual information. Recordings from RGCs within an isolated whole-mount retina preparation showed that their normal impulse firing from the resting membrane potential (RMP) was linearly correlated in its frequency with the stimulus intensity. In addition to describing the relationship between the magnitude of the current injection and the resulting impulse frequency (F/I relationship), we have characterized the properties of individual action potentials when they are elicited from the RMP. In contrast, hyperpolarizing below the RMP revealed that RGCs displayed a time dependent anomalous rectification, manifested by the appearance of a depolarizing sag in their voltage response. When an adequate period of hyperpolarization was terminated, a fast phasic period of &quot;rebound excitation&quot; was observed, characterized by a brief phasic burst of impulse activity. When compared to equivalent action potential firing evoked by depolarizing from the RMP, rebound spiking was associated with a lower threshold and shorter latency for impulse activation as well as a prominent, phasic, burst-like doublet, or triplet of impulses. The rebound action potential had a more positive voltage overshoot and displayed a higher peak rate of rise in its upstroke than those correspondingly generated by depolarizing current pulses from the RMP. Blocking sodium spikes with TTX confirmed that the preceding hyperpolarization led to the recruitment and subsequent generation of a transient depolarizing voltage overshoot, which we have termed the net depolarizing overshoot (NDO). We propose that the NDO boosts the generation of sodium spikes by triggering rebound spikes on its upstroke and crest, thus accounting for the observed voltage dependent change in the firing pattern of RGCs.
We examined the functional properties of a low-voltage-activated (LVA) calcium current in ganglion cells of the neotenous tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) retina. Our analysis was based on whole-cell recordings from acutely dissociated ganglion cell bodies identified by retrograde dye injections. Using a continuously perfused cell preparation, the LVA current was isolated with the use of potassium channel blocking agents added to the bathing medium and the pipette solution, while tetrodotoxin was added to the bathing medium to block Na+ channels. Approximately 70% of ganglion cells had an easily identified LVA current. The LVA current activated at membrane potentials more positive than -90 mV, and inactivated rapidly. It was relatively insensitive to nickel (IC50 &gt; 500 microM) and amiloride (IC50 &gt; 750 microM). Voltage- and current-clamp studies allowed us to generate a model of this current using the NEURON simulation program. Studies were also carried out to measure the LVA Ca2+ current in ganglion cells with dendrites to confirm that it had a significant dendritic representation. Physiological mechanisms that may depend on LVA Ca2+ currents are discussed with an emphasis on the role that dendrites play in ganglion cell function.
X-linked photopigment polymorphism produces six different color vision phenotypes in most species of New World monkey. In the subfamily Callitrichinae, the three M/L alleles underlying these different phenotypes are present at unequal frequencies suggesting that selective pressures other than heterozygous-advantage operate on these alleles. Earlier we investigated this hypothesis with functional substitution, a technique using a computer monitor to simulate colors as they would appear to humans with monkey visual pigments (Visual Neuroscience 21:217-222, 2004). The stimuli were derived from measurements of ecologically relevant fruit and foliage. We found that discrimination performance depended on the relative spectral positioning of the substituted M and L pigment pair. Here we have undertaken a systematic examination of two simulation parameters--test field luminance and stimulus duration. Discriminability of the fruit colors depended on which phenotype was simulated but only at short stimulus durations and/or low luminances. Under such conditions, phenotypes with the larger pigment peak separations performed better. At longer durations and higher luminances, differences in performance across different substitutions tended to disappear. The stimuli used in this experiment were analyzed with several color discrimination models. There was limited agreement among the predictions made by these models regarding the capabilities of animals with different pigment pairs and none predicted the dependence of discrimination on changes in luminance and stimulus duration.
Although it is well established that attention affects visual performance in many ways, by using a novel paradigm [Carrasco, M., Ling, S., &amp; Read. S. (2004). Attention alters appearance. Nature Neuroscience, 7, 308-313.] it has recently been shown that attention can alter the perception of different properties of stationary stimuli (e.g., contrast, spatial frequency, gap size). However, it is not clear whether attention can also change the phenomenological appearance of moving stimuli, as to date psychophysical and neuro-imaging studies have specifically shown that attention affects the adaptability of the visual motion system. Here, in five experiments we demonstrated that attention effectively alters the perceived speed of moving stimuli, so that attended stimuli were judged as moving faster than less attended stimuli. However, our results suggest that this change in visual performance was not accompanied by a corresponding change in the phenomenological appearance of the speed of the moving stimulus.
The stop-signal or countermanding task probes the ability to control action by requiring subjects to withhold a planned movement in response to an infrequent stop signal which they do with variable success depending on the delay of the stop signal. We investigated whether performance of humans and macaque monkeys in a saccade countermanding task was influenced by stimulus and performance history. In spite of idiosyncrasies across subjects several trends were evident in both humans and monkeys. Response time decreased after successive trials with no stop signal. Response time increased after successive trials with a stop signal. However, post-error slowing was not observed. Increased response time was observed mainly or only after cancelled (signal inhibit) trials and not after noncancelled (signal respond) trials. These global trends were based on rapid adjustments of response time in response to momentary fluctuations in the fraction of stop signal trials. The effects of trial sequence on the probability of responding were weaker and more idiosyncratic across subjects when stop signal fraction was fixed. However, both response time and probability of responding were influenced strongly by variations in the fraction of stop signal trials. These results indicate that the race model of countermanding performance requires extension to account for these sequential dependencies and provide a basis for physiological studies of executive control of countermanding saccade performance.
We present the case of a boy who over time sequentially exhibited symptoms consistent with a pervasive developmental disorder, schizophreniform symptomatology, multiple motor and vocal tics, and myoclonus. During this period he experienced multiple episodes of group A beta-haemolytic streptococcal (strep) infection confirmed by culture and serological studies. We speculate that paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associated with strep (PANDAS) may have served as an element in a complex chain of causation influencing the expression of his symptoms. Our main emphasis is to utilize our case study as an example of the application in case formulation of the neuropsychiatric developmental model and of the neurodevelopmental model on symptom ontogenesis and clinical outcome.

A number of different gene polymorphisms have been found to dispose for the development of schizophrenia. However, no single gene polymorphism is sufficient for the precipitation of schizophrenia. Swedish psychosis patients (n=103) and control subjects (n=89) were analyzed for 36 single nucleotide polymorphisms in 30 candidate genes for schizophrenia. Evidence of association was analyzed with Bayesian statistical methods. Variants in the genes coding for dopamine-D2 receptor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neuropeptide Y (NPY), neuregulin 1, reelin and synapsin 3 showed association with schizophrenia, although few subjects were found in the minority allele for the two latter variants. The six gene variants, all with suspected connection to schizophrenia, were found to be risk factors when considered in combination, but not separately. The results indicate that the Bayesian statistical method gives additional possibilities in the search for risk factors for schizophrenia or other complex disorders.
The impact of Johann Gottfried von Herder on the broad spectrum of the history of ideas can hardly be estimated by separate categories derived from individual disciplines. It transcends the spheres of philosophy, theology, historiography and even medical anthropology--also because Herder, unlike many of his contemporary philosophers and hommes de lettres, was particularly interested in the neurophysiological and -anatomical investigations of his time. Herder's universal interest in human learning is reflected in numerous personal contacts to contemporary academic scholars and natural scientists, such as the Swiss theologian Johann Caspar Lavater, whose physiognomic doctrine mapped out a comprehensive research programme on character analysis, or the Mainz anatomist Samuel Thomas von Soemmering. Herder tightly received the latter's assumption about the interplay between the human soul and the anatomy of the brain. In this article, it shall be demonstrated that Herder's neurophilosophy was primarily influenced by a &quot;pandynamic assumption of nature&quot; and that it designated the brain centrally as a &quot;working tool of God&quot;--right between the human faculties of rationality, feeling and bodily development. The attractiveness of this concept to both basic brain research and clinical neurology was a result of his anthropological approach which combined latest developments in the natural sciences with a central perspective on the human sciences.

Na+,K+-ATPase and its specific inhibitor ouabain entered the 21st century with an entirely new set of properties, that are the focuses of the present review. (i) The adhesive property of the beta-subunit explains why is Na+,K+-ATPase expressed polarizedly on one side of epithelial cells, a crucial property to explain the exchange of substances between higher organisms and the environment; (ii) Ouabain was recently recognized to be a hormone. (iii) Na+,K+-ATPase is known to act as a receptor for hormone ouabain, (iv) binding of ouabain to the Na+,K+-ATPase modifies adhesion: at high concentrations the outcome is total detachment. (v) Ouabain-resistant cells and ouabain-sensitive ones establish a special type of cell-cell interaction, so that sensitive cells withstand the presence of otherwise lethal levels of ouabain. (vi) Hormone ouabain provokes relocalization of specific molecules from the submembrane scaffold to the nucleus, where these bind to promoters of genes involved in proliferation, differentiation, migration, etc. (vii) Finally, ouabain causes a retrieval of Na+,K+-ATPase from the plasma membrane. We speculate that this would reduce the driving force that operates co- and counter-transporters, which are responsible for the exchange of substances across epithelia.
Understanding basic neuronal mechanisms hold the hope for future treatment of brain disease. The 1st international conference on synapse, memory, drug addiction and pain was held in beautiful downtown Toronto, Canada on August 21-23, 2006. Unlike other traditional conferences, this new meeting focused on three major aims: (1) to promote new and cutting edge research in neuroscience; (2) to encourage international information exchange and scientific collaborations; and (3) to provide a platform for active scientists to discuss new findings. Up to 64 investigators presented their recent discoveries, from basic synaptic mechanisms to genes related to human brain disease. This meeting was in part sponsored by Molecular Pain, together with University of Toronto (Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physiology as well as Center for the Study of Pain). Our goal for this meeting is to promote future active scientific collaborations and improve human health through fundamental basic neuroscience researches. The second international meeting on Neurons and Brain Disease will be held in Toronto (August 29-31, 2007).

The effects of minocycline on behavioral changes and neurotoxicity in the dopaminergic neurons induced by the administration of methamphetamine (METH) were studied. Pretreatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg) was found to attenuate hyperlocomotion in mice after a single administration of METH (3 mg/kg). The development of behavioral sensitization after repeated administration of METH (3 mg/kg/day, once daily for 5 days) was significantly attenuated by pretreatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg). A reduction in the level of dopamine (DA) and its major metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), in the striatum after the repeated administration of METH (3 mg/kg x 3, 3-h interval) was attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by pretreatment with and the subsequent administration of minocycline (10, 20, or 40 mg/kg). Furthermore, minocycline (40 mg/kg) significantly attenuated a reduction in DA transporter (DAT)-immunoreactivity in the striatum after repeated administration of METH. In vivo microdialysis study demonstrated that pretreatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg) significantly attenuated increased extracellular DA levels in the striatum after the administration of METH (3 mg/kg). In addition, minocycline was not found to alter the concentrations of METH in the plasma or the brain after three injections of METH (3 mg/kg), suggesting that minocycline does not alter the pharmacokinetics of METH in mice. Interestingly, METH-induced neurotoxicity in the striatum was significantly attenuated by the post-treatment and subsequent administration of minocycline (40 mg/kg). These findings suggest that minocycline may be able to ameliorate behavioral changes as well as neurotoxicity in dopaminergic terminals after the administration of METH. Therefore, minocycline could be considered as a useful drug for the treatment of several symptoms associated with METH abuse in humans.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) in the hypothalamus are the site of a central circadian pacemaker, regulating overt rhythms of behaviour and coordinating the rhythmic activity of oscillators in peripheral tissues. Circadian rhythms in all tissues appear to arise from interacting transcriptional-translational feedback loops, involving a core set of clock genes. Whilst it seems likely that there will be broadly similar mechanisms between the central and peripheral oscillators, the extent to which the fine details of gene expression are conserved between different organs has yet to be assessed. In this study, we examine the molecular profile of clock genes within the central SCN pacemaker and peripheral oscillators, identifying differences in phasing, amplitude, waveform, and basal expression levels.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is one of several neurodegenerative diseases caused by expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the disease protein, in this case, ATAXIN-1 (ATXN1). A key question in the field is whether neurotoxicity is mediated by aberrant, novel interactions with the expanded protein or whether its wild-type functions are augmented to a deleterious degree. We examined soluble protein complexes from mouse cerebellum and found that the majority of wild-type and expanded ATXN1 assembles into large stable complexes containing the transcriptional repressor Capicua. ATXN1 directly binds Capicua and modulates Capicua repressor activity in Drosophila and mammalian cells, and its loss decreases the steady-state level of Capicua. Interestingly, the S776A mutation, which abrogates the neurotoxicity of expanded ATXN1, substantially reduces the association of mutant ATXN1 with Capicua in vivo. These data provide insight into the function of ATXN1 and suggest that SCA1 neuropathology depends on native, not novel, protein interactions.
Glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), secreted by skeletal muscle, triggers expression of the ETS transcription factor Pea3 in a subset of motor neurons in the spinal cord. In this issue, find that this retrograde GDNF-Pea3 signal controls dendrite patterning and assembly of a sensory-motor reflex circuit.
Bcl-2 is the best characterized member of a large family of proteins that regulate apoptosis. Although it is established that Bcl-2 localized at the mitochondria functions as an anti-apoptotic protein, the function of Bcl-2 at the nucleus remains unclear. Recently we showed that nuclear compartment-associated Bcl-2 inhibits transcription factor activation. Based on this observation, we hypothesized that presence of Bcl-2 at the nucleus may induce rather than protect cells from apoptosis. Here we investigated the putative apoptotic role of nuclear compartment-associated Bcl-2. Additionally, we examined the role of the Bcl-2 BH4 domain in mediating binding to FKBP38, the Bcl-2 mitochondrial chaperone. Our results demonstrate a novel, pro-apoptotic function for nuclear Bcl-2 and identify the Bcl-2 BH4 domain as a key regulator in mediating Bcl-2/FKBP38 binding. These results indicate that Bcl-2 has a dual role as both a protector and a killer and that the ability to switch roles depends on Bcl-2 subcellular localization.
Genomic imprinting refers to the parent-of-origin-specific epigenetic marking of a number of genes. This epigenetic mark leads to a bias in expression between maternally and paternally inherited imprinted genes, that in some cases results in monoallelic expression from one parental allele. Genomic imprinting is often thought to have evolved as a consequence of the intragenomic conflict between the parental alleles that occurs whenever there is an asymmetry of relatedness. The two main examples of asymmetry of relatedness are when there is partiality of parental investment in offspring (as is the case for placental mammals, where there is also the possibility of extended postnatal care by one parent), and in social groups where there is a sex-biased dispersal. From this evolutionary starting point, it is predicted that, at the behavioural level, imprinted genes will influence what can broadly be termed bonding and social behaviour. We examine the animal and human literature for examples of imprinted genes mediating these behaviours, and divide them into two general classes. Firstly, mother-offspring interactions (suckling, attachment and maternal behaviours) that are predicted to occur when partiality in parental investment in early postnatal offspring occurs; and secondly, adult social interactions, when there is an asymmetry of relatedness in social groups. Finally, we return to the evolutionary theory and examine whether there is a pattern of behavioural functions mediated by imprinted genes emerging from the limited data, and also whether any tangible predictions can be made with regards to the direction of action of genes of maternal or paternal origin.
Understanding the neurobiological substrates regulating normal social behaviours may provide valuable insights in human behaviour, including developmental disorders such as autism that are characterized by pervasive deficits in social behaviour. Here, we review the literature which suggests that the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin play critical roles in modulating social behaviours, with a focus on their role in the regulation of social bonding in monogamous rodents. Oxytocin and vasopressin contribute to a wide variety of social behaviours, including social recognition, communication, parental care, territorial aggression and social bonding. The effects of these two neuropeptides are species-specific and depend on species-specific receptor distributions in the brain. Comparative studies in voles with divergent social structures have revealed some of the neural and genetic mechanisms of social-bonding behaviour. Prairie voles are socially monogamous; males and females form long-term pair bonds, establish a nest site and rear their offspring together. In contrast, montane and meadow voles do not form a bond with a mate and only the females take part in rearing the young. Species differences in the density of receptors for oxytocin and vasopressin in ventral forebrain reward circuitry differentially reinforce social-bonding behaviour in the two species. High levels of oxytocin receptor (OTR) in the nucleus accumbens and high levels of vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR) in the ventral pallidum contribute to monogamous social structure in the prairie vole. While little is known about the genetic factors contributing to species-differences in OTR distribution, the species-specific distribution pattern of the V1aR is determined in part by a species-specific repetitive element, or 'microsatellite', in the 5' regulatory region of the gene encoding V1aR (avpr1a). This microsatellite is highly expanded in the prairie vole (as well as the monogamous pine vole) compared to a very short version in the promiscuous montane and meadow voles. These species differences in microsatellite sequence are sufficient to change gene expression in cell culture. Within the prairie vole species, intraspecific variation in the microsatellite also modulates gene expression in vitro as well as receptor distribution patterns in vivo and influences the probability of social approach and bonding behaviour. Similar genetic variation in the human AVPR1A may contribute to variations in human social behaviour, including extremes outside the normal range of behaviour and those found in autism spectrum disorders. In sum, comparative studies in pair-bonding rodents have revealed neural and genetic mechanisms contributing to social-bonding behaviour. These studies have generated testable hypotheses regarding the motivational systems and underlying molecular neurobiology involved in social engagement and social bond formation that may have important implications for the core social deficits characterizing autism spectrum disorders.
Visual cues from faces provide important social information relating to individual identity, sexual attraction and emotional state. Behavioural and neurophysiological studies on both monkeys and sheep have shown that specialized skills and neural systems for processing these complex cues to guide behaviour have evolved in a number of mammals and are not present exclusively in humans. Indeed, there are remarkable similarities in the ways that faces are processed by the brain in humans and other mammalian species. While human studies with brain imaging and gross neurophysiological recording approaches have revealed global aspects of the face-processing network, they cannot investigate how information is encoded by specific neural networks. Single neuron electrophysiological recording approaches in both monkeys and sheep have, however, provided some insights into the neural encoding principles involved and, particularly, the presence of a remarkable degree of high-level encoding even at the level of a specific face. Recent developments that allow simultaneous recordings to be made from many hundreds of individual neurons are also beginning to reveal evidence for global aspects of a population-based code. This review will summarize what we have learned so far from these animal-based studies about the way the mammalian brain processes the faces and the emotions they can communicate, as well as associated capacities such as how identity and emotion cues are dissociated and how face imagery might be generated. It will also try to highlight what questions and advances in knowledge still challenge us in order to provide a complete understanding of just how brain networks perform this complex and important social recognition task.
Faces are among the most important visual stimuli we perceive, informing us not only about a person's identity, but also about their mood, sex, age and direction of gaze. The ability to extract this information within a fraction of a second of viewing a face is important for normal social interactions and has probably played a critical role in the survival of our primate ancestors. Considerable evidence from behavioural, neuropsychological and neurophysiological investigations supports the hypothesis that humans have specialized cognitive and neural mechanisms dedicated to the perception of faces (the face-specificity hypothesis). Here, we review the literature on a region of the human brain that appears to play a key role in face perception, known as the fusiform face area (FFA). Section 1 outlines the theoretical background for much of this work. The face-specificity hypothesis falls squarely on one side of a longstanding debate in the fields of cognitive science and cognitive neuroscience concerning the extent to which the mind/brain is composed of: (i) special-purpose ('domain-specific') mechanisms, each dedicated to processing a specific kind of information (e.g. faces, according to the face-specificity hypothesis), versus (ii) general-purpose ('domain-general') mechanisms, each capable of operating on any kind of information. Face perception has long served both as one of the prime candidates of a domain-specific process and as a key target for attack by proponents of domain-general theories of brain and mind. Section 2 briefly reviews the prior literature on face perception from behaviour and neurophysiology. This work supports the face-specificity hypothesis and argues against its domain-general alternatives (the individuation hypothesis, the expertise hypothesis and others). Section 3 outlines the more recent evidence on this debate from brain imaging, focusing particularly on the FFA. We review the evidence that the FFA is selectively engaged in face perception, by addressing (and rebutting) five of the most widely discussed alternatives to this hypothesis. In section 4, we consider recent findings that are beginning to provide clues into the computations conducted in the FFA and the nature of the representations the FFA extracts from faces. We argue that the FFA is engaged both in detecting faces and in extracting the necessary perceptual information to recognize them, and that the properties of the FFA mirror previously identified behavioural signatures of face-specific processing (e.g. the face-inversion effect). Section 5 asks how the computations and representations in the FFA differ from those occurring in other nearby regions of cortex that respond strongly to faces and objects. The evidence indicates clear functional dissociations between these regions, demonstrating that the FFA shows not only functional specificity but also area specificity. We end by speculating in section 6 on some of the broader questions raised by current research on the FFA, including the developmental origins of this region and the question of whether faces are unique versus whether similarly specialized mechanisms also exist for other domains of high-level perception and cognition.

We examined the effects of tropisetron, a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT(3)) receptor antagonist and alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonist, on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (2 weeks) administration of tropisetron, but not ondansetron. Effects of tropisetron were significantly antagonized by co-administration of the alpha7 nicotinic receptor antagonist methyllycaconitine, suggesting the role of alpha7 nicotinic receptors in the active mechanisms of tropisetron. These findings suggest that tropisetron could be a potential therapeutic drug for cognitive deficits in schizophrenic patients.
The effect of systemic administration of lacosamide, a newly developed anti-epileptic, on neuropathic pain-like behaviors was examined in rats after ischemic injury to the infraorbital nerve or spinal cord using a photochemical method. In rats with infraorbital nerve injury, lacosamide reduced mechanical hypersensitivity and the effect was markedly stronger in female than in male rats. In spinal cord injured female rats 10-20 mg/kg lacosamide dose-dependently alleviated the mechanical and cold allodynia-like behaviors without causing motor impairments or marked sedation. Administration of lacosamide twice daily at 20 mg/kg for 7 days totally alleviated the allodynia-like state in spinally-injured rats with no tolerance. Following treatment cessation the cold and the static allodynia reappeared but the effect on dynamic mechanical allodynia (brushing) was maintained until day 11. Lacosamide also produced hypothermia at antinociceptive doses in rats. It is suggested that this novel compound may be useful as an analgesic for treating central and trigeminal neuropathic pain. Furthermore, there may be a gender difference to the effect of lacosamide with female rats being more responsive to the treatments.
ERB-041 (2-(3-Fluoro-4-hydroxyphenyl)-7-vinyl-1,3 benzoxazol-5-ol) is a selective estrogen receptor-beta agonist with activity in rodent models of rheumatoid arthritis and endometriosis. Clinical trials for these diseases are underway: however, the role of estrogen receptor-beta in modulating pain associated with inflammation remains unknown. These studies demonstrate that acutely administered ERB-041 is anti-hyperalgesic in preclinical models of chemical-induced and acute inflammatory pain, thus suggesting that ERB-041 may be useful for modulating pain associated with some types of inflammation.
A series of potent neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) ligands based on a 3,8-diazabicyclo[4.2.0]octane core have been synthesized and evaluated for affinity and agonist efficacy at the human high affinity nicotine recognition site (halpha4beta2) and in a rat model of persistent nociceptive pain (formalin model). Numerous analogs in this series exhibit picomolar affinity in radioligand binding assays and nanomolar agonist potency in functional assays, placing them among the most potent nAChR ligands known for the halpha4beta2 receptor. Several of the compounds reported in this study (i.e., 24, 25, 28, 30, 32, and 47) exhibit equivalent or greater affinity for the halpha4beta2 receptor relative to epibatidine, and like epibatidine, many exhibit robust analgesic efficacy in the rat formalin model of persistent pain.
Early endosome antigen 1 (EEA1), a peripheral membrane protein associated with the cytoplasmic face of early endosomes, controls vesicle fusion during endocytosis, as extensively studied in non-neuronal cells. In neurons, early endosomes are involved in recycling of synaptic vesicles and neurotransmitter receptors. Since certain patients bearing autoantibodies that target EEA1 develop neurological disease, we studied the subcellular distribution of EEA1 in neurons and the effect on neurotransmission of purified immunoglobulins from the serum of a patient bearing EEA1 autoantibodies. EEA1 was localized in the soma and in the postsynaptic nerve terminals. Electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal slices including purified EEA1 antibodies in the patch pipette solution, revealed a run-up of AMPA, N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate receptor-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents recorded from CA3 pyramidal neurons, which was absent in the recordings obtained in the presence of control human immunoglobulin G. Inclusion of human EEA1 antibodies had no effect on inhibitory post-synaptic responses. Recordings in the presence of a dominant-negative C-terminal EEA1 deletion mutant produced a similar effect as observed with human anti-EEA1 antibodies. This specific effect on the excitatory synaptic transmission may be due to the impairment of internalization of specific glutamate receptors and their subsequent accumulation in the synapse. These results may account for the neurological deficits observed in some patients developing EEA1 autoantibodies.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are multipotent cells that have the capacity for self-renewal and for differentiation into the major cell types of the nervous system, i.e. neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The molecular mechanisms regulating gene transcription resulting in NSC differentiation and cell lineage specification are slowly being unraveled. An important mechanism in transcriptional regulation is modulation of chromatin by histone acetylation and deacetylation, allowing or blocking the access of transcriptional factors to DNA sequences. The precise involvement of histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases (HDACs) in the differentiation of NSCs into mature functional neurons is still to be revealed. In this in vitro study we have investigated the effects of the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) on the differentiation pattern of embryonic mouse NSCs during culture in a minimal, serum-free medium, lacking any induction or growth factor. We demonstrated that under these basic conditions TSA treatment increased neuronal differentiation of the NSCs and decreased astrocyte differentiation. Most strikingly, electrophysiological recordings revealed that in our minimal culture system only TSA-treated NSC-derived neurons developed normal electrophysiological membrane properties characteristic for functional, i.e. excitable and firing, neurons. Furthermore, TSA-treated NSC-derived neurons were characterized by an increased elongation and arborization of the dendrites. Our study shows that chromatin structure modulation by HDACs plays an important role in the transcriptional regulation of the neuronal differentiation of embryonic NSCs particularly as far as the development of functional properties are concerned. Manipulation of HDAC activity may be an important tool to generate specific neuronal populations from NSCs for transplantation purposes.
The basal forebrain (BF) plays an important role in modulating cortical activity and influencing attention, learning and memory. These activities are fulfilled importantly yet not entirely by cholinergic neurons. Noncholinergic neurons also contribute and comprise GABAergic neurons and other possibly glutamatergic neurons. The aim of the present study was to estimate the total number of cells in the BF of the rat and the proportions of that total represented by cholinergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons. For this purpose, cells were counted using unbiased stereological methods within the medial septum, diagonal band, magnocellular preoptic nucleus, substantia innominata and globus pallidus in sections stained for Nissl substance and/or the neurotransmitter enzymes, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) or phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG). In Nissl-stained sections, the total number of neurons in the BF was estimated as approximately 355,000 and the numbers of ChAT-immuno-positive (+) as approximately 22,000, GAD+ approximately 119,000 and PAG+ approximately 316,000, corresponding to approximately 5%, approximately 35% and approximately 90% of the total. Thus, of the large population of BF neurons, only a small proportion has the capacity to synthesize acetylcholine (ACh), one third to synthesize GABA and the vast majority to synthesize glutamate (Glu). Moreover, through the presence of PAG, a proportion of ACh- and GABA-synthesizing neurons also has the capacity to synthesize Glu. In sections dual fluorescent immunostained for vesicular transporters, vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT) 3 and not VGluT2 was present in the cell bodies of most PAG+ and ChAT+ and half the GAD+ cells. Given previous results showing that VGluT2 and not VGluT3 was present in BF axon terminals and not colocalized with VAChT or VGAT, we conclude that the BF cell population influences cortical and subcortical regions through neurons which release ACh, GABA or Glu from their terminals but which in part can also synthesize and release Glu from their soma or dendrites.
We investigated the molecular mechanisms of the anti-apoptotic properties of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) on neurons and whether G-CSF affects glial cell survival following focal cerebral ischemia in rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a transient 90 min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) by the intraluminal occlusion technique. Rats were treated with either a single dose of G-CSF (50 microg/kg, s.c.) at the onset of reperfusion or G-CSF (50 microg/kg body weight, s.c.) was administered starting at the onset of reperfusion and followed by the administration of the same dose per day for an additional 2 days. Brains were harvested either 24 h, 72 h or 2 weeks after reperfusion for assays of infarct volume, immunohistological studies and Western blot analysis for phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (pSTAT3), Pim-1, bcl-2, Bax, cytochrome c, cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 2 (cIAP2), and cleaved caspase-3 levels. G-CSF significantly reduced infarct volume and ameliorated the early neurological outcome. G-CSF treatment significantly up-regulated pSTAT3, Pim-1, bcl-2 expression, and down-regulated cytochrome c release to the cytosol, Bax translocation to the mitochondria, and cleaved caspase-3 levels in neurons. The activation of the STAT3 pathway was accompanied by increased cIAP2 expression in glial cells. After MCAO, G-CSF treatment increased both neuronal and glial survival by effecting different anti-apoptotic pathways which reflects the multifactorial actions of this drug. These changes were associated with remarkable improvement in tissue preservation and behavioral outcome.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the standing body spatial disorientation, induced by neck muscle vibration, and the related post-effects can be suppressed by light finger touch (LFT) of a stationary surface. Continuous (60 s) vibration of dorsal neck or sternocleidomastoid muscle was administered with eyes closed. The center of foot pressure (CFP) displacement, measured by a stabilometric platform, indicated the degree of vibration-induced body tilt. We also investigated whether sensory information from LFT itself was necessary or anticipation of a more secure posture was enough for reducing vibration effects. To this aim, we administered a vibration pulse (5 s) to dorsal neck or sternocleidomastoid muscle and during reaching to the stationary surface. CFP was recorded during both vibration and post-vibration condition and during the aiming task. Neck vibration induced significant CFP displacement in the direction opposite to vibration site. Post-vibration, CFP slowly returned to control values with ample oscillations. LFT during vibration reduced body tilt. LFT was more effective when fingertip contact was in the plane of the greatest tilt. LFT applied during either vibration or post-vibration period reduced post-vibration effects. Reaching toward the stationary surface was enough for reducing vibration-induced body tilt to values close to those observed during actual LFT. The novel conclusions of this study are: 1) LFT is able to relieve the effects of vibration-induced abnormal proprioceptive input from the neck, a segment central to postural control and orientation; 2) LFT during vibration also attenuates vibration post-effects, further suggesting that its action is not merely mechanical; 3) the intention to stabilize the body generates a new postural 'set' sufficient for diminishing body tilt.
Connections of motor areas in the frontal cortex of prosimian galagos (Otolemur garnetti) were determined by injecting tracers into sites identified by microstimulation in the primary motor area (M1), dorsal premotor area (PMD), ventral premotor area (PMV), supplementary motor area (SMA), frontal eye field (FEF), and granular frontal cortex. Retrogradely labeled neurons for each injection were related to architectonically defined thalamic nuclei. Nissl, acetylcholinesterase, cytochrome oxidase, myelin, parvalbumin, calbindin, and Cat 301 preparations allowed the ventral anterior and ventral lateral thalamic regions, parvocellular and magnocellular subdivisions of ventral anterior nucleus, and anterior and posterior subdivisions of ventral lateral nucleus of monkeys to be identified. The results indicate that each cortical area receives inputs from several thalamic nuclei, but the proportions differ. M1 receives major inputs from the posterior subdivision of ventral lateral nucleus while premotor areas receive major inputs from anterior parts of ventral lateral nucleus (the anterior subdivision of ventral lateral nucleus and the anterior portion of posterior subdivision of ventral lateral nucleus). PMD and SMA have connections with more dorsal parts of the ventral lateral nucleus than PMV. The results suggest that galagos share many subdivisions of the motor thalamus and thalamocortical connection patterns with simian primates, while having less clearly differentiated subdivisions of the motor thalamus.
Aim: To investigate the cytoarchitectural basis of asymmetries in human auditory cortex. Minicolumn spacing and number, and regional cortical volume and surface area were measured in the primary auditory region (Heschl's gyrus, HG) and posterior auditory association region (planum temporale, PT) in 17 neurologically normal adults (10 female, seven male). PT surface area, minicolumn spacing and minicolumn number were greater in the left hemisphere. HG surface area was larger in the left hemisphere. Asymmetries of minicolumn number in primary and association auditory regions correlated with axonal fiber numbers in the subregions of the corpus callosum through which they project. PT minicolumn number was more asymmetrical in men than women but total number was similar in the two sexes. We conclude that asymmetry of the surface area of the PT is a function of minicolumn spacing. Fewer callosal projections between the plana are found when the minicolumn spacing is more asymmetrical.
Dopamine (DA) axons and receptors have recently been identified in the primate thalamus, including the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD). In order to determine whether the DA innervation of the primate MD shares the anatomical features of the mesocortical or nigrostriatal DA projections, we performed tract-tracing and immunocytochemistry studies in macaque monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) to identify the location of the DA neurons that project to MD and immuno-electron microscopy to determine the distribution of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in axons within the MD. Similar to the mesocortical projection, retrogradely-labeled, tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons were present in dorsal tier ventral mesencephalic nuclei, such as the ventral tegmental area and the dorsal portion of the substantia nigra pars compacta. In contrast, no dual-labeled neurons were present in the ventral tier nuclei, the primary origin of the nigrostriatal DA pathway. In addition, like the DA projection to the prefrontal cortex, DAT immunoreactivity was predominantly localized to the pre-terminal portion of axons in the MD, and was infrequently found in association with synaptic vesicles, in contrast to nigrostriatal DA axons. These findings indicate that the DA projection to the MD shares anatomical features with the mesocortical DA system, suggesting that the functional properties of DA neurotransmission in the MD might be more similar to those in the cortex than in the striatum.
In the rodent, arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH)-derived neuropeptide Y (NPY) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons have efferent projections throughout the hypothalamus that do not fully mature until the second and third postnatal weeks. Since this process is likely completed by birth in primates we characterized the ontogeny of NPY and melanocortin systems in the fetal Japanese macaque during the late second (G100), early third (G130) and late third trimesters (G170). NPY mRNA was expressed in the ARH, paraventricular nucleus (PVH), and dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH) as early as G100. ARH-derived NPY projections to the PVH were initiated at G100 but were limited and variable; however, there was a modest increase in density and number by G130. ARH-NPY/agouti-related peptide (AgRP) fiber projections to efferent target sites were completely developed by G170, but the density continued to increase in the postnatal period. In contrast to NPY/AgRP projections, alphaMSH fibers were minimal at G100 and G130 but were moderate at G170. This study also revealed several significant species differences between rodent and the nonhuman primate (NHP). There were few NPY/catecholamine projections to the PVH and ARH prior to birth, while projections were increased in the adult. A substantial proportion of the catecholamine fibers did not coexpress NPY. In addition, cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript (CART) and alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) were not colocalized in fibers or cell bodies. As a consequence of the prenatal development of these neuropeptide systems in the NHP, the maternal environment may critically influence these circuits. Additionally, because differences exist in the neuroanatomy of NPY and melanocortin circuitry the regulation of these systems may be different in primates than in rodents.
It is still a popular view that primary sensory cortices are unimodal, but recent physiological studies have shown that under certain behavioral conditions primary sensory cortices can also be activated by multiple other modalities. Here, we investigate the anatomical substrate, which may underlie multisensory processes at the level of the primary auditory cortex (field AI), and which may, in turn, enable AI to influence other sensory systems. We approached this issue by means of the axonal transport of the sensitive bidirectional neuronal tracer fluorescein-labeled dextran which was injected into AI of Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus). Of the total number of retrogradely labeled cell bodies (i.e. cells of origin of direct projections to AI) found in non-auditory sensory and multisensory brain areas, approximately 40% were in cortical areas and 60% in subcortical structures. Of the cell bodies in the cortical areas about 82% were located in multisensory cortex, viz., the dorsoposterior and ventroposterior, posterior parietal cortex, the claustrum, and the endopiriform nucleus, 10% were located in the primary somatosensory cortex (hindlimb and trunk region), and 8% in secondary visual cortex. The cortical regions with retrogradely labeled cells also contained anterogradely labeled axons and their terminations, i.e. they are also target areas of direct projections from AI. In addition, the primary olfactory cortex was identified as a target area of projections from AI. The laminar pattern of corticocortical connections suggests that AI receives primarily cortical feedback-type inputs and projects in a feedforward manner to its target areas. Of the labeled cell bodies in the subcortical structures, approximately 90% were located in multisensory thalamic, 4% in visual thalamic, and 6% in multisensory lower brainstem structures. At subcortical levels, we observed a similar correspondence of retrogradely labeled cells and anterogradely labeled axons and terminals in visual (posterior limitans thalamic nucleus) and multisensory thalamic nuclei (dorsal and medial division of the medial geniculate body, suprageniculate nucleus, posterior thalamic cell group, zona incerta), and in the multisensory nucleus of the brachium of the inferior colliculus. Retrograde, but not anterograde, labeling was found in the multisensory pontine reticular formation, particularly in the reticulotegmental nucleus of the pons. Conversely, anterograde, but no retrograde, labeling was found in the visual laterodorsal and lateroposterior thalamic nuclei, in the multisensory peripeduncular, posterior intralaminar, and reticular thalamic nuclei, as well as in the multisensory superior and pericentral inferior colliculi (including cuneiform and sagulum nucleus), pontine nuclei, and periaqueductal gray. Our study supports the notion that AI is not merely involved in the analysis of auditory stimulus properties but also in processing of other sensory and multisensory information. Since AI is directly connected to other primary sensory cortices (viz. the somatosensory and olfactory ones) multisensory information is probably also processed in these cortices. This suggests more generally, that primary sensory cortices may not be unimodal.
This study addressed variation in the use-dependent inactivation (UDI) of high-threshold tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ currents (TTX-R currents) and action potential firing behavior among acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. UDI was quantified as the percent decrease in current amplitude caused by increasing the current activation rate from 0.1-1.0 Hz for 20 s. TTX-R current UDI varied from 6% to 66% among 122 DRG cells examined, suggesting the existence of two or more levels of UDI. The voltage-dependency of the TTX-R currents was consistent with Na(V)1.8, regardless of UDI. However, TTX-R currents with more UDI had a more negative voltage-dependency of inactivation, a greater tendency to enter slow inactivation, and a slower recovery rate from slow inactivation, compared with those with less UDI. TTX-R currents with more UDI ran down faster than those with less UDI. However, UDI itself changed little over time, regardless of the initial UDI level observed in a particular DRG cell. Together, these two observations suggest that individual DRG cells did not express mixtures of TTX-R channels that varied regarding UDI. TTX-R current UDI was correlated with expression of a low-threshold A-current and whole-cell capacitance, suggesting that it varied among different nociceptor types. Whole-cell inward currents (WCI-currents), recorded without channel blockers, also exhibited UDI. WCI-current UDI varied similarly to TTX-R current UDI in magnitude, and relative to whole-cell capacitance and A-current expression, suggesting that the WCI-currents were carried predominantly by TTX-R channels. DRG cells with more WCI-current UDI exhibited a greater decrease in action potential amplitude and number, and a greater increase in action potential threshold over seven ramp depolarizations, compared with DRG cells with less WCI-current UDI. Variation in UDI of Na(V)1.8 channels expressed by different nociceptor types could contribute to shaping their individual firing patterns in response to noxious stimuli.
Previous studies have described altered expression of metallothioneins (MTs) in neurodegenerative diseases like multiple sclerosis (MS), Down syndrome, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to gain insight into the possible role of MTs in neurodegenerative processes and especially in human diseases, the use of animal models is a valuable tool. Several transgenic mouse models of AD amyloid deposits are currently available. These models express human beta-amyloid precursor protein (AbetaPP) carrying different mutations that subsequently result in a varied pattern of beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition within the brain. We have evaluated the expression of MT-I and MT-III mRNA by in situ hybridization in three different transgenic mice models of AD: Tg2576 (carrying AbetaPP harboring the Swedish K670N/M671L mutations), TgCRND8 (Swedish and the Indiana V717F mutations), and Tg-SwDI (Swedish and Dutch/Iowa E693Q/D694N mutations). MT-I mRNA levels were induced in all transgenic lines studied, although the pattern of induction differed between the models. In the Tg2576 mice MT-I was weakly upregulated in cells surrounding Congo Red-positive plaques in the cortex and hippocampus. A more potent induction of MT-I was observed in the cortex and hippocampus of the TgCRND8 mice, likely reflecting their higher amyloid plaques content. MT-I upregulation was also more significant in Tg-SwDI mice, especially in the subiculum and hippocampus CA1 area. Immunofluorescence stainings demonstrate that astrocytes and microglia/macrophages surrounding the plaques express MT-I&amp;II. In general, MT-I regulation follows a similar but less potent response than glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression. In contrast to MT-I, MT-III mRNA expression was not significantly altered in any of the models examined suggesting that the various MT isoforms may have different roles in these experimental systems, and perhaps also in human AD.
The vasopressin 1b receptor (Avpr1b) is one of two principal receptors mediating the behavioral effects of vasopressin (Avp) in the brain. Avpr1b has recently been shown to strongly influence social forms of aggression in mice and hamsters. This receptor appears to play a role in social recognition and motivation as well as in regulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Most of these studies have been performed in knockout mice, a species in which the localization of the Avpr1b has not been described, thus precluding correlations with the behaviors. We performed in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) with specific probes and found especially prominent expression within the CA2 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, with much lower expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and amygdala. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) confirmed expression in those as well other areas in which the ISHH was not sensitive enough to detect labeled cells (e.g. piriform cortex, septum, caudate-putamen and lower brainstem areas). Mouse Avpr1b transcript levels were not altered in the CA2 field by restraint stress or adrenalectomy. Finally, ISHH and RT-PCR showed expression of the Avpr1b gene in the rat and human hippocampi as well. We suggest that the CA2 field may form or retrieve associations (memories) between olfactory cues and social encounters.
A unique feature of temporal lobe epilepsy is the formation of recurrent excitatory connections among granule cells of the dentate gyrus as a result of mossy fiber sprouting. This novel circuit contributes to a reduced threshold for granule cell synchronization. In the rat, activity of the recurrent mossy fiber pathway is restrained by the neoexpression and spontaneous release of neuropeptide Y (NPY). NPY inhibits glutamate release tonically through activation of presynaptic Y2 receptors. In the present study, the effects of endogenous and applied NPY were investigated in C57Bl/6 mice that had experienced pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and subsequently developed a robust recurrent mossy fiber pathway. Whole cell patch clamp recordings made from dentate granule cells in hippocampal slices demonstrated that, as in rats, applied NPY inhibits recurrent mossy fiber synaptic transmission, the Y2 receptor antagonist (S)-N2-[[1-[2-[4-[(R,S)-5,11-dihydro-6(6H)-oxodibenz[b,e]azepin-11-yl]-1-piperazinyl]-2-oxoethyl]cyclopentyl]acetyl]-N-[2-[1,2-dihydro-3,5(4H)-dioxo-1,2-diphenyl-3H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]ethyl]-argininamide (BIIE0246) blocks its action and BIIE0246 enhances synaptic transmission when applied by itself. Y5 receptor agonists had no significant effect. Thus spontaneous release of NPY tonically inhibits synaptic transmission in mice and its effects are mediated by Y2 receptor activation. However, both NPY and BIIE0246 were much less effective in mice than in rats, despite apparently equivalent expression of NPY in the recurrent mossy fibers. Immunohistochemistry indicated greater expression of Y2 receptors in the mossy fiber pathway of normal mice than of normal rats. Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus markedly reduced the immunoreactivity of mouse mossy fibers, but increased the immunoreactivity of rat mossy fibers. Mossy fiber growth into the inner portion of the dentate molecular layer was associated with increased Y2 receptor immunoreactivity in rat, but not in mouse. These contrasting receptor changes can explain the quantitatively different effects of endogenously released and applied NPY on recurrent mossy fiber transmission in mice and rats.
In the present study we combined FM 1-43 imaging and electrophysiological recording of miniature end-plate currents (MEPCs) to determine the role of extracellular calcium in synaptic vesicle exo- and endocytosis at the frog motor nerve terminals. We replaced extracellular Ca2+ ions with other bivalent cations (Sr2+, Ba2+, Cd2+, Mg2+) or used a calcium-free solution and monitored fluorescent staining of the nerve terminals in the presence of caffeine, which promotes the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Caffeine has induced FM1-43 internalization only in the presence of bivalent cations in the external solution. The exposure of the neuromuscular junction to caffeine in a calcium-free solution caused a reversible failure of FM 1-43 loading and an increase in the nerve terminal width. This effect of a calcium-free solution was not due to a decrease in exocytosis, because caffeine-induced FM1-43 unloading from the previously loaded nerve terminals, as well as a degree of the MEPCs frequency increase, was unchanged. We conclude that the presence of Ca2+ or other bivalent cations in extracellular space is necessary for endocytosis but not for exocytosis of synaptic vesicles, while transmitter release is promoted by efflux of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. The effect of extracellular Ca2+ on endocytosis might be driven by the non-specific interactions with membrane lipids.

Ample data indicate that tone and contextual fear conditioning differentially require the amygdala and the hippocampus. However, mechanisms subserving the adaptive selection among environmental stimuli (discrete tone vs context) of those that best predict an aversive event are still elusive. Because the hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission is thought to play a critical role in the coordination between different memory systems leading to the selection of appropriate behavioral strategies, we hypothesized that this cholinergic signal may control the competing acquisition of amygdala-mediated tone and contextual conditioning. Using pavlovian fear conditioning in mice, we first show a higher level of hippocampal acetylcholine release and a specific pattern of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activation within the lateral (LA) and basolateral (BLA) amygdala under conditions in which the context is a better predictor than a discrete tone stimulus. Second, we demonstrate that levels of hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission are causally related to the patterns of ERK1/2 activation in amygdala nuclei and actually determine the selection among the context or the simple tone the stimulus that best predicts the aversive event. Specifically, decreasing the hippocampal cholinergic signal not only impaired contextual conditioning but also mimicked conditioning to the discrete tone, both in terms of the behavioral outcome and the LA/BLA ERK1/2 activation pattern. Conversely, increasing this cholinergic signal not only disrupted tone conditioning but also promoted contextual fear conditioning. Hence, these findings highlight that hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission controls amygdala function, thereby leading to the selection of relevant emotional information.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a key regulator of hippocampal synaptic plasticity in the developing and adult nervous system. It can be released from pyramidal neuron dendrites in an activity-dependent manner and has therefore been suggested to serve as a signal that provides the retrograde intercellular communication necessary for Hebbian plasticity and hippocampal-dependent learning. Although much has been learned about BDNF function by field stimulation of hippocampal neurons, it is not known whether moderate action potential-independent depolarization of single cells is capable of releasing sufficient BDNF to influence transmission at individual synapses. In this study, we show directly at the single-cell level that such modulation can occur. By using K-252a, anti-BDNF antibody, and interruption of regulated release, we confirm a model in which postsynaptic depolarization elicits calcium-dependent release of BDNF that diffuses retrogradely and enhances presynaptic transmitter release.
Biochemical and genetic data suggest that synaptotagmin-2 functions as a Ca2+ sensor for fast neurotransmitter release in caudal brain regions, but animals and/or synapses lacking synaptotagmin-2 have not been examined. We have now generated mice in which the 5' end of the synaptotagmin-2 gene was replaced by lacZ. Using beta-galactosidase as a marker, we show that, consistent with previous studies, synaptotagmin-2 is widely expressed in spinal cord, brainstem, and cerebellum, but is additionally present in selected forebrain neurons, including most striatal neurons and some hypothalamic, cortical, and hippocampal neurons. Synaptotagmin-2-deficient mice were indistinguishable from wild-type littermates at birth, but subsequently developed severe motor dysfunction, and perished at approximately 3 weeks of age. Electrophysiological studies in cultured striatal neurons revealed that the synaptotagmin-2 deletion slowed the kinetics of evoked neurotransmitter release without altering the total amount of release. In contrast, synaptotagmin-2-deficient neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) suffered from a large reduction in evoked release and changes in short-term synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, in mutant NMJs, the frequency of spontaneous miniature release events was increased both at rest and during stimulus trains. Viewed together, our results demonstrate that the synaptotagmin-2 deficiency causes a lethal impairment in synaptic transmission in selected synapses. This impairment, however, is less severe than that produced in forebrain neurons by deletion of synaptotagmin-1, presumably because at least in NMJs, synaptotagmin-1 is coexpressed with synaptotagmin-2, and both together mediate fast Ca2+-triggered release. Thus, synaptotagmin-2 is an essential synaptotagmin isoform that functions in concert with other synaptotagmins in the Ca2+ triggering of neurotransmitter release.
The expression of the neuron-specific K+/Cl- cotransporter (KCC2) is restricted to the CNS and is strongly upregulated during neuronal maturation, yielding a low intracellular chloride concentration that is required for fast synaptic inhibition in adult neurons. To elucidate the mechanisms of KCC2 gene regulation, we analyzed the KCC2 (alias Slc12a5) promoter and proximal intron-1 regions and revealed 10 candidate transcription factor binding sites that are highly conserved in mammalian KCC2 genes. Here we focus on one of these factors, early growth response 4 (Egr4), which shows a similar developmental upregulation in CNS neurons as KCC2. KCC2 luciferase reporter constructs containing the Egr4 site (Egr4(KCC2)) were strongly induced by Egr4 overexpression in neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells and in cultured neurons. Egr4-mediated induction was decreased significantly by point-mutating the Egr4(KCC2). Insertion of Egr4(KCC2) into the KCC2 basal promoter in the endogenous reverse, but not in the opposite, orientation reestablished Egr4-mediated induction. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay confirmed specific Egr4 binding to Egr4(KCC2). Interference RNA-mediated knock-down of Egr4 and a dominant-negative isoform of Egr4 significantly inhibited KCC2 reporter induction and endogenous KCC2 expression in cultured neurons. Together, the results indicate an important role for Egr4 in the developmental upregulation of KCC2 gene expression.
The widespread, massive loss of developing neurons in the central and peripheral nervous system of birds and mammals is generally considered to be an evolutionary adaptation. However, until recently, models for testing both the immediate and long-term consequences of preventing this normal cell loss have not been available. We have taken advantage of several methods for preventing neuronal death in vivo to ask whether rescued neurons [e.g., motoneurons (MNs)] differentiate normally and become functionally incorporated into the nervous system. Although many aspects of MN differentiation occurred normally after the prevention of cell death (including the expression of several motoneuron-specific markers, axon projections into the ventral root and peripheral nerves, ultrastructure, dendritic arborization, and afferent axosomatic synapses), other features of the neuromuscular system (MNs and muscle) were abnormal. The cell bodies and axons of MNs were smaller than normal, many MN axons failed to become myelinated or to form functional synaptic contacts with target muscles, and a subpopulation of rescued cells were transformed from alpha- to gamma-like MNs. Additionally, after the rescue of MNs in myogenin glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (MyoGDNF) transgenic mice, myofiber differentiation of extrafusal skeletal muscle was transformed and muscle physiology and motor behaviors were abnormal. In contrast, extrafusal myofiber phenotype, muscle physiology, and (except for muscle strength tests) motor behaviors were all normal after the rescue of MNs by genetic deletion of the proapoptotic gene Bax. However, there was an increase in intrafusal muscle fibers (spindles) in Bax knock-out versus both wild-type and MyoGDNF mice. Together, these data indicate that after the prevention of MN death, the neuromuscular system becomes transformed in novel ways to compensate for the presence of the thousands of excess cells.
Increased release of substance P (SP) from the dorsal horn following noxious stimuli, such as spinal administration of capsaicin, has been demonstrated in previous studies. However, changes in the release of SP in response to intradermal injection of capsaicin still remain unknown. This study was designed to demonstrate in vivo spinal SP release following intradermal injection of capsaicin (3%, 50 microl), using polyimide tubing with a single hole introduced into the rat dorsal horn. The changes in the content of SP in the rat dorsal horn tissues before and after capsaicin (3%, 50 microl) injection were also investigated. The SP concentration in the samples was analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We found that intradermal injection of capsaicin induced a quick SP release within the dorsal horn. The peak of the release appeared around 10 min after the injection. In contrast, intradermal injection of capsaicin had no significant effect on the SP content in the dorsal horn. This study has provided direct evidence of the effect of intradermal injection of capsaicin on SP release within the dorsal horn, with the major source being from the central terminals of primary afferents.
There are numerous studies reporting on the crucial roles of neurotrophins (NTFs) in neuronal survival and sprouting after spinal cord injury (SCI). But studies on endogenous changes of neurotrophins after SCI are few. In this study we explored by means of immunohistochemistry the localization of NGF, BDNF and NT-3 in the normal adult spinal cord (SC) and the changes in the expression of these chemicals in the ventral horn after right cord hemisection at T9-10. The results showed an obvious increase in the numbers of NGF, BDNF and NT-3-immunoreactive neurons in the ventral horn and also an increase in their intracellular optical density (O.D.) at 3, 7 and 21 days after cord hemisection, when compared with sham-operated rats. The expression of NGF peaked at 7 days postoperation (dpo), while BDNF and NT-3 expressions peaked at 3 dpo. Evaluation of hindlimb functions by Basso Beattie Bresnahan (BBB) scoring showed that the hindlimb support and stepping function improved very quickly at 7 dpo. This study indicated that NGF, BDNF and NT-3 could play important but different roles in the mechanisms of spinal neuroplasticity at different times after SCI.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been suggested to play an important role in physiopathology of schizophrenia. The polymorphisms in the genes encoding antioxidant enzymes, such as manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) should, thus, result in predisposition to this psychiatric disorder. A functional amino acid polymorphism (Ala9Val) has been described in the signal sequence of enzyme associated with a decreased defense capacity against oxidative stress. Preliminary evidence in a Turkey population indicated that this polymorphism contributes to physiopathogenesis of schizophrenia. The object of this study was to verify the association between Ala9Val and schizophrenia in a representative Italian sample. The polymorphism was genotyped by PCR amplification and Single-Stranded Conformational Polymorphism (SSCP) analysis in 212 DSMIV schizophrenic patients and 257 healthy volunteers. No association was observed between cases and controls (genotype and allele frequencies: p = 0.72, p = 0.55, respectively) even when a sample stratification for gender, age at onset and diagnostic subtypes was performed. This suggests that the gene variant could not be a risk factor for schizophrenia susceptibility in an Italian sample.
We compared the responsiveness of the Cervical Dystonia Impact Profile (CDIP-58), Medical Outcome Study Short Form-Health Survey (SF-36), Functional Disability Questionnaire (FDQ), and Pain and Activities of Daily Living subscales of the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS) in participants with cervical dystonia treated with botulinum toxin A. Subscales of CDIP-58 were more sensitive in detecting statistical and clinical change than comparable subscales of the SF-36, FDQ, and TWSTRS.


The use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in the neurosurgical setting has a number of implications, including their possible role in the prevention of seizures after acute cerebral insults or brain tumors and the potential for toxicity and interactions when these agents are administered in association with radiotherapy or chemotherapy. This review discusses these controversial issues and draws the following conclusions. 1) AEDs should be prescribed on a short-term basis to prevent seizures occurring within the first week after a cerebral insult (trauma, neurosurgical procedure) but are ineffective to avoid true post-traumatic epilepsy or first seizures in patients with primary or secondary cerebral neoplasms. 2) The use of phenytoin and, to a lesser extent, phenobarbital and carbamazepine during cranial irradiation is associated with an increased risk for severe, potentially fatal, mucocutaneous reactions. In this context, new AEDs with a very low potential for allergic cutaneous reactions should be preferred. 3) Enzyme-inducing AEDs, such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine, may increase the clearance and reduce the clinical efficacy of corticosteroids and anticancer agents that are also metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system. The newly developed AEDs that are devoid of hepatic metabolism, such as levetiracetam and gabapentin, are now recommended because of good results in preliminary studies and because they do not show interactions with anticancer agents.
Neuronal NMDA receptors (NMDARs) colocalize with postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), a putative NMDAR anchoring protein and core component of the PSD, at excitatory synapses. PKC activation and PSD-95 expression each enhance NMDAR channel opening rate and number of functional channels at the cell surface. Here we show in Xenopus oocytes that PSD-95 and PKC potentiate NMDA gating and trafficking in a nonadditive manner. PSD-95 and PKC each enhance NMDA channel activity, with no change in single-channel conductance, reversal potential or mean open time. PSD-95 and PKC each potentiate NMDA channel opening rate (k(beta)) and number of functional channels at the cell surface (N), as indicated by more rapid current decay and enhanced charge transfer in the presence of the open channel blocker MK-801. PSD-95 and PKC each increase NMDAR surface expression, as indicated by immunofluorescence. PKC potentiates NMDA channel function and NMDAR surface expression to the same final absolute values in the absence or presence of PSD-95. Thus, PSD-95 partially occludes PKC potentiation. We further show that Ser-1462, a putative phosphorylation target within the PDZ-binding motif of the NR2A subunit, is required for PSD-95-induced potentiation and partial occlusion of PKC potentiation. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments with cortical neurons in culture indicate that PKC activation promotes assembly of NR2 with NR1, and that the newly assembled NMDARs are not associated with PSD-95. These findings predict that synaptic scaffolding proteins and protein kinases convergently modulate NMDAR gating and trafficking at synaptic sites.
The plasma membrane (PM) contains redox enzymes that provide electrons for energy metabolism and recycling of antioxidants such as coenzyme Q and alpha-tocopherol. Brain aging and neurodegenerative disorders involve impaired energy metabolism and oxidative damage, but the involvement of the PM redox system (PMRS) in these processes is unknown. Caloric restriction (CR), a manipulation that protects the brain against aging and disease, increased activities of PMRS enzymes (NADH-ascorbate free radical reductase, NADH-quinone oxidoreductase 1, NADH-ferrocyanide reductase, NADH-coenzyme Q10 reductase, and NADH-cytochrome c reductase) and antioxidant levels (alpha-tocopherol and coenzyme Q10) in brain PM during aging. Age-related increases in PM lipid peroxidation, protein carbonyls, and nitrotyrosine were attenuated by CR, levels of PMRS enzyme activities were higher, and markers of oxidative stress were lower in cultured neuronal cells treated with CR serum compared with those treated with ad libitum serum. These findings suggest important roles for the PMRS in protecting brain cells against age-related increases in oxidative and metabolic stress.

Following his training under Winkler and carrying out research at the Central Institute for Brain Research in Amsterdam, in 1923 Bernard Brouwer (1881-1949) became the firstprofessor ofneurologyindependent from psychiatry, in the Netherlands. His most important scientific work included comparative anatomical studies of the cerebellum and the projection of retinal fibres on the geniculate body and occipital cortex. He gained international fame and in 1926, during one of his American lecture tours, he was invited to fill the new chair of experimental neurology at Johns Hopkins University. He refused this offer and instead started a new university clinic for neurology in Amsterdam, which included neurosurgery. He did however send a surgeon--Dr. Oljenick--to America to be trained by Cushing. The Amsterdam neurology clinic became an international exchange centre for students of neuroscience. The difficult decisions he had to make during his rectorate in the Second World War, were criticised in 1945. During the last years of his life, he was director of the Central Institute for Brain Research.
Hyperthermia (HT) is a therapeutic strategy based on the selective damaging of tumoral cells when heated at temperatures in the range 41-45 degrees C. We are currently investigating the feasibility of Ultrasound (US) imaging to perform a non-invasive, efficient and cost effective temperature monitoring of heated tissues. Commercial US contrast agents (Sonovue, Bracco), consisting in microbubbles of SF(6) coated with a phospholipidic shell, greatly improve the US echo signal from tissues. Further investigations have been performed, consisting in physico-chemical and US-imaging characterization. In conclusion, we demonstrate that Sonovue microbubbles reach their maximal diameter at 40 degrees C, and then a sharp decrease is observed, possible due to the occurrence of gel-sol transition of the phospholipidic shell. At the same temperature the maximal backscattering intensity is predicted and actually experimentally observed. Sonovue, as well as other contrast agents based only on phospholipids, are, therefore, not suitable for use as non-invasive temperature monitoring medium since it is sensitive to temperatures below the hyperthermic range. Although microbubbles are in principle thermally effective, other coating materials should be investigated in order to increase their operative thermal range.
Despite apparent relationships between ischemic stroke and the acute phase response (APR), considerable variation in the APR exists between individuals. We therefore performed post-hoc analysis of individual APR profiles in 31 patients with ischemic stroke in relation to volume of brain infarction. Patients with ischemic stroke had serial blood samples taken within 12 h, and up to 12 months of symptom onset, for analysis of plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Computed tomography (CT) brain infarct volume was measured at 5 to 7 days (median 23.9 cm(3)). An increase in plasma CRP after the admission sample was evident in 94% of patients by day 5 to 7 (median increase 558% of admission value). CRP response, assessed as area under the curve between admission and day 5 to 7, correlated strongly (r=0.62, p&lt;0.001) with CT infarct volume. Those with greater infarct volumes had more evidence of infection, either prior to or during the first week after stroke. The pattern of response was similar for IL-6, although only 77% showed an increase in plasma IL-6 after the admission sample (median increase 148% of admission value). These data suggest that, although infection and other factors may contribute to systemic inflammation, the extent of acute brain injury after ischemic stroke is a major factor influencing the magnitude and variability of the APR.
ALS is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder for which no effective treatment exists. The precise molecular mechanisms underlying the selective degeneration of motor neurons are still unknown. A motor neuron specific apoptotic pathway involving Fas and NO has been discovered. Motor neurons from ALS-mice have an increased sensitivity to Fas-induced cell death via this pathway. In this study we therefore crossed G93A-SOD1 overexpressing ALS mice with Fas ligand (FasL) mutant (gld) mice to investigate whether the reduced Fas signaling could have beneficial effects on motor neuron death. G93A-SOD1 mutant mice with a homozygous FasL mutant showed a modest but statistically significant extension of survival, and reduced loss of motor neurons. These results indicate that motor neuron apoptosis triggered by Fas is relevant in ALS pathogenesis.
Most of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesized during glucose metabolism is produced in the mitochondria through oxidative phosphorylation. This is a complex reaction powered by the proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane, which is generated by mitochondrial respiration. A detailed model of this reaction, which includes dynamic equations for the key mitochondrial variables, was developed earlier by Magnus and Keizer. However, this model is extraordinarily complicated. We develop a simpler model that captures the behavior of the original model but is easier to use and to understand. We then use it to investigate the mitochondrial responses to glycolytic and calcium input. We use the model to explain experimental observations of the opposite effects of raising cytosolic Ca(2+)in low and high glucose, and to predict the effects of a mutation in the mitochondrial enzyme nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase (Nnt) in pancreatic beta-cells.

When humans attempt to perform two tasks at once, execution of the first task usually leads to postponement of the second one. This task delay is thought to result from a bottleneck occurring at a central, amodal stage of information processing that precludes two response selection or decision-making operations from being concurrently executed. Using time-resolved functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), here we present a neural basis for such dual-task limitations, e.g. the inability of the posterior lateral prefrontal cortex, and possibly the superior medial frontal cortex, to process two decision-making operations at once. These results suggest that a neural network of frontal lobe areas acts as a central bottleneck of information processing that severely limits our ability to multitask.
Movements are universally, sometimes frustratingly, variable. When such variability causes error, we typically assume that something went wrong during the movement. The same assumption is made by recent and influential models of motor control. These posit that the principal limit on repeatable performance is neuromuscular noise that corrupts movement as it occurs. An alternative hypothesis is that movement variability arises before movements begin, during motor preparation. We examined this possibility directly by recording the preparatory activity of single cortical neurons during a highly practiced reach task. Small variations in preparatory neural activity were predictive of small variations in the upcoming reach. Effect magnitudes were such that at least half of the observed movement variability likely had its source during motor preparation. Thus, even for a highly practiced task, the ability to repeatedly plan the same movement limits our ability to repeatedly execute the same movement.
Activation of the protease caspase-3 is commonly thought to cause apoptotic cell death. Here, we show that caspase-3 activity is regulated at postsynaptic sites in brain following stimuli associated with memory (neural activation and subsequent response habituation) instead of cell death. In the zebra finch auditory forebrain, the concentration of caspase-3 active sites increases briefly within minutes after exposure to tape-recorded birdsong. With confocal and immunoelectron microscopy, we localize the activated enzyme to dendritic spines. The activated caspase-3 protein is present even in unstimulated brain but bound to an endogenous inhibitor, BIRC4 (xIAP), suggesting a mechanism for rapid release and sequestering at specific synaptic sites. Caspase-3 activity is necessary to consolidate a persistent physiological trace of the song stimulus, as demonstrated using pharmacological interference and the zenk gene habituation assay. Thus, the brain appears to have adapted a core component of cell death machinery to serve a unique role in learning and memory.
Neural progenitors in the adult dentate gyrus continuously produce new functional granule cells. Here we used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to explore whether a pathological environment influences synaptic properties of new granule cells labeled with a GFP-retroviral vector. Rats were exposed to a physiological stimulus, i.e., running, or a brain insult, i.e., status epilepticus, which gave rise to neuronal death, inflammation, and chronic seizures. Granule cells formed after these stimuli exhibited similar intrinsic membrane properties. However, the new neurons born into the pathological environment differed with respect to synaptic drive and short-term plasticity of both excitatory and inhibitory afferents. The new granule cells formed in the epileptic brain exhibited functional connectivity consistent with reduced excitability. We demonstrate a high degree of plasticity in synaptic inputs to adult-born new neurons, which could act to mitigate pathological brain function.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) is thought to mediate morphological responses to a variety of extracellular signals. Surprisingly, we found no gross morphological deficits in nervous system development in GSK-3beta null mice. We therefore designed an shRNA that targeted both GSK-3 isoforms. Strong knockdown of both GSK-3alpha and beta markedly reduced axon growth in dissociated cultures and slice preparations. We then assessed the role of different GSK-3 substrates in regulating axon morphology. Elimination of activity toward primed substrates only using the GSK-3 R96A mutant was associated with a defect in axon polarity (axon branching) compared to an overall reduction in axon growth induced by a kinase-dead mutant. Consistent with this finding, moderate reduction of GSK-3 activity by pharmacological inhibitors induced axon branching and was associated primarily with effects on primed substrates. Our results suggest that GSK-3 is a downstream convergent point for many axon growth regulatory pathways and that differential regulation of primed versus all GSK-3 substrates is associated with a specific morphological outcome.
Women at risk for preterm delivery are treated with synthetic glucocorticoids (GCs) to enhance fetal lung maturation. GCs can bind to two intracellular receptors, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), which function as transcription factors. Both are highly expressed in the hippocampus. Several studies have focused on adverse side effects of antenatal GC treatment. However, relatively little is known about the ontogeny of GR and MR, especially in human. Therefore, we studied the ontogeny of both receptors in the human and mouse hippocampus and investigated the effects of antenatal dexamethasone (dex) treatment, a synthetic glucocorticoid, on MR and GR mRNA levels during hippocampal development. The results demonstrate that MR mRNA was first expressed in mouse hippocampus at embryonic day (E)15.5, at the timepoint when dex was administered. In contrast, GR mRNA expression was first observed after birth at postnatal day (P)5. However, in the human hippocampus both receptors are expressed at 24 weeks of gestation, when antenatal GCs are administered in clinical practice. Quantitative in situ hybridization demonstrated that MR mRNA levels were reduced only shortly after dex treatment at E16, but were unaffected from E18 onwards. These findings indicate that a single antenatal dex administration at E15.5 transiently affects MR mRNA levels in the mouse hippocampus. No effect of antenatal dex treatment was found on the human hippocampus at the third trimester of pregnancy. These data on the prenatal ontogeny of both corticosteroid receptors in the human hippocampus is important for understanding the significance of fetal glucocorticoid or stress exposure and its potential effects on health and disease.
Melatonin is implicated in numerous physiological processes, including circadian rhythms, stress, and reproduction, many of which are mediated by the hypothalamus and pituitary. The physiological actions of melatonin are mainly mediated by melatonin receptors. We here describe the distribution of the melatonin receptor MT1 in the human hypothalamus and pituitary by immunocytochemistry. MT1 immunoreactivity showed a widespread pattern in the hypothalamus. In addition to the area of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a number of novel sites, including the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), periventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus (SON), sexually dimorphic nucleus, the diagonal band of Broca, the nucleus basalis of Meynert, infundibular nucleus, ventromedial and dorsomedial nucleus, tuberomamillary nucleus, mamillary body, and paraventricular thalamic nucleus were observed to have neuronal MT1 receptor expression. No staining was observed in the nucleus tuberalis lateralis and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The MT1 receptor was colocalized with some vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the SCN, colocalized with some parvocellular and magnocellular AVP and oxytocine (OXT) neurons in the PVN and SON, and colocalized with some parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the PVN. In the pituitary, strong MT1 expression was observed in the pars tuberalis, while a weak staining was found in the posterior and anterior pituitary. These findings provide a neurobiological basis for the participation of melatonin in the regulation of various hypothalamic and pituitary functions. The colocalization of MT1 and CRH suggests that melatonin might directly modulate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in the PVN, which may have implications for stress conditions such as depression.
Numerous physiological conditions and emotionally motivated behaviors require concomitant activation of somatomotor and sympathetic efferents. Using a virally mediated retrograde transsynaptic tract-tracing approach, we have previously determined locations of presympathetic-premotor neurons (PSPMNs) in the rat brainstem. These putative dual-function neurons send projections to somatomotor and sympathetic targets and likely participate in sympatho-somatomotor integration. A significant portion of these neurons is found within brainstem areas known to contain serotonergic neurons. Thus, we hypothesized that some of the PSPMNs utilize serotonin as their neurotransmitter. To test this hypothesis we first produced an antibody against TPH2, a brain-specific isoform of tryptophan hydroxylase (serotonin synthetic enzyme). We identified PSPMNs by using recombinant strains of the pseudorabies virus (PRV) for transsynaptic tract-tracing. PRV-152, a strain that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein, was injected into sympathectomized gastrocnemius muscle, while PRV-BaBlu, which expresses beta-galactosidase, was injected into the adrenal gland in the same animals. Using immunofluorescent methods we determined whether coinfected neurons expressed TPH2. Our findings demonstrate that TPH2-positive PSPMNs are present at different rostrocaudal levels of the brainstem. Just over half of them are found at the pontomedullary junction within raphe obscurus, raphe magnus, and gigantocellular nucleus pars alpha. These cells may play a role in mediating responses to acute pain stimuli and/or participate in the central control of exercise. Overactivity of these serotonergic sympatho-somatomotor circuits may also play a role in the pathophysiology of serotonin syndrome.
Natural selection operates on phenotypic variation that exists within a population. Variable aspects of cortical organization, such as the size and connections of a cortical field, can generate differences in behavior, which is a target of natural selection. Yet studies pertaining to within-species variability in cortical organization are limited. In the present investigation, we examined variation in brain size, cortical sheet size, and primary sensory cortical field sizes in the adult short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica). Within individuals, we found no significant difference between the right and left hemispheres in the overall size of the dorsolateral cortex or in primary cortical field sizes. Between individuals, we found relatively little intraspecies variation in brain weight, brain volume, and cortical sheet area for the dorsolateral neocortex and pyriform cortex; however, we observed a large degree of variability in body weight and primary sensory cortical field size, as defined by myeloarchitecture. Further, we found that the size of each cortical field correlated with the size of the other cortical fields as well as with the total size of the dorsolateral cortex. Here we discuss the possible sources of variation and examine the relationship between cortical field size and sensory processing abilities and behaviors across species. Since behavior is the target of natural selection, variation in cortical field size across individuals may supply the raw material necessary for cortical field evolution.
The projection of olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axons to the olfactory bulb (OB) is a complex but well-regulated process. Although odorant receptor proteins, and other molecules, are implicated in this process, our understanding remains incomplete. We demonstrate that axons remain restricted to the outer olfactory nerve layer (ONLo) until they are proximal to their target glomeruli, where they enter the inner ONL (ONLi), dividing the ONL into extension and sorting zones. Sorting is likely contingent on cell:cell interactions mediated in part by cell adhesion molecules. The cadherins are a large family of adhesion molecules whose function is contingent on their intracellular binding partners, the catenins, which in turn link to the cytoskeleton. We previously demonstrated that the organization of the cytoskeleton changed as olfactory sensory neuron axons moved from the ONLo to the ONLi. To further assess the role of cadherin mediated adhesion in the developing mouse ONL, we localized alpha-, beta-, gamma-, delta-, and p120-catenins as well as neural cadherin (N-cadherin; CDH2) in the OB. alpha- and beta-catenins are found throughout the OB and are uniform throughout the ONL. In contrast, gamma-catenin and CDH2 are expressed predominantly in the ONLo during perinatal development, but are uniform across the ONL beginning at P7 and into adulthood. Finally, p120- and delta-catenins are expressed in nonoverlapping patterns by olfactory axons and OB neuronal dendrites, respectively. We conclude that gamma-catenin-mediated CDH2 adhesion may influence OSN targeting by restricting axons to the ONLo until they reach the appropriate domain of the OB.

The regulated translation of localized mRNAs in neurons provides a mechanism for spatially restricting gene expression in a synapse-specific manner. To identify the population of mRNAs present in distal neuronal processes of rodent hippocampal neurons, we grew neurons on polycarbonate filters etched with 3 microm pores. Although the neuronal cell bodies remained on the top surface of the filters, dendrites, axons, and glial processes penetrated through the pores to grow along the bottom surface of the membrane where they could be mechanically separated from cell bodies. Quantitative PCR and immunochemical analyses of the process preparation revealed that it was remarkably free of somatic contamination. Microarray analysis of RNA isolated from the processes identified over 100 potentially localized mRNAs. In situ hybridization studies of 19 of these transcripts confirmed that all 19 were present in dendrites, validating the utility of this approach for identifying dendritically localized transcripts. Many of the identified mRNAs encoded components of the translational machinery and several were associated with the RNA-binding protein Staufen. These findings indicate that there is a rich repertoire of mRNAs whose translation can be locally regulated and support the emerging idea that local protein synthesis serves to boost the translational capacity of synapses.
Normal age-related testosterone depletion in men is a recently identified risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), but how androgen loss affects the development of AD is unclear. To investigate the relationship between androgen depletion and AD, we compared how androgen status affects the progression of neuropathology in the triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg-AD). Adult male 3xTg-AD mice were sham gonadectomized (GDX) or GDX to deplete endogenous androgens and then exposed for 4 months to either the androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or to placebo. In comparison to gonadally intact 3xTg-AD mice, GDX mice exhibited robust increases in the accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta), the protein implicated as the primary causal factor in AD pathogenesis, in both hippocampus and amygdala. In parallel to elevated levels of Abeta, GDX mice exhibited significantly impaired spontaneous alternation behavior, indicating deficits in hippocampal function. Importantly, DHT treatment of GDX 3xTg-AD mice attenuated both Abeta accumulation and behavioral deficits. These data demonstrate that androgen depletion accelerates the development of AD-like neuropathology, suggesting that a similar mechanism may underlie the increased risk for AD in men with low testosterone. In addition, our finding that DHT protects against acceleration of AD-like neuropathology predicts that androgen-based hormone therapy may be a useful strategy for the prevention and treatment of AD in aging men.
The production and aggregation of cerebral amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide are thought to play a causal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously, we found that the Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) interacts physically with both Abeta and the amyloid precursor protein (APP). The inverse correlation of Abeta levels with NgR levels within the brain may reflect regulation of Abeta production and/or Abeta clearance. Here, we assess the potential therapeutic benefit of peripheral NgR-mediated Abeta clearance in APPswe/PSEN-1deltaE9 transgenic mice. Through site-directed mutagenesis, we demonstrate that the central 15-28 aa of Abeta associate with specific surface-accessible patches on the leucine-rich repeat concave side of the solenoid structure of NgR. In transgenic mice, subcutaneous NgR(310)ecto-Fc treatment reduces brain Abeta plaque load while increasing the relative levels of serum Abeta. These changes in Abeta are correlated with improved spatial memory in the radial arm water maze. The benefits of peripheral NgR administration are evident when therapy is initiated after disease onset. Thus, the peripheral association of NgR(310)ecto-Fc with central Abeta residues provides an effective therapeutic approach for AD.
Previous experience with stressors over which the subject has behavioral control blocks the typical behavioral consequences of subsequent exposure to stressors over which the organism has no behavioral control. The present experiments explored the involvement of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv) in mediating this &quot;immunizing&quot; or resilience producing effect of an initial experience with control. Behavioral immunization was blocked by inactivation of the mPFCv with muscimol at the time of the initial experience with control, as well as at the time of the later exposure to uncontrollable stress. Inhibition of protein synthesis within the mPFCv by anisomycin also blocked immunization when administered at the time of the initial controllable stress but had no effect when administered at the time of the later uncontrollable stress. Additional experiments found that the initial experience with control blocks the intense activation of serotonergic cells in the dorsal raphe nucleus that would normally be produced by uncontrollable stress, providing a mechanism for behavioral immunization. Furthermore, mPFCv activity during the initial controllable stressor was required for this effect to occur. These results suggest that the mPFCv is needed both to process information about the controllability of stressors and to utilize such information to regulate responses to subsequent stressors. Moreover, the mPFCv may be a site of storage or plasticity concerning controllability information. These results are consistent with recent research in other domains that explore the functions of the mPFCv.
Thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF1) [also known as Nkx2.1 (related to the NK-2 class of homeobox genes) and T/ebp (thyroid-specific enhancer-binding protein)], a homeodomain gene required for basal forebrain morphogenesis, remains expressed in the hypothalamus after birth, suggesting a role in neuroendocrine function. Here, we show an involvement of TTF1 in the control of mammalian puberty and adult reproductive function. Gene expression profiling of the nonhuman primate hypothalamus revealed that TTF1 expression increases at puberty. Mice in which the Ttf1 gene was ablated from differentiated neurons grew normally and had normal basal ganglia/hypothalamic morphology but exhibited delayed puberty, reduced reproductive capacity, and a short reproductive span. These defects were associated with reduced hypothalamic expression of genes required for sexual development and deregulation of a gene involved in restraining puberty. No extrapyramidal impairments associated with basal ganglia dysfunction were apparent. Thus, although TTF1 appears to fulfill only a morphogenic function in the ventral telencephalon, once this function is satisfied in the hypothalamus, TTF1 remains active as part of the transcriptional machinery controlling female sexual development.
Classical NMDA receptors (NMDARs), activated by glycine and glutamate, are heteromultimers comprised of NR1 and NR2 subunits. Coexpression of the novel NR3 family of NMDAR subunits decreases the magnitude of NR1/NR2 receptor-mediated currents or forms glycine-activated channels with the NR1 subunit alone. The second (M2) and third (M3) membrane segments of NR1 and NR2 subunits of classical NMDARs form the core of the channel permeation pathway. Structural information regarding NR1/NR3 channels remains unknown. Using the Xenopus oocyte expression system and the SCAM (substituted cysteine accessibility method), we found that M3 segments of both NR1 and NR3A form a narrow constriction in the outer vestibule of the channel, which prevents passage of externally applied sulfhydryl-specific agents. The most internal reactive residue in each M3 segment is the threonine in the conserved SYTANLAAF motif. These threonines appear to be symmetrically aligned. Several NR3A M3 mutations change the behavior of NR1/NR3A channels. Unlike NR1, however, the M3 segment of NR3A does not undergo extensive molecular rearrangement during channel gating by added glycine. Additionally, in the M2 segment, our data suggest that the amino acid at the asparagine (N) site of NR1, but not NR3A, contributes to the selectivity filter of NR1/3A channels. We therefore conclude that NR3A modulates the NR1/NR3A permeation pathway via a novel mechanism of forming a narrow constriction at the outer channel vestibule. This modified channel vestibule may also explain the dominant-negative effect of the NR3 subunit on channel behavior when coexpressed with NR1 and NR2 subunits.
A segregating splice site mutation in the CHMP2B gene has been shown in the single Danish family which has been reported to show linkage between dementia and chromosome 3 markers. Despite extensive analysis, no other segregating mutations have been found in other kindreds, although some point variants have been found both in sporadic cases and in controls. We recently found a premature stop codon in a person without dementia and this led us to investigate whether the splice site mutation in the Danish kindred did not explain the disease, but rather was hitchhiking on the segregating disease haplotype. We determined to test this possibility by sequencing every other gene on the haplotype in a case from the kindred. We did not find any other unique variants. The implications of these findings for the likely mode of pathogenesis of frontal temporal dementia are discussed.
The complex genetic etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is indicative of a multifactorial syndrome. A combination of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions may determine a variable phenotypic outcome. Recently a direct gene/protein interaction between two of the most common genetic causes of parkinsonism PRKN and LRRK2 has been postulated. We have identified three Spanish patients simultaneously harboring mutations in PRKN and LRRK2. In comparison to other Spanish patients with a single LRRK2 or PRKN mutation, the three double-mutation patients reported here do not present with an earlier age-at-onset or a faster progression of disease. Although the clinical findings do not support a synergistic effect of LRRK2 and PRKN, a potential genetic interplay might be concealed by the modulating effects of other genes. Nevertheless, this work demonstrates that the presence of mutations in one familial gene should not serve as exclusion criteria in a screen for further genetic variation. Direct interaction of Lrrk2 and parkin proteins was not observed in co-immunoprecipitation pull down experiments. However, in vivo studies are required to assess whether there is an indirect link between Lrrk2 and parkin in disease pathogenesis.


Late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) and long-term memory depend on the transcription of mRNA of CRE-driven genes and synthesis of proteins. However, how synaptic signals propagate to the nucleus is unclear. Here we report that the CREB coactivator TORC1 (transducer of regulated CREB activity 1) undergoes neuronal activity-induced translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, a process required for CRE-dependent gene expression and L-LTP. Overexpressing a dominant-negative form of TORC1 or down-regulating TORC1 expression prevented activity-dependent transcription of CREB target genes in cultured hippocampal neurons, while overexpressing a wild-type form of TORC1 facilitated basal and activity-induced transcription of CREB target genes. Furthermore, overexpressing the dominant-negative form of TORC1 suppressed the maintenance of L-LTP without affecting early-phase LTP, while overexpressing the wild-type form of TORC1 facilitated the induction of L-LTP in hippocampal slices. Our results indicate that TORC1 is essential for CRE-driven gene expression and maintenance of long-term synaptic potentiation.
Making sequential decisions to harvest rewards is a notoriously difficult problem. One difficulty is that the real world is not stationary and the reward expected from a contemplated action may depend in complex ways on the history of an animal's choices. Previous functional neuroimaging work combined with principled models has detected brain responses that correlate with computations thought to guide simple learning and action choice. Those works generally employed instrumental conditioning tasks with fixed action-reward contingencies. For real-world learning problems, the history of reward-harvesting choices can change the likelihood of rewards collected by the same choices in the near-term future. We used functional MRI to probe brain and behavioral responses in a continuous decision-making task where reward contingency is a function of both a subject's immediate choice and his choice history. In these more complex tasks, we demonstrated that a simple actor-critic model can account for both the subjects' behavioral and brain responses, and identified a reward prediction error signal in ventral striatal structures active during these non-stationary decision tasks. However, a sudden introduction of new reward structures engages more complex control circuitry in the prefrontal cortex (inferior frontal gyrus and anterior insula) and is not captured by a simple actor-critic model. Taken together, these results extend our knowledge of reward-learning signals into more complex, history-dependent choice tasks. They also highlight the important interplay between striatum and prefrontal cortex as decision-makers respond to the strategic demands imposed by non-stationary reward environments more reminiscent of real-world tasks.
Skilled object manipulation requires knowledge, or internal models, of object dynamics relating applied force to motion , and our ability to handle myriad objects indicates that the brain maintains multiple models . Recent behavioral studies have shown that once learned, an internal model of an object with novel dynamics can be rapidly recruited and derecruited as the object is grasped and released . We used event-related fMRI to investigate neural activity linked to grasping an object with recently learned dynamics in preparation for moving it after a delay. Subjects also performed two control tasks in which they either moved without the object in hand or applied isometric forces to the object. In all trials, subjects received a cue indicating which task to perform in response to a go signal delivered 5-10 s later. We examined BOLD responses during the interval between the cue and go and assessed the conjunction of the two contrasts formed by comparing the primary task to each control. The analysis revealed significant activity in the ipsilateral cerebellum and the contralateral and supplementary motor areas. We propose that these regions are involved in internal-model recruitment in preparation for movement execution.
A cell responds to a chemotactic signal by activating actin polymerization and forming a protrusion oriented towards the source. Recent work shows that the activity of cofilin, a protein that creates new barbed ends for actin filament elongation, amplifies and specifies the direction of the response in carcinoma cells.
In an immersive virtual reality environment, subjects fail to notice when a scene expands or contracts around them, despite correct and consistent information from binocular stereopsis and motion parallax, resulting in gross failures of size constancy (A. Glennerster, L. Tcheang, S. J. Gilson, A. W. Fitzgibbon, &amp; A. J. Parker, 2006). We determined whether the integration of stereopsis/motion parallax cues with texture-based cues could be modified through feedback. Subjects compared the size of two objects, each visible when the room was of a different size. As the subject walked, the room expanded or contracted, although subjects failed to notice any change. Subjects were given feedback about the accuracy of their size judgments, where the &quot;correct&quot; size setting was defined either by texture-based cues or (in a separate experiment) by stereo/motion parallax cues. Because of feedback, observers were able to adjust responses such that fewer errors were made. For texture-based feedback, the pattern of responses was consistent with observers weighting texture cues more heavily. However, for stereo/motion parallax feedback, performance in many conditions became worse such that, paradoxically, biases moved away from the point reinforced by the feedback. This can be explained by assuming that subjects remap the relationship between stereo/motion parallax cues and perceived size or that they develop strategies to change their criterion for a size match on different trials. In either case, subjects appear not to have direct access to stereo/motion parallax cues.
Phosphoinositides are thought to play an important role in clathrin-coated pit (CCP) dynamics. Biochemical and structural studies have shown a direct interaction of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2] with endocytic clathrin adaptors, whereas functional studies using cell-free systems or intact cells have demonstrated the importance of PI(4,5)P2 synthesis and dephosphorylation in clathrin coating and uncoating, respectively. Furthermore, genetic manipulations of kinases and phosphatases involved in PI(4,5)P2 metabolism result in major defects in synaptic vesicle recycling and other forms of clathrin-dependent endocytosis. However, live imaging studies of these enzymes at CCPs have not been conducted. We have used multicolor total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM) to visualize the spatial-temporal recruitment of synaptojanin 1 (SJ1), a polyphosphoinositide phosphatase, and its binding partner endophilin to CCPs. Strikingly, we observed differential temporal recruitment of the two major SJ1 splice variants to CCPs. The 145-kDa isoform, the predominant isoform expressed in the brain, was rapidly recruited as a &quot;burst,&quot; together with endophilin, at a late stage of CCP formation. In contrast, the nonneuronal ubiquitously expressed 170-kDa isoform of SJ1 was present at all stages of CCP formation. These results raise the possibility that dynamic phosphoinositide metabolism may occur throughout the lifetime of a CCP.
PSD-95 is a major protein found in virtually all mature excitatory glutamatergic synapses in the brain. Here, we have addressed the role of PSD-95 in controlling glutamatergic synapse function by generating and characterizing a PSD-95 KO mouse. We found that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)subtype of glutamate receptor (AMPAR)-mediated synaptic transmission was reduced in these mice. Two-photon (2P) uncaging of MNI-glutamate onto individual spines suggested that the decrease in AMPAR function in the PSD-95 KO mouse stems from an increase in the proportion of &quot;silent&quot; synapses i.e., synapses containing N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) but no AMPARs. Unexpectedly, the silent synapses in the KO mouse were located onto morphologically mature spines. We also observed that a significant population of synapses appeared unaffected by PSD-95 gene deletion, suggesting that the functional role of PSD-95 displays synapse-specificity. In addition, we report that the decay of NMDAR-mediated current was slower in KO mice: The contribution of NR2B subunit containing receptors to the NMDAR-mediated synaptic current was greater in KO mice. The greater occurrence of silent synapses might be related to the greater magnitude of potentiation after long-term potentiation induction observed in these mice. Together, these results suggest a synapse-specific role for PSD-95 in controlling synaptic function that is independent of spine morphology.

Gonadal hormones have primarily slow, genomically mediated effects, but copulation requires rapid interactions with a partner. A major way in which hormones facilitate male sexual behavior is by increasing production of neurotransmitter receptors or of enzymes that regulate neurotransmitter synthesis or release. Dopamine is an important facilitative neurotransmitter, and the medial preoptic area (MPOA) is a critical integrative site for male sexual behavior. MPOA dopamine is released before and during mating and facilitates copulation, genital reflexes, and sexual motivation. Gonadal hormones regulate dopamine release in the MPOA of male rats in part by increasing nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the MPOA; the resultant increase in production of nitric oxide (NO) increases both basal and female-stimulated dopamine release. Glutamate also increases dopamine release via increased production of NO. At least some of the glutamatergic inputs to the MPOA are from the medial amygdala (MeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), which mediate the female-stimulated increase in dopamine, which in turn enhances copulatory ability. Extracellular glutamate in the MPOA increases during copulation, especially during ejaculation, and increased glutamate facilitates copulation and genital reflexes. Previous sexual experience also facilitates copulation and confers resistance to impairment by various lesions, drugs, and stress. Experience enhances processing of sexual stimuli, and its effects require activation of glutamate NMDA receptors and NOS in the MPOA. Neuronal NOS is increased in the MPOA of experienced males. Therefore, glutamate, NO, and dopamine interact in the MPOA to facilitate mating and to enhance future sexual responsiveness.
Social attachments play a central role in human society. In fact, such attachments are so important that deficits in the ability to form meaningful social bonds are associated with a variety of psychological disorders. Although mother-infant bonding has been studied for many years, we only recently have begun to examine the processes that underlie social bonds between adults. Over the past decade, central dopamine has become a focus of such research, especially its role in pair bonding between mates in species that display monogamous life strategies. Neuroanatomical and pharmacological studies in rodents have firmly established central dopamine systems, especially the mesocorticolimbic dopamine circuitry, in the formation, expression, and maintenance of monogamous pair bonds. As this research has progressed, it has become apparent that there is considerable overlap between the processes that underlie pair bonding and those that mediate responses to abused substances. This suggests that social bonding and substance abuse each may affect the other. Herein we review the current state of knowledge of central dopamine involvement in pair bond formation, expression, and maintenance. We first describe the neuroanatomical substrate within which dopamine exerts its effects on social bonding. We then describe dopamine receptor subtype-specific influences on pair bonding and how dopamine receptor activation may interact with activation of other neurochemical systems. Finally, we describe possible interactions between social bonding and substance abuse.
Generalised anxiety disorder is a persistent and common disorder, in which the patient has unfocused worry and anxiety that is not connected to recent stressful events, although it can be aggravated by certain situations. This disorder is twice as common in women than it is in men. Generalised anxiety disorder is characterised by feelings of threat, restlessness, irritability, sleep disturbance, and tension, and symptoms such as palpitations, dry mouth, and sweating. These symptoms are recognised as part of the anxiety syndrome rather than independent complaints. The symptoms overlap greatly with those of other common mental disorders and we could regard the disorder as part of a spectrum of mood and related disorders rather than an independent disorder. Generalised anxiety disorder has a relapsing course, and intervention rarely results in complete resolution of symptoms, but in the short term and medium term, effective treatments include psychological therapies, such as cognitive behavioural therapy; self-help approaches based on cognitive behavioural therapy principles; and pharmacological treatments, mainly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.

Theories of the neurobiological basis of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) have largely focused on dysregulation of central dopaminergic function. However, other neurotransmitter systems may be implicated in specific cognitive deficits in ADHD. Interest in the potential involvement of nicotinic cholinergic systems in ADHD has arisen in part from the observation that adolescents and adults with ADHD smoke cigarettes at significantly higher rates than people without this disorder. In addition, several studies report that nicotine alleviates ADHD symptoms, and recent neuro-genetics studies indicate that cholinergic systems may be altered in persons with ADHD. In this review, we describe the evidence for a role of central nicotinic cholinergic systems in cognitive deficits in ADHD. We also propose mechanisms by which alterations in cholinergic function may contribute directly and/or indirectly to these deficits. Finally, we identify specific paradigms and models to guide future investigations into the specific involvement of nicotinic cholinergic systems in ADHD, possibly leading to the development of more effective pharmacotherapies for ADHD.
Dopaminergic agonists, such as apomorphine and amphetamine, have been shown to drastically reduce prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex. The effects of the indirect dopamine agonist cocaine on prepulse inhibition have only been described in a few reports and have yielded conflicting results, possibly due to individual differences within and between rat strains. In this study we therefore used apomorphine-susceptible and apomorphine-unsusceptible rats, as an animal model for individual differences, to study the effects of cocaine (20, 30 mg/kg i.p.) on prepulse inhibition. In addition we tested whether the cocaine-induced deficit in prepulse inhibition could be reversed by the D2-antagonist remoxipride (5 mg/kg i.p.), the alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) and the 5-HT2-antagonist ketanserin (2.0 mg/kg i.p.). Cocaine strongly reduced prepulse inhibition in apomorphine-susceptible rats, but had no effect at all on apomorphine-unsusceptible rats. Remoxipride had no effect on prepulse inhibition, but prazosin and ketanserin increased prepulse inhibition. Both remoxipride and prazosin reversed the cocaine-induced deficit in prepulse inhibition, whereas ketanserin did not. We conclude that apomorphine-susceptible rats are extremely sensitive to the effects of cocaine on prepulse inhibition, while apomorphine-unsusceptible rats are not. The effects of cocaine on prepulse inhibition in apomorphine-susceptible rats were mediated by D2-receptors, but not by 5-HT2-receptors or alpha-1 adrenoceptors.
Forelimb/hand motor cortex injury in rodents and primates causes impairments in skilled paw/hand movements that includes a period of movement absence followed by functional recovery/compensation. Although the postsurgical period of movement absence has been attributed to &quot;shock&quot; or &quot;diaschisis&quot;, the behavior of animals during this period has not been fully described. Here, rats were trained to reach for single food pellets from a shelf and then the vasculature of the forelimb region of the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the reaching limb was removed. A control group received a posterior parietal cortex devasularization. Frame-by-frame video analysis of reaching behavior showed that the stages of the acquisition of skilled reaching and the stages of recovery after motor cortex stroke were similar. The animals sequentially learn three relationships or &quot;oppositions&quot; between a body part and the food target. The oppositions are invariant relationships but each can be achieved with movements that can vary from reach to reach and between rats. A snout-pellet opposition organizes the movements of orienting, a paw-pellet opposition organizes limb transport and grasping the pellet in the digits, and a mouth-pellet opposition organizes limb withdrawal and the release of the food into the mouth. The three oppositions and the movements that they recruit were disrupted after motor cortex damage, but not parietal cortex damage. The oppositions were reestablished after stroke in the order in which they were acquired prior to stroke. Enduring impairments were more noticeable in transport and withdrawal oppositions. That the stages of recovery from motor cortex stroke parallel those of initial acquisition are discussed in relation to contemporary explanations of diaschisis and the contribution of motor cortex to motor learning.
Adult male, but not female, rats demonstrate a suppression in hippocampal cell proliferation in response to an acute predator odour stress. The present study examined the effect of activational levels of androgens on stress-induced changes in hippocampal cell proliferation and defensive and non-defensive behaviours in adult male rats. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were castrated and exposed to trimethylthiazoline (TMT, the main component of fox feces). Androgen status did not significantly affect TMT-induced suppression in hippocampal cell proliferation or expression of defensive burying. However, castrated males did not show an increase in duration of stretch attends (a risk assessment behaviour) in response to TMT. The results of this study suggest that activational levels of androgens in the male rat do not directly regulate the sex difference in stress-induced suppression of hippocampal cell proliferation but do regulate risk assessment behaviour.
Very limited is known about p53 expression in the normal mammalian brain and only few alternative splice variants have been reported thus far in human and rat peripheral tissues. Here, we detected eight new p53 transcripts in the human brain generated by alternative splicing, whereas two were present in the rat brain. Almost all alternative splice events occurred due to atypical splice mechanism employing direct repeats at splice sites. All discovered transcripts retain untranslated 5' area of the p53 gene and thus could be translated into peptides consisting of different functional domains.
Adenosine and ATP/UTP are main components of the purinergic system that modulate cellular and tissue functions via specific adenosine and P2 receptors, respectively. Here, we explored the possibility that A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)R) and P2Y(2) receptor (P2Y(2)R) form heterodimers with novel pharmacological properties. Coimmunoprecipitation showed these receptors directly associate in A(1)R/P2Y(2)R-cotransfected HEK293T cells. Agonist binding by the A(1)R was significantly inhibited by P2Y(2)R agonists only in membranes from cotransfected cells. The functional activity of A(1)R, as indicated by the G(i/o)-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, in the cotransfected cells was attenuated by the simultaneous addition of A(1)R and P2Y(2)R agonists. The increase in intracellular Ca(2+) levels induced by P2Y(2)R activation of G(q/11) was synergistically enhanced by the simultaneous addition of an A(1)R agonist in the coexpressing cells. These results suggest that oligomerization of A(1)R and P2Y(2)R generates a unique complex in which the simultaneous activation of the two receptors induces a structural alteration that interferes signaling via G(i/o) but enhances signaling via G(q/11).
Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, this study investigated the effects of interleukin-2 (IL-2) on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated currents (I(NMDA)) in rat cultured hippocampal neurons and human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells expressing recombinant NMDA receptors. We found that IL-2 (0.01-1ng/ml) immediately and significantly decreased peak I(NMDA) in cultured neurons. Interestingly, the peak I(NMDA) induced in HEK 293 cells was also inhibited by IL-2. We also found that IL-2 differentially decreased the peak amplitudes of NR2A- and NR2B-containing NMDA receptor-mediated currents (I(NR2A) and I(NR2B)) by 54+/-5% and 30+/-4%, respectively. These results provide new evidence that IL-2 induces rapid inhibition of peak currents of NMDA receptor-mediated responses with possible NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B subtype-differentiation, and suggest that the inhibition is mediated by direct interaction between IL-2 and NMDA receptors.

A novel set of azabicyclic aryl amides have been identified as potent and selective agonists of the alpha7 nAChR. A two-pronged approach was taken to improve the potential hERG liability of previously disclosed alpha7 nAChR agonist, PNU-282,987, while maintaining the compound's other desirable pharmacological properties. The first approach involved further exploration of the aryl carboxylic acid fragment of PNU-282,987, while the second approach focused on modification of the azabicyclic amine portion of PNU-282,987. The best compounds from each series are characterized by rapid brain penetration, good oral bioavailability in rat, and demonstrate in vivo efficacy in a rat P50 auditory sensory gating assay. At least one analog from each series (1h, 1o, 2a, 9a, and 18a) shows an improved hERG safety profile over PNU-282,987.
In type 1 diabetes, T cell-mediated death of pancreatic beta cells produces insulin deficiency. However, what attracts or restricts broadly autoreactive lymphocyte pools to the pancreas remains unclear. We report that TRPV1(+) pancreatic sensory neurons control islet inflammation and insulin resistance. Eliminating these neurons in diabetes-prone NOD mice prevents insulitis and diabetes, despite systemic persistence of pathogenic T cell pools. Insulin resistance and beta cell stress of prediabetic NOD mice are prevented when TRPV1(+) neurons are eliminated. TRPV1(NOD), localized to the Idd4.1 diabetes-risk locus, is a hypofunctional mutant, mediating depressed neurogenic inflammation. Delivering the neuropeptide substance P by intra-arterial injection into the NOD pancreas reverses abnormal insulin resistance, insulitis, and diabetes for weeks. Concordantly, insulin sensitivity is enhanced in trpv1(-/-) mice, whereas insulitis/diabetes-resistant NODxB6Idd4-congenic mice, carrying wild-type TRPV1, show restored TRPV1 function and insulin sensitivity. Our data uncover a fundamental role for insulin-responsive TRPV1(+) sensory neurons in beta cell function and diabetes pathoetiology.
The exosome is a 3' to 5' exoribonuclease central to many cellular processes, including mRNA decay. now present the biochemical reconstitution and crystal structure of the eukaryotic exosome. This remarkable achievement provides key insights into the composition and assembly of the human and yeast exosomes, revealing functions of individual subunits.
The pharmacology of aplindore (DAB-452) was characterized in CHO-K1 cells stably transfected with the human dopamine D(2) receptor short isoform (CHO-D(2s)) and in a behavioral model for post-synaptic agonism in rats. In [(3)H]-spiperone competition binding studies, aplindore showed high affinity for dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors and low affinity for the dopamine D(4), serotonin (5-HT)(1A), 5-HT(2) receptors and the alpha1-adrenoceptor. The high potency partial agonist activity of aplindore was demonstrated in [(35)S]guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-phosphorylation and intracellular calcium flux assay using fluorometric plate reader ([Ca(2+)](i)-FLIPR) format. The [Ca(2+)](i)-FLIPR assay was conducted with CHO-D(2S) receptor cells also stably expressing chimeric G(alphaq/o)-proteins. In all assay modalities, the potencies and intrinsic activities of aplindore were lower than dopamine and higher than aripiprazole. In contrast to the [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding and ERK-phosphorylation assays, the [Ca(2+)](i)-FLIPR assay was able to detect the low partial agonist activity of SDZ 208-912. In unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats, aplindore induced contralateral turning, which was blocked by the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist raclopride. The dopamine D(2) receptor selective partial agonist profile of aplindore suggests that it should be effective for the treatment of dopaminergic-based disorders, such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease.
Felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate) is clinically available for the treatment of refractory epileptic seizures, and is known to modulate several ion channels including gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors. To determine felbamate subunit selectivity for GABA(A) receptors we expressed 15 different GABA(A) receptor combinations in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Felbamate positively modulated GABA-currents of alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2S), alpha(1)beta(3)gamma(2S), alpha(2)beta(2)gamma(2S) and alpha(2)beta(3)gamma(2S), whereas felbamate was either ineffective or negatively modulated the other 11 receptor combinations. Regional distributions of GABA(A) receptor subunits suggest that felbamate may differentially modulate distinct inhibitory circuits, a possibility that may have relevance to felbamate efficacy in refractory epilepsies.
A complex antioxidant system is present in human saliva, with uric acid being the most concentrated component. Ascorbic acid, present at low concentrations in saliva, is actively secreted into the gastric lumen. We report that ascorbic acid added to human saliva at pH 2 was consumed within a few minutes, regenerating HNO(2), whereas uric acid was consumed relatively slowly in a nitrite-dependent manner. The consumption of uric acid was (i) rapid under normoxic conditions and slower at low oxygen tensions, (ii) coupled to *NO release, (iii) linked to the decrease in nitrite consumption and in nitrate formation, and (iv) unaffected by the nitrosation catalyst thiocyanate. Both chlorogenic acid and bovine serum albumin, representative of a phenol- and a protein-rich meal, respectively, were able to spare uric acid, although chlorogenic acid increased, whereas bovine serum albumin inhibited, *NO release. We hypothesize that the major role of uric acid in saliva at pH 2 could be to preserve the stomach from the formation of toxic nitrogen species and that low levels of uric acid, together with ascorbic acid consumption, may contribute to the high occurrence of tumors at the gastroesophageal junction and cardia. The sparing effects of dietary compounds may therefore be an important not fully appreciated effect.
Regulation of stem cell self-renewal versus differentiation is critical for embryonic development and adult tissue homeostasis. Drosophila larval neuroblasts divide asymmetrically to self-renew, and are a model system for studying stem cell self-renewal. Here we identify three mutations showing increased brain neuroblast numbers that map to the aurora-A gene, which encodes a conserved kinase implicated in human cancer. Clonal analysis and time-lapse imaging in aurora-A mutants show single neuroblasts generate multiple neuroblasts (ectopic self-renewal). This phenotype is due to two independent neuroblast defects: abnormal atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)/Numb cortical polarity and failure to align the mitotic spindle with the cortical polarity axis. numb mutant clones have ectopic neuroblasts, and Numb overexpression partially suppresses aurora-A neuroblast overgrowth (but not spindle misalignment). Conversely, mutations that disrupt spindle alignment but not cortical polarity have increased neuroblasts. We conclude that Aurora-A and Numb are novel inhibitors of neuroblast self-renewal and that spindle orientation regulates neuroblast self-renewal.
Summary: Spontaneous middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion leading to moyamoya phenomenon is different from classical moyamoya disease. Previous studies have reported such phenomena in adults with ischemic lesions, except for a solitary case in a child.We report a case of a ten-year old girl who presented with a deep intracerebral hematoma and a normal ipsilateral middle cerebral artery on initial evaluation by CT. Subsequently, on follow-up angiography, the ipsilateral MCA was occluded with evidence of unilateral basal lenticulostriate and transdural collateral supply causing a 'moyamoya' phenomenon. This report discusses a rare and interesting disease from the perspective of 'moyamoya' phenomenon and angiogenesis.
Independent component analysis (ICA) has been proven useful for suppression of artifacts in EEG recordings. It involves separation of measured signals into statistically independent components or sources, followed by rejection of those deemed artificial. We show that a &quot;leak&quot; of cerebral activity of interest into components marked as artificial means that one is going to lost that activity. To overcome this problem we propose a novel wavelet enhanced ICA method (wICA) that applies a wavelet thresholding not to the observed raw EEG but to the demixed independent components as an intermediate step. It allows recovering the neural activity present in &quot;artificial&quot; components. Employing semi-simulated and real EEG recordings we quantify the distortions of the cerebral part of EEGs introduced by the ICA and wICA artifact suppressions in the time and frequency domains. In the context of studying cortical circuitry we also evaluate spectral and partial spectral coherences over ICA/wICA-corrected EEGs. Our results suggest that ICA may lead to an underestimation of the neural power spectrum and to an overestimation of the coherence between different cortical sites. wICA artifact suppression preserves both spectral (amplitude) and coherence (phase) characteristics of the underlying neural activity.
In the present report, we focused our attention on the role played by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) in different forms of long-term synaptic plasticity. Specifically, we investigated long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) expression elicited by theta-burst stimulation (TBS) and low-frequency stimulation (LFS), respectively, in visual cortical slices obtained from different mAChR knockout (KO) mice. A normal LTP was evoked in M(1)/M(3) double KO mice, while LTP was impaired in the M(2)/M(4) double KO animals. On the other hand, LFS induced LTD in M(2)/M(4) double KO mice, but failed to do so in M(1)/M(3) KO mice. Interestingly, LFS produced LTP instead of LTD in M(1)/M(3) KO mice. Analysis of mAChR single KO mice revealed that LTP was affected only by the simultaneous absence of both M(2) and M(4) receptors. A LFS-dependent shift from LTD to LTP was also observed in slices from M(1) KO mice, while LTD was simply abolished in slices from M(3) KO mice. Using pharmacological tools, we showed that LTP in control mice was blocked by pertussis toxin, an inhibitor of G(i/o) proteins, but not by raising intracellular cAMP levels. In addition, the inhibition of phospholipase C by U73122 induced the same shift from LTD to LTP after LFS observed in M(1) single KO and M(1)/M(3) double KO mice. Our results indicate that different mAChR subtypes regulate different forms of long-term synaptic plasticity in the mouse visual cortex, activating specific G proteins and downstream intracellular mechanisms.
The visual system integrates discrete but aligned local stimuli to form percept of global contours. Previous experiments using &quot;snake&quot; contours showed that contour integration was mainly present in foveal vision but absent or greatly weakened in peripheral vision. In this study, we demonstrated that, for contour stimuli such as circles and ellipses, which bore good Gestalt properties, contour integration for shape detection and discrimination was nearly constant from the fovea to up to 35 degrees visual periphery! Contour integration was impaired by local orientation and position jitters of contour elements, indicating that the same local contour linking mechanisms revealed with snake contour stimuli also played critical roles in integration of our good Gestalt stimuli. Contour integration was also unaffected by global position jittering up to 20% of the contour size and by dramatic shape jittering, which excluded non-contour integration processes such as detection of various local cues and template matching as alternative mechanisms for uncompromised peripheral perception of good Gestalt stimuli. Peripheral contour integration also presented an interesting upper-lower visual field symmetry after asymmetries of contrast sensitivity and shape discrimination were discounted. The constant peripheral performance might benefit from easy detection of good Gestalt stimuli, which popped out from background noise, from a boost of local contour linking by top-down influences and/or from multielement contour linking by long-range interactions.
Neuropathic pain is a major clinical problem unresolved by available therapeutics. Spinal cord glia play a pivotal role in neuropathic pain, via the release of proinflammatory cytokines. Anti-inflammatory cytokines, like interleukin-10 (IL-10), suppress proinflammatory cytokines. Thus, IL-10 may provide a means for controlling glial amplification of pain. We recently documented that intrathecal IL-10 protein resolves neuropathic pain, albeit briefly (approximately 2-3 h), given its short half-life. Intrathecal gene therapy using viruses encoding IL-10 can also resolve neuropathic pain, but for only approximately 2 weeks. Here, we report a novel approach that dramatically increases the efficacy of intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy. Repeated intrathecal delivery of plasmid DNA vectors encoding IL-10 (pDNA-IL-10) abolished neuropathic pain for greater than 40 days. Naked pDNA-IL-10 reversed chronic constriction injury (CCI)-induced allodynia both shortly after nerve injury as well as 2 months later. This supports that spinal proinflammatory cytokines are important in both the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain. Importantly, pDNA-IL-10 gene therapy reversed mechanical allodynia induced by CCI, returning rats to normal pain responsiveness, without additional analgesia. Together, these data suggest that intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy may provide a novel approach for prolonged clinical pain control.
Our previous recordings from dorsal root ganglion and spinal lamina V neurons from TRPV1-mutant mice showed dramatic decreases in responses to temperatures near the activation threshold of this channel (43-49 degrees C). Somewhat unexpectedly, we only observed behavioral deficits in these mice at higher temperatures (50-58 degrees C). In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the noxious heat-evoked pain behavior that persists in TRPV1-mutant mice reflects residual responsiveness of neurons in the superficial, but not deep, dorsal horn. To this end, we performed in vivo extracellular recordings of spinal nociresponsive neurons in laminae I and V in wild type (WT) and TRPV1 mutant mice. Neurons in WT and mutant mice from both laminae did not differ in their spontaneous activity or evoked responses to mechanical or cold stimuli. By contrast, most lamina I neurons from mutant mice responded to noxious heat with significantly higher thresholds than in WT mice. In contrast, lamina V neurons from mutant mice were virtually unresponsive to noxious heat before and after topical mustard oil-induced tissue injury. Interestingly, lamina I neurons in mutant mice displayed thermal sensitization following tissue injury, comparable in magnitude, but of shorter duration, than in WT mice. We conclude that TRPV1 is necessary for noxious heat-evoked responses of lamina V neurons, both before and after tissue injury. It is also an essential contributor to the normal activation threshold of lamina I neurons to noxious heat and for the full duration of thermal sensitization of lamina I neurons following injury. Finally, our results suggest that the processing of noxious thermal messages by neurons in lamina I involves convergent inputs from a heterogeneous population of primary afferent thermal nociceptors.
We review mathematical aspects of biophysical dynamics, signal transduction and network architecture that have been used to uncover functionally significant relations between the dynamics of single neurons and the networks they compose. We focus on examples that combine insights from these three areas to expand our understanding of systems neuroscience. These range from single neuron coding to models of decision making and electrosensory discrimination by networks and populations and also coincidence detection in pairs of dendrites and dynamics of large networks of excitable dendritic spines. We conclude by describing some of the challenges that lie ahead as the applied mathematics community seeks to provide the tools which will ultimately underpin systems neuroscience.


The goal of this study was to identify a structurally distinct D(4)-selective agonist with superior oral bioavailability to our first-generation clinical candidate 1a (ABT-724) for the potential treatment of erectile dysfunction. Arylpiperazines such as (heteroarylmethyl)piperazine 1a, benzamide 2, and acetamides such as 3a,b exhibit poor oral bioavailability. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies with the arylpiperidine template provided potent partial agonists such as 4d and 5k that demonstrated no improvement in oral bioavailability. Further optimization with the (N-oxy-2-pyridinyl)piperidine template led to the discovery of compound 6b (ABT-670), which exhibited excellent oral bioavailability in rat, dog, and monkey (68%, 85%, and 91%, respectively) with comparable efficacy, safety, and tolerability to 1a. The N-oxy-2-pyridinyl moiety not only provided the structural motif required for agonist function but also reduced metabolism rates. The SAR study leading to the discovery of 6b is described herein.


The Error-Related Negativity (ERN) is a component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) that is associated with action monitoring and error detection. The present study addressed the question whether or not an ERN occurs after verbal error detection, e.g., during phoneme monitoring. We obtained an ERN following verbal errors which showed a typical decrease in amplitude under severe time pressure. This result demonstrates that the functioning of the verbal self-monitoring system is comparable to other performance monitoring, such as action monitoring. Furthermore, we found that participants made more errors in phoneme monitoring under time pressure than in a control condition. This may suggest that time pressure decreases the amount of resources available to a capacity-limited self-monitor thereby leading to more errors.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) into injured spinal cord results in improved functional outcome. Mechanisms suggested to account for this functional improvement include axonal regeneration, remyelination and neuroprotection. OECs transplanted into transected peripheral nerve have been shown to modify peripheral axonal regeneration and functional outcome. However, little is known of the detailed integration of OECs at the transplantation site in peripheral nerve. To address this issue, cell populations enriched in OECs were isolated from the olfactory bulbs of adult green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing transgenic rats and transplanted into a sciatic nerve crush lesion which transects all axons. Five weeks to 6 months after transplantation, the nerves were studied histologically. GFP-expressing OECs survived in the lesion and distributed longitudinally across the lesion zone. The internodal regions of individual teased fibers distal to the transection site were characterized by GFP expression in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments of cells surrounding the axons. Immunoelectron microscopy for GFP indicated that the transplanted OECs formed peripheral type myelin. Immunostaining for sodium channel and Caspr revealed a high density of Na(v)1.6 at the newly formed nodes of Ranvier which were flanked by paranodal Caspr staining. These results indicate that transplanted OECs extensively integrate into transected peripheral nerve and form myelin on regenerated peripheral nerve fibers, and that nodes of Ranvier of these axons display proper sodium channel organization.
beta-N-oxalyl-amino-L-alanine, (L-BOAA), an excitatory amino acid, acts as an agonist of the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptors. It inhibits mitochondrial complex I in motor cortex and lumbosacral cord of male mice through oxidation of critical thiol groups, and glutaredoxin, a thiol disulfide oxido-reductase, helps maintain integrity of complex I. Since incidence of neurolathyrism is less common in women, we examined the mechanisms underlying the gender-related effects. Inhibition of complex I activity by L-BOAA was seen in male but not female mice. Pretreatment of female mice with estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 or tamoxifen sensitizes them to L-BOAA toxicity, indicating that the neuroprotection is mediated by estrogen receptors. L-BOAA triggers glutathione (GSH) loss in male mice but not in female mice, and only a small but significant increase in oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was seen in females. As a consequence, up-regulation of gamma-glutamyl cysteinyl synthase (the rate-limiting enzyme in glutathione synthesis) was seen only in male mouse CNS but not in females. Both glutathione reductase and glutaredoxin that reduce oxidized glutathione and protein glutathione mixed disulfides, respectively, were constitutively expressed at higher levels in females. Furthermore, glutaredoxin activity in female mice was down-regulated by estrogen antagonist indicating its regulation by estrogen receptor. The higher constitutive expression of glutathione reductase and glutaredoxin could potentially confer neuroprotection to female mice.
Mints/X11s are adaptor proteins composed of three isoforms: neuron-specific Mints 1 and 2, and the ubiquitously expressed Mint 3. We have now analyzed constitutive and conditional knock-out mice for all three Mints/X11s. We found that approximately 80% of mice lacking both neuron-specific Mint isoforms (Mints 1 and 2) die at birth, whereas mice lacking any other combination of Mint isoforms survive normally. The approximately 20% surviving Mint 1/2 double knock-out mice exhibit a decrease in weight and deficits in motor behaviors. Hippocampal slice electrophysiology uncovered a decline in spontaneous neurotransmitter release, lowered synaptic strength, and enhanced paired-pulse facilitation in Mint-deficient mice, suggesting a decreased presynaptic release probability. Acute ablation of Mint expression in cultured neurons from conditional Mint 1/2/3 triple knock-in mice also revealed a decline in spontaneous release, confirming that deletion of Mints impair presynaptic function. Quantitation of synaptic proteins showed that acute deletion of Mints caused a selective increase in Munc18-1 and Fe65 proteins, and overexpression of Munc18-1 in wild-type neurons also produced a decrease in spontaneous release, suggesting that the interaction of Mints with Munc18-1 may contribute to the presynaptic phenotype observed in Mint-deficient mice. Our studies thus indicate that Mints are important regulators of presynaptic neurotransmitter release that are essential for mouse survival.
The mammalian master clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is exquisitely sensitive to photic timing cues, but the key molecular events that sculpt both the phasing and magnitude of responsiveness are not understood. Here, we show that the Ras-like G-protein Dexras1 is a critical factor in these processes. Dexras1-deficient mice (dexras1-/-) exhibit a restructured nighttime phase response curve and a loss of gating to photic resetting during the day. Dexras1 affects the photic sensitivity by repressing or activating time-of-day-specific signaling pathways that regulate extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). During the late night, Dexras1 limits the capacity of pituitary adenylate cyclase (PAC) activating peptide (PACAP)/PAC1 to affect ERK/MAPK, and in the early night, light-induced phase delays, which are mediated predominantly by NMDA receptors, are reduced as reported previously. Daytime photic phase advances are mediated by a novel signaling pathway that does not affect the SCN core but rather stimulates ERK/MAPK in the SCN shell and triggers downregulation of clock protein expression.
The initial formation and growth of dendrites is a critical step leading to the integration of newly generated neurons into postnatal functional networks. However, the cellular mechanisms and extracellular signals regulating this process remain mostly unknown. By directly observing newborn neurons derived from the subventricular zone in culture as well as in olfactory bulb slices, we show that ambient GABA acting through GABA(A) receptors is essential for the temporal stability of lamellipodial protrusions in dendritic growth cones but did not interfere with filopodia dynamics. Furthermore, we provide direct evidence that ambient GABA is required for the proper initiation and elongation of dendrites by promoting the rapid stabilization of new dendritic segments after their extension. The effects of GABA on the initial formation of dendrites depend on depolarization and Ca2+ influx and are associated with a higher stability of microtubules. Together, our results indicate that ambient GABA is a key regulator of dendritic initiation in postnatally generated olfactory interneurons and offer a mechanism by which this neurotransmitter drives early dendritic growth.
The orchestration of simple motor tasks by the cerebellum results in coordinated movement and the maintenance of balance. The cerebellum integrates sensory and cortical information to generate the signals required for the coordinated execution of simple motor tasks. These signals originate in the firing rate of Purkinje cells, each of which integrates sensory and cortical information conveyed by granule cell synaptic inputs. Given the importance of the granule cell input-Purkinje cell output function for cerebellar computation, this algorithm was determined. Using several stimulation paradigms, including those that mimicked patterns of granule cell activity similar to those observed in vivo, we quantified the poststimulus maximum firing rate and number of extra spikes in response to granule cell synaptic input. Both of these parameters linearly encoded the strength of synaptic input when inhibitory synaptic transmission was blocked. This linear algorithm was independent of the location or temporal pattern of synaptic input. With inhibitory synaptic transmission intact, the maximum firing rate, but not the number of extra spikes, encoded the strength of granule cell synaptic input. Furthermore, the maximum firing rate of Purkinje cells linearly encoded the strength of synaptic input whether or not the activation of granule cells resulted in a pause in Purkinje cell firing. On the basis of the data presented, we propose that Purkinje cells encode the strength of granule cell synaptic input in their maximum firing rate with a linear algorithm.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) receptors act as signaling molecules in neurons, altering phosphorylation of numerous proteins after extracellular ligand binding and affecting neurite outgrowth, synapse formation, and neuronal migration. Since apoE is important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we tested whether apoE treatment of neurons affected molecules important to phosphorylation of tau, such as GSK 3beta, P35, and CDK5, and the phosphorylation of tau itself. Treatment of primary neurons with 2 uM apoE (or an apoE-derived peptide) decreased levels of phospho-GSK 3beta, P35 and CDK5, and decreased levels of phosphorylated forms of tau. A lower concentration of apoE (100 nM) had no effect on these molecules. The alteration of tau phosphorylation by apoE was blocked by an inhibitor of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, demonstrating the effects were due to receptor interactions. These results demonstrate that apoE affects several downstream signaling cascades in neurons: decreased tau kinases phosphorylation and inhibition of tau phosphorylation at Thr171 and Ser202/Thr205 epitopes. We conclude that apoE can alter levels of tau kinases and phospho-tau epitopes, potentially affecting tau neuropathological changes seen in AD brains.

Selective and brain penetrating pharmacological antagonists for use in clarifying a role of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in behavioral paradigms are presently unavailable. Studies in alpha7 knock-out mice (KO) have not revealed convincing changes in behavioral phenotype, in particular measures of cognition that include contextual fear conditioning and spatial memory, which may be due to compensatory developmental changes. Therefore, an antisense oligonucleotide (aON) targeted toward the 3'- and 5'-UTR coding regions of the rat alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor was used. Following central injection of aON into the lateral ventricle of Long Evans rats for 6 days, treated rats exhibited a significant 42% and 25% decrease in alpha7 nAChR densities in hippocampus and cortex, respectively, as measured by [(3)H]-methyllycaconitine (MLA) binding. There was no change in alpha4beta2 densities measured by [(3)H]-cytisine binding. Acquisition of Morris Water Maze (MWM) performance, a measure of spatial memory, was impaired in aON-treated rats. In addition, a reduction in target platform crossings during a subsequent probe-trial was observed. These data demonstrate the ability of this aON to reduce hippocampal and cortical alpha7 nicotinic receptor densities associated with impaired MWM performance and support the specific involvement of the alpha7 nAChR in spatial learning and memory, a phenotype not affected in alpha7 KO mice.
Affective states, anxiety in particular, have been shown to negatively influence human postural control efficiency as measured by posturographic means, while exposure to a full-length mirror image of one's body exerts a stabilizing effect. We tested the hypothesis that body image concerns and preoccupations would relate negatively to this stabilising effect. Sixty-six healthy students, who screened negative for psychiatric disorders, completed rating scales for anxiety, depression and body image concerns. Posturography recordings of body sway were taken under three conditions: with eyes closed, looking at a vertical bar and looking at a full-length mirror. The Eyes Open/Mirror Stabilometric Quotient [EOMQ=(sway path with eyes closed/sway path looking at the mirror)x100], an index of how much postural control is stabilized by mirror feedback in comparison to the visual vertical bar condition, was significantly inversely related to body image concerns and preoccupations, and to trait anxiety. This finding confirms the impact of emotional factors on human postural control, which warrant further studies. If confirmed in clinical populations characterized by high levels of body image disturbances, e.g. eating disorders, it could lead to developments in the assessment and monitoring of these patients.
Compared to other M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M(1) mAChR) agonists, xanomeline demonstrates both reversible and persistent modes of binding to the receptor. In our study, we investigated the long-term consequences of brief incubation of Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing M(1) mAChR (M(1)-CHO) with low concentrations of xanomeline followed by washing off the free drug. Thus, M(1)-CHO cells were exposed to 100 nM xanomeline for 1h then washed extensively. Washed cells were either used immediately for binding assays or incubated for 23 h in the absence of free xanomeline. Only the latter treatment conditions resulted in marked attenuation of binding of the muscarinic radioligand [(3)H]N-methylscopolamine ([(3)H]NMS) to intact cells. Shortening the xanomeline pretreatment period to 1 min had the same trends as the 1h pretreatment, implying that xanomeline binds instantly to the receptor to elicit long-term wash-resistant effects. Presence of atropine during the brief period of xanomeline pretreatment did not markedly modulate xanomeline's long-term effects, which suggests that persistent anchoring of the xanomeline molecule to the M(1) receptor takes place at a site distinct from the orthosteric binding domain. Our findings suggest the possibility of a time-dependent transition of the conformation of the muscarinic M(1) receptor-xanomeline complex between states that vary in their ability to bind [(3)H]NMS. However, possible involvement of other mechanisms of long-term receptor regulation cannot be discounted.
We studied the efficacy of fludarabine in 16 patients with immunoglobulin M monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance polyneuropathy in a prospective uncontrolled trial. The modified Rankin scale improved in 5/16 patients, all of whom had a demyelinating polyneuropathy. The motor conduction velocity improved by more than 10% in two or more nerves for four of five of these patients. Hematologic response in bone marrow occurred in three of five of these patients, whereas two of five already had small polyclonal B cell populations. There were no serious side effects.

Methylphenidate (MPD), commonly known as Ritalin, is the most frequently prescribed drug to treat children and adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Adolescence is a period of development involving numerous neuroplasticities throughout the central nervous system (CNS). Exposure to a psychostimulant such as MPD during this crucial period of neurodevelopment may cause transient or permanent changes in the CNS. Genetic variability may also influence these differences. Thus, the objective of the present study was to determine whether acute and chronic administration of MPD (0.6, 2.5, or 10.0mg/kg, i.p.) elicit effects among adolescent WKY, SHR, and SD rats and to compare whether there were strain differences. An automated, computerized, open-field activity monitoring system was used to study the dose-response characteristics of acute and repeated MPD administration throughout the 11-day experimental protocol. Results showed that all three adolescent rat groups exhibited dose-response characteristics following acute and chronic MPD administration, as well as strain differences. These strain differences depended on the MPD dose and locomotor index. Chronic treatment of MPD in these animals did not elicit behavioral sensitization, a phenomenon described in adult rats that is characterized by the progressive augmentation of the locomotor response to repeated administration of the drug. These results suggest that the animal's age at time of drug treatment and strain/genetic variability play a crucial role in the acute and chronic effect of MPD and in the development of behavioral sensitization.
This study examined sensorimotor integration and motor functioning in seven patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who had mild symptoms, and seven age-matched controls. Neuro-oscillations were recorded by high-density 128-channel electroencephalography (EEG). Participants were required to perform two tasks: simple tapping of the index finger and thumb and a complex Luria finger apposition task. Both tasks were performed unimanually and bimanually. There were no significant group differences in the task-related power (TRPow) within alpha 1 (mu1) or in beta 1 frequencies (beta1). In contrast, there were significant group differences in the alpha 2 (mu2) and beta 2 frequencies (beta2). Patients had less desychronisation than controls at the electrodes covering the central regions of the scalp. Alpha 2 and beta 2 frequencies have been associated with task-specific sensorimotor integration and motor function, respectively. This activity difference in patients with Parkinson's disease may be due to deficits in sensorimotor integration.
The alpha-2-adrenergic receptor agonist brimonidine has been shown to increase survival of retinal ganglion cells following ischemic injury to the rat retina. Increased expression of growth factors has been suggested to be involved in this action. We investigated expressional changes of growth factors and their receptors following transient retinal ischemia induced by selective ligature of ophthalmic vessels in rats pre-treated with vehicle or 0.5% brimonidine. In addition, analysis of expression in retinal samples following unilateral administration of brimonidine to normal tissue was performed. Tissue samples of retina and superior colliculus were collected at time points between 6h and 14 days of retinal reperfusion. Analysis of mRNA levels of the ligands BDNF, NT3, CNTF, FGF1, FGF2, FGF9 and HGF; as well as the receptors TrkB, TrkC, p75(NTR), CNTFRalpha, FGFR1, FGFR3, FGFR4 and HGFR were performed using qRT-PCR. The cell specific markers Thy1 and GFAP were analysed. We report transiently increased retinal levels of BDNF, NT3, p75(NTR), FGFR1 and HGFR and decreased levels of FGF9, HGF, TrkB, TrkC, FGFR4 and Thy1 following ischemia. The decreases were counteracted by brimonidine. Brimonidine treatment gave an increase in BDNF, NT3 and CNTF levels compared to the vehicle treated group. In superior colliculus increased levels of growth factor mRNA were found. In conclusion, transient ischemia has a profound effect on gene expression in rat retina. Alterations can also be seen in the superior colliculus but are smaller. Brimonidine pre-treatment attenuates an acute injury-induced response by decreasing the expression of several genes, among them p75(NTR). Brimonidine also causes a prolonged increase of several growth factors as well as receptors in retina and superior colliculus compared to the ischemic situation. The increased expression of several growth factors represents a coordinated growth factor system response that differs from the ischemia-induced changes and is likely part of the neuroprotective activity that is elicited by BMD pre-treatment.
Anxiety states and anxiety-related behaviors appear to be regulated by a distributed and highly interconnected system of forebrain structures including the basolateral amygdaloid complex (basolateral amygdala). Despite a wealth of research examining the role of the basolateral amygdala in anxiety-related behaviors and anxiety states, the specific subdivisions of the basolateral amygdala that are involved in responses to anxiogenic stimuli have not been examined. In this study, we investigated the effects of exposure to a novel open-field environment, with either low- or high-levels of illumination, on expression of the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-Fos in subdivisions of the rat basolateral amygdala. The subdivisions studied included the lateral, ventrolateral and ventromedial parts of the lateral amygdaloid nucleus, the anterior, posterior and ventral parts of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus and the anterior and posterior part of the basomedial amygdaloid nucleus. Small increases in the number of c-Fos-immunoreactive cells were observed in several, but not all, of the subdivisions of the basolateral amygdala studied following exposure of rats to either the high- or low-light conditions, compared to home cage or handled control groups. Open-field exposure in both the high- and low-light conditions resulted in a marked increase in c-Fos expression in the anterior part of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus compared to either home cage or handled control groups. These findings point toward anatomical and functional heterogeneity within the basolateral amygdaloid complex and an important role of the anterior part of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus in the neural mechanisms underlying physiological or behavioral responses to this anxiety-related stimulus.
Many objective and quantitative methods have been developed to create a procedure or a device to prove, describe and quantify olfactory deficit and anosmia, especially after a head trauma. Electrophysiological testing throughout olfactoelectroencephalography (olfactoEEG) is based on brain activity desynchronisation, and on the subsequent disappearance of alpha activity on the posterior regions after an olfactory stimulus. Yet traditional evaluation of EEG can be difficult, because of little or hardly detectable alpha activity on the posterior regions ('alpha rare'). The aim of this study was to evaluate the Olfactory Stop Reaction (OSR) by means of frequency band power calculation and subsequent topographical mapping in patients with post-traumatic anosmia, who presented 'alpha rare' EEG. Twenty-five consecutive patients, affected by anosmia caused by head trauma, were submitted to an EEG recording with olfactory stimulation. After signal processing and analysis, an Olfactory Stop Reaction was detected in 17 out of 25 patients; moreover, in these patients we detected a significant decrease in alpha band power in the occipital regions and an increase in theta band power on midline frontal and central regions after olfactory stimulation. In the remaining eight patients, no significant variation in band power was observed. In conclusion, an objective evaluation of the olfactory function with this method of automatic EEG signal analysis allows the limits given by psychophysical methods and traditional EEG to be overcome and attempts to fulfil the requirements for standardization of olfactory function evalution.
Glutamate excitotoxicity is mediated by intracellular Ca(2+) overload, caspase-3 activation, and ROS generation. Here, we show that curcumin, tannic acid (TA) and (+)-catechin hydrate (CA) all inhibited glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Curcumin inhibited PKC activity, and subsequent phosphorylation of NR1 of the NMDA receptor. As a result, glutamate-mediated Ca(2+) influx was reduced. TA attenuated glutamate-mediated Ca(2+) influx only when simultaneously administered, directly interfering with Ca(2+). Both curcumin and TA inhibited glutamate-induced caspase-3 activation. Although Ca(2+) influx was not attenuated by CA, caspase-3 was reduced by direct inhibition of the enzyme. All polyphenols reduced glutamate-induced generation of ROS.
The psychobiological orientation inherent in temperament concepts permits a close tie between temperament and the rapidly proliferating research areas of neurosciences and behavioural genetics. Based on developmental and psychobiological studies, the Adult Temperament Questionnaire (ATQ) by Rothbart measures self-regulatory processes in addition to constitutionally based individual reactivity. The purpose of this paper is to validate a German version of the short form of the ATQ with 77 items. 213 psychosomatic inpatients and outpatients and 116 control subjects took part in this study. The study included standardized measures of personality and symptoms. The German version reliably measures the four dimensions negative affect, extraversion, orienting sensitivity and effortful control; subscales were moderately correlated. We found a consistent pattern of correlation to personality (NEO-FFI) and interpersonal problems (IIP), negative affect strongly correlated with neuroticism; effortful control correlated with conscientiousness, orienting sensitivity with openness, and extraversion correlated with the corresponding scale of the NEO-FFI. According to our hypothesis, negative affect was positively correlated with higher distress and physical complaints, while effortful control was negatively correlated with them. When negative affect and effortful control were combined, effortful control had a moderating effect on distress. Clinical and non-clinical samples differed significantly on all dimensions; the ATQ appears to be suitable for differentiating subgroups of patients according to self-regulation.
Neurons in the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM) are involved in the analysis of optic flow. LM provides mossy fiber inputs to folia VI-VIII of the posterior cerebellum and IXcd of the vestibulocerebellum. Previous research has shown that the vestibulocerebellum is involved in visual-vestibular integration supporting gaze stabilization. The function of folia VI-VIII in pigeons is not well understood; however, these folia receive input from a tectopontine system, which is likely involved with analyzing local motion as opposed to optic flow. We sought to determine whether the mossy fiber input from LM to IXcd differs from that to VI-VIII. Fluorescent retrograde tracers were injected into these folia, and the pattern of labeling in LM was observed. Large multipolar neurons were labeled throughout the rostrocaudal extent of LM. There was a clear mediolateral difference: 74.3% of LM neurons projecting to IXcd were located in the lateral subnucleus of LM (LMl), whereas 73.8% of LM neurons projecting to VI-VIII were found in medial LM (LMm). This suggests that the subnuclei of LM have differing roles. In particular, the LMl-IXcd pathway is involved in generating the optokinetic response. We suggest that the pathway from LMm to VI-VIII is integrating optic flow and local motion to support various oculomotor and visuomotor behaviors, including obstacle avoidance during locomotion.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is the main ascending auditory relay station prior to the superior colliculus (SC). The morphology and origin of the connection from inferior to superior colliculus (I-SC) was analyzed both by anterograde and retrograde tracing. Irrespective of the subregion of the IC in which they originate, the terminal fields of these connections formed two main tiers in the SC. While the dorsal one primarily involved the stratum opticum and the stratum griseum intermediale, the ventral one innervated the deep strata, although some fibers did connect these tiers. While the dorsal tier occupied almost the whole extension of the SC, the ventral one was mostly confined to its caudomedial quadrant. The fiber density in these tiers decreased gradually in a rostral gradient and the terminal fields became denser as the anterograde tracer at the injection site was distributed more externally in the cortex of the IC. Retrograde tracing confirmed this result, although it did not reveal any topographic ordering for the I-SC pathway. Most presynaptic boutons of the I-SC terminal field were located either inside or close to the patches of acetylcholinesterase activity. Together with previous anatomical and physiological studies, our results indicate that the I-SC connection relays behaviorally relevant information for sensory-motor processing. Our observation that this pathway terminates in regions of the superior colliculus, where neurons involved in fear-like responses are located, reinforce previous suggestions of a role for the IC in generating motor stereotypes that occur during audiogenic seizures.
A replication-defective lentivirus vector that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of a synthetic dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) promoter was used to define efferent projections of C1 catecholamine neurons in rat rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). EGFP expression was restricted to C1 neurons and filled their somatodendritic compartments and efferent axons 7-28 days after vector injection. This included the descending projections to thoracic spinal cord and a network in brainstem, midbrain, and diencephalon. In caudal brainstem, restricted terminal fields were present in the dorsal motor vagal complex, A1, raphe pallidus and obscurus, and marginal layer of ventrolateral medulla. Innervation of raphe nuclei was most dense at the level of RVLM, but rostral levels of pallidus were devoid of innervation. A sparse commissural projection to contralateral RVLM was observed, and pericellular arbors were present in the dorsal reticular formation among the projection pathway of catecholamine axons. Rostral brainstem contained a dense innervation of locus coeruleus and the nucleus subcoeruleus. A restricted innervation of the ventrolateral column of the periaqueductal gray distinguished the midbrain. Forebrain labeling was restricted to the diencephalon, where distinctive terminal fields were observed in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus; the lateral hypothalamic area; and the paraventricular, dorsomedial, supraoptic, and median preoptic nuclei of hypothalamus. Projection fibers also coursed through the tuberal hypothalamus into the median eminence. Collectively, these data demonstrate that RVLM C1 neurons modulate the activity of other central cell groups known to participate in the regulation of cardiovascular and autonomic function.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) and glutamate are generally believed to be closely related to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease, respectively. Recent advances suggest that risk factors linked to cerebrovascular disease significantly increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we examined the effects of pretreatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with Abeta(1-42) (0.3, 0.5, and 1.0microM) for 3h (Abeta preconditioning) on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Abeta preconditioning significantly reduced both glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and the glutamate-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). Abeta preconditioning significantly reduced cell surface expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor subunit protein NR1, although it exerted no significant effect on the total expression of NR1. These results suggest that Abeta preconditioning reduced glutamate-induced neurotoxicity by promoting endocytosis of NMDA receptor, followed by inhibition of the increase in [Ca(2+)](i). Our results support the notion of an association between Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease, and suggest a new mechanism for neuroprotection by promoting endocytosis of NMDA receptor.

Although a prefrontal involvement in the memory domain is well-documented, the specific functions the frontal lobes have in episodic memory are still unclear. This study aimed to disentangle theoretical accounts of prefrontal involvement concerning objective characteristics of the retrieval (i.e., accuracy) and accounts based on subjective features (i.e., confidence). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during the test phase of a source memory task in two experiments. The task was to retrieve the word and the voice of the speaker at study (experiment 1) or the voice of the speaker together with confidence ratings about the source judgment (experiment 2). ERPs in both experiments were not modulated by the success of the voice retrieval, discarding accounts linked to the retrieval success. A right-more-than-left late prefrontal positivity was found in both experiments. Moreover, in experiment 2, waves were more positive for low- than for high-confidence responses. This pattern was observed earlier over lateral parietal scalp regions and later, and more sustained in time, over anterior prefrontal regions. The dissociable effects found within the prefrontal scalp regions, specifically along the anterior-posterior and right-left dimensions, are interpreted as markers of qualitatively different monitoring processes.
Stargazin mutation results in absence epilepsy and cerebellar ataxia in stargazer (stg) mice. We have previously discovered defects of AMPA receptor function, failure of BDNF expression and immature morphology specifically in the cerebellar cortex of stg mice. To further characterize the nature of synaptic abnormalities, we examined the ultrastructure of cerebellar granule cell output synapses and measured the expression levels of several synaptic proteins in different brain regions of stg mutant. Electron microscopic examination revealed a number of immature features in the molecular layer of the mutant cerebellar cortex, including the presence of desmosoid plaques, concentric profiles of parallel fibers, smaller presynaptic terminal and fewer synaptic vesicles. Quantitative measurement showed a significantly lower number of synapses and smaller area of presynaptic terminals in adult stg cerebellum when compared with age-matched wildtype. Immunoblotting analysis of the SNARE proteins revealed selective reduction of the levels of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin in synaptosomes from stg cerebellum. The expression levels of synapsins were not altered in stg cerebellum, but showed a significant upregulation in stg cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Our results suggest that, despite the relatively normal gross morphology of cerebellum, stargazin mutation results in abnormal ultrastructure of cerebellar synapses, and stargazin-induced regional failure of BDNF expression may be responsible for abnormal SNARE protein distribution and partially attributes to the defects in the synaptic ultrastructure.
An exposure of cultured hippocampal neurons expressing mitochondrially targeted enhanced yellow fluorescent protein to excitotoxic glutamate resulted in reversible mitochondrial remodeling that in many instances could be interpreted as swelling. Remodeling was not evident if glutamate receptors were blocked with MK801, if Ca(2+) was omitted or substituted for Sr(2+) in the bath solution, if neurons were treated with carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone to depolarize mitochondria, or if neurons were pretreated with cyclosporin A or N-methyl-4-isoleucine-cyclosporin (NIM811) to inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition. In the experiments with isolated brain synaptic or nonsynaptic mitochondria, Ca(2+) triggered transient, spontaneously reversible cyclosporin A-sensitive swelling closely resembling remodeling of organelles in cultured neurons. The swelling was accompanied by the release of cytochrome c, Smac/DIABLO, Omi/HtrA2, and AIF but not endonuclease G. Depolarization with carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone or inhibition of the Ca(2+) uniporter with Ru360 prevented rapid onset of the swelling. Sr(2+) depolarized mitochondria but failed to induce swelling. Neither inhibitors of the large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (charybdotoxin, iberiotoxin, quinine, and Ba(2+)) nor inhibitors of the mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K(+) channel (5-hydroxydecanoate and glibenclamide) suppressed swelling. Quinine, dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and Mg(2+), inhibitors of the mitochondrial K(+)/H(+) exchanger, as well as external alkalization inhibited a recovery phase of the reversible swelling. In contrast to brain mitochondria, liver and heart mitochondria challenged with Ca(2+) experienced sustained swelling without spontaneous recovery. The proposed model suggests an involvement of the Ca(2+)-dependent transient K(+) influx into the matrix causing mitochondrial swelling followed by activation of the K(+)/H(+) exchanger leading to spontaneous mitochondrial contraction both in situ and in vitro.
X11L, a neuronal adaptor protein, associates with the cytoplasmic domain of APP and suppresses APP cellular metabolism. APP is the precursor of Abeta, whose metabolism is strongly implicated in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. To examine the roles of X11L function in APP metabolism, including the generation of Abeta in the brain, we produced X11L-deficient mutant mice on the C57BL/6 background. The mutant mice did not exhibit histopathological alterations or compensatory changes in the expression of other X11 family proteins, X11 and X11L2. The expression level and distribution of APP in the brain of mutant mice were also identical to those in wild-type mice. However, in the hippocampus, where substantial levels of X11L and APP are expressed, the mutant mice exhibited a significant increase in the level of the C-terminal fragments of APP produced by cleavage with beta-secretase but not alpha-secretase. The levels of Abeta were increased in the hippocampus of aged mutant mice as compared with age-matched controls. These observations clearly indicate that X11L suppresses the amyloidogenic but not amyloidolytic processing of APP in regions of the brain such as the hippocampus, which express significant levels of X11L.
FKBP42 is a membrane-anchored immunophilin playing a critical role in morphogenesis and development of higher plants. We present the X-ray structure of the cytoplasmic portion of FKBP42 comprising both the FKBP-like domain and the TPR domain at 2.85 A resolution. The data shed light on the probable binding modes of key interaction partners, including HSP90 and two classes of ABC transporters. The resulting models provide a structural background for further investigation of the unique biological properties of this protein.
Two major decapping enzymes are involved in the decay of eukaryotic mRNA, Dcp2 and DcpS. Despite the detection of robust DcpS decapping activity in cell extract, minimal to no decapping is detected from human Dcp2 (hDcp2) in extract. We now demonstrate that one reason for the lack of detectable hDcp2 activity in extract is due to the presence of inhibitory trans factor(s). Furthermore, we demonstrate that a previously identified testis-specific protein of unknown function implicated in nonspecific X-linked mental retardation, VCX-A, can function as an inhibitor of hDcp2 decapping in vitro and in cells. VCX-A is a noncanonical cap-binding protein that binds to capped RNA but not cap structure lacking an RNA. Its cap association is enhanced by hDcp2 to further augment the ability of VCX-A to inhibit decapping. Our data demonstrate that VCX-A can regulate mRNA stability and that it is an example of a tissue-specific decapping regulator.
The claim that genetic properties of neurons significantly influence their synaptic network structure is a common notion in neuroscience. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans provides an exciting opportunity to approach this question in a large-scale quantitative manner. Its synaptic connectivity network has been identified, and, combined with cellular studies, we currently have characteristic connectivity and gene expression signatures for most of its neurons. By using two complementary analysis assays we show that the expression signature of a neuron carries significant information about its synaptic connectivity signature, and identify a list of putative genes predicting neural connectivity. The current study rigorously quantifies the relation between gene expression and synaptic connectivity signatures in the C. elegans nervous system and identifies subsets of neurons where this relation is highly marked. The results presented and the genes identified provide a promising starting point for further, more detailed computational and experimental investigations.



Neurons with similar morphology and neurotransmitter content located at a specific brain region may be part of the same or functionally separate networks. To address the question whether morphologically similar neurons have similar structural architecture at the chromosomal level, we studied Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. Previous studies have shown that in Purkinje neurons centromeres of several chromosomes form clusters and that the number and size of these clusters remain stable in the adult brain. We examined whether the same set of centromeres form clusters in all the Purkinje neurons. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with chromosome-specific para-centromeric probes provided an indirect evidence for a trend towards varying contributions from different chromosomes forming the centromeric clusters in adjacent Purkinje neurons. The results of the study indicate that the individual Purkinje neurons are likely unique in inter-chromosomal spatial associations.

Brain systems communicate by means of neuronal oscillations at multiple temporal and spatial scales. In anesthetized rats, we find that neocortical &quot;slow&quot; oscillation engages neurons in prefrontal, somatosensory, entorhinal, and subicular cortices into synchronous transitions between UP and DOWN states, with a corresponding bimodal distribution of their membrane potential. The membrane potential of hippocampal granule cells and CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells lacked bimodality, yet it was influenced by the slow oscillation in a region-specific manner. Furthermore, in both anesthetized and naturally sleeping rats, the cortical UP states resulted in increased activity of dentate and most CA1 neurons, as well as the highest probability of ripple events. Yet, the CA3-CA1 network could self-organize into gamma bursts and occasional ripples during the DOWN state. Thus, neo/paleocortical and hippocampal networks periodically reset, self-organize, and temporally coordinate their cell assemblies via the slow oscillation.
Periventricular heterotopia (PVH) is a congenital malformation of human cerebral cortex frequently associated with Filamin-A (FLN-A) mutations but the pathogenetic mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we show that the MEKK4 (MAP3K4) pathway is involved in Fln-A regulation and PVH formation. MEKK4(-/-) mice developed PVH associated with breaches in the neuroependymal lining which were largely comprised of neurons that failed to reach the cortical plate. RNA interference (RNAi) targeting MEKK4 also impaired neuronal migration. Expression of Fln was elevated in MEKK4(-/-) forebrain, most notably near sites of failed neuronal migration. Importantly, recombinant MKK4 protein precipitated a complex containing MEKK4 and Fln-A, and MKK4 mediated signaling between MEKK4 and Fln-A, suggesting that MKK4 may bridge these molecules during development. Finally, we showed that wild-type FLN-A overexpression inhibited neuronal migration. Collectively, our results demonstrate a link between MEKK4 and Fln-A that impacts neuronal migration initiation and provides insight into the pathogenesis of human PVH.
In 1900, Ramn y Cajal advanced the neuron doctrine, defining the neuron as the fundamental signaling unit of the nervous system. Over a century later, neurobiologists address the circuit doctrine: the logic of the core units of neuronal circuitry that control animal behavior. These are circuits that can be called into action for perceptual, conceptual, and motor tasks, and we now need to understand whether there are coherent and overriding principles that govern the design and function of these modules. The discovery of central motor programs has provided crucial insight into the logic of one prototypic set of neural circuits: those that generate motor patterns. In this review, I discuss the mode of operation of these pattern generator networks and consider the neural mechanisms through which they are selected and activated. In addition, I will outline the utility of computational models in analysis of the dynamic actions of these motor networks.
Cocaine-dependence has been shown to affect the amplitudes of the P50 mid-latency auditory evoked response (MLAER) as well as P50 sensory gating. The effects on subsequent MLAERs (N100 and P200) have not been examined. The objective of the current study was to further assess the effects of chronic cocaine use on the P50, N100, and P200 components. Thirty-four, at least three weeks abstinent, cocaine-dependent individuals and 34 age and gender matched healthy controls were examined. The amplitudes, latencies and gating measures were calculated and compared between the groups. The N100 and P200 were significantly smaller in patients as compared to control subjects. Sensory gating of the P50, the N100, and the P200 were deficient in cocaine-dependent subjects. Latencies of all measured components were prolonged in subjects who reported developing paranoia while intoxicated. Finally, a positive correlation was found between length of abstinence and evoked response amplitudes. We conclude that the effects of cocaine on sensory gating extend beyond the P50 to the N100 and the P200 components. The data also suggest that prolonged latency of the evoked potentials may be a correlate of cocaine-induced psychosis. Finally, the data suggest that some recovery of amplitude and gating occurs with abstinence.
