A number of pharmacological agents for treating negative symptoms in schizophrenia are currently in development. Unresolved questions regarding the design of clinical trials in this area were discussed at an international meeting in Florence, Italy in April 2012. Participants included representatives from academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Prior to the meeting, participants submitted key questions for debate and discussion. Responses to the questions guided the discussion during the meeting. The group reached agreement on a number of issues: (1) study subjects should be under the age of 65; (2) subjects should be excluded for symptoms of depression that do not overlap with negative symptoms; (3) functional measures should not be required as a co-primary in negative symptom trials; (4) information from informants should be included for ratings when available; (5) Phase 2 negative symptom trials should be 12weeks and 26weeks is preferred for Phase 3 trials; (6) prior to entry into a negative symptom study, subjects should demonstrate clinical stability for a period of 4 to 6months by collection of retrospective information; and (7) prior to entry, the stability of negative and positive symptoms should be confirmed prospectively for four weeks or longer. The participants could not reach agreement on whether predominant or prominent negative symptoms should be required for study subjects.
Direction-selective responses to motion can be to the onset (On) or cessation (Off) of illumination. Here, we show that the transmembrane protein semaphorin 6A and its receptor plexin A2 are critical for achieving radially symmetric arborization of On starburst amacrine cell (SAC) dendrites and normal SAC stratification in the mouse retina. Plexin A2 is expressed in both On and Off SACs; however, semaphorin 6A is expressed in On SACs. Specific On-Off bistratified direction-selective ganglion cells in semaphorin 6A(-/-) mutants exhibit decreased tuning of On directional motion responses. These results correlate the elaboration of symmetric SAC dendritic morphology and asymmetric responses to motion, shedding light on the development of visual pathways that use the same cell types for divergent outputs.
How rich functionality emerges from the invariant structural architecture of the brain remains a major mystery in neuroscience. Recent applications of network theory and theoretical neuroscience to large-scale brain networks have started to dissolve this mystery. Network analyses suggest that hierarchical modular brain networks are particularly suited to facilitate local (segregated) neuronal operations and the global integration of segregated functions. Although functional networks are constrained by structural connections, context-sensitive integration during cognition tasks necessarily entails a divergence between structural and functional networks. This degenerate (many-to-one) function-structure mapping is crucial for understanding the nature of brain networks. The emergence of dynamic functional networks from static structural connections calls for a formal (computational) approach to neuronal information processing that may resolve this dialectic between structure and function.
Speech and music are remarkable aspects of human cognition and sensory-motor processing. Cognitive neuroscience has focused on them to understand how brain function and structure are modified by learning. Recent evidence indicates that individual differences in anatomical and functional properties of the neural architecture also affect learning and performance in these domains. Here, neuroimaging findings are reviewed that reiterate evidence of experience-dependent brain plasticity, but also point to the predictive validity of such data in relation to new learning in speech and music domains. Indices of neural sensitivity to certain stimulus features have been shown to predict individual rates of learning; individual network properties of brain activity are especially relevant in this regard, as they may reflect anatomical connectivity. Similarly, numerous studies have shown that anatomical features of auditory cortex and other structures, and their anatomical connectivity, are predictive of new sensory-motor learning ability. Implications of this growing body of literature are discussed.
Noninvasive studies of human brain function hold great potential to unlock mysteries of the human mind. The complexity of data generated by such studies, however, has prompted various simplifying assumptions during analysis. Although this has enabled considerable progress, our current understanding is partly contingent upon these assumptions. An emerging approach embraces the complexity, accounting for the fact that neural representations are widely distributed, neural processes involve interactions between regions, interactions vary by cognitive state, and the space of interactions is massive. Because what you see depends on how you look, such unbiased approaches provide the greatest flexibility for discovery.









Stroke is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States, but remains a leading cause of disability. As more stroke victims survive with advanced acute care, effective strategies and interventions are required to optimize poststroke outcomes. In recent years, knowledge with respect to stroke recovery has expanded greatly through completion of preclinical and clinical trials. Emerging technology may provide further treatment options beyond the standard therapy and practices. In this article, the authors review recent advances in stroke recovery and rehabilitation, including the major determinants of poststroke recovery, challenges in translational stroke recovery research, and several emerging rehabilitation modalities such as noninvasive brain stimulation, brain-computer interface, biotherapeutics, and pharmacologic agents. Potential future directions in research are also addressed.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) accounts for  10 to 15% of all strokes and is one of the major causes of stroke-related death and disability. After the initial hemorrhage, further bleeding and edema contribute to secondary damage and worsened outcomes. As such, goals of previous and ongoing trials are to prevent continued bleeding, as well as mitigate the impact of cerebral edema. Although no trials have shown a definite functional outcome benefit with a given intervention, much progress has been made recently. This review focuses on recent developments that inform the acute management of ICH.
The malignant middle cerebral artery syndrome, characterized by cerebral edema following large anterior circulation ischemic stroke, is a disease entity with high morbidity and mortality that is easy to recognize, but challenging to manage. In this review, we begin by discussing important aspects of the clinical presentation of the syndrome, including risk factors for deterioration. We then discuss medical measures that can be undertaken before symptomatic cerebral edema occurs and then outline both medical and surgical options for subsequent neurologic worsening. Shared decision making with patients' surrogates regarding decompressive craniectomy in the setting of available clinical trial data is addressed. The authors conclude with a brief discussion of promising novel therapies for preventing cerebral edema.
Thrombin and other proteases involved in coagulation also have the potential to stimulate inflammation in the brain to a large extent through the protease-activated receptors (PARs). Such exposure of the brain to increased levels of coagulation factors is more likely to occur during vasculitis and activation of intrinsic coagulation in the brain and may cause inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis. There is growing evidence from animal models and human brain samples that links upregulation of coagulation factors to inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) disease. Evidence includes measures of thrombin-like activity, levels of its receptors, PARs, and inhibitors of the coagulation pathway. The major receptor for thrombin, PAR-1, has now been definitively located to the synapse and node of Ranvier and its excessive activation leads to blocks in long-term potentiation and in nerve conduction. There is growing evidence that modulating coagulation in models of CNS inflammatory disease has beneficial clinical effects. These findings suggest that coagulation-like pathways play a significant role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases in the CNS and present a viable target for therapeutic strategies.





The public profile of neurodevelopmental research has expanded in recent years. This paper applies social representations theory to explore how early brain development was represented in the UK print media in the first decade of the 21st century. A thematic analysis was performed on 505 newspaper articles published between 2000 and 2010 that discussed early brain development. Media coverage centred around concern with 'protecting' the prenatal brain (identifying threats to foetal neurodevelopment), 'feeding' the infant brain (indicating the patterns of nutrition that enhance brain development) and 'loving' the young child's brain (elucidating the developmental significance of emotionally nurturing family environments). The media focused almost exclusively on the role of parental action in promoting optimal neurodevelopment, rarely acknowledging wider structural, cultural or political means of supporting child development. The significance of parental care was intensified by deterministic interpretations of critical periods, which implied that inappropriate parental input would produce profound and enduring neurobiological impairments. Neurodevelopmental research was also used to promulgate normative judgements concerning the acceptability of certain gender roles and family contexts. The paper argues that media representations of neurodevelopment stress parental responsibility for shaping a child's future while relegating the contributions of genetic or wider societal factors, and examines the consequences of these representations for society and family life.
The ethical issues neuroscience raises are subject to increasing attention, exemplified in the emergence of the discipline neuroethics. While the moral implications of neurotechnological developments are often discussed, less is known about how ethics intersects with everyday work in neuroscience and how scientists themselves perceive the ethics of their research. Drawing on observation and interviews with members of one UK group conducting neuroscience research at both the laboratory bench and in the clinic, this article examines what ethics meant to these researchers and delineates four specific types of ethics that shaped their day-to-day work: regulatory, professional, personal and tangible. While the first three categories are similar to those identified elsewhere in sociological work on scientific and clinical ethics, the notion of 'tangible ethics' emerged by attending to everyday practice, in which these scientists' discursive distinctions between right and wrong were sometimes challenged. The findings shed light on how ethical positions produce and are, in turn, produced by scientific practice. Informing sociological understandings of neuroscience, they also throw the category of neuroscience and its ethical specificity into question, given that members of this group did not experience their work as raising issues that were distinctly neuro-ethical.


Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (bfCNs) which provide innervation to the hippocampus and cortex, are required for memory and learning, and are primarily affected in Alzheimer's Disease (AD), resulting in related cognitive decline. Therefore generation of a source of bfCNs from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) is crucial for in vitro disease modeling and development of novel AD therapies. In addition, for the advancement of regenerative approaches there is a requirement for an accurate developmental model to study the neurogenesis and survival of this population. Here we demonstrate the efficient production of bfCNs, using a novel embryoid body (EB) based non-adherent differentiation (NAdD) protocol. We establish a specific basal forebrain neural stem cell (NSC) phenotype via expression of the basal forebrain transcription factors NKX2.1 and LHX8, as well as the general forebrain marker FOXG1. We present evidence that this lineage is achieved via recapitulation of embryonic events, with induction of intrinsic hedgehog signaling, through the use of a 3D non-adherent differentiation system. This is the first example of hPSC-derived basal forebrain-like NSCs, which are scalable via self-renewal in prolonged culture. Furthermore upon terminal differentiation these basal forebrain-like NSCs generate high numbers of cholinergic neurons expressing the specific markers ChAT, VACht and ISL1. These hPSC-derived bfCNs possess characteristics that are crucial in a model to study AD related cholinergic neuronal loss in the basal forebrain. Examples are expression of the therapeutic target p75(NTR), the release of acetylcholine, and demonstration of a mature, and functional electrophysiological profile. In conclusion, this work provides a renewable source of human functional bfCNs applicable for studying AD specifically in the cholinergic system, and also provides a model of the key embryonic events in human bfCN development.
We previously observed that social instability stress (SS: daily 1h isolation and change of cage partners for 16 days) in adolescence, but not in adulthood, decreased context and cue memory after fear conditioning in male rats. Effects of stress are typically sex-specific, and so here we investigated adolescent and adult SS effects in females on the strength of acquired contextual and cued fear conditioning, as well as extinction learning, beginning either the day after the stress procedure or four weeks later. For SS in adolescence, SS females spent more time freezing (fear measure) during extinction than did controls, whereas SS in adulthood had no effect on any measure of fear conditioning. The results also indicated an effect of age: females in late adolescence show more rapid extinction of cue and better memory of extinction of context compared to adult females, which may indicate resilience to acute footshock in adolescence. Thus fear circuitry continues to mature into late adolescence, which may underlie the heightened plasticity in response to chronic stressors of adolescents compared to adults.
Experiencing stress can be physically and psychologically debilitating to an organism. Women have a higher prevalence of some stress-related mental illnesses, the reasons for which are unknown. These experiments explore differential HPA axis hormone release in male and female rats following acute stress. Female rats had a similar threshold of HPA axis hormone release following low intensity noise stress as male rats. Sex did not affect the acute release, or the return of HPA axis hormones to baseline following moderate intensity noise stress. Sensitive indices of auditory functioning obtained by modulation of the acoustic startle reflex by weak pre-pulses did not reveal any sexual dimorphism. Furthermore, male and female rats exhibited similar c-fos mRNA expression in the brain following noise stress, including several sex-influenced stress-related regions. The HPA axis response to noise stress was not affected by stage of estrous cycle, and ovariectomy significantly increased hormone release. Direct comparison of HPA axis hormone release to two different stressors in the same animals revealed that although female rats exhibit robustly higher HPA axis hormone release after restraint stress, the same effect was not observed following moderate and high intensity loud noise stress. Finally, the differential effect of sex on HPA axis responses to noise and restraint stress cannot readily be explained by differential social cues or general pain processing. These studies suggest the effect of sex on acute stress-induced HPA axis hormone activity is highly dependent on the type of stressor.
















Central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction secondary to sepsis is characterized by long-term cognitive impairment. It was observed that oxidative damage, energetic metabolism impairment, and cytokine level alteration seen in early times in an animal model of sepsis may persist for up to 10 days and might be associated with cognitive damage. In order to understand these mechanisms, at least in part, we evaluated the effects of sepsis on cytokine levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), oxidative parameters, and energetic metabolism in the brain of rats at both 30 and 60 days after sepsis induction by cecal ligation and perforation (CLP). To this aim, male Wistar rats underwent CLP with &quot;basic support&quot; or were sham-operated. Both 30 and 60 days after surgery, the CSF was collected and the animals were killed by decapitation. Then, the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cortex were collected. Thirty days after surgery, an increase of IL-6 level in the CSF; an increase in the thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) in prefrontal cortex and a decrease in hippocampus, striatum, and cortex; a decrease of carbonyl protein formation only in prefrontal cortex and an increase in striatum; and an increase in the complex IV activity only in hippocampus were observed. Sixty days after sepsis, an increase of TNF- level in the CSF; a decrease of TBARS only in hippocampus; an increase of carbonyl protein formation in striatum; and a decrease of complex I activity in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum were observed. These findings may contribute to understanding the role of late cognitive impairment. Further studies may address how these findings interact during sepsis development and contribute to CNS dysfunction.
Both intracellular pH (pHi) and synaptic cleft pH change during neuronal activity yet little is known about how these pH shifts might affect synaptic transmission by influencing vesicle fusion. To address this we imaged pH- and Ca(2+) -sensitive fluorescent indicators (HPTS, Oregon green) in boutons at neuromuscular junctions. Electrical stimulation of motor nerves evoked presynaptic Ca(2+) i rises and pHi falls (0.1 pH units) followed by recovery of both Ca(2+) i and pHi. The plasma-membrane calcium ATPase (PMCA) inhibitor, 5(6)-carboxyeosin diacetate, slowed both the calcium recovery and the acidification. To investigate a possible calcium-independent role for the pHi shifts in modulating vesicle fusion we recorded post-synaptic miniature end-plate potential (mEPP) and current (mEPC) frequency in Ca(2+) -free solution. Acidification by propionate superfusion, NH(4)(+) withdrawal, or the inhibition of acid extrusion on the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) induced a rise in miniature frequency. Furthermore, the inhibition of acid extrusion enhanced the rise induced by propionate addition and NH(4)(+) removal. In the presence of NH(4)(+), 10 out of 23 cells showed, after a delay, one or more rises in miniature frequency. These findings suggest that Ca(2+) -dependent pHi shifts, caused by the PMCA and regulated by NHE, may stimulate vesicle release. Furthermore, in the presence of membrane permeant buffers, exocytosed acid or its equivalents may enhance release through positive feedback. This hitherto neglected pH signalling, and the potential feedback role of vesicular acid, could explain some important neuronal excitability changes associated with altered pH and its buffering.
Laquinimod is a novel immunomodulatory agent, in development as a potential disease-modifying treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS). Structurally related to linomide, its pharmacological predecessor, laquinimod combines anti-inflammatory and possibly clinically relevant neuroprotective effects with the convenience of oral administration. In this review we aim to highlight the immunomodulatory and neuroprotective effects of laquinimod, and to describe its effects in animal models of MS. Furthermore, we focus on current results of clinical studies in MS. Randomized, controlled clinical trials in relapsing MS demonstrate a dose-response effect on disease activity, measured by reduced clinical relapse rate, reduced number of brain MRI active lesions, as well as on sustained disability and brain atrophy. Laquinimod has a favourable tolerability and safety profile. A new phase III study, recently completed, will soon provide further details on the therapeutic potential of this drug. Laquinimod is a promising emerging treatment for relapsing-remitting MS that may provide a new therapeutic option in the near future.
Recently, using the chemical genetics approach for cell reprogramming, via the combination of small molecule modulators of chromatin modifying enzymes, specific SMAD signaling pathways, and cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, we have been able to generate neuronallike cells predominantly positive to mature neuronal and dopaminergic markers. This study aimed to characterize further the dopaminergic properties of neurally induced (NI) human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and to determine whether addition of sonic hedgehog (SHH)/fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) to NI medium could promote further dopaminergic maturation. Dopaminergic differentiation was evaluated by immunocytochemistry, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results demonstrated that release of dopamine by NI-hMSCs differentiated with SMAD inhibitor supplementation significantly increased from picogram to nanogram levels, with a tendency of further increase when supplemented by SHH/FGF8. Direct generation of dopaminergic cells from adult hMSCs by using this reprogramming approach may have significant implications for understanding the mechanism underlying cell plasticity and may opennew potentialities for cell replacement therapies.


Intelligent animals devote much time and energy to exploring and obtaining information, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We review recent developments on this topic that have emerged from the traditionally separate fields of machine learning, eye movements in natural behavior, and studies of curiosity in psychology and neuroscience. These studies show that exploration may be guided by a family of mechanisms that range from automatic biases toward novelty or surprise to systematic searches for learning progress and information gain in curiosity-driven behavior. In addition, eye movements reflect visual information searching in multiple conditions and are amenable for cellular-level investigations. This suggests that the oculomotor system is an excellent model system for understanding information-sampling mechanisms.
Cytoplasmic dynein is the main retrograde motor in all eukaryotic cells. This complex comprises different subunits assembled on a cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain 1 (DYNC1H1) dimer. Cytoplasmic dynein is particularly important for neurons because it carries essential signals and organelles from distal sites to the cell body. In the past decade, several mouse models have helped to dissect the numerous functions of DYNC1H1. Additionally, several DYNC1H1 mutations have recently been found in human patients that give rise to a broad spectrum of developmental and midlife-onset disorders. Here, we discuss the effects of mutations of mouse and human DYNC1H1 and how these studies are giving us new insight into the many critical roles DYNC1H1 plays in the nervous system.
A long-standing literature linking endocannabinoids (ECBs) to stress, fear, and anxiety has led to growing interest in developing novel anxiolytics targeting the ECB system. Following rapid on-demand biosynthesis and degradation upon neuronal activation, the ECB N-arachidonoylethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) is actively degraded by the serine hydrolase enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Exposure to stress rapidly mobilizes FAAH to deplete the signaling pool of AEA and increase neuronal excitability in a key anxiety-mediating region--the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Gene deletion or pharmacological inhibition of FAAH prevents stress-induced reductions in AEA and associated increases in BLA dendritic hypertrophy and anxiety-like behavior. Additionally, inhibition of FAAH facilitates long-term fear extinction and rescues deficient fear extinction in rodent models by enhancing AEA-CB1 (cannabinoid type 1) receptor signaling and synaptic plasticity in the BLA. These preclinical findings propose restoring deficient BLA AEA levels by pharmacologically inhibiting FAAH as a mechanism to therapeutically mitigate the effects of traumatic stress.


Many complex behaviors rely on guidance from sensations. To perform these behaviors, the motor system must decode information relevant to the task from the sensory system. However, identifying the neurons responsible for encoding the appropriate sensory information remains a difficult problem for neurophysiologists. A key step toward identifying candidate systems is finding neurons or groups of neurons capable of representing the stimuli adequately to support behavior. A traditional approach involves quantitatively measuring the performance of single neurons and comparing this to the performance of the animal. One of the strongest pieces of evidence in support of a neuronal population being involved in a behavioral task comes from the signals being sufficient to support behavior. Numerous experiments using perceptual decision tasks show that visual cortical neurons in many areas have this property. However, most visually guided behaviors are not categorical but continuous and dynamic. In this article, we review the concept of sufficiency and the tools used to measure neural and behavioral performance. We show how concepts from information theory can be used to measure the ongoing performance of both neurons and animal behavior. Finally, we apply these tools to dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) neurons and demonstrate that these neurons can represent stimuli important to navigation to a distant goal. We find that MSTd neurons represent ongoing steering error in a virtual-reality steering task. Although most individual neurons were insufficient to support the behavior, some very nearly matched the animal's estimation performance. These results are consistent with many results from perceptual experiments and in line with the predictions of Mountcastle's &quot;lower envelope principle.&quot;
When I first came across William James' dictum that &quot;  this sense of sameness is the very keel and backbone of our thinking,&quot; I thought he had foreseen the importance of cross-correlation in the brain, and told myself to find out how he had reached this conclusion. When I finally did this a year or two ago, I slowly came to realize that I had completely misunderstood him; from the full quote it is absolutely clear that his dictum cannot be referring to the process by which a cortical simple cell responds selectively to the orientation of features in a visual image, as I had originally supposed. If one translates the original dictum into two more prosaic modern versions, his version would say: &quot;Our minds could not think at all without neural circuits in our brains that compute auto-correlations,&quot; but in my mistaken interpretation the last word would be &quot;cross-correlations.&quot; Others may have made the same mistake, but the difference is profound, and finding what he really meant has been a revelation to me. This essay explains the revelation, describes how to determine experimentally whether the brain does auto- or cross-correlation, and gives the result of preliminary experiments showing clearly that it does both. A revised view of the visual cortex as autocorrelator as well as cross-correlator claims to tell us what complex cells in the visual cortex do, and it assigns a role to its columnar structure that is as important to fulfilling that role as the concept of the receptive field has been to understanding the simple cells' fulfillment of theirs. The new view has compelling features, broad implications, and suggests a plausible model of how neural circuits in the cortex achieve thought, but it needs further testing.
Over the last 35 years or so, there has been substantial progress in revealing and characterizing the many interesting and sometimes mysterious sensory abnormalities that accompany amblyopia. A goal of many of the studies has been to try to make the link between the sensory losses and the underlying neural losses, resulting in several hypotheses about the site, nature, and cause of amblyopia. This article reviews some of these hypotheses, and the assumptions that link the sensory losses to specific physiological alterations in the brain. Despite intensive study, it turns out to be quite difficult to make a simple linking hypothesis, at least at the level of single neurons, and the locus of the sensory loss remains elusive. It is now clear that the simplest notion-that reduced contrast sensitivity of neurons in cortical area V1 explains the reduction in contrast sensitivity-is too simplistic. Considerations of noise, noise correlations, pooling, and the weighting of information also play a critically important role in making perceptual decisions, and our current models of amblyopia do not adequately take these into account. Indeed, although the reduction of contrast sensitivity is generally considered to reflect &quot;early&quot; neural changes, it seems plausible that it reflects changes at many stages of visual processing.

During development, precise formation of millions of synaptic connections is critical for the formation of a functional nervous system. Synaptogenesis is a complex multistep process in which axons follow gradients of secreted and cell surface guidance cues to reach their target area, at which point they must accurately distinguish their specific target. Upon target recognition, the axonal growth cone undergoes rapid growth and morphological changes, ultimately forming a functional synapse that continues to remodel during activity-dependent plasticity. Significant evidence suggests that the underlying actin and microtubule (MT) cytoskeletons are key effectors throughout synaptogenesis downstream of numerous receptors and signaling pathways. An increasing number of cytoskeletal-associated proteins have been shown to influence actin and MT stability and dynamics and many of these regulators have been implicated during synaptic morphogenesis using both mammalian and invertebrate model systems. In this review, we present an overview of the role cytoskeletal regulators play during the formation of the Drosophila neuromuscular junction.
Interactions among signaling pathways that are activated by transmembrane receptors produce complex networks and emergent dynamical behaviors that are implicated in synaptic plasticity. Temporal dynamics and spatial aspects are critical determinants of cell responses such as synaptic plasticity, although the mapping between spatiotemporal activity pattern and direction of synaptic plasticity is not completely understood. Computational modeling of neuronal signaling pathways has significantly contributed to understanding signaling pathways underlying synaptic plasticity. Spatial models of signaling pathways in hippocampal neurons have revealed mechanisms underlying the spatial distribution of extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) activation in hippocampal neurons. Other spatial models have demonstrated that the major role of anchoring proteins in striatal and hippocampal synaptic plasticity is to place molecules near their activators. Simulations of yet other models have revealed that the spatial distribution of synaptic plasticity may differ for potentiation versus depression. In general, the most significant advances have been made by interactive modeling and experiments; thus, an interdisciplinary approach should be applied to investigate critical issues in neuronal signaling pathways. These issues include identifying which transmembrane receptors are key for activating ERK in neurons, and the crucial targets of kinases that produce long-lasting synaptic plasticity. Although the number of computer programs for computationally efficient simulation of large reaction-diffusion networks is increasing, parameter estimation and sensitivity analysis in these spatial models remain more difficult than in single compartment models. Advances in live cell imaging coupled with further software development will continue to accelerate the development of spatial models of synaptic plasticity.










The first human stereotactic surgery based on intracerebral landmarks and Cartesian coordinates was performed in 1947. With this followed the publication of a number of stereotactic frames and atlases. The intercommissural line joining the anterior and posterior commissures was to define stereotactic coordinate systems used in movement disorders and other functional neurosurgical procedures. Initially the target for Parkinson disease was the globus pallidus internus (GPi), but many investigators soon turned to the thalamus or parts of the subthalamus, but not the subthalamic nucleus. Microelectrode recording was introduced in 1961. With the apparent clinical efficacy of L-DOPA in 1965 interest in stereotactic surgery for Parkinson disease declined. The failure of prolonged, consistent pharmacologic management of bradykinesia and tremor, the side effects of dyskinesias, and the fading therapeutic success of medical treatment of movement disorders led to a resurgence of interest in the surgical management of movement disorders. With advances in understanding of the functional anatomy of the corticobasal ganglia circuit, advances in brain imaging, more sophisticated electrophysiologic recordings, and the use of deep brain stimulation as a reversible lesion, stereotactic surgery returned as a viable option for the treatment of movement disorders. The posterior medial part of the globus pallidus, ventral intermediate nucleus of the thalamus, and the subthalamus, its nuclei and pathways, are sites for interrupting pathophysiologic circuits. Not only has this been applied to movement disorders, but to epilepsy, chronic pain, and behavioral disorders.

Due to the close interactions between the skin and peripheral nervous system, there is increasing evidence that the cutaneous innervation is an important modulator of the normal wound healing process. The communication between sensory neurons and skin cells involves a variety of molecules (neuropeptides, neurohormones, and neurotrophins) and their specific receptors expressed by both neuronal and nonneuronal skin cells. It is well established that neurotransmitters and nerve growth factors released in skin have immunoregulatory roles and can exert mitogenic actions; they could also influence the functions of the different skin cell types during the wound healing process.
The function of erythropoietin (EPO) is recognized as a stimulator for proliferation of red blood cell (RBC), however,recent studies have showed that EPO and EPO-R are widely distributed in nervous system, which indicates that it may also have important functions in nervous system. Studies proved its neuroprotective effects, especially in ischemic-hypoxic nerve tissues. These effects are mainly activated through several signal transduction pathway downstream and multiple mechanisms are involved. As a neuroprotective factor, EPO has been investigated in the clinical studies, which may lead to the clinical application in the future.
In humans, whispering has evolved as a counteractive strategy against eavesdropping. Some evidence for whisper-like behavior exists in a few other species, but has not been reported in non-human primates. We discovered the first evidence of whisper-like behavior in a non-human primate, the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), in the course of investigating their use of human-directed mobbing calls. We exposed a family of captive cotton-top tamarins to a supervisor who previously elicited a strong mobbing response. Simultaneous audio-video recordings documented the animals' behavioral and vocal responses in the supervisor's presence and absence. Rather than exhibiting a mobbing response and producing loud human-directed mobbing calls, the tamarins exhibited other anti-predator behaviors and produced low amplitude vocalizations that initially eluded our detection. A post-hoc analysis of the data was conducted to test a new hypothesis-the tamarins were reducing the amplitude of their vocalizations in the context of exposure to a potential threat. Consistent with whisper-like behavior, the amplitude of the tamarins' vocalizations was significantly reduced only in the presence of the supervisor. Due to its subtle properties, this phenomenon may have eluded detection in this species. Increasing evidence of whisper-like behavior in non-human species suggests that such low amplitude signaling may represent a convergence in a communication strategy amongst highly social and cooperative species.



The aim of the present report was to investigate whether, in the mammalian spinal cord, cell death induced by transient excitotoxic stress could trigger activation and proliferation of endogenous neuroprogenitor cells as a potential source of a lesion repair process and the underlying time course. Because it is difficult to address these issues in vivo, we used a validated model of spinal injury based on rat organotypic slice cultures that retain the fundamental tissue cytoarchitecture and replicate the main characteristics of experimental damage to the whole spinal cord. Excitotoxicity evoked by 1 h kainate application produced delayed neuronal death (40%) peaking after 1 day without further losses or destruction of white matter cells for up to 2 weeks. After 10 days, cultures released a significantly larger concentration of endogenous glutamate, suggesting functional network plasticity. Indeed, after 1 week the total number of cells had returned to untreated control level, indicating substantial cell proliferation. Activation of progenitor cells started early as they spread outside the central area, and persisted for 2 weeks. Although expression of the neuronal progenitor phenotype was observed at day 3, peaked at 1 week and tapered off at 2 weeks, very few cells matured to neurons. Astroglia precursors started proliferating later and matured at 2 weeks. These data show insult-related proliferation of endogenous spinal neuroprogenitors over a relatively brief time course, and delineate a narrow temporal window for future experimental attempts to drive neuronal maturation and for identifying the factors regulating this process.
Modern therapy cures 80% of all children with brains tumors, but may also cause long-lasting side effects, so called late effects. Radiotherapy is particularly prone to cause severe late effects, such as intellectual impairment. The extent and nature of the resulting cognitive deficits may be influenced by age, treatment and gender, where girls suffer more severe late effects than boys. The reason for this difference between boys and girls is unknown, but very few experimental studies have addressed this issue. Our aim was to investigate the effects of ionizing radiation on the corpus callosum (CC) in both male and female mice. We found that a single dose of 8 Gray (Gy) to the brains of postnatal day 14 mice induced apoptosis in the CC and reduced the number of proliferating cells by one third, as judged by the number of phospho-histone H3 positive cells 6 h after irradiation (IR). BrdU incorporation was reduced (62% and 42% lower in females and males, respectively) and the number of oligodendrocytes (Olig2(+) cells) was lower (43% and 21% fewer in females and males, respectively) 4 months after IR, so the lack of developing and differentiated cells was more pronounced in females. The number of microglia was unchanged in females but increased in males at this late time point. The density of microvessel profiles was unchanged by IR. This single, moderate dose of 8 Gy impaired the brain growth to some extent (8.1% and 0.4% lower brain/body weight ratio in females and males, respectively) but the CC growth was even more impaired (31% and 19% smaller in females and males, respectively) 4 months after IR compared with non-irradiated mice. In conclusion, this is the first study to our knowledge demonstrating that IR to the young rodent brain affects white matter development more in females than in males.
CaV1.3 ion channels are dominant Ca(2+) portals into pacemaking neurons, residing at the epicenter of brain rhythmicity and neurodegeneration. Negative Ca(2+) feedback regulation of CaV1.3 channels (CDI) is therefore critical for Ca(2+) homeostasis. Intriguingly, nearly half the CaV1.3 transcripts in the brainare RNA edited to reduce CDI and influence oscillatory activity. It is then mechanistically remarkable that this editing occurs precisely within an IQdomain, whose interaction with Ca(2+)-bound calmodulin (Ca(2+)/CaM) is believed to induce CDI. Here, we sought the mechanism underlying the altered CDI of edited channels. Unexpectedly, editing failed to attenuate Ca(2+)/CaM binding. Instead, editing weakened the prebinding of Ca(2+)-free CaM (apoCaM) to channels, which proves essential for CDI. Thus, editing might render CDI continuously tunable by fluctuations in ambient CaM, a prominent effect we substantiate in substantia nigral neurons. This adjustability of Ca(2+) regulation by CaM now looms as a key element of CNS Ca(2+) homeostasis.



The last decade the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) system has received enormous attention due to its role in regulation of behavior, exemplified by the discovery that increased 5-HT tone in the central nervous system is able to alleviate affective disorders. Here, we review the developmental processes, with a special emphasis on subset specification, leading to the formation of the 5-HT system in the brain. Molecular classification of 5-HT neuronal groups leads to the definition of two independent rostral groups positioned in rhombomere 1 and 2/3 and a caudal group in rhombomere 5-8. In addition, more disperse refinement of these subsets is present as shown by the selective expression of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor, indicating functional diversity between 5-HT subsets. The functional significance of the molecular coding differences is not well known and the molecular basis of described specific connectivity patterns remain to be elucidated. Recent developments in genetic lineage tracing models will provide these data and form a major step-up toward the full understanding of the importance of developmental programming and function of 5-HT neuronal subsets.




Hip is a site very commonly affected by osteoarthritis and the intra-articular administration of hyaluronic acid in the management of osteoarthritic pain is increasingly used. However, the debate about its usefulness is still ongoing, as not all results of clinical trials confirm its effectiveness. In order to achieve the best outcome, clinical assessment and treatment choices should be based on subjective outcome, pathological and mechanical findings that should be integrated with qualitative analysis of human movement. After viscosupplementation, clinical trials often evaluate as endpoint subjective outcomes (i.e. pain visual analogic scale) and static imaging such as radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging. In our clinical practice we use gait analysis as part of rehabilitation protocol to measure performance, enhancement and changes of several biomechanical factors. Taking advantage of available resources (BTS Bioengineering gait analysis Elite System) we studied a patient's gait after ultrasound guided hip injections for viscosupplementation. He showed an early clinical and biomechanical improvement during walking after a single intra articular injection of hyaluronic acid. Gait analysis parameters obtained suggest that the pre-treatment slower speed may be caused by antalgic walking patterns, the need for pain control and muscle weakness. After hip viscosupplementation, the joint displayed different temporal, kinetic and kinematic parameters associated with improved pain patterns.

We previously discovered a splice variant of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA, and designated the variant protein pChAT because of its preferential expression in peripheral neuronal structures. In this study, we examined the immunohistochemical localization of pChAT in rat cochlea and compared the distribution pattern to those of common ChAT (cChAT) and acetylcholinesterase. Some neuronal cell bodies and fibers in the spiral ganglia showed immunoreactivity for pChAT, predominantly the small spiral ganglion cells, indicating outer hair cell type II neurons. In contrast, cChAT- and acetylcholinesterase-positive structures were localized to fibers and not apparent in ganglion cells. After ablation of the cochlear nuclei, many pChAT-positive cochlear nerve fibers became clearly visible, whereas fibers immunopositive for cChAT and acetylcholine esterase disappeared. These results suggested that pChAT and cChAT are localized in different systems of the rat cochlea; pChAT in the afferent and cChAT in the efferent structures.


Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) represents promotesa key molecule for the survival and differentiation of specific populations of neurons in the central nervous system. BDNF also regulates plasticity-related processes underlying memory and learning. A common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs6265 has been identified on the coding sequence of human BDNF located at 11p13. The SNP rs6265 is a single base mutation with an adenine instead of a guanine at position 196 (G196A), resulting in the amino acid substitution Val66Met. This polymorphism only exists in humans and has been associated with a plethora of effects ranging from molecular, cellular and brain structural modifications in association with deficits in social and cognitive functions. To date, the literature on Val66Met polymorphism describes a complex and often conflicting pattern of effects. In this review, we attempt to provide a unifying model of the Val66Met effects. We discuss the clinical evidence of the association between Val66Met and memory deficits, as well as the molecular mechanisms involved including the reduced transport of BDNF mRNA to the dendrites as well as the reduced processing and secretion of BDNF protein through the regulated secretory pathway.

One of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease is the presence of amyloid- plaques in the brain and the major constituent of these plaques is aggregated amyloid- peptide. New thiosemicarbazone-pyridylhydrazine based ligands that incorporate functional groups designed to bind amyloid- plaques have been synthesized. The new ligands form stable four coordinate complexes with a positron-emitting radioactive isotope of copper, (64)Cu. Two of the new Cu(II) complexes include a functionalized styrylpyridine group and these complexes bind to amyloid- plaques in samples of post-mortem human brain tissue. Strategies to increase brain uptake by functional group manipulation have led to a (64)Cu complex that effectively crosses the blood-brain barrier in wild-type mice. The new complexes described in this manuscript provide insight into strategies to deliver metal complexes to amyloid- plaques.
Interaural time differences (ITDs) are a major cue for localizing low-frequency (&lt;1.5 kHz) sounds. Sensitivity to this cue first occurs in the medial superior olive (MSO), which is thought to perform a coincidence analysis on its monaural inputs. Extracellular single-neuron recordings in MSO are difficult to obtain because (1) MSO action potentials are small and (2) a large field potential locked to the stimulus waveform hampers spike isolation. Consequently, only a limited number of studies report MSO data, and even in these studies data are limited in the variety of stimuli used, in the number of neurons studied, and in spike isolation. More high-quality data are needed to better understand the mechanisms underlying neuronal ITD-sensitivity. We circumvented these difficulties by recording from the axons of MSO neurons in the lateral lemniscus (LL) of the chinchilla, a species with pronounced low-frequency sensitivity. Employing sharp glass electrodes we successfully recorded from neurons with ITD sensitivity: the location, response properties, latency, and spike shape were consistent with an MSO axonal origin. The main difficulty encountered was mechanical stability. We obtained responses to binaural beats and dichotic noise bursts to characterize the best delay versus characteristic frequency distribution, and compared the data to recordings we obtained in the inferior colliculus (IC). In contrast to most reports in other rodents, many best delays were close to zero ITD, both in MSO and IC, with a majority of the neurons recorded in the LL firing maximally within the presumed ethological ITD range.
Repeated exposure to cocaine is known to produce persistent deficits in behavioral flexibility. Evidence suggests that these deficits are mediated in part by a circuit involving the medial prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices (PFC and OFC), nucleus accumbens (NAC), and basolateral amygdala (BLA). To assess the effects of cocaine on this circuit, we treated rats with cocaine daily for 14 d, followed by 4 weeks of abstinence. Animals were then tested on a cross-maze-based reversal learning and set-shifting task, after which they were anesthetized to allow for recording of spontaneous local field potential (LFP) activity simultaneously from all four regions, in addition to activity evoked from acute BLA stimulation. Cocaine-treated (COC) animals showed specific deficits in reversal learning; furthermore, spontaneous LFP oscillation power was reduced and BLA-induced oscillation power was increased in all regions compared with saline-treated (SAL) rats. Theta-burst stimulation of BLA potentiated BLA-evoked responses in all regions and cocaine challenge reduced spontaneous oscillation power and evoked response amplitude, with no COC/SAL group differences. Notably, cocaine challenge produced differential changes in coherence between OFC-BLA, BLA-NAC, and OFC-NAC in COC and SAL groups. These data indicate that repeated exposure to cocaine can produce changes in oscillatory LFP synchronization along limbic cortico-striatal circuits that persist long into abstinence. Furthermore, the regional specificity of these changes strongly correlates with the observed behavioral deficits. Aberrant synchronization within and between regions and consequent dysregulation of the neurocircuitry involved in executive control may contribute to the long-lasting maladaptive decision making seen in cocaine abusers.
Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) secreted by photoreceptors plays a pivotal role in photoreceptor survival with an unknown mechanism. A mutation in the human IRBP has been linked to retinitis pigmentosa, a progressive retinal degenerative disease. Mice lacking IRBP display severe early and progressive photoreceptor degeneration. However, the signaling pathway(s) leading to photoreceptor death in IRBP-deficient mice remains poorly understood. Here, we show that amounts of tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) in the interphotoreceptor matrix and retinas of Irbp(-/-) mice were increased more than 10-fold and fivefold, respectively, compared with those in wild-type mice. Moreover, TNF- receptor 1, an important membrane death receptor that mediates both programmed apoptosis and necrosis, was also significantly increased in Irbp(-/-) retina, and was colocalized with peanut agglutinin to the Irbp(-/-) cone outer segments. Although these death signaling proteins were increased, the caspase-dependent and independent apoptotic pathways were mildly activated in the Irbp(-/-) retinas, suggesting that other cell death mechanism(s) also contributes to the extensive photoreceptor degeneration in Irbp(-/-) retina. We found that receptor interacting protein 1 and 3 (RIP1 and RIP3) kinases, the intracellular key mediators of TNF-induced cellular necrosis, were elevated at least threefold in the Irbp(-/-) retinas. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of RIP1 kinase significantly prevented cone and rod photoreceptor degeneration in Irbp(-/-) mice. These results reveal that RIP kinase-mediated necrosis strongly contributes to cone and rod degeneration in Irbp(-/-) mice, implicating the TNF-RIP pathway as a potential therapeutic target to prevent or delay photoreceptor degeneration in patients with retinitis pigmentosa caused by IRBP mutation.
The visual cortex is sensitive to emotional stimuli. This sensitivity is typically assumed to arise when amygdala modulates visual cortex via backwards connections. Using human fMRI, we compared dynamic causal connectivity models of sensitivity with fearful faces. This model comparison tested whether amygdala modulates distinct cortical areas, depending on dynamic or static face presentation. The ventral temporal fusiform face area showed sensitivity to fearful expressions in static faces. However, for dynamic faces, we found fear sensitivity in dorsal motion-sensitive areas within hMT+/V5 and superior temporal sulcus. The model with the greatest evidence included connections modulated by dynamic and static fear from amygdala to dorsal and ventral temporal areas, respectively. According to this functional architecture, amygdala could enhance encoding of fearful expression movements from video and the form of fearful expressions from static images. The amygdala may therefore optimize visual encoding of socially charged and salient information.
Establishment of synaptic connections in the neuropils of the developing nervous system requires the coordination of specific neurite-neurite interactions (i.e., axon-axon, dendrite-dendrite and axon-dendrite interactions). The molecular mechanisms underlying coordination of neurite-neurite interactions for circuit assembly are incompletely understood. In this report, we identify a novel Ig superfamily transmembrane protein that we named Borderless (Bdl), as a novel regulator of neurite-neurite interactions in Drosophila. Bdl induces homotypic cell-cell adhesion in vitro and mediates neurite-neurite interactions in the developing visual system. Bdl interacts physically and genetically with the Ig transmembrane protein Turtle, a key regulator of axonal tiling. Our results also show that the receptor tyrosine phosphatase leukocyte common antigen-related protein (LAR) negatively regulates Bdl to control synaptic-layer selection. We propose that precise regulation of Bdl action coordinates neurite-neurite interactions for circuit formation in Drosophila.
Effective decision-making requires consideration of costs and benefits. Previous studies have implicated orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in cost-benefit decision-making. Yet controversy remains about whether different decision costs are encoded by different brain areas, and whether single neurons integrate costs and benefits to derive a subjective value estimate for each choice alternative. To address these issues, we trained four subjects to perform delay- and effort-based cost-benefit decisions and recorded neuronal activity in OFC, ACC, DLPFC, and the cingulate motor area (CMA). Although some neurons, mainly in ACC, did exhibit integrated value signals as if performing cost-benefit computations, they were relatively few in number. Instead, the majority of neurons in all areas encoded the decision type; that is whether the subject was required to perform a delay- or effort-based decision. OFC and DLPFC neurons tended to show the largest changes in firing rate for delay- but not effort-based decisions; whereas, the reverse was true for CMA neurons. Only ACC contained neurons modulated by both effort- and delay-based decisions. These findings challenge the idea that OFC calculates an abstract value signal to guide decision-making. Instead, our results suggest that an important function of single PFC neurons is to categorize sensory stimuli based on the consequences predicted by those stimuli.
Sleep encompasses approximately a third of our lifetime, yet its purpose and biological function are not well understood. Without sleep optimal brain functioning such as responsiveness to stimuli, information processing, or learning may be impaired. Such observations suggest that sleep plays a crucial role in organizing or reorganizing neuronal networks of the brain toward states where information processing is optimized. Increasing evidence suggests that cortical neuronal networks operate near a critical state characterized by balanced activity patterns, which supports optimal information processing. However, it remains unknown whether critical dynamics is affected in the course of wake and sleep, which would also impact information processing. Here, we show that signatures of criticality are progressively disturbed during wake and restored by sleep. We demonstrate that the precise power-laws governing the cascading activity of neuronal avalanches and the distribution of phase-lock intervals in human electroencephalographic recordings are increasingly disarranged during sustained wakefulness. These changes are accompanied by a decrease in variability of synchronization. Interpreted in the context of a critical branching process, these seemingly different findings indicate a decline of balanced activity and progressive distance from criticality toward states characterized by an imbalance toward excitation where larger events prevail dynamics. Conversely, sleep restores the critical state resulting in recovered power-law characteristics in activity and variability of synchronization. These findings support the intriguing hypothesis that sleep may be important to reorganize cortical network dynamics to a critical state thereby assuring optimal computational capabilities for the following time awake.
Successful realization of planned actions requires the brain to encode intentions over delays. Previous research has indicated that several regions in the rostral or anterior prefrontal cortex (PFC) encode delayed intentions. However, different processes may encode the same future task depending on task load during the delay. This difference may depend on the computational resources available when the delay is occupied with an ongoing task and when it is task-free. Here we directly investigated and compared the representation of delayed intentions in the human brain in the presence and absence of ongoing task load during the delay. We acquired fMRI data in combination with an event-based prospective memory design where human subjects remembered to perform the same future tasks over occupied and task-free delays. We used time-resolved multivoxel pattern classification and found that: (1) rostrolateral PFC (BA 46) encoded the delayed intention during both delay types; (2) rostromedial PFC (BA 10) encoded the intentions during occupied delays; whereas (3) a variety of more posterior regions, including the anterior cingulate cortex (BA 24), the supplementary motor area (BA 6), and the precuneus, encoded intentions during task-free delays. Overall, the medial PFC encoded delayed intentions more rostrally in the presence of an ongoing delay task and more caudally in its absence. Thus, rostromedial PFC may play a specialized role in the encoding of prospective memory that depends on higher computational demands (e.g., given higher task load during the delay). In contrast, the rostrolateral PFC is a more general area that encodes future intentions regardless of task load.
Adult neurogenesis is modulated by a balance of extrinsic signals and intrinsic responses that maintain production of new granule cells in the hippocampus. Disorders that disrupt the proliferative niche can impair this process, and alterations in adult neurogenesis have been described in human autopsy tissue and transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease. Because exogenous application of aggregated A peptide is neurotoxic in vitro and extracellular A deposits are the main pathological feature recapitulated by mouse models, cell-extrinsic effects of A accumulation were thought to underlie the breakdown of hippocampal neurogenesis observed in Alzheimer's models. We tested this hypothesis using a bigenic mouse in which transgenic expression of APP was restricted to mature projection neurons. These mice allowed us to examine how wild-type neural progenitor cells responded to high levels of A released from neighboring granule neurons. We find that the proliferation, determination, and survival of hippocampal adult-born granule neurons are unaffected in the APP bigenic mice, despite abundant amyloid pathology and robust neuroinflammation. Our findings suggest that A accumulation is insufficient to impair adult hippocampal neurogenesis, and that factors other than amyloid pathology may account for the neurogenic deficits observed in transgenic models with more widespread APP expression.
The brain makes use of noisy sensory inputs to produce eye, head, or arm motion. In most instances, the brain combines this sensory information with predictions about future events. Here, we propose that Kalman filtering can account for the dynamics of both visually guided and predictive motor behaviors within one simple unifying mechanism. Our model relies on two Kalman filters: (1) one processing visual information about retinal input; and (2) one maintaining a dynamic internal memory of target motion. The outputs of both Kalman filters are then combined in a statistically optimal manner, i.e., weighted with respect to their reliability. The model was tested on data from several smooth pursuit experiments and reproduced all major characteristics of visually guided and predictive smooth pursuit. This contrasts with the common belief that anticipatory pursuit, pursuit maintenance during target blanking, and zero-lag pursuit of sinusoidally moving targets all result from different control systems. This is the first instance of a model integrating all aspects of pursuit dynamics within one coherent and simple model and without switching between different parallel mechanisms. Our model suggests that the brain circuitry generating a pursuit command might be simpler than previously believed and only implement the functional equivalents of two Kalman filters whose outputs are optimally combined. It provides a general framework of how the brain can combine continuous sensory information with a dynamic internal memory and transform it into motor commands.
Netrin-1 is a secreted protein that directs long-range axon guidance during early stages of neural circuit formation and continues to be expressed in the mammalian forebrain during the postnatal period of peak synapse formation. Here we demonstrate a synaptogenic function of netrin-1 in rat and mouse cortical neurons and investigate the underlying mechanism. We report that netrin-1 and its receptor DCC are widely expressed by neurons in the developing mammalian cortex during synapse formation and are enriched at synapses in vivo. We detect DCC protein distributed along the axons and dendrites of cultured cortical neurons and provide evidence that newly translated netrin-1 is selectively transported to dendrites. Using gain and loss of function manipulations, we demonstrate that netrin-1 increases the number and strength of excitatory synapses made between developing cortical neurons. We show that netrin-1 increases the complexity of axon and dendrite arbors, thereby increasing the probability of contact. At sites of contact, netrin-1 promotes adhesion, while locally enriching and reorganizing the underlying actin cytoskeleton through Src family kinase signaling and m-Tor-dependent protein translation to locally cluster presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins. Finally, we demonstrate using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology that netrin-1 increases the frequency and amplitude of mEPSCs recorded from cortical pyramidal neurons. These findings identify netrin-1 as a synapse-enriched protein that promotes synaptogenesis between mammalian cortical neurons.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) remains a major cause of white matter injury in preterm infants with no viable therapeutic strategy to restore myelination. Maturation of oligodendrocytes and myelination is influenced by thyroid hormone (TH) signaling, which is mediated by TH receptor  (TR) and TR. In the brain, cellular levels of TH are regulated by deiodinases, with deiodinase-2 mediating TH activation and deiodinase-3 TH inactivation. Therefore, we hypothesized that IVH would decrease TH signaling via changes in the expression of deiodinases and/or TRs, and normalization of TH signaling would enhance maturation of oligodendrocytes and myelination in preterm infants with IVH. These hypotheses were tested using both autopsy materials from human preterm infants and a rabbit model of IVH. We found that deiodinase-2 levels were reduced, whereas deiodinase-3 levels were increased in brain samples of both humans and rabbits with IVH compared with controls without IVH. TR expression was also increased in human infants with IVH. Importantly, treatment with TH accelerated the proliferation and maturation of oligodendrocytes, increased transcription of Olig2 and Sox10 genes, augmented myelination, and restored neurological function in pups with IVH. Consistent with these findings, the density of myelinating oligodendrocytes was almost doubled in TH-treated human preterm infants compared with controls. Thus, in infants with IVH the combined elevation in deiodinase-3 and reduction in deiodinase-2 decreases TH signaling that can be worsened by an increase in unliganded TR. Given that TH promotes neurological recovery in IVH, TH treatment might improve the neurodevelopmental outcome of preterm infants with IVH.
Despite the prevalence of poverty worldwide, little is known about how early socioeconomic adversity affects auditory brain function. Socioeconomically disadvantaged children are underexposed to linguistically and cognitively stimulating environments and overexposed to environmental toxins, including noise pollution. This kind of sensory impoverishment, we theorize, has extensive repercussions on how the brain processes sound. To characterize how this impoverishment affects auditory brain function, we compared two groups of normal-hearing human adolescents who attended the same schools and who were matched in age, sex, and ethnicity, but differed in their maternal education level, a correlate of socioeconomic status (SES). In addition to lower literacy levels and cognitive abilities, adolescents from lower maternal education backgrounds were found to have noisier neural activity than their classmates, as reflected by greater activity in the absence of auditory stimulation. Additionally, in the lower maternal education group, the neural response to speech was more erratic over repeated stimulation, with lower fidelity to the input signal. These weaker, more variable, and noisier responses are suggestive of an inefficient auditory system. By studying SES within a neuroscientific framework, we have the potential to expand our understanding of how experience molds the brain, in addition to informing intervention research aimed at closing the achievement gap between high-SES and low-SES children.



Stereotaxic operations of the mouse brain are critically important for various types of neuroscience research studies, which include electrical recording of neural activities or site-targeted injection of stem cells, chemical tracers, and vectors, to name a few. To guide such operations, two-dimensional histology-based mouse brain atlases, such as the Paxinos and Franklin atlas, are widely used. Recently, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) based hybrid three-dimensional (3D) atlases of developing mouse brains have been introduced. In this study, a new stereotaxic guidance software, called AtlasGuide, is introduced, which was developed to fully utilize the benefits of the 3D atlases for high-precision stereotaxic targeting. The AtlasGuide software provides functions to visualize oblique needle paths in 2D and 3D views, which allow investigators to simultaneously examine brain structures that could be damaged by the needle path and optimize the injection angles for high-precision trajectory selection through critical neural tissue. It allows reorientation and scaling of the atlases dynamically to match the orientation of the animal brain prepared for surgery, thereby eliminating the need to manually align the subject to the atlas, a procedure which is essential while using conventional 2D atlases. In addition, the software enables loading user-defined atlases when researchers need image-based guidance for different age groups, strains, or species. The software with integrated 3D stereotaxic mouse atlases is available for download at the http://lbam.med.jhmi.edu website.
The organization and functional logic of corticospinal motor neurons and their target connections remains unclear, despite their evident influence on movement. Spinal interneurons mediate much of this influence, yet we know little about the way in which corticospinal neurons engage spinal interneurons. This is perhaps not surprising given that the principles of organization of local spinal microcircuits remain elusive--we have glimpses of an underlying order but lack a comprehensive view of their functional architecture. In this brief essay we make a case that a new focus on the intersection of cortical and spinal circuits may provide clarity to the interpretation of corticospinal motor neuron firing patterns and help specify the logic of corticospinal motor neuronal function.
Nearly 25 years ago, the shared interests of psychologists and biologists in understanding the neural basis of social behavior led to the inception of social neuroscience. In the past decade, this field has exploded, in large part due to the infusion of studies that use fMRI. At the same time, tensions have arisen about how to prioritize a diverse range of questions and about the authority of neurobiological data in answering them. The field is now poised to tackle some of the most interesting and important questions about human and animal behavior but at the same time faces uncertainty about how to achieve focus in its research and cohesion among the scientists who tackle it. The next 25 years offer the opportunity to alleviate some of these growing pains, as well as the challenge of answering large questions that encompass the nature and bounds of diverse social interactions (in humans, including interactions through the internet); how to characterize, and treat, social dysfunction in psychiatric illness; and how to compare social cognition in humans with that in other animals.
Twenty-five years ago the first human functional neuroimaging studies of cognition discovered a surprising response in the cerebellum that could not be attributed to motor demands. This controversial observation challenged the well-entrenched view that the cerebellum solely contributes to the planning and execution of movement. Recurring neuroimaging findings combined with key insights from anatomy and case studies of neurological patients motivated a reconsideration of the traditional model of cerebellar organization and function. The majority of the human cerebellum maps to cerebral association networks in an orderly manner that includes a mirroring of the prominent cerebral asymmetries for language and attention. These findings inspire exploration of the cerebellum's contributions to a diverse array of functional domains and neuropsychiatric disorders.
A decision is a commitment to a proposition or plan of action based on information and values associated with the possible outcomes. The process operates in a flexible timeframe that is free from the immediacy of evidence acquisition and the real time demands of action itself. Thus, it involves deliberation, planning, and strategizing. This Perspective focuses on perceptual decision making in nonhuman primates and the discovery of neural mechanisms that support accuracy, speed, and confidence in a decision. We suggest that these mechanisms expose principles of cognitive function in general, and we speculate about the challenges and directions before the field.
An ultimate goal of neuroscience is to understand the mechanisms of mammalian intellectual functions, many of which are thought to depend extensively on the cerebral cortex. While this may have been considered a remote objective when Neuron was launched in 1988, neuroscience has now evolved to a stage where it is possible to decipher neural-circuit mechanisms in the deepest parts of the cortex, far away from sensory receptors and motoneurons. In this review, we show how studies of place cells in the hippocampus and grid cells in the entorhinal cortex may provide some of the first glimpses into these mechanisms. We shall review the events that led up to the discovery of grid cells and a functional circuit in the entorhinal cortex and highlight what we currently see as the big questions in this field--questions that, if resolved, will add to our understanding of cortical computation in a general sense.
Despite the several-thousand-fold increase of brain volume during the course of mammalian evolution, the hierarchy of brain oscillations remains remarkably preserved, allowing for multiple-time-scale communication within and across neuronal networks at approximately the same speed, irrespective of brain size. Deployment of large-diameter axons of long-range neurons could be a key factor in the preserved time management in growing brains. We discuss the consequences of such preserved network constellation in mental disease, drug discovery, and interventional therapies.
The current neuroscience of memory takes on board the remarkable achievements of molecular neurobiology and merges them with findings from systems neuroscience and cognitive psychology. This results in a highly dynamic depiction of the memory trace, appreciating its restlessness and incessant assimilation into accumulating knowledge. With an armamentarium of amazing methodologies at hand, and more around the corner, we still lack dictionaries of neuronal codes, able to translate spatiotemporal patterns of brain activity into behavioral tokens. But the path to getting there continues to fascinate, to be accompanied by fresh challenges and new approaches.
The brain is astonishing in its complexity and capacity for change. This has fascinated scientists for more than a century, filling the pages of this journal for the past 25 years. But a paradigm shift is underway. It seems likely that the plasticity that drives our ability to learn and remember can only be meaningful in the context of otherwise stable, reproducible, and predictable baseline neural function. Without the existence of potent mechanisms that stabilize neural function, our capacity to learn and remember would be lost in the chaos of daily experiential change. This underscores two great mysteries in neuroscience. How are the functional properties of individual neurons and neural circuits stably maintained throughout life? And, in the face of potent stabilizing mechanisms, how can neural circuitry be modified during neural development, learning, and memory? Answers are emerging in the rapidly developing field of homeostatic plasticity.
The study of synaptic plasticity and specifically LTP and LTD is one of the most active areas of research in neuroscience. In the last 25 years we have come a long way in our understanding of the mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity. In 1988, AMPA and NMDA receptors were not even molecularly identified and we only had a simple model of the minimal requirements for the induction of plasticity. It is now clear that the modulation of the AMPA receptor function and membrane trafficking is critical for many forms of synaptic plasticity and a large number of proteins have been identified that regulate this complex process. Here we review the progress over the last two and a half decades and discuss the future challenges in the field.
The constant dynamic movement of synapses and their components has emerged in the last decades as a key feature of synaptic transmission and its plasticity. Intramolecular protein movements drive conformation changes important to transduce transmitter binding into signaling. Constant cytoskeletal rearrangements power synapse shape movements. Vesicular trafficking at the pre- and postsynapse underlies transmitter release and receptor traffic between the cell surface and intracellular compartments, respectively. Receptor movement in the plane of the plasma membrane by thermally powered Brownian diffusion movement and reversible trapping by receptor-scaffold interactions has emerged as the main mechanism to dynamically organize the synaptic membrane in nanoscale domains. We will discuss here the different conceptual and methodological advances that have led to a rethinking of the synapse as an organelle whose function is tightly linked to its dynamic organization.
Heartbeats, muscle twitches, and lightning-fast thoughts are all manifestations of bioelectricity and rely on the activity of a class of membrane proteins known as ion channels. The basic function of an ion channel can be distilled into, &quot;The hole opens. Ions go through. The hole closes.&quot; Studies of the fundamental mechanisms by which this process happens and the consequences of such activity in the setting of excitable cells remains the central focus of much of the field. One might wonder after so many years of detailed poking at such a seemingly simple process, is there anything left to learn?
The elaborate morphology of neurons together with the information processing that occurs in remote dendritic and axonal compartments makes the use of decentralized cell biological machines necessary. Recent years have witnessed a revolution in our understanding of signaling in neuronal compartments and the manifold functions of a variety of RNA molecules that regulate protein translation and other cellular functions. Here we discuss the view that mRNA localization and RNA-regulated and localized translation underlie many fundamental neuronal processes and highlight key issues for future experiments.
Over the past 25 years, the broad field of epigenetics and, over the past decade in particular, the emerging field of neuroepigenetics have begun to have tremendous impact in the areas of learned behavior, neurotoxicology, CNS development, cognition, addiction, and psychopathology. However, epigenetics is such a new field that in most of these areas the impact is more in the category of fascinating implications as opposed to established facts. In this brief commentary, I will attempt to address and delineate some of the open questions and areas of opportunity that discoveries in epigenetics are providing to the discipline of neuroscience.
Glial cells are present in all organisms with a CNS and, with increasing brain complexity, glial cells have undergone substantive increases in cell number, diversity, and functions. Invertebrates, such as Drosophila, possess glial subtypes with similarity to mammalian astrocytes in their basic morphology and function, representing fertile ground for unraveling fundamental aspects of glial biology. Although glial subtypes in simple organisms may be relatively homogenous, emerging evidence suggests the possibility that mammalian astrocytes might be highly diversified to match the needs of local neuronal subtypes. In this Perspective, we review classic and new roles identified for astrocytes and oligodendrocytes by recent studies. We propose that delineating genetic and developmental programs across species will be essential to understand the core functions of glia that allow enhanced neuronal function and to achieve new insights into glial roles in higher-order brain function and neurological disease.
A complete understanding of nervous system function cannot be achieved without the identification of its component cell types. In this Perspective, we explore a series of related issues surrounding cell identity and how revolutionary methods for labeling and probing specific neuronal types have clarified this question. Specifically, we ask the following questions: what is the purpose of such diversity, how is it generated, how is it maintained, and, ultimately, how can one unambiguously identity one cell type from another? We suggest that each cell type can be defined by a unique and conserved molecular ground state that determines its capabilities. We believe that gaining an understanding of these molecular barcodes will advance our ability to explore brain function, enhance our understanding of the biochemical basis of CNS disorders, and aid in the development of novel therapeutic strategies.
One of the landmark events of the past 25 years in neuroscience research was the establishment of neural stem cells (NSCs) as a life-long source of neurons and glia, a concept that shattered the dogma that the nervous system lacked regenerative power. Stem cells afford the plasticity to generate, repair, and change nervous system function. Combined with reprogramming technology, human somatic cell-derived NSCs and their progeny can model neurological diseases with improved accuracy. As technology advances, we anticipate further important discoveries and novel therapies based on the knowledge and application of these powerful cells.
Advances in genome analysis, accompanied by the assembly of large patient cohorts, are making possible successful genetic analyses of polygenic brain disorders. If the resulting molecular clues, previously hidden in the genomes of affected individuals, are to yield useful information about pathogenesis and inform the discovery of new treatments, neurobiology will have to rise to many difficult challenges. Here we review the underlying logic of the genetic investigations, describe in more detail progress in schizophrenia and autism, and outline the challenges for neurobiology that lie ahead. We argue that technologies at the disposal of neuroscience are adequately advanced to begin to study the biology of common and devastating polygenic disorders.
Historical milestones in neuroscience have come in diverse forms, ranging from the resolution of specific biological mysteries via creative experimentation to broad technological advances allowing neuroscientists to ask new kinds of questions. The continuous development of tools is driven with a special necessity by the complexity, fragility, and inaccessibility of intact nervous systems, such that inventive technique development and application drawing upon engineering and the applied sciences has long been essential to neuroscience. Here we highlight recent technological directions in neuroscience spurred by progress in optical, electrical, mechanical, chemical, and biological engineering. These research areas are poised for rapid growth and will likely be central to the practice of neuroscience well into the future.
As directors of two NIH institutes supporting neuroscience research, we explore the gap between 25 years of stunning progress in fundamental neuroscience and the persistent needs of those with brain disorders. We conclude that closing this gap will require a more detailed comprehension of brain function, a rethinking of how we approach translational science, a focus on human neurobiology, and a continuing commitment to build a diverse, innovative neuroscience workforce. In contrast to many other areas of medicine, we lack basic knowledge about our organ of interest. The next phase of progress on brain disorders will require a significantly deeper understanding of fundamental neurobiology.
Understanding mental processes in biological terms makes available insights from the new science of the mind to explore connections between philosophy, psychology, the social sciences, the humanities, and studies of disorders of mind. In this Perspective we examine how these linkages might be forged and how the new science of the mind might serve as an inspiration for further exploration.

To investigate whether prefrontal function during a cognitive task reflects the social functioning of male Japanese workers, prefrontal function during a working memory task in 181 male workers was measured by multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Social functioning was assessed using the Social Adaptation Self-Evaluation Scale (SASS). The results indicated that cortical oxygenation level increases in dorsolateral prefrontal region showed significant positive correlations with the interest and motivation factor scores on the SASS. These results suggest that dorsolateral prefrontal function is associated with the interest and motivation factor in social functioning in male workers and that NIRS could be an addition to the medical tools for monitoring these characteristics on mental health examination.
White matter changes (WMC) are common magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings, particularly in the elderly. Recent studies such as the Leukoaraiosis and Disability Study (LADIS) have found that WMC relate to adverse outcomes including cognitive impairment, depression, disability, unsteadiness and falls in cross-sectional and follow-up studies. Frontostriatal (or frontosubcortical) brain circuits may serve many of these functions, with the caudate nuclei playing a role in convergence of cognitive functions. This study aimed to determine whether reduced caudate volume relates to cognitive functions (executive functions, memory functions and speed of processing) and WMC. We determined caudate nuclei volumes, through manual tracing, on a subgroup of the LADIS study (n=66) from four centres with baseline and 3-year follow-up MRI scans. Regression analysis was used to assess relationships between caudate volume, cognitive function and WMC. Severity of WMC did not relate to caudate volume. Smaller caudate volumes were significantly associated with poorer executive functioning at baseline and at 3 years, but were not associated with scores of memory or speed of processing. Thus, in patients with WMC, a surrogate of small vessel disease, caudate atrophy relates to the dysexecutive syndrome, supporting the role of caudate as an important part of the frontostriatal circuit.
Children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have lower diurnal cortisol levels than non-ADHD comparison subjects. Aiming at elucidating the effects of medications used to treat ADHD, we investigated saliva cortisol in children with ADHD: 20 without medication, 147 on methylphenidate, and 21 on atomoxetine. The only significant finding was that children on atomoxetine had higher cortisol levels at bedtime than unmedicated children.
Self-disturbances in schizophrenia have been regarded as a fundamental vulnerability marker for this disease, and have begun to be studied from the standpoint of an abnormal &quot;sense of agency (SoA)&quot; in cognitive neuroscience. To clarify the nature of aberrant SoA in schizophrenia, it needs to be investigated in various clinical subtypes and stages. The residual type of chronic schizophrenia with predominant negative symptoms (NS) has never been investigated for SoA. Accordingly, we investigated SoA by an original agency attribution task in NS-predominant schizophrenia, and evaluated the dynamic interplay between the predictive and postdictive components of SoA in the optimal cue integration framework. We studied 20 patients with NS-predominant schizophrenia, and compared with 30 patients with paranoid-type schizophrenia and 35 normal volunteers. NS-predominant schizophrenia showed markedly diminished SoA compared to normal controls and paranoid-type schizophrenia, indicating a completely opposite direction in agency attribution compared with excessive SoA demonstrated in paranoid-type schizophrenia. Reduced SoA was detected in experimental studies of schizophrenia for the first time. According to the optimal cue integration framework, these results indicate that there was no increase in compensatory contributions of the postdictive processes despite the existence of inadequate predictions, contrary to the exaggerated postdictive component in paranoid-type schizophrenia.
This study examined the cue detection in the non-focal event-based prospective memory (PM) of individuals with and without a major depressive disorder using behavioural and eye tracking assessments. The participants were instructed to search on each trial for a different target stimulus that could be present or absent and to make prospective responses to the cue object. PM tasks included cue only and target plus cue, whereas ongoing tasks included target only and distracter only. The results showed that a) participants with depression performed more poorly than those without depression in PM; b) participants with depression showed more fixations and longer total and average fixation durations in both ongoing and PM conditions; c) participants with depression had lower scores on accuracy in target-plus-cue trials than in cue-only trials and had a higher gaze rate of targets on hits and misses in target-plus-cue trials than did those without depression. The results indicate that the state of depression may impair top-down cognitive control function, which in turn results in particular deficits in the engagement of monitoring for PM cues.
Schizophrenia is associated with a substantially increased somatic morbidity and mortality, which may partly be caused by accelerated cellular aging. Oxidative stress is an established mediator of aging and a suggested aetiological mechanism in both schizophrenia and age-related medical disorders such as cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes and dementia. We determined the urinary excretion of markers of systemic Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) and Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) oxidation, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanosine, respectively, in 40 schizophrenia patients and 40 age- and sex-matched controls, using ultra-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Measures of psychopathology, perceived stress and cortisol secretion were collected. Patients were re-examined after four months. We found a 20% increase in the median excretion of both markers in schizophrenia patients vs. healthy controls (P=0.003 and &lt;0.001, respectively). This difference persisted after the adjustment for multiple demographical, lifestyle and metabolic factors. In patients, the marker excretion was not influenced by medication load, and was not driven by symptom severity, perceived stress or cortisol secretion, neither at baseline nor in relation to changes at follow-up. We conclude that schizophrenia is associated with increased systemic nucleic acid damage from oxidation, which could constitute a molecular link between schizophrenia and its associated signs of accelerated aging.
We assessed associations between polysomnographically determined sleep, especially the amount of slow-wave sleep (SWS), and body mass index (BMI) in patients with insomnia. One hundred and forty-one insomniacs and 55 healthy volunteers completed overnight polysomnographic recordings, and we measured height and body weight. No significant correlations were obtained between total sleep time and BMI among insomniacs. Compared with normal volunteers, insomnia patients exhibited longer sleep latency and shorter total sleep duration. While the two groups had no significant differences in BMI, insomniacs presented with more N1 but less time spend in SWS and rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). Based on their SWS time, we divided insomnia patients into three groups: short (26.9913.88), intermediate (59.248.12), and long (102.2126.17) SWS groups. The short-SWS group had significantly greater BMI than the long-SWS group. Further analyses with multiple linear regression showed a significant negative correlation between the amount of SWS and BMI scores in insomniacs, whereas no such correlation was found in healthy volunteers after controlling for potential confounds (e.g., age, sex and AHI). Our study suggests that low amounts of SWS may be associated with higher BMI in patients with insomnia.










The objective of this article, written by executives of the European Association of Young Neurologists and Trainees (EAYNT), is to illustrate the status quo of neurology training in Europe and give an outlook on ongoing efforts and prospects for junior neurologists. The European Union is an economic and political union that currently encompasses 27 member states with more than 500 million inhabitants (or 7.3% of the world population) (interested readers are referred to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union). Countries of the European Union act as a single market with free movement of citizens, goods, services, and finances. As a consequence, a diploma and postgraduate training obtained in one EU country will be automatically recognized by all other EU member states. At the Lisbon European Council in March 2000, the Heads of State or Government signed a treaty that expresses their ambition of making Europe &quot;the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion&quot; (www.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisbon_Strategy). More than 1.6 million physicians in all the different medical specialties are represented by the European Union of Medical Specialists (UEMS). The UEMS was founded in 1958 and the objectives include the study, promotion, and harmonization of the highest level of training of medical specialists, medical practice, and health care within the European Union. The European Board of Neurology (UEMS-EBN; www.uems-neuroboard.org) is in charge of the implementation of the UEMS policy regarding neurology.

Each year, around 15 million people worldwide have a stroke. Of these, at least 5 million die, a third remain disabled, and the remainder make a good recovery.(1) Yet more than half of all these 10 million survivors will have fatigue, one of the most debilitating, but least studied, poststroke symptoms. Poststroke fatigue (PSF) is a multifaceted phenomenon.(2) It has been correlated with lowered mood, as well as being influenced by other factors, like age, sex, and cognition. Many researchers have demonstrated that the presence of fatigue negatively influences quality of life, return to work, and perhaps mortality.(3,4) However, most studies have been conducted cross-sectionally, in the subacute or chronic phase after stroke.(4-6.)
Forty of 54 children with autism were reported to have an elevated antibody response to GM1 ganglioside that correlated with disease severity.(1) Antiganglioside autoantibodies, especially those directed at GM1, are known to be associated with and play a pathogenic role in some immune-mediated peripheral neuropathies.(2,3) The presumed link between autism and anti-GM1 antibodies, therefore, implies that testing may identify a sizable subset of patients who would benefit from immunomodulatory therapy. To evaluate the proposed association between autism and anti-GM1 antibodies, serum samples from children diagnosed with autism by strict clinical criteria and those without autism were analyzed using a standard, validated immunoassay protocol.
The last decades of neuroscience research have produced immense progress in the methods available to understand brain structure and function. Social, cognitive, clinical, affective, economic, communication, and developmental neurosciences have begun to map the relationships between neuro-psychological processes and behavioral outcomes, yielding a new understanding of human behavior and promising interventions. However, a limitation of this fast moving research is that most findings are based on small samples of convenience. Furthermore, our understanding of individual differences may be distorted by unrepresentative samples, undermining findings regarding brain-behavior mechanisms. These limitations are issues that social demographers, epidemiologists, and other population scientists have tackled, with solutions that can be applied to neuroscience. By contrast, nearly all social science disciplines, including social demography, sociology, political science, economics, communication science, and psychology, make assumptions about processes that involve the brain, but have incorporated neural measures to differing, and often limited, degrees; many still treat the brain as a black box. In this article, we describe and promote a perspective--population neuroscience--that leverages interdisciplinary expertise to (i) emphasize the importance of sampling to more clearly define the relevant populations and sampling strategies needed when using neuroscience methods to address such questions; and (ii) deepen understanding of mechanisms within population science by providing insight regarding underlying neural mechanisms. Doing so will increase our confidence in the generalizability of the findings. We provide examples to illustrate the population neuroscience approach for specific types of research questions and discuss the potential for theoretical and applied advances from this approach across areas.
Dopamine is a powerful modulator of glutamatergic neurotransmission and NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity. Although several intracellular cascades participating in this functional dialogue have been identified over the last few decades, the molecular crosstalk between surface dopamine and glutamate NMDA receptor (NMDAR) signaling still remains poorly understood. Using a combination of single-molecule detection imaging and electrophysiology in live hippocampal neurons, we demonstrate here that dopamine D1 receptors (D1Rs) and NMDARs form dynamic surface clusters in the vicinity of glutamate synapses. Strikingly, D1R activation or D1R/NMDAR direct interaction disruption decreases the size of these clusters, increases NMDAR synaptic content through a fast lateral redistribution of the receptors, and favors long-term synaptic potentiation. Together, these data demonstrate the presence of dynamic D1R/NMDAR perisynaptic reservoirs favoring a rapid and bidirectional surface crosstalk between receptors and set the plasma membrane as the primary stage of the dopamine-glutamate interplay.
Learning related paradigms play an important role in shaping the development and specificity of synaptic networks, notably by regulating mechanisms of spine growth and pruning. The molecular events underlying these synaptic rearrangements remain poorly understood. Here we identify NO signaling as a key mediator of activity-dependent excitatory synapse development. We find that chronic blockade of NO production in vitro and in vivo interferes with the development of hippocampal and cortical excitatory spine synapses. The effect results from a selective loss of activity-mediated spine growth mechanisms and is associated with morphological and functional alterations of remaining synapses. These effects of NO are mediated by a cGMP cascade and can be reproduced or prevented by postsynaptic expression of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phospho-mimetic or phospho-resistant mutants. In vivo analyses show that absence of NO prevents the increase in excitatory synapse density induced by environmental enrichment and interferes with the formation of local clusters of excitatory synapses. We conclude that NO plays an important role in regulating the development of excitatory synapses by promoting local activity-dependent spine-growth mechanisms.
Placebo analgesia is often conceptualized as a reward mechanism. However, by targeting only negative experiences, such as pain, placebo research may tell only half the story. We compared placebo improvement of painful touch (analgesia) with placebo improvement of pleasant touch (hyperhedonia) using functional MRI and a crossover design. Somatosensory processing was decreased during placebo analgesia and increased during placebo hyperhedonia. Both placebo responses were associated with similar patterns of activation increase in circuitry involved in emotion appraisal, including the pregenual anterior cingulate, medial orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, accumbens, and midbrain structures. Importantly, placebo-induced coupling between the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and periaqueductal gray correlated with somatosensory decreases to painful touch and somatosensory increases to pleasant touch. These findings suggest that placebo analgesia and hyperhedonia are mediated by activation of shared emotion appraisal neurocircuitry, which down- or up-regulates early sensory processing, depending on whether the expectation is reduced pain or increased pleasure.
Signals from the bilateral vestibular labyrinths work in tandem to generate robust estimates of our motion and orientation in the world. The relative contributions of each labyrinth to behavior, as well as how the brain recovers after unilateral peripheral damage, have been characterized for motor reflexes, but never for perceptual functions. Here we measure perceptual deficits in a heading discrimination task following surgical ablation of the neurosensory epithelium in one labyrinth. We found large increases in heading discrimination thresholds and large perceptual biases at 1 wk postlesion. Repeated testing thereafter improved heading perception, but vestibular discrimination thresholds remained elevated 3 mo postlesion. Electrophysiological recordings from the contralateral vestibular and cerebellar nuclei revealed elevated neuronal discrimination thresholds, elevated neurometric-to-psychometric threshold ratios, and reduced trial-by-trial correlations with perceptual decisions [&quot;choice probabilities&quot; (CPs)]. The relationship between CP and neuronal threshold was shallower, but not significantly altered, suggesting that smaller CPs in lesioned animals could be largely attributable to greater neuronal thresholds. Simultaneous recordings from pairs of neurons revealed that correlated noise among neurons was also reduced following the lesion. Simulations of a simple pooling model, which takes into account the observed changes in tuning slope and correlated noise, qualitatively accounts for the elevated psychophysical thresholds and neurometric-to-psychometric ratios, as well as the decreased CPs. Thus, cross-labyrinthine interactions appear to play important roles in enhancing neuronal and perceptual sensitivity, strengthening interneuronal correlations, and facilitating correlations between neural activity and perceptual decisions.




Several studies have suggested that the V0 domain of the vacuolar-type H(+)-adenosine triphosphatase (V-ATPase) is directly implicated in secretory vesicle exocytosis through a role in membrane fusion. We report in this paper that there was a rapid decrease in neurotransmitter release after acute photoinactivation of the V0 a1-I subunit in neuronal pairs. Likewise, inactivation of the V0 a1-I subunit in chromaffin cells resulted in a decreased frequency and prolonged kinetics of amperometric spikes induced by depolarization, with shortening of the fusion pore open time. Dissipation of the granular pH gradient was associated with an inhibition of exocytosis and correlated with the V1-V0 association status in secretory granules. We thus conclude that V0 serves as a sensor of intragranular pH that controls exocytosis and synaptic transmission via the reversible dissociation of V1 at acidic pH. Hence, the V-ATPase membrane domain would allow the exocytotic machinery to discriminate fully loaded and acidified vesicles from vesicles undergoing neurotransmitter reloading.
Synaptic plasticity, a change in the efficacy of synaptic signaling, is a key property of synaptic communication that is vital to many brain functions. Hebbian forms of long-lasting synaptic plasticity-long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD)-have been well studied and are considered to be the cellular basis for particular types of memory. Recently, homeostatic synaptic plasticity, a compensatory form of synaptic strength change, has attracted attention as a cellular mechanism that counteracts changes brought about by LTP and LTD to help stabilize neuronal network activity. New findings on the cellular mechanisms and molecular players of the two forms of plasticity are uncovering the interplay between them in individual neurons.

End-point free energy calculations using MM-GBSA and MM-PBSA provide a detailed understanding of molecular recognition in protein-ligand interactions. The binding free energy can be used to rank-order protein-ligand structures in virtual screening for compound or target identification. Here, we carry out free energy calculations for a diverse set of 11 proteins bound to 14 small molecules using extensive explicit-solvent MD simulations. The structure of these complexes was previously solved by crystallography and their binding studied with isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) data enabling direct comparison to the MM-GBSA and MM-PBSA calculations. Four MM-GBSA and three MM-PBSA calculations reproduced the ITC free energy within 1 kcalmol(-1) highlighting the challenges in reproducing the absolute free energy from end-point free energy calculations. MM-GBSA exhibited better rank-ordering with a Spearman  of 0.68 compared to 0.40 for MM-PBSA with dielectric constant ( = 1). An increase in  resulted in significantly better rank-ordering for MM-PBSA ( = 0.91 for  = 10), but larger  significantly reduced the contributions of electrostatics, suggesting that the improvement is due to the nonpolar and entropy components, rather than a better representation of the electrostatics. The SVRKB scoring function applied to MD snapshots resulted in excellent rank-ordering ( = 0.81). Calculations of the configurational entropy using normal-mode analysis led to free energies that correlated significantly better to the ITC free energy than the MD-based quasi-harmonic approach, but the computed entropies showed no correlation with the ITC entropy. When the adaptation energy is taken into consideration by running separate simulations for complex, apo, and ligand (MM-PBSAADAPT), there is less agreement with the ITC data for the individual free energies, but remarkably good rank-ordering is observed ( = 0.89). Interestingly, filtering MD snapshots by prescoring protein-ligand complexes with a machine learning-based approach (SVMSP) resulted in a significant improvement in the MM-PBSA results ( = 1) from  = 0.40 to  = 0.81. Finally, the nonpolar components of MM-GBSA and MM-PBSA, but not the electrostatic components, showed strong correlation to the ITC free energy; the computed entropies did not correlate with the ITC entropy.


Objects in the environment differ in their low-level perceptual properties (e.g., how easily a fruit can be recognized) as well as in their subjective value (how tasty it is). We studied the influence of visual salience on value-based decisions using a two alternative forced choice task, in which human subjects rapidly chose items from a visual display. All targets were equally easy to detect. Nevertheless, both value and salience strongly affected choices made and reaction times. We analyzed the neuronal mechanisms underlying these behavioral effects using stochastic accumulator models, allowing us to characterize not only the averages of reaction times but their full distributions. Independent models without interaction between the possible choices failed to reproduce the observed choice behavior, while models with mutual inhibition between alternative choices produced much better results. Mutual inhibition thus is an important feature of the decision mechanism. Value influenced the amount of accumulation in all models. In contrast, increased salience could either lead to an earlier start (onset model) or to a higher rate (speed model) of accumulation. Both models explained the data from the choice trials equally well. However, salience also affected reaction times in no-choice trials in which only one item was present, as well as error trials. Only the onset model could explain the observed reaction time distributions of error trials and no-choice trials. In contrast, the speed model could not, irrespective of whether the rate increase resulted from more frequent accumulated quanta or from larger quanta. Visual salience thus likely provides an advantage in the onset, not in the processing speed, of value-based decision making.






The immature retinas of preterm neonates are susceptible to insults that disrupt neurovascular growth, leading to retinopathy of prematurity. Suppression of growth factors due to hyperoxia and loss of the maternal-fetal interaction result in an arrest of retinal vascularisation (phase 1). Subsequently, the increasingly metabolically active, yet poorly vascularised, retina becomes hypoxic, stimulating growth factor-induced vasoproliferation (phase 2), which can cause retinal detachment. In very premature infants, controlled oxygen administration reduces but does not eliminate retinopathy of prematurity. Identification and control of factors that contribute to development of retinopathy of prematurity is essential to prevent progression to severe sight-threatening disease and to limit comorbidities with which the disease shares modifiable risk factors. Strategies to prevent retinopathy of prematurity will depend on optimisation of oxygen saturation, nutrition, and normalisation of concentrations of essential factors such as insulin-like growth factor 1 and -3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, as well as curbing of the effects of infection and inflammation to promote normal growth and limit suppression of neurovascular development.






A large body of work now shows the importance of GABAA receptor-mediated tonic inhibition in regulating CNS function. However, outside of pathological conditions, there is relatively little evidence that the magnitude of tonic inhibition is itself under regulation. Here we review the mechanisms by which tonic inhibition is known to be modulated, and outline the potential behavioral consequences of this modulation. Specifically, we address the ability of protein kinase A and C to phosphorylate the extrasynaptic receptors responsible for the tonic GABAA current, and how G-protein coupled receptors can regulate tonic inhibition through these effectors. We then speculate about the possible functional consequences of regulating the magnitude of the tonic GABAA current.


Several studies have reported the brain regions involved in response learning. However, there is discrepancy regarding the lighting conditions in the experimental setting (i.e. under dark or light conditions). In this regard, it would be relevant to know if the presence/absence of visual cues in the environment has any effect in the brain networks involved in a response learning task. Animals were trained in a water T-maze under two different lighting conditions (light versus dark). All subjects reached the learning criterion of 80% correct arm choices. Quantitative cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry was used as a metabolic brain mapping technique. Our results show that the ventral hippocampus and the parietal cortex are associated with the acquisition of a response learning task regardless of lighting conditions. In addition, when the same task is run in the dark, widespread recruitment of structures involving cortical, limbic and striatal regions was found.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is composed of a network of tight junctions (TJ) which interconnect cerebral endothelial cells (EC). Alterations in the TJ proteins are common in inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) like multiple sclerosis (MS). Modulation of the BBB could thus represent a therapeutic mechanism. One pathway to modulate BBB integrity could be the induction of nuclear-factor (erythroid derived 2) related factor-2 (Nrf2) mediated oxidative stress responses which are targeted by fumaric acid esters (FAE). Here we analyze effects of FAE on the expression of TJ proteins in the human cerebral endothelial cell line hCMEC/D3 and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We show that dimethylfumarate (DMF) and its primary metabolite monomethylfumarate (MMF) induce the expression of the Nrf2/NQO1 pathway in endothelial cells. Neither MMF nor DMF had a consistent modulatory effect on the expression of TJ molecules in hCMEC/D3 cells. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced downregulation of TJ proteins was at least partially reversed by treatment with FAE. However, DMF had no effect on claudin-5 expression in EAE, despite its effect on the clinical score and infiltration of immune cells. These data suggest that the modulation of the BBB is not a major mechanism of action of FAE in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the CNS.
During development, protein substrates need to be removed and degraded when they are no longer required. The E3 ubiquitin ligases, including Nedd4 family proteins, are a major group of enzymes responsible for adding ubiquitin chains to protein substrates prior to their degradation. Ndfip1 (Nedd4 family-interacting protein 1) is an adaptor and activator for Nedd4-family ubiquitin ligases for increasing substrate specificity. To study Nedd4-mediated ubiquitination during cortical development, we have mapped the spatio-temporal dynamics of Ndfip1 protein expression by immunocytochemistry. Ndfip1 expression was observed from embryonic day 11 (E11.5) until adult stages. Its presence increased during the postnatal stages and peaked at postnatal day 7 (P7). Spatially, Ndfip1 was found in the ventricular and marginal zones during corticogenesis but also in the cortical plate and subplate during midstage cortical development (E15.5). Postnatally, Ndfip1 was expressed in all cortical neurons (but not in glial cells) and this expression was both ubiquitous and uniform across cortical layers involving both pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons. This consistent but dynamic pattern of Ndfip1 expression in temporal and spatial domains of the cortical landscape is indicative of complex programs of protein ubiquitination during corticogenesis.
Spinal microglial activation plays a major role in the development of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. We here provide evidence for an elevated expression of the microglial marker Iba-1 in the lumbar dorsal horn ipsilateral to L5 spinal nerve transection that persists for at least 14 weeks, a time at which mechanical hypersensitivity had fully resolved. Iba-1 expression was, however; significantly lower than at 4 weeks. We therefore conclude that microglia remain partly activated beyond the phase of pain hypersensitivity. Thus, the relation between microglial cells and neuropathic pain outcome is subject to change over time after nerve injury.
Methamphetamine (METH) exposure results in long-term damage to the dopamine system in both human METH abusers and animal models. One factor that has been heavily implicated in this METH-induced damage to the dopaminergic system is the activation of D1 dopamine (DA) receptors. However, a significant caveat to the studies investigating the role of the receptor in such toxicity is that genetic and pharmacological manipulations of the D1 DA receptor also mitigate METH-induced hyperthermia. Importantly, METH-induced hyperthermia is tightly associated with the neurotoxicity, such that simply cooling animals during METH exposure protects against the neurotoxicity. Therefore, it is difficult to determine whether D1 DA receptors per se play an important role in METH-induced neurotoxicity or whether the protection observed simply resulted from a mitigation of METH-induced hyperthermia. To answer this important question, the current study infused a D1 DA receptor antagonist into striatum during METH exposure while controlling for METH-induced hyperthermia. Here we found that even when METH-induced hyperthermia is maintained, the coadministration of a D1 DA receptor antagonist protects against METH-induced neurotoxicity, strongly suggesting that D1 DA receptors play an important role in METH-induced neurotoxicity apart from the mitigation of METH-induced hyperthermia.

The alkylating agent N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) is known to trigger the adaptive response by inducing the ada-regulon - consisting of three DNA repair enzymes Ada, AlkB, AlkA and the enigmatic AidB. We have applied custom designed tiling arrays to study transcriptional changes in Escherichia coli following a MNNG challenge. Along with the expected upregulation of the adaptive response genes (ada, alkA and alkB), we identified a number of differentially expressed transcripts, both novel and annotated. This indicates a wider regulatory response than previously documented. There were 250 differentially-expressed and 2275 similarly-expressed unannotated transcripts. We found novel upregulation of several stress-induced transcripts, including the SOS inducible genes recN and tisAB, indicating a novel role for these genes in alkylation repair. Furthermore, the ada-regulon A and B boxes were found to be insufficient to explain the regulation of the adaptive response genes after MNNG exposure, suggesting that additional regulatory elements must be involved.


Microglia, the resident immune effective cells of the central nervous system, play crucial roles in mediating immune-related process. It becomes activated quickly in response to even minor pathological insults and participates in series of immune responses. Under physiological conditions, most microglia stay in a typical resting state, with ramified processes continuously extending and retracting from surrounding neural tissues, suggesting an important function of resting microglia. Recent studies indicate that resting microglia can regulate many physiological processes, including neural development, neural circuit formation, neuronal activity and plasticity, and animal grooming behavior. Here, we review the properties of resting microglia and further discuss how microglia participate in the above-mentioned functional regulation under physiological conditions.





The fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is an RNA-binding protein that regulates mRNA metabolism. FMRP has been largely studied in the brain, where the absence of this protein leads to fragile X syndrome, the most frequent form of inherited intellectual disability. Since the identification of the FMRP gene in 1991, many studies have primarily focused on understanding the function/s of this protein. Hundreds of potential FMRP mRNA targets and several interacting proteins have been identified. Here, we report the identification of FMRP mRNA targets in the mammalian brain that support the key role of this protein during brain development and in regulating synaptic plasticity. We compared the genes from databases and genome-wide association studies with the brain FMRP transcriptome, and identified several FMRP mRNA targets associated with autism spectrum disorders, mood disorders and schizophrenia, showing a potential common pathway/s for these apparently different disorders.
Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5) represent a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of schizophrenia. Both allosteric agonism and high glutamate fold-shift have been implicated in the neurotoxic profile of some mGlu5 PAMs; however, these hypotheses remain to be adequately addressed. To develop tool compounds to probe these hypotheses, the structure-activity relationship of allosteric agonism was examined within an acetylenic series of mGlu5 PAMs exhibiting allosteric agonism in addition to positive allosteric modulation (ago-PAMs). PAM 38t, a low glutamate fold-shift allosteric ligand (maximum fold-shift ~ 3.0), was selected as a potent PAM with no agonism in the in vitro system used for compound characterization and in two native electrophysiological systems using rat hippocampal slices. PAM 38t (ML254) will be useful to probe the relative contribution of cooperativity and allosteric agonism to the adverse effect liability and neurotoxicity associated with this class of mGlu5 PAMs.
The primary purpose of these procedures is to demonstrate for teaching and research purposes how to record the activity of living primary sensory neurons responsible for proprioception as they are detecting joint position and movement, and muscle tension. Electrical activity from crustacean proprioceptors and tension receptors is recorded by basic neurophysiological instrumentation, and a transducer is used to simultaneously measure force that is generated by stimulating a motor nerve. In addition, we demonstrate how to stain the neurons for a quick assessment of their anatomical arrangement or for permanent fixation. Staining reveals anatomical organization that is representative of chordotonal organs in most crustaceans. Comparing the tension nerve responses to the proprioceptive responses is an effective teaching tool in determining how these sensory neurons are defined functionally and how the anatomy is correlated to the function. Three staining techniques are presented allowing researchers and instructors to choose a method that is ideal for their laboratory.














Caged compounds are molecules rendered functionally inert by derivatization with a photochemical protecting group. We describe the design logic behind the development of a diethylaminocoumarin (DEAC) caging chromophore, DEAC450, that absorbs blue light strongly (450 = 43,000 M(-1) cm(-1)) and violet light 11-fold more weakly. The absorption minimum is in the wavelength range (340-360 nm) that is traditionally used for photolysis of many widely used nitroaromatic caged compounds (e.g., 4-carboxymethoxy-5,7-dinitroindolinyl(CDNI)-GABA). We used this chromophore to synthesize DEAC450-caged cAMP and found this probe was very stable toward aqueous hydrolysis in the electronic ground state but was photolyzed with a quantum efficiency of 0.78. When DEAC450-cAMP and CDNI-GABA where co-applied to striatal cholinergic interneurons, the caged compounds were photolyzed in an chromatically orthogonal manner using blue and violet light so as to modulate the neuronal firing rate in a bidirectional way.
The neocortex in our brain stores long-term memories by changing the strength of connections between neurons. To date, the rules and mechanisms that govern activity-induced synaptic changes at human cortical synapses are poorly understood and have not been studied directly at a cellular level. Here, we made whole-cell recordings of human pyramidal neurons in slices of brain tissue resected during neurosurgery to investigate spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity in the adult human neocortex. We find that human cortical synapses can undergo bidirectional modifications in strength throughout adulthood. Both long-term potentiation and long-term depression of synapses was dependent on postsynaptic NMDA receptors. Interestingly, we find that human cortical synapses can associate presynaptic and postsynaptic events in a wide temporal window, and that rules for synaptic plasticity in human neocortex are reversed compared with what is generally found in the rodent brain. We show this is caused by dendritic L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels that are prominently activated during action potential firing. Activation of these channels determines whether human synapses strengthen or weaken. These findings provide a synaptic basis for the timing rules observed in human sensory and motor plasticity in vivo, and offer insights into the physiological role of L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in the human brain.
The &quot;identifiable victim effect&quot; refers to peoples' tendency to preferentially give to identified versus anonymous victims of misfortune, and has been proposed to partly depend on affect. By soliciting charitable donations from human subjects during behavioral and neural (i.e., functional magnetic resonance imaging) experiments, we sought to determine whether and how affect might promote the identifiable victim effect. Behaviorally, subjects gave more to orphans depicted by photographs versus silhouettes, and their shift in preferences was mediated by photograph-induced feelings of positive arousal, but not negative arousal. Neurally, while photographs versus silhouettes elicited activity in widespread circuits associated with facial and affective processing, only nucleus accumbens activity predicted and could statistically account for increased donations. Together, these findings suggest that presenting evaluable identifiable information can recruit positive arousal, which then promotes giving. We propose that affect elicited by identifiable stimuli can compel people to give more to strangers, even despite costs to the self.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 and 4 genes (trpv1, trpv4) encode temperature-sensitive cation channels hypothesized to mediate thermoresponses in mammalian cells. Although such channels were shown to participate in the peripheral detection of ambient temperature, the specific roles of these channels in central thermosensory neurons remain unclear. Here we report that the membrane potential and excitability of mouse magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) maintained at physiological temperature were lowered in an additive manner upon pharmacological blockade, or genetic deletion, of trpv1 and trpv4. However extracellular recordings from spontaneously active MNCs in situ showed that blockade or genetic deletion of trpv4 does not interfere with thermally induced changes in action potential firing, whereas loss of trpv1 abolished this phenotype. These findings indicate that channels encoded by trpv4 play a permissive role that contributes to basal electrical activity, but that trpv1 plays a dynamic role that is required for physiological thermosensation by MNCs.
High-level spinal cord injury can lead to cardiovascular dysfunction, including disordered hemodynamics at rest and autonomic dysreflexia during noxious stimulation. To restore supraspinal control of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs), we grafted embryonic brainstem-derived neural stem cells (BS-NSCs) or spinal cord-derived neural stem cells (SC-NSCs) expressing green fluorescent protein into the T4 complete transection site of adult rats. Animals with injury alone served as controls. Implanting of BS-NSCs but not SC-NSCs resulted in recovery of basal cardiovascular parameters, whereas both cell grafts alleviated autonomic dysreflexia. Subsequent spinal cord retransection above the graft abolished the recovery of basal hemodynamics and reflexic response. BS-NSC graft-derived catecholaminergic and serotonergic neurons showed remarkable long-distance axon growth and topographical innervation of caudal SPNs. Anterograde tracing indicated growth of medullar axons into stem cell grafts and formation of synapses. Thus, grafted embryonic brainstem-derived neurons can act as functional relays to restore supraspinal regulation of denervated SPNs, thereby contributing to cardiovascular functional improvement.
The loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and consequent depletion of striatal dopamine are known to underlie the motor deficits observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). Adaptive changes in dopaminergic terminals and in postsynaptic striatal neurons can compensate for significant losses of striatal dopamine, resulting in preservation of motor behavior. In addition, compensatory changes independent of striatal dopamine have been proposed based on PD therapies that modulate nondopaminergic circuits within the basal ganglia. We used a genetic strategy to selectively destroy dopaminergic neurons in mice during development to determine the necessity of these neurons for the maintenance of normal motor behavior in adult and aged mice. We find that loss of 90% of SNc dopaminergic neurons and consequent depletion of &gt;95% of striatal dopamine does not result in changes in motor behavior in young-adult or aged mice as evaluated by an extensive array of motor behavior tests. Treatment of aged mutant mice with the dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol precipitated motor behavior deficits in aged mutant mice, indicating that &lt;5% of striatal dopamine is sufficient to maintain motor function in these mice. We also found that mutant mice exhibit an exaggerated response to l-DOPA compared with control mice, suggesting that preservation of motor function involves sensitization of striatal dopamine receptors. Our results indicate that congenital loss of dopaminergic neurons induces remarkable adaptions in the nigrostriatal system where limited amounts of dopamine in the dorsal striatum can maintain normal motor function.
Perceptual judgments of relative depth from binocular disparity are systematically distorted in humans, despite in principle having access to reliable 3D information. Interestingly, these distortions vanish at a natural grasping distance, as if perceived stereo depth is contingent on a specific reference distance for depth-disparity scaling that corresponds to the length of our arm. Here we show that the brain's representation of the arm indeed powerfully modulates depth perception, and that this internal calibration can be quickly updated. We used a classic visuomotor adaptation task in which subjects execute reaching movements with the visual feedback of their reaching finger displaced farther in depth, as if they had a longer arm. After adaptation, 3D perception changed dramatically, and became accurate at the &quot;new&quot; natural grasping distance, the updated disparity scaling reference distance. We further tested whether the rapid adaptive changes were restricted to the visual modality or were characteristic of sensory systems in general. Remarkably, we found an improvement in tactile discrimination consistent with a magnified internal image of the arm. This suggests that the brain integrates sensory signals with information about arm length, and quickly adapts to an artificially updated body structure. These adaptive processes are most likely a relic of the mechanisms needed to optimally correct for changes in size and shape of the body during ontogenesis.
In congenital blindness, the brain develops under severe sensory deprivation and undergoes remarkable plastic changes in both structure and function. Visually deprived occipital cortical regions are histologically and morphologically altered and exhibit a strikingly remodeled functional state: absolute levels of neural activity are heightened and are modulated by nonvisual sensory stimulation as well as higher cognitive processes. However, the neuronal mechanisms that underlie this altered functional state remain largely unknown. Here, we show that the visual cortex of the congenitally blind exhibits a characteristic gain in frequency-specific intrinsic neuronal interactions. We studied oscillatory activity in 11 congenitally blind humans and matched sighted control subjects with magnetoencephalography at rest. We found increased spontaneous correlations of delta band (1-3 Hz) and gamma band (76-128 Hz) oscillations across the visual cortex of the blind that were functionally coupled. Local delta phase modulated gamma amplitude. Furthermore, classical resting rhythms (8-20 Hz) were reduced in amplitude but showed no altered correlation pattern. Our results suggest that both decreased inhibition and circuit mechanisms that support active processing are intrinsic features underlying the altered functional state of the visual cortex in congenitally blind individuals.
A topographical relationship exists between the septotemporal segments of the hippocampus and their entorhinal-neocortical targets, but the physiological organization of activity along the septotemporal axis is poorly understood. We recorded sharp-wave ripple patterns in rats during sleep from the entire septotemporal axis of the CA1 pyramidal layer. Qualitatively similar ripples emerged at all levels. From the local seed, ripples traveled septally or temporally at a speed of 0.35 m/s, and the spatial spread depended on ripple magnitude. Ripples propagated smoothly across the septal and intermediate segments of the hippocampus, but ripples in the temporal segment often remained isolated. These findings show that ripples can combine information from the septal and intermediate hippocampus and transfer integrated signals downstream. In contrast, ripples that emerged in the temporal pole broadcast largely independent information to their cortical and subcortical targets.
Cognitive control requires a fine balance between stability, the protection of an on-going task-set, and flexibility, the ability to update a task-set in line with changing contingencies. It is thought that emotional processing modulates this balance, but results have been equivocal regarding the direction of this modulation. Here, we tested the hypothesis that a crucial determinant of this modulation is whether affective stimuli represent performance-contingent or task-irrelevant signals. Combining functional magnetic resonance imaging with a conflict task-switching paradigm, we contrasted the effects of presenting negative- and positive-valence pictures on the stability/flexibility trade-off in humans, depending on whether picture presentation was contingent on behavioral performance. Both the behavioral and neural expressions of cognitive control were modulated by stimulus valence and performance contingency: in the performance-contingent condition, cognitive flexibility was enhanced following positive pictures, whereas in the nonperformance-contingent condition, positive stimuli promoted cognitive stability. The imaging data showed that, as anticipated, the stability/flexibility trade-off per se was reflected in differential recruitment of dorsolateral frontoparietal and striatal regions. In contrast, the affective modulation of stability/flexibility shifts was mirrored, unexpectedly, by neural responses in ventromedial prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortices, core nodes of the &quot;default mode&quot; network. Our results demonstrate that the affective modulation of cognitive control depends on the performance contingency of the affect-inducing stimuli, and they document medial default mode regions to mediate the flexibility-promoting effects of performance-contingent positive affect, thus extending recent work that recasts these regions as serving a key role in on-task control processes.
Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) controls the activity of calcium/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin (CaN), which has been implicated in human anxiety disorders. Previously, we reported that RCAN1 functioned as an inhibitor of CaN activity in the brain. However, we now find enhanced phosphorylation of a CaN substrate, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), in the brains of Rcan1 knock-out (KO) mice. Consistent with enhanced CREB activation, we also observe enhanced expression of a CREB transcriptional target, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in Rcan1 KO mice. We also discovered that RCAN1 deletion or blockade of RCAN1-CaN interaction reduced CaN and protein phosphatase-1 localization to nuclear-enriched protein fractions and promoted CREB activation. Because of the potential links between CREB, BDNF, and anxiety, we examined the role of RCAN1 in the expression of innate anxiety. Rcan1 KO mice displayed reduced anxiety in several tests of unconditioned anxiety. Acute pharmacological inhibition of CaN rescued these deficits while transgenic overexpression of human RCAN1 increased anxiety. Finally, we found that Rcan1 KO mice lacked the early anxiogenic response to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine and had improved latency for its therapeutic anxiolytic effects. Together, our study suggests that RCAN1 plays an important role in the expression of anxiety-related and SSRI-related behaviors through CaN-dependent signaling pathways. These results identify RCAN1 as a mediator of innate emotional states and possible therapeutic target for anxiety.
Here we have provided evidence that nitric oxide-cyclic GMP (NO-cGMP) signaling regulates neurite length and migration of immature neurons derived from the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE). Dlx1/2(-/-) and Lhx6(-/-) mouse mutants, which exhibit MGE interneuron migration defects, have reduced expression of the gene encoding the  subunit of a soluble guanylate cyclase (Gucy1A3). Furthermore, Dlx1/2(-/-) mouse mutants have reduced expression of NO synthase 1 (NOS1). Gucy1A3(-/-) mice have a transient reduction in cortical interneuron number. Pharmacological inhibition of soluble guanylate cyclase and NOS activity rapidly induces neurite retraction of MGE cells in vitro and in slice culture and robustly inhibits cell migration from the MGE and caudal ganglionic eminence. We provide evidence that these cellular phenotypes are mediated by activation of the Rho signaling pathway and inhibition of myosin light chain phosphatase activity.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) has been implicated in a number of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar disorder. One major regulator of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system is the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), which makes direct and indirect connections to the hippocampus and amygdala, as well as directly to the VTA. The mPFC is comprised of two subregions: the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices (ilPFC and plPFC). However, the specific roles of these subregions in regulating VTA dopamine activity have remained unclear. In this study, we aim to clarify this role and to examine the divergent neuranatomical circuits by which the mPFC regulates VTA activity. Using in vivo extracellular recordings in rats, we tested the effects of pharmacological activation (with NMDA) and inactivation (with TTX) of the ilPFC and plPFC on dopamine neuron activity, and tested the roles of the ventral subiculum (vSub) and basolateral amygdala in this process. We found that the ilPFC exerts a bidirectional control of VTA dopamine neurons, which are differentially modulated through the vSub and the basolateral amygdala. Specifically, activation or inactivation of the ilPFC attenuated or activated dopamine neuron population activity, respectively. Furthermore, dopamine activation depended on the ventral hippocampus and inactivation on the amygdala. In contrast, only inactivation of the plPFC altered dopamine neuron activity. These data indicate that the mPFC has the ability to uniquely fine-tune dopaminergic activity in the VTA. Furthermore, the data presented here suggest that the ilPFC may have a role in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders.
Glutamatergic lateral habenula (LHb) output communicates negative motivational valence to ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons via activation of the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg). However, the LHb also receives a poorly understood DA input from the VTA, which we hypothesized constitutes an important feedback loop regulating DA responses to stimuli. Using whole-cell electrophysiology in rat brain slices, we find that DA initiates a depolarizing inward current (I(DAi)) and increases spontaneous firing in 32% of LHb neurons. I(DAi) was also observed upon application of amphetamine or the DA uptake blockers cocaine or GBR12935, indicating involvement of endogenous DA. I(DAi) was blocked by D4 receptor (D4R) antagonists (L745,870 or L741,742), and mimicked by a selective D4R agonist (A412997). I(DAi) was associated with increased whole-cell conductance and was blocked by Cs+ or a selective blocker of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) ion channel, ZD7288. I(DAi) was also associated with a depolarizing shift in half-activation voltage for the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) mediated by HCN channels. Recordings from LHb neurons containing fluorescent retrograde tracers revealed that I(DAi) was observed only in cells projecting to the RMTg and not the VTA. In parallel with direct depolarization, DA also strongly increased synaptic glutamate release and reduced synaptic GABA release onto LHb cells. These results demonstrate that DA can excite glutamatergic LHb output to RMTg via multiple cellular mechanisms. Since the RMTg strongly inhibits midbrain DA neurons, activation of LHb output to RMTg by DA represents a negative feedback loop that may dampen DA neuron output following activation.

Autosomal recessive primary microcephaly (MCPH) is a congenital disorder characterized by significantly reduced brain size and mental retardation. Nine genes are currently known to be associated with the condition, all of which encode centrosomal or spindle pole proteins. MCPH is associated with a reduction in proliferation of neural progenitors during fetal development. The cellular mechanisms underlying the proliferation defect, however, are not fully understood. The zebrafish retinal neuroepithelium provides an ideal system to investigate this question. Mutant or morpholino-mediated knockdown of three known MCPH genes (stil, aspm and wdr62) and a fourth centrosomal gene, odf2, which is linked to several MCPH proteins, results in a marked reduction in head and eye size. Imaging studies reveal a dramatic rise in the fraction of proliferating cells in mitosis in all cases, and time-lapse microscopy points to a failure of progression through prometaphase. There was also increased apoptosis in all the MCPH models but this appears to be secondary to the mitotic defect as we frequently saw mitotically arrested cells disappear, and knocking down p53 apoptosis did not rescue the mitotic phenotype, either in whole retinas or clones.
The altered state of consciousness produced by general anesthetics is associated with a variety of changes in the brain's electrical activity. Under hyperpolarizing influences such as anesthetic drugs, cortical neurons oscillate at ~1 Hz, which is measurable as slow waves in the electroencephalogram (EEG). We have administered propofol anesthesia to 16 subjects and found that, after they had lost behavioral responsiveness (response to standard sensory stimuli), each individual's EEG slow-wave activity (SWA) rose to saturation and then remained constant despite increasing drug concentrations. We then simultaneously collected functional magnetic resonance imaging and EEG data in 12 of these subjects during propofol administration and sensory stimulation. During the transition to SWA saturation, the thalamocortical system became isolated from sensory stimuli, whereas internal thalamocortical exchange persisted. Rather, an alternative and more fundamental cortical network (which includes the precuneus) responded to all sensory stimulation. We conclude that SWA saturation is a potential individualized indicator of perception loss that could prove useful for monitoring depth of anesthesia and studying altered states of consciousness.

Cholinergic synaptic transmission often requires extremely rapid hydrolysis of acetylcholine by acetylcholinesterase (AChE). AChE is inactivated by organophosphates (OPs) in chemical warfare nerve agents. The resulting accumulation of acetylcholine disrupts cholinergic synaptic transmission and can lead to death. A potential long-term strategy for preventing AChE inactivation by OPs is based on evidence that OPs must pass through a peripheral site or P-site near the mouth of the AChE active site gorge before reacting with a catalytic serine in an acylation site or A-site at the base of the gorge. An ultimate goal of this strategy is to design compounds that bind tightly at or near the P-site and exclude OPs from the active site while interfering minimally with the passage of acetylcholine. However, to target the AChE P-site with ligands and potential drugs that selectively restrict access, much more information must be gathered about the structure-activity relationships of ligands that bind specifically to the P-site. We apply here an inhibitor competition assay that can correctly determine whether an AChE inhibitor binds to the P-site, the A-site, or both sites. We have used this assay to examine three uncharged, natural product inhibitors of AChE, including aflatoxin B1, dihydrotanshinone I, and territrem B. The first two of these inhibitors are predicted by the competition assay to bind selectively to the P-site, while territrem B is predicted to span both the P- and A-sites. These predictions have recently been confirmed by X-ray crystallography. Dihydrotanshinone I, with an observed binding constant (KI) of 750 nM, provides a good lead compound for the development of high-affinity, uncharged inhibitors with specificity for the P-site.






The field of neuroscience research in AD has been evolving rapidly over the last few years, and has pinpointed a number of candidate targets for molecules with crucial role in the pathophysiology of AD. Recent developments have furthermore enabled new ways of modeling the disease, while an increasing number of preclinically validated targets is currently being taken one step forward and tested in clinical trials. These recent developments are reviewed in the current Special Issues Series on &quot;Current concepts in Alzheimer's disease research: molecules, models and translational perspectives&quot; in a number of state-of-the-art manuscripts.





In the striatum, the dendritic tree of the two main populations of projection neurons, called &quot;medium spiny neurons (MSNs)&quot;, are covered with spines that receive glutamatergic inputs from the cerebral cortex and thalamus. In Parkinson's disease (PD), striatal MSNs undergo an important loss of dendritic spines, whereas aberrant overgrowth of striatal spines occurs following chronic cocaine exposure. This review examines the possibility that opposite dopamine dysregulation is one of the key factors that underlies these structural changes. In PD, nigrostriatal dopamine degeneration results in a significant loss of dendritic spines in the dorsal striatum, while rodents chronically exposed to cocaine and other psychostimulants, display an increase in the density of &quot;thin and immature&quot; spines in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). In rodent models of PD, there is evidence that D2 dopamine receptor-containing MSNs are preferentially affected, while D1-positive cells are the main targets of increased spine density in models of addiction. However, such specificity remains to be established in primates. Although the link between the extent of striatal spine changes and the behavioral deficits associated with these disorders remains controversial, there is unequivocal evidence that glutamatergic synaptic transmission is significantly altered in both diseased conditions. Recent studies have suggested that opposite calcium-mediated regulation of the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) function induces these structural defects. In conclusion, there is strong evidence that dopamine is a major, but not the sole, regulator of striatal spine pathology in PD and addiction to psychostimulants. Further studies of the role of glutamate and other genes associated with spine plasticity in mediating these effects are warranted.
Given the rapid rate of population aging and the increased incidence of cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases with advanced age, it is important to ascertain the determinants that result in cognitive impairment. It is also important to note that much of the aged population exhibit 'successful' cognitive aging, in which cognitive impairment is minimal. One main goal of normal aging studies is to distinguish the neural changes that occur in unsuccessful (functionally impaired) subjects from those of successful (functionally unimpaired) subjects. In this review, we present some of the structural adaptations that neurons and spines undergo throughout normal aging and discuss their likely contributions to electrophysiological properties and cognition. Structural changes of neurons and dendritic spines during aging, and the functional consequences of such changes, remain poorly understood. Elucidating the structural and functional synaptic age-related changes that lead to cognitive impairment may lead to the development of drug treatments that can restore or protect neural circuits and mediate cognition and successful aging.
Dendritic spines provide a compartment for assembly and functional organization of synaptic machinery that plays a fundamental role in neuronal communication and neuroplasticity. Studies in humans as well as in animal models have demonstrated abnormal spine architecture in several psychiatric disorders, including depression and other stress-related illnesses. The negative impact of stress on the density and organization of spines is thought to contribute to the behavioral deficits caused by stress exposure. Moreover, there is now evidence that medication-induced recovery involves changes in synaptic plasticity and dendrite morphology, including increased expression of pre- and postsynaptic plasticity-related proteins, as well as the density and function of axo-spinous synapses. Here we review the evidence from brain imaging and postmortem studies demonstrating that depression is accompanied by structural and functional alterations of cortical and limbic brain regions, including the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and amygdala. In addition, we present more direct evidence from basic research studies that exposure to stress alters spine morphology, function and plasticity and that antidepressants, particularly new rapid acting agents, reverse these effects. Elucidation of the signaling pathways and molecular mechanisms that control spine synapse assembly and plasticity will contribute to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of depression and development of novel, more effective therapeutic agents.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive loss of cognition and the presence of two hallmark lesions, senile plaques (SP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), which result from the accumulation and deposition of the -amyloid peptide (A) and the aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, respectively. Initially, it was thought that A fibrils, which make up SP, were the root cause of the massive neurodegeneration usual found in AD brains. Over time, the longstanding emphasis on fibrillar A deposits and neuronal death slowly gave way to a new paradigm involving soluble oligomeric forms of A, which play a prominent role in triggering the cognitive deficits by specifically targeting synapses and disrupting synaptic signaling pathways. While this paradigm is widely accepted today in the AD field, the molecular details have not been fully elucidated. In this review, we address some of the important evidence, which has led to the A oligomer-centric hypothesis as well as some of the key findings concerning the effects of A oligomers on synapses at a morphological and functional level. Understanding how A oligomers target synapses provides an important framework for ongoing AD research, which can lead to the development of successful therapeutic strategies designed to alter or perhaps reverse the course of the disease.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant tandem repeat expansion disorder involving cognitive, psychiatric and motor symptoms. The expanded trinucleotide (CAG) repeat leads to an extended polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein and a subsequent cascade of molecular and cellular pathogenesis. One of the key features of neuropathology, which has been shown to precede the eventual loss of neurons in the cerebral cortex, striatum and other areas, are changes to synapses, including the dendritic protrusions known as spines. In this review we will focus on synapse and spine pathology in HD, including molecular and experience-dependent aspects of pathogenesis. Dendritic spine pathology has been found in both the human HD brain at post mortem as well as various transgenic and knock-in animal models. These changes may help explain the symptoms in HD, and synaptopathy within the cerebral cortex may be particularly important in mediating the psychiatric and cognitive manifestations of this disease. The earliest stages of synaptic dysfunction in HD, as assayed in various mouse models, appears to involve changes in synaptic proteins and associated physiological abnormalities such as synaptic plasticity deficits. In mouse models, synaptic and cortical plasticity deficits have been directly correlated with the onset of cognitive deficits, implying a causal link. Furthermore, following the discovery that environmental enrichment can delay onset of affective, cognitive and motor deficits in HD transgenic mice, specific synaptic molecules shown to be dysregulated by the polyglutamine-induced toxicity were also found to be beneficially modulated by environmental stimulation. This identifies potential molecular targets for future therapeutic developments to treat this devastating disease.
Because dendritic spines are the sites of excitatory synapses, pathological changes in spine morphology should be considered as part of pathological changes in neuronal circuitry in the forms of synaptic connections and connectivity strength. In the past, spine pathology has usually been measured by changes in their number or shape. A more complete understanding of spine pathology requires visualization at the nanometer level to analyze how the changes in number and size affect their presynaptic partners and associated astrocytic processes, as well as organelles and other intracellular structures. Currently, serial section electron microscopy (ssEM) offers the best approach to address this issue because of its ability to image the volume of brain tissue at the nanometer resolution. Renewed interest in ssEM has led to recent technological advances in imaging techniques and improvements in computational tools indispensable for three-dimensional analyses of brain tissue volumes. Here we consider the small but growing literature that has used ssEM analysis to unravel ultrastructural changes in neuropil including dendritic spines. These findings have implications in altered synaptic connectivity and cell biological processes involved in neuropathology, and serve as anatomical substrates for understanding changes in network activity that may underlie clinical symptoms.
Schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder whose clinical features include impairments in perception, cognition and motivation. These impairments reflect alterations in neuronal circuitry within and across multiple brain regions that are due, at least in part, to deficits in dendritic spines, the site of most excitatory synaptic connections. Dendritic spine alterations have been identified in multiple brain regions in schizophrenia, but are best characterized in layer 3 of the neocortex, where pyramidal cell spine density is lower. These spine deficits appear to arise during development, and thus are likely the result of disturbances in the molecular mechanisms that underlie spine formation, pruning, and/or maintenance. Each of these mechanisms may provide insight into novel therapeutic targets for preventing or repairing the alterations in neural circuitry that mediate the debilitating symptoms of schizophrenia.
Dendritic spines are the principal recipients of excitatory synaptic inputs and the basic units of neural computation in the mammalian brain. Alterations in the density, size, shape, and turnover of mature spines, or defects in how spines are generated and establish synapses during brain development, could all result in neuronal dysfunction and lead to cognitive and/or behavioral impairments. That spines are abnormal in fragile X syndrome (FXS) and in the best-studied animal model of this disorder, the Fmr1 knockout mouse, is an undeniable fact. But the trouble with spines in FXS is that the exact nature of their defect is still controversial. Here, we argue that the most consistent abnormality of spines in FXS may be a subtle defect in activity-dependent spine plasticity and maturation. We also propose some future directions for research into spine plasticity in FXS at the cellular and ultrastructural levels that could help solve a two-decade-long riddle about the integrity of synapses in this prototypical neurodevelopmental disorder.
Stressful life events, especially those that induce fear, can produce a state of anxiety that is useful for avoiding similar fearful and potentially dangerous situations in the future. However, they can also lead to exaggerated states, which over time can produce mental illness. These changing states of readiness versus illness are thought to be regulated, at least in part, by alterations in dendritic and synaptic structure within brain regions known to be involved in anxiety. These regions include the amygdala, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex. In this article, we review the reciprocal relationships between the expression of stress- and anxiety-related behaviors and stress-induced morphological plasticity as detected by changes in dendrites and spines in these three brain regions. We begin by highlighting the acute and chronic effects of stress on synaptic morphology in each area and describe some of the putative mechanisms that have been implicated in these effects. We then discuss the functional consequences of stress-induced structural plasticity focusing on synaptic plasticity as well as cognitive and emotional behaviors. Finally, we consider how these structural changes may contribute to adaptive behaviors as well as maladaptive responses associated with anxiety.
Abnormalities in dendritic spines have commonly been observed in brain specimens from epilepsy patients and animal models of epilepsy. However, the functional implications and clinical consequences of this dendritic pathology for epilepsy are uncertain. Dendritic spine abnormalities may promote hyperexcitable circuits and seizures in some types of epilepsy, especially in specific genetic syndromes with documented dendritic pathology, but in these cases it is difficult to differentiate their effects on seizures versus other comorbidities, such as cognitive deficits and autism. In other situations, seizures themselves may cause damage to dendrites and dendritic spines and this seizure-induced brain injury may then contribute to progressive epileptogenesis, memory problems and other neurological deficits in epilepsy patients. The mechanistic basis of dendritic spine abnormalities in epilepsy has begun to be elucidated and suggests novel therapeutic strategies for treating epilepsy and its complications.
Dendritic spines, the bulbous protrusions that form the postsynaptic half of excitatory synapses, are one of the most prominent features of neurons and have been imaged and studied for over a century. In that time, changes in the number and morphology of dendritic spines have been correlated to the developmental process as well as the pathophysiology of a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Due to the sheer scale of synaptic connectivity in the brain, work to date has merely scratched the surface in the study of normal spine function and pathology. This review will highlight traditional approaches to the imaging of dendritic spines and newer approaches made possible by advances in microscopy, protein engineering, and image analysis. The review will also describe recent work that is leading researchers toward the possibility of a systematic and comprehensive study of spine anatomy throughout the brain.
Large tumor suppressor (LATS)1/2 protein kinases transmit Hippo signaling in response to intercellular contacts and serum levels to limit cell growth via the inhibition of Yes-associated protein (YAP). Here low serum and high LATS1 activity are found to enhance the levels of the 130-kDa isoform of angiomotin (Amot130) through phosphorylation by LATS1/2 at serine 175, which then forms a binding site for 14-3-3. Such phosphorylation, in turn, enables the ubiquitin ligase atrophin-1 interacting protein (AIP)4 to bind, ubiquitinate, and stabilize Amot130. Consistently, the Amot130 (S175A) mutant, which lacks LATS phosphorylation, bound AIP4 poorly under all conditions and showed reduced stability. Amot130 and AIP4 also promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of YAP in response to serum starvation, unlike Amot130 (S175A). Moreover, silencing Amot130 expression blocked LATS1 from inhibiting the expression of connective tissue growth factor, a YAP-regulated gene. Concordant with phosphorylated Amot130 specifically mediating these effects, wild-type Amot130 selectively induced YAP phosphorylation and reduced transcription of connective tissue growth factor in an AIP4-dependent manner versus Amot130 (S175A). Further, Amot130 but not Amot130 (S175A) strongly inhibited the growth of MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells. The dominant-negative effects of Amot130 (S175A) on YAP signaling also support that phosphorylated Amot130 transduces Hippo signaling. Likewise, Amot130 expression provoked premature growth arrest during mammary cell acini formation, whereas Amot130 (S175A)-expressing cells formed enlarged and poorly differentiated acini. Taken together, the phosphorylation of Amot130 by LATS is found to be a key feature that enables it to inhibit YAP-dependent signaling and cell growth.
Astrocytes modulate neuronal activity, synaptic transmission, and behavior by releasing chemical transmitters in a process termed gliotransmission. Whether this process impacts epilepsy in vivo is not known. We show that genetic impairment of transmitter release from astrocytes by the expression of a glial dominant-negative SNARE domain in mice reduced epileptiform activity in situ, delayed seizure onset after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, and attenuated subsequent progressive increase in seizure frequency in vivo. The reduced seizure frequency was accompanied by attenuation of hippocampal damage and behavioral deficits. As the delay in seizure onset and the reduced seizure frequency were mimicked by intracerebroventricular delivery of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate in WT littermates and because dominant-negative SNARE expression leads to a hypofunction of synaptic NMDARs, we conclude that astrocytes modulate epileptogenesis, recurrent spontaneous seizures, and pathophysiological consequences of epilepsy through a pathway involving NMDARs.
Vascular flow through tissues is regulated via a number of homeostatic mechanisms. Localized control of tissue blood flow, or autoregulation, is a key factor in regulating tissue perfusion and oxygenation. We show here that the net balance between two hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) transcription factor isoforms, HIF-1 and HIF-2, is an essential mechanism regulating both local and systemic blood flow in the skin of mice. We also show that balance of HIF isoforms in keratinocyte-specific mutant mice affects thermal adaptation, exercise capacity, and systemic arterial pressure. The two primary HIF isoforms achieve these effects in opposing ways that are associated with HIF isoform regulation of nitric oxide production. We also show that a correlation exists between altered levels of HIF isoforms in the skin and the degree of idiopathic hypertension in human subjects. Thus, the balance between HIF-1 and HIF-2 expression in keratinocytes is a control element of both tissue perfusion and systemic arterial pressure, with potential implications in human hypertension.
Despite the fact that midday naps are characteristic of early childhood, very little is understood about the structure and function of these sleep bouts. Given that sleep benefits memory in young adults, it is possible that naps serve a similar function for young children. However, children transition from biphasic to monophasic sleep patterns in early childhood, eliminating the nap from their daily sleep schedule. As such, naps may contain mostly light sleep stages and serve little function for learning and memory during this transitional age. Lacking scientific understanding of the function of naps in early childhood, policy makers may eliminate preschool classroom nap opportunities due to increasing curriculum demands. Here we show evidence that classroom naps support learning in preschool children by enhancing memories acquired earlier in the day compared with equivalent intervals spent awake. This nap benefit is greatest for children who nap habitually, regardless of age. Performance losses when nap-deprived are not recovered during subsequent overnight sleep. Physiological recordings of naps support a role of sleep spindles in memory performance. These results suggest that distributed sleep is critical in early learning; when short-term memory stores are limited, memory consolidation must take place frequently.




A recent study has found that a Drosophila gustatory receptor is required for thermotaxis. With other fly gustatory receptors having been shown to act in thedetection of CO2, nutrients in the brain, and light, the roles of the so-called 'gustatory receptors' clearly go way beyond peripheral detection of non-volatile chemicals.
Mice show an innate protective behavior to looming shadows approaching from above: they either run for cover or freeze in place. This newly discovered 'looming response' adds to the repertoire of stereotyped behaviors that can be utilized to study visual pathways.


How animals gain information from attending to the behavior of others has been widely studied, driven partly by the importance of referential pointing in human cognitive development [1-4], but species differences in reading human social cues remain unexplained. One explanation is that this capacity evolved during domestication [5, 6], but it may be that only those animals able to interpret human-like social cues were successfully domesticated. Elephants are a critical taxon for this question: despite their longstanding use by humans, they have never been domesticated [7]. Here we show that a group of 11 captive African elephants, seven of them significantly as individuals, could interpret human pointing to find hidden food. We suggest that success was not due to prior training or extensive learning opportunities. Elephants successfully interpreted pointing when the experimenter's proximity to the hiding place was varied and when the ostensive pointing gesture was visually subtle, suggesting that they understood the experimenter's communicative intent. The elephant's native ability in interpreting social cues may have contributed to its long history of effective use by man.

Sense of agency (SoA) refers to the feeling that one's voluntary actions produce external sensory events [1, 2]. Several psychological theories hypothesized links between SoA and affective evaluation [3-6]. For example, people tend to attribute positive outcomes to their own actions, perhaps reflecting high-level narrative processes that enhance self-esteem [3]. Here we provide the first evidence that such emotional modulations also involve changes in the low-level sensorimotor basis of agency. The intentional binding paradigm [1] was used to quantify the subjective temporal compression between a voluntary action and its sensory consequences, providing an implicit measure of SoA. Emotional valence of action outcomes was manipulated by following participants' key-press actions with negative or positive emotional vocalizations [7], or neutral sounds. We found that intentional binding was reduced for negative compared to positive or neutral outcomes. Discriminant analyses identified a change in time perception of both actions and their negative outcomes, demonstrating that the experience of action itself is subject to affective modulation. A small binding benefit was also found for positive action outcomes. Emotional modulation of SoA may contribute to regulating social behavior. Correctly tracking the valenced effects of one's voluntary actions on other people could underlie successful social interactions.
Glycine receptors (GlyRs) are ligand-gated chloride ion channels that mediate fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the spinal cord and the brainstem. There, they are mainly involved in motor control and pain perception in the adult. However, these receptors are also expressed in upper regions of the central nervous system, where they participate in different processes including synaptic neurotransmission. Moreover, GlyRs are present since early stages of brain development and might influence this process. Here, we discuss the current state of the art regarding GlyRs during embryonic and postnatal brain development in light of recent findings about the cellular and molecular mechanisms that control brain development.
Mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT cells) express a semi-invariant T cell receptor (TCR) -chain, TRAV1-2-TRAJ33, and are activated by vitamin B metabolites bound by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-related class I-like molecule, MR1. Understanding MAIT cell biology has been restrained by the lack of reagents to specifically identify and characterize these cells. Furthermore, the use of surrogate markers may misrepresent the MAIT cell population. We show that modified human MR1 tetramers loaded with the potent MAIT cell ligand, reduced 6-hydroxymethyl-8-D-ribityllumazine (rRL-6-CHOH), specifically detect all human MAIT cells. Tetramer(+) MAIT subsets were predominantly CD8(+) or CD4(-)CD8(-), although a small subset of CD4(+) MAIT cells was also detected. Notably, most human CD8(+) MAIT cells were CD8(+)CD8(-/lo), implying predominant expression of CD8 homodimers. Tetramer-sorted MAIT cells displayed a T(H)1 cytokine phenotype upon antigen-specific activation. Similarly, mouse MR1-rRL-6-CHOH tetramers detected CD4(+), CD4(-)CD8(-) and CD8(+) MAIT cells in V19 transgenic mice. Both human and mouse MAIT cells expressed a broad TCR- repertoire, and although the majority of human MAIT cells expressed TRAV1-2-TRAJ33, some expressed TRAJ12 or TRAJ20 genes in conjunction with TRAV1-2. Accordingly, MR1 tetramers allow precise phenotypic characterization of human and mouse MAIT cells and revealed unanticipated TCR heterogeneity in this population.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of memory and cognitive function. A key neuropathological event in AD is the accumulation of amyloid- (A) peptide. The production and clearance of A in the brain are regulated by a large group of genes. The expression levels of these genes must be fine-tuned in the brain to keep A at a balanced amount under physiological condition. Misregulation of AD genes has been found to either increase AD risk or accelerate the disease progression. In recent years, important progress has been made in uncovering the regulatory elements and transcriptional factors that guide the expression of these genes. In this review, we describe the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation for the known AD genes and the misregualtion that leads to AD susceptibility.








This report characterizes the neurobiology of the ocular surface and highlights relevant mechanisms that may underpin contact lens-related discomfort. While there is limited evidence for the mechanisms involved in contact lens-related discomfort, neurobiological mechanisms in dry eye disease, the inflammatory pathway, the effect of hyperosmolarity on ocular surface nociceptors, and subsequent sensory processing of ocular pain and discomfort have been at least partly elucidated and are presented herein to provide insight in this new arena. The stimulus to the ocular surface from a contact lens is likely to be complex and multifactorial, including components of osmolarity, solution effects, desiccation, thermal effects, inflammation, friction, and mechanical stimulation. Sensory input will arise from stimulation of the lid margin, palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, and the cornea.
Abnormally high concentrations of extracellular glutamate in the brain may cause neuronal damage via excitotoxicity. Thus, tight regulation of glutamate release is critical to neuronal function and survival. Excitotoxicity is caused mainly by overactivation of the extrasynaptic NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and results in specific cellular changes, including calcium-induced activation of calpain proteases. Here, we report that presenilin-1 (PS1) null mouse cortical neuronal cultures have increased amounts of calpain-dependent spectrin breakdown products (SBDPs) compared with WT cultures. NMDAR antagonists blocked accumulation of SBDPs, suggesting abnormal activation of this receptor in PS1 null cultures. Importantly, an increase in SBDPs was detected in cultures of at least 7 days in vitro but not in younger cultures. Conditioned medium from PS1 null neuronal cultures at 8 days in vitro contained higher levels of glutamate than medium from WT cultures and stimulated production of SBDPs when added to WT cultures. Use of glutamate reuptake inhibitors indicated that accumulation of this neurotransmitter in the media of PS1 null cultures was due to increased rates of release. PS1 null neurons showed decreased cell surface expression and phosphorylation of the GluN2B subunit of NMDAR, indicating decreased amounts of extrasynaptic NMDAR in the absence of PS1. Inhibition of -secretase activity in WT neurons caused changes similar to those observed in PS1 null neurons. Together, these data indicate that the PS1/-secretase system regulates release of glutamate, tyrosine phosphorylation, and surface expression of GluN2B-containing NMDARs.




One may wonder why methylxanthines are so abundant in beverages used by humans for centuries, or in cola-drinks that have been heavily consumed since their appearance. It is likely that humans have stuck to any brew containing compounds with psychoactive properties, resulting in a better daily life, i.e., more efficient thinking, exploring, hunting, etc., however, without the serious side effects of drugs of abuse. The physiological effects of methylxanthines have been known for a long time and they are mainly mediated by the so-called adenosine receptors. Caffeine and theobromine are the most abundant methylxanthines in cacao and their physiological effects are notable. Their health-promoting benefits are so remarkable that chocolate is explored as a functional food. The consequences of adenosine receptor blockade by natural compounds present in cacao/chocolate are here reviewed. Palatability and health benefits of methylxanthines, in general, and theobromine, in particular, have further contributed to sustain one of the most innocuous and pleasant habits: chocolate consumption.



Repeated exposures to an object will lead to an enhancement of evaluation toward that object. Although this mere exposure effect may occur when the objects are presented subliminally, the role of conscious perception per se on evaluation has never been examined. Here we use a binocular rivalry paradigm to investigate whether a variance in conscious perceptual duration of faces has an effect on their subsequent evaluation, and how selective attention and memory interact with this effect. Our results show that face evaluation is positively biased by selective attention but not affected by visual awareness. Furthermore, this effect is not due to participants recalling which face had been attended to.

The biological functions of myotonic dystrophy protein kinase (DMPK), a serine/threonine kinase whose gene mutations cause myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1), remain poorly understood. Several DMPK isoforms exist, and the long ones (DMPK-A/B/C/D) are associated with the mitochondria, where they exert unknown activities. We have studied the isoform A of DMPK, which we have found to be prevalently associated to the outer mitochondrial membrane. The kinase activity of mitochondrial DMPK protects cells from oxidative stress and from the ensuing opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP), which would otherwise irreversibly commit cells to death. We observe that DMPK (i) increases the mitochondrial localization of hexokinase II (HK II), (ii) forms a multimeric complex with HK II and with the active form of the tyrosine kinase Src, binding its SH3 domain and (iii) it is tyrosine-phosphorylated by Src. Both interaction among these proteins and tyrosine phosphorylation of DMPK are increased under oxidative stress, and Src inhibition selectively enhances death in DMPK-expressing cells after HK II detachment from the mitochondria. Down-modulation of DMPK abolishes the appearance of muscle markers in in vitro myogenesis, which is rescued by oxidant scavenging. Our data indicate that, together with HK II and Src, mitochondrial DMPK is part of a multimolecular complex endowed with antioxidant and pro-survival properties that could be relevant during the function and differentiation of muscle fibers.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are pervasively expressed in mammals, although their functions during development remain poorly understood. In this issue of Cell Reports, Delpretti etal. and Li etal. suggest essential roles for lncRNAs in coordinating Hox gene expression.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease biochemically characterized by aberrant protein aggregation, including amyloid beta (A) peptide accumulation. Protein aggregates in the cell are cleared by autophagy, a mechanism impaired in AD. To investigate the role of autophagy in A pathology invivo, we crossed amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice with mice lacking autophagy in excitatory forebrain neurons obtained by conditional knockout of autophagy-related protein 7. Remarkably, autophagy deficiency drastically reduced extracellular A plaque burden. This reduction of A plaque load was due to inhibition of A secretion, which led to aberrant intraneuronal A accumulation in the perinuclear region. Moreover, autophagy-deficiency-induced neurodegeneration was exacerbated by amyloidosis, which together severely impaired memory. Our results establish a function for autophagy in A metabolism: autophagy influences secretion of A to the extracellular space and thereby directly affects A plaque formation, a pathological hallmark of AD.

Learning by repetition engages distinct cognitive strategies whose contributions are adjusted with experience. Early in learning, performance relies upon flexible, attentive strategies. With extended practice, inflexible, automatic strategies emerge. This transition is thought fundamental to habit formation and applies to human and animal cognition. In the context of spatial navigation, place strategies are flexible, typically employed early in training, and rely on the spatial arrangement of landmarks to locate a goal. Response strategies are inflexible, become dominant after overtraining, and utilize fixed motor sequences. Although these strategies can operate independently, they have also been shown to interact. However, since previous work has focused on single-choice learning, if and how these strategies interact across sequential choices remains unclear. To test strategy interactions across sequential choices, we utilized various two-choice spatial navigation tasks administered on the Opposing Ts maze, an apparatus for rodents that permits experimental control over strategy recruitment. We found that when a second choice required spatial working memory, the transition to response navigation on the first choice was blocked. Control experiments specified this effect to the cognitive aspects of the secondary task. In addition, response navigation, once established on a single choice, was not reversed by subsequent introduction of a secondary choice reliant on spatial working memory. These results demonstrate that performance strategies interact across choices, highlighting the sensitivity of strategy use to the cognitive demands of subsequent actions, an influence from which overtrained rigid actions may be protected.
Preservation of neural tissue in early Cambrian arthropods has recently been demonstrated, to a degree that segmental structures of the head can be associated with individual brain neuromeres. This association provides novel data for addressing long-standing controversies about the segmental identities of specialized head appendages in fossil taxa. Here we document neuroanatomy in the head and trunk of a 'great appendage' arthropod, Alalcomenaeus sp., from the Chengjiang biota, southwest China, providing the most complete neuroanatomical profile known from a Cambrian animal. Micro-computed tomography reveals a configuration of one optic neuropil separate from a protocerebrum contiguous with four head ganglia, succeeded by eight contiguous ganglia in an eleven-segment trunk. Arrangements of optic neuropils, the brain and ganglia correspond most closely to the nervous system of Chelicerata of all extant arthropods, supporting the assignment of 'great appendage' arthropods to the chelicerate total group. The position of the deutocerebral neuromere aligns with the insertion of the great appendage, indicating its deutocerebral innervation and corroborating a homology between the 'great appendage' and chelicera indicated by morphological similarities. Alalcomenaeus and Fuxianhuia protensa demonstrate that the two main configurations of the brain observed in modern arthropods, those of Chelicerata and Mandibulata, respectively, had evolved by the early Cambrian.
The mechanism of catecholamine release from single adrenal chromaffin cells isolated from normotensive and DOCA-salt hypertensive rats was investigated. These cells were used as a model for sympathetic nerves to better understand how exocytotic release of catecholamines is altered in this model of hypertension. Catecholamine secretion was evoked by local application of acetylcholine (1 mM) or high K+ (70 mM), and continuous amperometry was used to monitor catecholamine secretion as an oxidative current. The total number of catecholamine molecules secreted from a vesicle, the total number of vesicles fusing and secreting, and the duration of secretion in response to a stimulus were all significantly greater for chromaffin cells from hypertensive rats as compared to normotensive controls. The greater catecholamine secretion from DOCA-salt cells results, at least in part, from functionally impaired large conductance, Ca2+-activated (BK) and ATP-sensitive K+ channels. This work reveals that there is altered vesicular release of catecholamines from these cells (and possibly from perivascular sympathetic nerves) and this may contribute to increased vasomotor tone in DOCA-salt hypertension.
The disappointing results obtained in recent clinical trials renew the interest in experimental/computational techniques for the discovery of neuroprotective drugs. In this context, multitarget or multiplexing QSAR models (mt-QSAR/mx-QSAR) may help to predict neurotoxicity/neuroprotective effects of drugs in multiple assays, on drug targets, and in model organisms. In this work, we study a data set downloaded from CHEMBL; each data point (&gt;8000) contains the values of one out of 37 possible measures of activity, 493 assays, 169 molecular or cellular targets, and 11 different organisms (including human) for a given compound. In this work, we introduce the first mx-QSAR model for neurotoxicity/neuroprotective effects of drugs based on the MARCH-INSIDE (MI) method. First, we used MI to calculate the stochastic spectral moments (structural descriptors) of all compounds. Next, we found a model that classified correctly 2955 out of 3548 total cases in the training and validation series with Accuracy, Sensitivity, and Specificity values&gt;80%. The model also showed excellent results in Computational-Chemistry simulations of High-Throughput Screening (CCHTS) experiments, with accuracy=90.6% for 4671 positive cases. Next, we reported the synthesis, characterization, and experimental assays of new rasagiline derivatives. We carried out three different experimental tests: assay (1) in the absence of neurotoxic agents, assay (2) in the presence of glutamate, and assay (3) in the presence of H2O2. Compounds 11 with 27.4%, 8 with 11.6%, and 9 with 15.4% showed the highest neuroprotective effects in assays (1), (2), and (3), respectively. After that, we used the mx-QSAR model to carry out a CCHTS of the new compounds in &gt;400 unique pharmacological tests not carried out experimentally. Consequently, this model may become a promising auxiliary tool for the discovery of new drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.



Paroxysmal dysarthria is an unusual condition characterised by brief episodes of dysarthria with the sudden onset and frequent recurrence. It has been mainly reported in multiple sclerosis and an association with midbrain lesions has been claimed; however, most of the reported patients had multiple brain alterations so it was difficult to associate this symptom with a specific lesion site. We illustrate the cases of two patients with an isolated demyelinating midbrain lesion presenting paroxysmal dysarthria as the only symptom; both participants had oligoclonal bands in the cerebrospinal fluid and an unremarkable follow-up. Both patients had benefit from carbamazepine treatment, similarly to previously reported cases. Our report confirms that a demyelinating midbrain lesion is sufficient to provoke paroxysmal dysarthria. It is noteworthy that an erroneous diagnosis of psychogenic disorders was initially made in both cases, highlighting the importance not to underestimate isolated paroxysmal symptoms in clinical practice.




Broca's region, which in the language-dominant hemisphere of the human brain plays a major role in language production, includes two distinct cytoarchitectonic areas: 44 and 45. The unique connectivity patterns of these two areas have not been well established. In a resting-state functional connectivity study, we tested predictions about these areas from invasive tract-tracing studies of the connectivity of their homologs in the macaque monkey. We demonstrated their distinct connectivity profiles as well as their differences from the caudally adjacent ventral parts of the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortical region that represent the orofacial musculature. Area 45 is strongly connected with the superior temporal sulcus and the cortex on the adjacent superior and middle temporal gyri. In the parietal region, area 45 is connected with the angular gyrus, whereas area 44 is connected with the supramarginal gyrus. The primary motor cortical region in the caudal precentral gyrus is not connected with the posterior parietal region, which lies outside the confines of the postcentral gyrus, whereas the ventrorostral premotor cortical area 6VR, in the most anterior part of the precentral gyrus, has strong connections with the rostral supramarginal gyrus. Thus, area 44, which has stronger connections to the posterior supramarginal gyrus, can be distinguished from both the adjacent area 6VR and area 45. These findings provide a major improvement in understanding the connectivity of the areas in the ventrolateral frontal region that are involved in language production.
Newly formed synapses undergo maturation during ontogenetic development via mechanisms that remain poorly understood. We show that maturation of the presynaptic endocytotic machinery in CNS neurons requires substitution of the adaptor protein 3 (AP-3) with AP-2 at the presynaptic plasma membrane. In mature synapses, AP-2 associates with the intracellular domain of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). NCAM promotes binding of AP-2 over binding of AP-3 to presynaptic membranes, thus favoring the substitution of AP-3 for AP-2 during formation of mature synapses. The presynaptic endocytotic machinery remains immature in adult NCAM-deficient (NCAM-/-) mice accumulating AP-3 instead of AP-2 and its partner protein AP180 in synaptic membranes and vesicles. NCAM deficiency or disruption of the NCAM/AP-2 complex in wild-type (NCAM+/+) neurons by overexpression of AP-2 binding-defective mutant NCAM interferes with efficient retrieval of the synaptic vesicle v-SNARE synaptobrevin 2. Abnormalities in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and recycling may thus contribute to neurological disorders associated with mutations in NCAM.
A majority of neurons in the monkey primary visual cortex (V1) are tuned to stimulus orientations. Preferred orientations and tuning strengths vary among V1 neurons. The preferred orientation of neurons gradually changes across the cortex with occasional failures of this organization. How V1 neurons are arranged by the strength of orientation tuning and whether neuronal arrangement for tuning strength relates to orientation preference maps remains controversial. In this study, we performed in vivo two-photon calcium imaging in macaque V1 to examine the local spatial organization of orientation tuning at the level of single cells. We recorded fluorescence signals from individual neurons loaded with a calcium-sensitive dye in layer 2 and the uppermost tier of layer 3. The strength of orientation tuning was shared by nearby neurons, and changed across the cortex. The neurons with similar tuning strength were distributed across at least the entire thickness of layer 2. The tuning strength was weaker in regions where neurons exhibited heterogeneous preferred orientations, as compared with regions where neurons shared similar orientation preferences. Nearby direction-selective neurons often shared their preferred directions, although only a few neurons were direction selective in the layers examined. Thus, the orientation tuning strength of V1 neurons is partially predictable from the local structure of orientation map. The weaker orientation tuning we found in regions with heterogeneous orientation preferences suggests that orientation-independent interactions among local populations of V1 neurons play a critical role in determining their orientation tuning.
NMDA receptor activity is involved in shaping synaptic connections throughout development and adulthood. We recently reported that brief activation of NMDA receptors on cultured ventral midbrain dopamine neurons enhanced their axon growth rate and induced axonal branching. To test whether this mechanism was relevant to axon regrowth in adult animals, we examined the reinnervation of dorsal striatum following nigral dopamine neuron loss induced by unilateral intrastriatal injections of the toxin 6-hydroxydopamine. We used a pharmacological approach to enhance NMDA receptor-dependent signaling by treatment with an inhibitor of glycine transporter-1 that elevates levels of extracellular glycine, a coagonist required for NMDA receptor activation. All mice displayed sprouting of dopaminergic axons from spared fibers in the ventral striatum to the denervated dorsal striatum at 7 weeks post-lesion, but the reinnervation in mice treated for 4 weeks with glycine uptake inhibitor was approximately twice as dense as in untreated mice. The treated mice also displayed higher levels of striatal dopamine and a complete recovery from lateralization in a test of sensorimotor behavior. We confirmed that the actions of glycine uptake inhibition on reinnervation and behavioral recovery required NMDA receptors in dopamine neurons using targeted deletion of the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit in dopamine neurons. Glycine transport inhibitors promote functionally relevant sprouting of surviving dopamine axons and could provide clinical treatment for disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
SLOB (SLOWPOKE-binding protein) modulates the Drosophila SLOWPOKE calcium-activated potassium channel. We have shown previously that SLOB deletion or RNAi knockdown decreases excitability of neurosecretory pars intercerebralis (PI) neurons in the adult Drosophila brain. In contrast, we found that SLOB deletion/knockdown enhances neurotransmitter release from motor neurons at the fly larval neuromuscular junction, suggesting an increase in excitability. Because two prominent SLOB isoforms, SLOB57 and SLOB71, modulate SLOWPOKE channels in opposite directions in vitro, we investigated whether divergent expression patterns of these two isoforms might underlie the differential modulation of excitability in PI and motor neurons. By performing detailed in vitro and in vivo analysis, we found strikingly different modes of regulatory control by the slob57 and slob71 promoters. The slob71, but not slob57, promoter contains binding sites for the Hunchback and Mirror transcriptional repressors. Furthermore, several core promoter elements that are absent in the slob57 promoter coordinately drive robust expression of a luciferase vector by the slob71 promoter in vitro. In addition, we visualized the expression patterns of the slob57 and slob71 promoters in vivo and found clear spatiotemporal differences in promoter activity. SLOB57 is expressed prominently in adult PI neurons, whereas larval motor neurons exclusively express SLOB71. In contrast, at the larval neuromuscular junction, SLOB57 expression appears to be restricted mainly to a subset of glial cells. Our results illustrate how the use of alternative transcriptional start sites within an ion channel modulator locus coupled with functionally relevant alternative splicing can be used to fine-tune neuronal excitability in a cell-specific manner.
The fusiform face area (FFA) is a well-studied human brain region that shows strong activation for faces. In functional MRI studies, FFA is often assumed to be a homogeneous collection of voxels with similar visual tuning. To test this assumption, we used natural movies and a quantitative voxelwise modeling and decoding framework to estimate category tuning profiles for individual voxels within FFA. We find that the responses in most FFA voxels are strongly enhanced by faces, as reported in previous studies. However, we also find that responses of individual voxels are selectively enhanced or suppressed by a wide variety of other categories and that these broader tuning profiles differ across FFA voxels. Cluster analysis of category tuning profiles across voxels reveals three spatially segregated functional subdomains within FFA. These subdomains differ primarily in their responses for nonface categories, such as animals, vehicles, and communication verbs. Furthermore, this segregation does not depend on the statistical threshold used to define FFA from responses to functional localizers. These results suggest that voxels within FFA represent more diverse information about object and action categories than generally assumed.
While hearing in noise is a complex task, even in high levels of noise humans demonstrate remarkable hearing ability. Binaural hearing, which involves the integration and analysis of incoming sounds from both ears, is an important mechanism that promotes hearing in complex listening environments. Analyzing inter-ear differences helps differentiate between sound sources--a key mechanism that facilitates hearing in noise. Even when both ears receive the same input, known as diotic hearing, speech intelligibility in noise is improved. Although musicians have better speech-in-noise perception compared with non-musicians, we do not know to what extent binaural processing contributes to this advantage. Musicians often demonstrate enhanced neural responses to sound, however, which may undergird their speech-in-noise perceptual enhancements. Here, we recorded auditory brainstem responses in young adult musicians and non-musicians to a speech stimulus for which there was no musician advantage when presented monaurally. When presented diotically, musicians demonstrated faster neural timing and greater intertrial response consistency relative to non-musicians. Furthermore, musicians' enhancements to the diotically presented stimulus correlated with speech-in-noise perception. These data provide evidence for musical training's impact on biological processes and suggest binaural processing as a possible contributor to more proficient hearing in noise.
Neuronal selectivity results from both excitatory and suppressive inputs to a given neuron. Suppressive influences can often significantly modulate neuronal responses and impart novel selectivity in the context of behaviorally relevant stimuli. In this work, we use a naturalistic optic flow stimulus to explore the responses of neurons in the middle temporal area (MT) of the alert macaque monkey; these responses are interpreted using a hierarchical model that incorporates relevant nonlinear properties of upstream processing in the primary visual cortex (V1). In this stimulus context, MT neuron responses can be predicted from distinct excitatory and suppressive components. Excitation is spatially localized and matches the measured preferred direction of each neuron. Suppression is typically composed of two distinct components: (1) a directionally untuned component, which appears to play the role of surround suppression and normalization; and (2) a direction-selective component, with comparable tuning width as excitation and a distinct spatial footprint that is usually partially overlapping with excitation. The direction preference of this direction-tuned suppression varies widely across MT neurons: approximately one-third have overlapping suppression in the opposite direction as excitation, and many other neurons have suppression with similar direction preferences to excitation. There is also a population of MT neurons with orthogonally oriented suppression. We demonstrate that direction-selective suppression can impart selectivity of MT neurons to more complex velocity fields and that it can be used for improved estimation of the three-dimensional velocity of moving objects. Thus, considering MT neurons in a complex stimulus context reveals a diverse set of computations likely relevant for visual processing in natural visual contexts.
There are two dominant models for the functional organization of brain regions underlying object recognition. One model postulates category-specific modules while the other proposes a distributed representation of objects with generic visual features. Functional imaging techniques relying on metabolic signals, such as fMRI and optical intrinsic signal imaging (OISI), have been used to support both models, but due to the indirect nature of the measurements in these techniques, the existing data for one model cannot be used to support the other model. Here, we used large-scale multielectrode recordings over a large surface of anterior inferior temporal (IT) cortex, and densely mapped stimulus-evoked neuronal responses. We found that IT cortex is subdivided into distinct domains characterized by similar patterns of responses to the objects in our stimulus set. Each domain spanned several millimeters on the cortex. Some of these domains represented faces (&quot;face&quot; domains) or monkey bodies (&quot;monkey-body&quot; domains). We also identified domains with low responsiveness to faces (&quot;anti-face&quot; domains). Meanwhile, the recording sites within domains that displayed category selectivity showed heterogeneous tuning profiles to different exemplars within each category. This local heterogeneity was consistent with the stimulus-evoked feature columns revealed by OISI. Taken together, our study revealed that regions with common functional properties (domains) consist of a finer functional structure (columns) in anterior IT cortex. The &quot;domains&quot; and previously proposed &quot;patches&quot; are rather like &quot;mosaics&quot; where a whole mosaic is characterized by overall similarity in stimulus responses and pieces of the mosaic correspond to feature columns.
Hypothalamospinal control of spinal pain processing by oxytocin (OT) has received a lot of attention in recent years because of its potency to reduce pain symptoms in inflammatory and neuropathic conditions. However, cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying OT spinal antinociception are still poorly understood. In this study, we used biochemical, electrophysiological, and behavioral approaches to demonstrate that OT levels are elevated in the spinal cord of rats exhibiting pain symptoms, 24 h after the induction of inflammation with an intraplantar injection of -carrageenan. Using a selective OT receptor antagonist, we demonstrate that this elevated OT content is responsible for a tonic analgesia exerted on both mechanical and thermal modalities. This phenomenon appeared to be mediated by an OT receptor-mediated stimulation of neurosteroidogenesis, which leads to an increase in GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition in lamina II spinal cord neurons. We also provide evidence that this novel mechanism of OT-mediated spinal antinociception may be controlled by extracellular signal-related protein kinases, ERK1/2, after OT receptor activation. The oxytocinergic inhibitory control of spinal pain processing is emerging as an interesting target for future therapies since it recruits several molecular mechanisms, which are likely to exert a long-lasting analgesia through nongenomic and possibly genomic effects.
Humans can voluntarily attend to a variety of visual attributes to serve behavioral goals. Voluntary attention is believed to be controlled by a network of dorsal frontoparietal areas. However, it is unknown how neural signals representing behavioral relevance (attentional priority) for different attributes are organized in this network. Computational studies have suggested that a hierarchical organization reflecting the similarity structure of the task demands provides an efficient and flexible neural representation. Here we examined the structure of attentional priority using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Participants were cued to attend to location, color, or motion direction within the same stimulus. We found a hierarchical structure emerging in frontoparietal areas, such that multivoxel patterns for attending to spatial locations were most distinct from those for attending to features, and the latter were further clustered into different dimensions (color vs motion). These results provide novel evidence for the organization of the attentional control signals at the level of distributed neural activity. The hierarchical organization provides a computationally efficient scheme to support flexible top-down control.
Voltage-gated potassium channel Kv10.2 (KCNH5) is expressed in the nervous system, but its functions and involvement in human disease are poorly understood. We studied a human Kv10.2 channel mutation (R327H) recently identified in a child with epileptic encephalopathy and autistic features. Using multistate structural modeling, we demonstrate that the Arg327 residue in the S4 helix of voltage-sensing domain has strong ionic interactions with negatively charged residues within the S1-S3 helices in the resting (closed) and early-activation state but not in the late-activation and fully-activated (open) state. The R327H mutation weakens ionic interactions between residue 327 and these negatively charged residues, thus favoring channel opening. Voltage-clamp analysis showed a strong hyperpolarizing (70 mV) shift of voltage dependence of activation and an acceleration of activation. Our results demonstrate the critical role of the Arg327 residue in stabilizing the channel closed state and explicate for the first time the structural and functional change of a Kv10.2 channel mutation associated with neurological disease.
In Drosophila, short-term (STH) and long-term habituation (LTH) of olfactory avoidance behavior are believed to arise from the selective potentiation of GABAergic synapses between multiglomerular local circuit interneurons (LNs) and projection neurons in the antennal lobe. However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we show that synapsin (syn) function is necessary for STH and that syn(97)-null mutant defects in STH can be rescued by syn(+) cDNA expression solely in the LN1 subset of GABAergic local interneurons. As synapsin is a synaptic vesicle-clustering phosphoprotein, these observations identify a presynaptic mechanism for STH as well as the inhibitory interneurons in which this mechanism is deployed. Serine residues 6 and/or 533, potential kinase target sites of synapsin, are necessary for synapsin function suggesting that synapsin phosphorylation is essential for STH. Consistently, biochemical analyses using a phospho-synapsin-specific antiserum show that synapsin is a target of Ca(2+) calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) phosphorylation in vivo. Additional behavioral and genetic observations demonstrate that CaMKII function is necessary in LNs for STH. Together, these data support a model in which CaMKII-mediated synapsin phosphorylation in LNs induces synaptic vesicle mobilization and thereby presynaptic facilitation of GABA release that underlies olfactory STH. Finally, the striking observation that LTH occurs normally in syn(97) mutants indicates that signaling pathways for STH and LTH diverge upstream of synapsin function in GABAergic interneurons.
Motor neuron activity is transformed into muscle movement through a cascade of complex molecular and biomechanical events. This nonlinear mapping of neural inputs to motor behaviors is called the neuromuscular transform (NMT). We examined the NMT in the cardiac system of the lobster Homarus americanus by stimulating a cardiac motor nerve with rhythmic bursts of action potentials and measuring muscle movements in response to different stimulation patterns. The NMT was similar across preparations, which suggested that it could be used to predict muscle movement from spontaneous neural activity in the intact heart. We assessed this possibility across semi-intact heart preparations in two separate analyses. First, we performed a linear regression analysis across 122 preparations in physiological saline to predict muscle movements from neural activity. Under these conditions, the NMT was predictive of contraction duty cycle but was unable to predict contraction amplitude, likely as a result of uncontrolled interanimal variability. Second, we assessed the ability of the NMT to predict changes in motor output induced by the neuropeptide C-type allatostatin. Wiwatpanit et al. (2012) showed that bath application of C-type allatostatin produced either increases or decreases in the amplitude of the lobster heart contractions. We show that an important component of these preparation-dependent effects can arise from quantifiable differences in the basal state of each preparation and the nonlinear form of the NMT. These results illustrate how properly characterizing the relationships between neural activity and measurable physiological outputs can provide insight into seemingly idiosyncratic effects of neuromodulators across individuals.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), soluble amyloid- oligomers (AOs) trigger neurotoxic signaling, at least partially, via the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)). However, it is unknown whether other ligands of PrP(C) can regulate this potentially toxic interaction. Stress-inducible phosphoprotein 1 (STI1), an Hsp90 cochaperone secreted by astrocytes, binds to PrP(C) in the vicinity of the AO binding site to protect neurons against toxic stimuli. Here, we investigated a potential role of STI1 in AO toxicity. We confirmed the specific binding of AOs and STI1 to the PrP and showed that STI1 efficiently inhibited AO binding to PrP in vitro (IC50 of 70 nm) and also decreased AO binding to cultured mouse primary hippocampal neurons. Treatment with STI1 prevented AO-induced synaptic loss and neuronal death in mouse cultured neurons and long-term potentiation inhibition in mouse hippocampal slices. Interestingly, STI1-haploinsufficient neurons were more sensitive to AO-induced cell death and could be rescued by treatment with recombinant STI1. Noteworthy, both AO binding to PrP(C) and PrP(C)-dependent AO toxicity were inhibited by TPR2A, the PrP(C)-interacting domain of STI1. Additionally, PrP(C)-STI1 engagement activated 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, which participated in neuroprotection against AO-induced toxicity. We found an age-dependent upregulation of cortical STI1 in the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model of AD and in the brains of AD-affected individuals, suggesting a compensatory response. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized role of the PrP(C) ligand STI1 in protecting neurons in AD and suggest a novel pathway that may help to offset AO-induced toxicity.
Cognitive symptoms, complex movement deficits, and increased propensity for falls are interrelated and levodopa-unresponsive symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We developed a test system for the assessment of fall propensity in rats and tested the hypothesis that interactions between loss of cortical cholinergic and striatal dopaminergic afferents increase fall propensity. Rats were trained to traverse stationary and rotating rods, placed horizontally or at inclines, and while exposed to distractors. Rats also performed an operant Sustained Attention Task (SAT). Partial cortical cholinergic and/or caudate dopaminergic deafferentation were produced by bilateral infusions of 192 IgG-saporin (SAP) into the basal forebrain and/or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the caudate nucleus, respectively, modeling the lesions seen in early PD. Rats with dual cholinergic-dopaminergic lesions (DL) fell more frequently than SAP or 6-OHDA rats. Falls in DL rats were associated with incomplete rebalancing after slips and low traversal speed. Ladder rung walking and pasta handling performance did not indicate sensorimotor deficits. SAT performance was impaired in DL and SAP rats; however, SAT performance and falls were correlated only in DL rats. Furthermore, in DL rats, but not in rats with only dopaminergic lesions, the placement and size of dopaminergic lesion correlated significantly with fall rates. The results support the hypothesis that after dual cholinergic-dopaminergic lesions, attentional resources can no longer be recruited to compensate for diminished striatal control of complex movement, thereby &quot;unmasking&quot; impaired striatal control of complex movements and yielding falls.
Mutations in the FOXP2 gene cause speech and language impairments, accompanied by structural and functional abnormalities in brain regions underlying speech-related sensory-motor processing, including the striatum and cerebellum. The sequence and expression patterns of FOXP2 are highly conserved among higher vertebrates. In the zebra finch brain, FoxP2 is expressed in Area X, a striatal nucleus required for vocal learning, and reduced FoxP2 expression impairs dendritic development and vocal learning. The FoxP2 gene encodes a transcription factor that controls the expression of many downstream genes. However, how FOXP2 gene expression is regulated is not clearly understood. miRNAs regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally by targeting the 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of mRNAs, leading to translational suppression or mRNA degradation. In this study, we identified miR-9 and miR-140-5p as potential regulators of the FoxP2 gene. We show that both miR-9 and miR-140-5p target specific sequences in the FoxP2 3'-UTR and downregulate FoxP2 protein and mRNA expression in vitro. We also show that the expression of miR-9 and miR-140-5p in Area X of the zebra finch brain is regulated during song development in juvenile zebra finches. We further show that in adult zebra finches the expression of miR-9 and miR-140-5p in Area X is regulated as a function of the social context of song behavior in males singing undirected songs. Our findings reveal a post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates FoxP2 expression and suggest that social vocal behavior can influence the basal ganglia circuit controlling vocal learning via a miRNA-FoxP2 gene regulatory network.
Homeostatic responses critically adjust synaptic strengths to maintain stability in neuronal networks. Compensatory adaptations to prolonged excitation include induction of Polo-like kinases (Plks) and degradation of spine-associated Rap GTPase-activating protein (SPAR) to reduce synaptic excitation, but mechanisms that limit overshooting and allow refinement of homeostatic adjustments remain poorly understood. We report that Plks produce canonical pathway-mediated activation of the nuclear factor B (NF-B) transcription factor in a process that requires the kinase activity of Plks. Chronic elevated activity, which induces Plk expression, also produces Plk-dependent activation of NF-B. Deficiency of NF-B, in the context of exogenous Plk2 expression or chronic elevated neuronal excitation, produces exaggerated homeostatic reductions in the size and density of dendritic spines, synaptic AMPA glutamate receptor levels, and excitatory synaptic currents. During the homeostatic response to chronic elevated activity, NF-B activation by Plks subsequently opposes Plk-mediated SPAR degradation by transcriptionally upregulating SPAR in mouse hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo. Exogenous SPAR expression can rescue the overshooting of homeostatic reductions at excitatory synapses in NF-B-deficient neurons responding to elevated activity. Our data establish an integral feedback loop involving NF-B, Plks, and SPAR that regulates the end point of homeostatic synaptic adaptation to elevated activity and are the first to implicate a transcription factor in the regulation of homeostatic synaptic responses.
Many decisions involve integration of evidence conferred by discrete cues over time. However, the neural mechanism of this integration is poorly understood. Several decision-making models suggest that integration of evidence is implemented by a dynamic system whose state evolves toward a stable point representing the decision outcome. The internal dynamics of such point attractor models render them sensitive to the temporal gaps between cues because their internal forces push the state forward once it is dislodged from the initial stable point. We asked whether human subjects are as sensitive to such temporal gaps. Subjects reported the net direction of stochastic random dot motion, which was presented in one or two brief observation windows (pulses). Pulse strength and interpulse interval varied randomly from trial to trial. We found that subjects' performance was largely invariant to the interpulse intervals up to at least 1 s. The findings question the implementation of the integration process via mechanisms that rely on autonomous changes of network state. The mechanism should be capable of freezing the state of the network at a variety of firing rate levels during temporal gaps between the cues, compatible with a line of stable attractor states.
Dendritic spines are actin-rich compartments that protrude from the microtubule-rich dendritic shafts of principal neurons. Spines contain receptors and postsynaptic machinery for receiving the majority of glutamatergic inputs. Recent studies have shown that microtubules polymerize from dendritic shafts into spines and that signaling through synaptic NMDA receptors regulates this process. However, the mechanisms regulating microtubule dynamics in dendrites and spines remain unclear. Here we show that in hippocampal neurons from male and female mice, the majority of microtubules enter spines from highly localized sites at the base of spines. These entries occur in response to synapse-specific calcium transients that promote microtubule entry into active spines. We further document that spine calcium transients promote local actin polymerization, and that F-actin is both necessary and sufficient for microtubule entry. Finally, we show that drebrin, a protein known to mediate interactions between F-actin and microtubules, acts as a positive regulator of microtubule entry into spines. Together these results establish for the first time the essential mechanisms regulating microtubule entry into spines and contribute importantly to our understanding of the role of microtubules in synaptic function and plasticity.
Synaptotagmin-1 and -7 constitute the main calcium sensors mediating SNARE-dependent exocytosis in mouse chromaffin cells, but the role of a closely related calcium-binding protein, Doc2b, remains enigmatic. We investigated its role in chromaffin cells using Doc2b knock-out mice and high temporal resolution measurements of exocytosis. We found that the calcium dependence of vesicle priming and release triggering remained unchanged, ruling out an obligatory role for Doc2b in those processes. However, in the absence of Doc2b, release was shifted from the readily releasable pool to the subsequent sustained component. Conversely, upon overexpression of Doc2b, the sustained component was largely inhibited whereas the readily releasable pool was augmented. Electron microscopy revealed an increase in the total number of vesicles upon Doc2b overexpression, ruling out vesicle depletion as the cause for the reduced sustained component. Further experiments showed that, in the absence of Doc2b, the refilling of the readily releasable vesicle pools is faster, but incomplete. Faster refilling leads to an increase in the sustained component as newly primed vesicles fuse while the [Ca(2+)]i following stimulation is still high. We conclude that Doc2b acts to inhibit vesicle priming during prolonged calcium elevations, thus protecting unprimed vesicles from fusing prematurely, and redirecting them to refill the readily releasable pool after relaxation of the calcium signal. In sum, Doc2b favors fast, synchronized release, and limits out-of-phase secretion.
Using multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA), we studied how distributed visual representations in human occipitotemporal cortex are modulated by attention and link their modulation to concurrent activity in frontal and parietal cortex. We detected similar occipitotemporal patterns during a simple visuoperceptual task and an attention-to-working-memory task in which one or two stimuli were cued before being presented among other pictures. Pattern strength varied from highest to lowest when the stimulus was the exclusive focus of attention, a conjoint focus, and when it was potentially distracting. Although qualitatively similar effects were seen inside regions relatively specialized for the stimulus category and outside, the former were quantitatively stronger. By regressing occipitotemporal pattern strength against activity elsewhere in the brain, we identified frontal and parietal areas exerting top-down control over, or reading information out from, distributed patterns in occipitotemporal cortex. Their interactions with patterns inside regions relatively specialized for that stimulus category were higher than those with patterns outside those regions and varied in strength as a function of the attentional condition. One area, the frontal operculum, was distinguished by selectively interacting with occipitotemporal patterns only when they were the focus of attention. There was no evidence that any frontal or parietal area actively inhibited occipitotemporal representations even when they should be ignored and were suppressed. Using MVPA to decode information within these frontal and parietal areas showed that they contained information about attentional context and/or readout information from occipitotemporal cortex to guide behavior but that frontal regions lacked information about category identity.
The 2-1 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels is upregulated after sensory nerve injury and is also the therapeutic target of gabapentinoid drugs. It is therefore likely to play a key role in the development of neuropathic pain. In this study, we have examined mice in which 2-1 gene expression is disrupted, to determine whether 2-1 is involved in various modalities of nociception, and for the development of behavioral hypersensitivity after partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). We find that naive 2-1(-/-) mice show a marked behavioral deficit in mechanical and cold sensitivity, but no change in thermal nociception threshold. The lower mechanical sensitivity is mirrored by a reduced in vivo electrophysiological response of dorsal horn wide dynamic range neurons. The CaV2.2 level is reduced in brain and spinal cord synaptosomes from 2-1(-/-) mice, and 2-1(-/-) DRG neurons exhibit lower calcium channel current density. Furthermore, a significantly smaller number of DRG neurons respond to the TRPM8 agonist menthol. After PSNL, 2-1(-/-) mice show delayed mechanical hypersensitivity, which only develops at 11 d after surgery, whereas in wild-type littermates it is maximal at the earliest time point measured (3 d). There is no compensatory upregulation of 2-2 or 2-3 after PSNL in 2-1(-/-) mice, and other transcripts, including neuropeptide Y and activating transcription factor-3, are upregulated normally. Furthermore, the ability of pregabalin to alleviate mechanical hypersensitivity is lost in PSNL 2-1(-/-) mice. Thus, 2-1 is essential for rapid development of mechanical hypersensitivity in a nerve injury model of neuropathic pain.
Generalization represents the ability to transfer what has been learned in one context to another context beyond limited experience. Because acquired motor representations often have to be reinstated in a different or novel environment, generalization is a crucial part of visuomotor learning. In daily life, training for new motor skills often occurs in a complex environment, in which dividing attentional resources for multiple stimuli is required. However, it is unknown how dividing attention during learning affects the generalization of visuomotor learning. We examined how divided attention during training modulates the generalization of visuomotor rotational adaptation. Participants were trained to adapt to one direction with or without dividing attention to a simultaneously presented visual detection task. Then, they had to generalize rotational adaptation to other untrained directions. We show that visuomotor training with divided attention multiplicatively reduces the gain and sharpens the tuning of the generalization function. We suggest that limiting attention narrowly restricts an internal model, reducing the range and magnitude of transfer. This result suggests that attention modulates a selective subpopulation of neurons in motor areas, those with directional tuning values in or near the training direction.
Lesion and inactivation studies indicate that the central amygdala (CeA) participates in the expression of cued and contextual fear, whereas the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is only involved in the latter. The basis for this functional dissociation is unclear because CeA and BNST form similar connections with the amygdala and brainstem fear effectors. To address this question, we recorded neurons in the anterolateral (AL) and anteromedial (AM) regions of BNST in rats subjected to auditory fear conditioning. During habituation, few neurons were responsive to the conditioned stimulus (CS). After fear conditioning, 20% of BNST-AL neurons developed inhibitory responses to the CS. In BNST-AM, 26% of neurons developed positive CS responses. The behavior of BNST-AM and -AL neurons during contextual fear paralleled their CS responsiveness: More BNST-AM neurons fired at higher rates during contextual freezing than movement, whereas the opposite was seen in BNST-AL cells. These findings point to regional differences in the activity of BNST-AL and -AM in relation to learned fear, raising the possibility that they exert opposite influences on fear output networks. However, given the similar behavior of BNST-AM and -AL neurons in relation to cued and contextual fear, it remains unclear why lesion and inactivation of BNST differentially affect these two types of fear. Either neurons in a different BNST sector, not explored here, show a different activity profile in relation to the two forms of fear or inactivation/lesion studies inadvertently affected a structure adjacent to BNST, which is involved in contextual fear.

An enduring and richly elaborated dichotomy in cognitive neuroscience is that of reflective versus reflexive decision making and choice. Other literatures refer to the two ends of what is likely to be a spectrum with terms such as goal-directed versus habitual, model-based versus model-free or prospective versus retrospective. One of the most rigorous traditions of experimental work in the field started with studies in rodents and graduated via human versions and enrichments of those experiments to a current state in which new paradigms are probing and challenging the very heart of the distinction. We review four generations of work in this tradition and provide pointers to the forefront of the field's fifth generation.
The Hodgkin-Huxley formulation, at its 60th anniversary, remains a bastion of neuroscience. Sodium channels Nav1.1-Nav1.3 and Nav1.6-Nav1.9 support electrogenesis in neurons and are often considered &quot;neuronal,&quot; whereas Nav1.4 and Nav1.5 drive electrogenesis in skeletal and cardiac muscle. These channels are, however, expressed in cell types that are not considered electrically excitable. Here, we discuss sodium channel expression in diverse nonexcitable cell types, including astrocytes, NG2 cells, microglia, macrophages, and cancer cells, and review evidence of noncanonical roles, including regulation of effector functions such as phagocytosis, motility, Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity, and metastatic activity. Armed with powerful techniques for monitoring channel activity and for real-time assessment of [Na(+)]i and [Ca(2+)]i, neuroscientists are poised to expand the understanding of noncanonical roles of sodium channels in healthy and diseased tissues.
The Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative has focused scientific attention on the necessary tools to understand the human brain and mind. Here, we outline our collective vision for what we can achieve within a decade with properly targeted efforts and discuss likely technological deliverables and neuroscience progress.
Hippocampal neurons &quot;replay&quot; activity related to previous events during rest. In this issue of Neuron, Suh et al. (2013) show that this physiological correlate of learning is impaired in mice lacking calcineurin, establishing a link between synaptic anomalies and cognitive deficits observed in this schizophrenia model.
Immunotherapies targeting tau in mouse models of human tauopathies could have disease-modifying effects. In this issue of Neuron, Yanamandra et al. (2013) use tau antibodies, which effectively block tau seeding in culture, to attenuate tauopathy and improve cognition in mutant tau mouse models.
High-throughput operant conditioning systems for rodents provide efficient training on sophisticated behavioral tasks. Combining these systems with technologies for cellular resolution functional imaging would provide a powerful approach to study neural dynamics during behavior. Here we describe an integrated two-photon microscope and behavioral apparatus that allows cellular resolution functional imaging of cortical regions during epochs of voluntary head restraint. Rats were trained to initiate periods of restraint up to 8 s in duration, which provided the mechanical stability necessary for in vivo imaging while allowing free movement between behavioral trials. A mechanical registration system repositioned the head to within a few microns, allowing the same neuronal populations to be imaged on each trial. In proof-of-principle experiments, calcium-dependent fluorescence transients were recorded from GCaMP-labeled cortical neurons. In contrast to previous methods for head restraint, this system can be incorporated into high-throughput operant conditioning systems.
The meaningful consideration of cultural practices, values and beliefs is a necessary component in the effective translation of advancements in neuroscience to clinical practice and public discourse. Society's immense investment in biomedical science and technology, in conjunction with an increasingly diverse socio-cultural landscape, necessitates the study of how potential discoveries in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease are perceived and utilized across cultures. Building on the work of neuroscientists, ethicists and philosophers, we argue that the growing field of neuroethics provides a pragmatic and constructive pathway to guide advancements in neuroscience in a manner that is culturally nuanced and relevant. Here we review a case study of one issue in culturally oriented neuroscience research where it is evident that traditional research ethics must be broadened and the values and needs of diverse populations considered for meaningful and relevant research practices. A global approach to neuroethics has the potential to furnish critical engagement with cultural considerations of advancements in neuroscience.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Granulicella mallensis MP5ACTX8(T) is a novel species of the genus Granulicella in subdivision 1of Acidobacteria. G. mallensis is of ecological interest being a member of the dominant soil bacterial community active at low temperatures and nutrient limiting conditions in Arctic alpine tundra. G. mallensis is a cold-adapted acidophile and a versatile heterotroph that hydrolyzes a suite of sugars and complex polysaccharides. Genome analysis revealed metabolic versatility with genes involved in metabolism and transport of carbohydrates. These include gene modules encoding the carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) family involved in breakdown, utilization and biosynthesis of diverse structural and storage polysaccharides including plant based carbon polymers. The genome of Granulicella mallensis MP5ACTX8(T) consists of a single replicon of 6,237,577 base pairs (bp) with 4,907 protein-coding genes and 53 RNA genes.

Activation of autophagy in skeletal muscle has been reported in response to endurance exercise and food deprivation independently. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether autophagy was more activated when both stimuli were combined, namely when endurance exercise was performed in a fasted rather than a fed state. Mice performed a low-intensity running exercise (10 m/min for 90min) in both dietary states after which the gastrocnemius muscles were removed. LC3b-II, a marker of autophagosome presence, increased in both conditions, but the increase was higher in the fasted state. Other protein markers of autophagy, like Gabarapl1-II and Atg12 conjugated form as well as mRNA of Lc3b, Gabarapl1, and p62/Sqstm1 were increased only when exercise was performed in a fasted state. The larger activation of autophagy by exercise in a fasted state was associated with a larger decrease in plasma insulin and phosphorylation of Akt(Ser473), Akt(Thr308), FoxO3a(Thr32), and ULK1(Ser757). AMPK(Thr172), ULK1(Ser317), and ULK1(Ser555) remained unchanged in both conditions, whereas p38(Thr180/Tyr182) increased during exercise to a similar extent in the fasted and fed conditions. The marker of mitochondrial fission DRP1(Ser616) was increased by exercise independently of the nutritional status. Changes in mitophagy markers BNIP3 and Parkin suggest that mitophagy was increased during exercise in the fasted state. In conclusion, our results highlight a major implication of the insulin-Akt-mTOR pathway and its downstream targets FoxO3a and ULK1 in the larger activation of autophagy observed when exercise is performed in a fasted state compared with a fed state.
Previously, we investigated the role of neuropeptide Y and leptin-sensitive networks in the mediobasal hypothalamus in sleep and feeding and found profound homeostatic and circadian deficits with an intact suprachiasmatic nucleus. We propose that the arcuate nuclei (Arc) are required for the integration of homeostatic circadian systems, including temperature and activity. We tested this hypothesis using saporin toxin conjugated to leptin (Lep-SAP) injected into Arc in rats. Lep-SAP rats became obese and hyperphagic and progressed through a dynamic phase to a static phase of growth. Circadian rhythms were examined over 49 days during the static phase. Rats were maintained on a 12:12-h light-dark (LD) schedule for 13 days and, thereafter, maintained in continuous dark (DD). After the first 13 days of DD, food was restricted to 4 h/day for 10 days. We found that the activity of Lep-SAP rats was arrhythmic in DD, but that food anticipatory activity was, nevertheless, entrainable to the restricted feeding schedule, and the entrained rhythm persisted during the subsequent 3-day fast in DD. Thus, for activity, the circuitry for the light-entrainable oscillator, but not for the food-entrainable oscillator, was disabled by the Arc lesion. In contrast, temperature remained rhythmic in DD in the Lep-SAP rats and did not entrain to restricted feeding. We conclude that the leptin-sensitive network that includes the Arc is required for entrainment of activity by photic cues and entrainment of temperature by food, but is not required for entrainment of activity by food or temperature by photic cues.
The increasing use of C60 nanoparticles and the diversity of their applications in industry and medicine has led to their production in a large scale. C60 release into wastewaters and the possible accumulation in the environment has raised concerns about their ecotoxicological impact. In the present study, an aqueous suspension of C60 nanoparticles was prepared and its potential toxicity studied in laboratory, using a bacterium (Bacillus stearothermophilus) and an aquatic plant (Lemna gibba) as model systems. C60 nanoparticles inhibited the growth of L. gibba, in contrast to that of the bacterium. Consistently, the ultrastructure and respiratory activity of bacterial cells were not affected by C60, but the contents of chlorophylls a and b and chloroplast oxygen production decreased considerably in L. gibba. Altogether, our results suggest that C60 aqueous dispersions must be viewed as an environmental pollutant, potentially endangering the equilibrium of aquatic ecosystems.
The complexity of the brain, in which different neuronal cell types are interspersed and complexly interconnected, has posed a major obstacle in identifying pathophysiological mechanisms underlying prevalent neurological disorders. This is largely based in the inability of classical experimental approaches to target defined neural populations at sufficient temporal and spatial resolution. As a consequence, effective clinical therapies for prevalent neurological disorders are largely lacking. Recently developed optogenetic probes are genetically expressed photosensitive ion channels and pumps that in principal overcome these limitations. Optogenetic probes allow millisecond resolution functional control over selected optogenetically transduced neuronal populations targeted based on promoter activity. This optical cell control scheme has already been applied to answer fundamental questions pertaining to neurological disorders by allowing researchers to experimentally intercept, or induce, pathophysiological neuronal signaling activity in a highly controlled manner. Offering high temporal resolution control over neural activity at high cellular specificity, optogenetic tools constitute a game changer in research aiming at understanding pathophysiological signaling mechanisms in neurological disorders and in developing therapeutic strategies to correct these. In this regard, recent experimental work has provided new insights in underlying mechanisms, as well as preliminary proof-of-principle for optogenetic therapies, of several neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease, epilepsy and progressive blindness. This review synthesizes experimental work where optogenetic tools have been applied to explore pathologic neural network activity in models of neurological disorders.
Recent breakthroughs in optogenetic technologies to alter neuronal firing and function with light, combined with cell type-specific transgenic animal lines, has led to important insights into the function of distinct neuronal cell subtypes and afferent connections in the heterogeneously complex striatum. A vital part of the basal ganglia, the striatum is heavily implicated in both motor control and motivation-based behavior; as well as in neurological disorders and psychiatric diseases including Parkinson's Disease, Huntington's Disease, drug addiction, depression, and schizophrenia. Researchers are able to manipulate firing and cell signaling with temporal precision using optogenetics in the two striatal medium spiny neuron (MSN) subpopulations, the striatal interneurons, and striatal afferents. These studies confirmed the classical hypothesis of movement control and reward seeking behavior through direct versus indirect pathway MSNs; illuminated a selective role for TANs in cocaine reward; dissected the roles of glutamatergic and dopaminergic inputs to striatum in reward; and highlighted a role for striatal signaling molecules including an adrenergic G-protein coupled receptor in reward and the rho-GTPase Rac1 in cocaine reward and cocaine induced structural plasticity. This review focuses on how the evolving optogenetic toolbox provides insight into the distinct behavioral roles of striatal cell subpopulations and striatal afferents, which has clinically relevant implications into neurological disorders and psychiatric disease.
Here we review the rapidly growing toolbox of transgenic mice and rats that exhibit functional expression of engineered opsins for neuronal activation and silencing with light. Collectively, these transgenic animals are enabling neuroscientists to access and manipulate the many diverse cell types in the mammalian nervous system in order to probe synaptic and circuitry connectivity, function, and dysfunction. The availability of transgenic lines affords important advantages such as stable and heritable transgene expression patterns across experimental cohorts. As such, the use of transgenic lines precludes the need for other costly and labor-intensive procedures to achieve functional transgene expression in each individual experimental animal. This represents an important consideration when large cohorts of experimental animals are desirable as in many common behavioral assays. We describe the diverse strategies that have been implemented for developing transgenic mouse and rat lines and highlight recent advances that have led to dramatic improvements in achieving functional transgene expression of engineered opsins. Furthermore, we discuss considerations and caveats associated with implementing recently developed transgenic lines for optogenetics-based experimentation. Lastly, we propose strategies that can be implemented to develop and refine the next generation of genetically modified animals for behaviorally-focused optogenetics-based applications.
Dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) degenerate in Parkinson's disease. These neurons robustly express several nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes. Smoking appears to be neuroprotective for Parkinson's disease but the mechanism is unknown. To determine whether chronic nicotine-induced changes in gene expression contribute to the neuroprotective effects of smoking, we develop methods to measure the effect of prolonged nicotine exposure on the SNc neuronal transcriptome in an unbiased manner. Twenty neurons were collected using laser-capture microscopy and transcriptional changes were assessed using RNA deep sequencing. These results are the first whole-transcriptome analyses of chronic nicotine treatment in SNc neurons. Overall, 129 genes were significantly regulated: 67 upregulated, 62 downregulated. Nicotine-induced relief of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been postulated as a potential mechanism for the neuroprotective effects of smoking. Chronic nicotine did not significantly affect the expression of ER stress-related genes, nor of dopamine-related or nAChR genes, but it did modulate expression of 129 genes that could be relevant to the neuroprotective effects of smoking, including genes involved in (1) the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, (2) cell cycle regulation, (3) chromatin modification, and (4) DNA binding and RNA regulation. We also report preliminary transcriptome data for single-cell dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons isolated from midbrain cultures. These novel techniques will facilitate advances in understanding the mechanisms taking place at the cellular level and may have applications elsewhere in the fields of neuroscience and molecular biology. The results give an emerging picture of the role of nicotine on the SNc and on dopaminergic neurons.
Attention is a central cognitive function that enables long-term engagement in a task and suppression of irrelevant information to obtain future goals. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the main link in integrating emotional and motivational state of an animal to regulate top-down attentional processes. Acetylcholine modulates PFC neuronal networks by activating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) to support attention. However, how neuronal activity changes in the PFC during attention and which nAChR subtypes mediate this is only rudimentarily understood, but progress is being made. Recently, exciting new insights were obtained in the dynamics of cholinergic signaling in the PFC and modes of acetylcholine transmission via nAChRs in the cortex. In addition, mechanisms are uncovered on how the PFC circuitry is regulated by nAChRs. Novel studies show that endogenous activation of nAChRs in the PFC plays a central role in controlling attention. Here, we review current insights into how different subtypes of nAChRs expressed by distinct types of neurons in the PFC circuitry shape attention. In addition we discuss the impact of nicotine on the cholinergic system and prefrontal cortical circuits. Low concentrations of nicotine, as experienced by smokers, interfere with cholinergic signaling. In the long-term exposure to nicotine during adolescence leads to maladaptive adaptations of the PFC circuitry, which ultimately leads to a decrement in attention performance, again emphasizing the importance of nAChRs in attention.
Chronic nicotine exposure gives rise to neural adaptations that change whole cell physiology and behaviour mainly by interacting with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). The major nicotine-induced neuroadaptation is the up-regulation of brain nAChRs by means of cell-delimited post-translational mechanisms. We review what is known of the processes regulating nAChR assembly, degradation and trafficking, and how nicotine-induced modulation of these processes leads to nAChR up-regulation and changes in downstream neuronal plasticity at molecular, cellular and circuit level.
The nicotinic receptor is a promising drug target currently being investigated for the treatment of cognitive symptoms in schizophrenia. A key step in this process is the development of noninvasive functional neuroimaging biomarkers that can be used to determine if nicotinic agents are eliciting their targeted biological effect, ideally through modulation of a fundamental aspect of neuronal function. To that end, neuroimaging researchers are beginning to understand how nicotinic modulation affects &quot;intrinsic&quot; brain networks to elicit potentially therapeutic effects. An intrinsic network is a functionally and (often) structurally connected network of brain areas whose activity reflects a fundamental neurobiological organizational principle of the brain. This review summarizes findings of the effects of nicotinic drugs on three topics related to intrinsic brain network activity: (1) the default mode network, a group of brain areas for which activity is maximal at rest and reduced during cognitive tasks, (2) the salience network, which integrates incoming sensory data with prior internal representations to guide future actions and change predictive values, and (3) multi-scale complex network dynamics, which describe these brain's ability to efficiency integrate information while preserving local functional specialization. These early findings can be used to inform future neuroimaging studies that examine the network effects of nicotinic agents.
This research update summarizes thirty years of studies on genetic influences on responses to the acute or chronic administration of nicotine. Early studies established that various inbred mice are differentially sensitive to the effects of the drug. Classical genetic analyses confirmed that nicotine effects on locomotion, body temperature and seizures are heritable. A significant inverse correlation between the locomotor and hypothermic effects and the density of nicotine binding sites suggested that differential expression 42-neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) mediated some of this genetic variability. Subsequent studies with 4 and 2 nAChR null (decreased sensitivity) and gain of function mutants (increased sensitivity) supports the role of the 42*nAChR subtype. However, null mutant mice still respond to nicotine, indicating that other nAChR subtypes also mediate these responses. Mice differing in initial sensitivity to nicotine also differ in tolerance development following chronic treatment: those mice that are initially more sensitive to nicotine develop tolerance at lower treatment doses than less sensitive mice, indicating that tolerance is an adaptive response to the effects of nicotine. In contrast, the sensitivity of mice to pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle response is correlated with the expression of 7-nAChR. While genetic variability in nAChR expression and function is an important factor contributing to differences in response to nicotine, the observations that altered activity of opioid, glutamate, and cannabinoid receptors among others also change nicotine sensitivity reinforces the proposal that the genetics of nicotine response is more complex than differences in nAChRs.




Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumor in children. Although aggressive surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy have improved outcomes, survivors suffer severe long-term side effects, and many patients still succumb to their disease. For patients whose tumors are driven by mutations in the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway, SHH antagonists offer some hope. However, many SHH-associated medulloblastomas do not respond to these drugs, and those that do may develop resistance. Therefore, more effective treatment strategies are needed for both SHH and non-SHH-associated medulloblastoma. One such strategy involves targeting the cells that are critical for maintaining tumor growth, known as tumor-propagating cells (TPC). We previously identified a population of TPCs in tumors from patched mutant mice, a model for SHH-dependent medulloblastoma. These cells express the surface antigen CD15/SSEA-1 and have elevated levels of genes associated with the G2-M phases of the cell cycle. Here, we show that CD15(+) cells progress more rapidly through the cell cycle than CD15(-) cells and contain an increased proportion of cells in G2-M, suggesting that they might be vulnerable to inhibitors of this phase. Indeed, exposure of tumor cells to inhibitors of Aurora kinase (Aurk) and Polo-like kinases (Plk), key regulators of G2-M, induces cell-cycle arrest, apoptosis, and enhanced sensitivity to conventional chemotherapy. Moreover, treatment of tumor-bearing mice with these agents significantly inhibits tumor progression. Importantly, cells from human patient-derived medulloblastoma xenografts are also sensitive to Aurk and Plk inhibitors. Our findings suggest that targeting G2-M regulators may represent a novel approach for treatment of human medulloblastoma.
Fatigue represents a common side effect of several drugs, however, the underlying mechanisms have not been well identified. A depression of the central nervous system (CNS) and/or changes in peripheral processes have been associated with the development of fatigue. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), generally decreasing CNS excitability, are used in the treatment of seizures as well as other neurological and psychiatric diseases. Fatigue is certainly a common AEDs' side effect, although a high degree of variability exists depending on both patients' characteristics and the drug used. Here, we delineate the pathophysiological central and peripheral mechanisms by which AEDs may cause fatigue also reviewing the available clinical data in order to assess a possible AEDs rank and highlight each AEDs related risk. It appears that drugs acting on the GABAergic system have the highest incidence (with tiagabine exception) of fatigue followed by Gabapentin and Levetiracetam whereas drugs mainly inhibiting sodium channels (Carbamazepine, Eslicarbazepine, Lamotrigine, Phenytoin and Valproate) have the lowest. However, the dose used, AEDs related side effects and patients' characteristics might influence the degree of fatigue observed.
Dysfunctions in the interplay among multiple neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the wide range of behavioral, emotional and cognitive symptoms displayed by major psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depression. The complex clinical presentation of these pathologies often needs the use of multiple pharmacological treatments, in particular (1) when monotherapy provides insufficient improvement of the core symptoms; (2) when there are concurrent additional symptoms requiring more than one class of medication and (3) in order to improve tolerability, by using two compounds below their individual dose thresholds to limit side effects. To date, the choice of drug combinations is based on empirical paradigm guided by clinical response. Nonetheless, several preclinical studies have demonstrated that drugs commonly used to treat psychiatric disorders may impact common intracellular target molecules (e.g. Akt/GSK-3 pathway, MAP kinases pathway, postsynaptic density proteins). These findings support the hypothesis that convergence at crucial steps of transductional pathways could be responsible for synergistic effects obtained in clinical practice by the co-administration of those apparently heterogeneous pharmacological compounds. Here we review the most recent evidence on the molecular crossroads in antipsychotic combined therapies with antidepressants, mood stabilizers, and benzodiazepines, as well as with antipsychotics. We first discuss clinical clues and efficacy of such combinations. Then we focus on the pharmacodynamics and on the intracellular pathways underpinning the synergistic, or concurrent, effects of each therapeutic add-on strategy, as well as we also critically appraise how pharmacological research may provide new insights on the putative molecular mechanisms underlying major psychiatric disorders.
The second messenger cyclic AMP (cAMP) operates in discrete subcellular regions within which proteins that synthesize, break down or respond to the second messenger are precisely organized. A burgeoning knowledge of compartmentalized cAMP signaling is revealing how the local control of signaling enzyme activity impacts upon disease. The aim of this Cell Science at a Glance article and the accompanying poster is to highlight how misregulation of local cyclic AMP signaling can have pathophysiological consequences. We first introduce the core molecular machinery for cAMP signaling, which includes the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and then consider the role of A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) in coordinating different cAMP-responsive proteins. The latter sections illustrate the emerging role of local cAMP signaling in four disease areas: cataracts, cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
Vagotomy, a severing of the peripheral axons of the vagus nerve, has been extensively utilized to determine the role of vagal afferents in viscerosensory signaling. Vagotomy is also an unavoidable component of some bariatric surgeries. Although it is known that peripheral axons of the vagus nerve degenerate and then regenerate to a limited extent following vagotomy, very little is known about the response of central vagal afferents in the dorsal vagal complex to this type of damage. We tested the hypothesis that vagotomy results in the transient withdrawal of central vagal afferent terminals from their primary central target, the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Sprague-Dawley rats underwent bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy and were sacrificed 10, 30, or 60 days later. Plastic changes in vagal afferent fibers and synapses were investigated at the morphological and functional levels by using a combination of an anterograde tracer, synapse-specific markers, and patch-clamp electrophysiology in horizontal brain sections. Morphological data revealed that numbers of vagal afferent fibers and synapses in the NTS were significantly reduced 10 days following vagotomy and were restored to control levels by 30 days and 60 days, respectively. Electrophysiology revealed transient decreases in spontaneous glutamate release, glutamate release probability, and the number of primary afferent inputs. Our results demonstrate that subdiaphragmatic vagotomy triggers transient withdrawal and remodeling of central vagal afferent terminals in the NTS. The observed vagotomy-induced plasticity within this key feeding center of the brain may be partially responsible for the response of bariatric patients following gastric bypass surgery.
Horizontal head rotation evokes significant responses from trochlear motoneurons of turtle that suggests they have a functional role in abduction of the eyes like that in frontal-eyed mammals. The finding is unexpected given that the turtle is generally considered lateral-eyed and assumed to have eye movements instead like that of lateral-eyed mammals, in which innervation of the superior oblique muscle by the trochlear nerve (nIV) produces intorsion, elevation, and adduction (not abduction). Using an isolated turtle head preparation with the brain removed, glass suction electrodes were used to stimulate nIV with trains of current pulses. Eyes were monitored via an infrared camera with the head placed in a gimble to quantify eye rotations and their directions. Stimulations of nIV evoked intorsion, elevation, and abduction. Dissection of the superior oblique muscle identified lines of action and a location of insertion on the eye, which supported kinematics evoked by nIV stimulation. Eye positions in alert behaving turtles with their head extended were compared with that when their heads were retracted in the carapace. When the head was retracted, there was a reduction in interpupillary distance and an increase in binocular overlap. Occlusion of peripheral fields by the carapace forces the turtle to a more frontal-eyed state, perhaps the reason for the action of abduction by the superior oblique muscle. These findings support why trochlear motoneurons in turtle respond in the same way as abducens motoneurons to horizontal rotations, an unusual characteristic of vestibulo-ocular physiology in comparison with other mammalian lateral-eyed species.
The central and medial extended amygdala comprises the central (CEA) and medial nuclei of the amygdala (MEA), respectively, together with anatomically connected regions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST). To reveal direct and multisynaptic connections within the central and medial extended amygdala, monosynaptic and transneuronal viral tracing experiments were performed in adult male rats. In the first set of experiments, a cocktail of anterograde and retrograde tracers was iontophoretically delivered into the medial CEA (CEAm), anterodorsal MEA (MEAad), or posterodorsal MEA (MEApd), revealing direct, topographically organized projections between distinct amygdalar and BST subnuclei. In the second set of experiments, the retrograde transneuronal tracer pseudorabies virus (PRV) was microinjected into the CEAm or MEAad. After 48 hours of survival, there were no significant differences between monosynaptic and PRV cases in the subnuclear distribution or proportions of retrogradely labeled BST neurons. However, after 60 hours of survival, CEAm-injected cases displayed an increased proportion of labeled neurons within the anteromedial group of BST subnuclei (amgBST) and within the posterior BST, which do not directly innervate the CEA. MEApd-injected 60-hour cases displayed a significantly increased proportion of retrograde labeling in the amgBST compared with monosynaptic and 48-hour cases, whereas MEAad-injected cases displayed no proportional changes over time. Thus, multisynaptic circuits within the medial extended amygdala overlap the direct connections making up this anatomical unit, whereas the multisynaptic boundaries of the central extended amygdala extend into BST subnuclei previously identified as part of the medial extended amygdala.
Acute coronavirus encephalomyelitis is controlled by T cells while humoral responses suppress virus persistence. This study defines the contribution of interleukin (IL)-21, a regulator of T and B cell function, to central nervous system (CNS) immunity. IL-21 receptor deficiency did not affect peripheral T cell activation or trafficking, but dampened granzyme B, gamma interferon and IL-10 expression by CNS T cells and reduced serum and intrathecal humoral responses. Viral control was already lost prior to humoral CNS responses, but demyelination remained comparable. These data demonstrate a critical role of IL-21 in regulating CNS immunity, sustaining viral persistence and preventing mortality.
Subacute cerebellar degeneration associated with metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1 (mGluR1) autoantibodies is an uncommon syndrome known to be part of the spectrum of paraneoplastic cerebellar degenerations associated with neuronal autoantibodies. We describe a patient with prostate adenocarcinoma who developed a subacute cerebellar ataxia. Autoantibodies specific to mGluR1 were detected in patient's serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Immunohistochemistry analyses of patient's prostate adenocarcinoma revealed abundant mGluR1 expression in luminal acinar epithelial cells and binding of patient's IgGs to tumoral mGluR1. These findings suggest that cerebellar degeneration associated with mGluR1 antibodies can be a paraneoplastic accompaniment of prostate adenocarcinoma.




The present study was aimed at developing a new strategy to design and anchor custom-fitted implants, consisting of a head fixation device and a chronic recording chamber, on the skull of adult macaque monkeys. This was done without the use of dental resin or orthopedic cement, as these modes of fixation exert a detrimental effect on the bone. The implants were made of titanium or tekapeek and anchored to the skull with titanium screws. Two adult macaque monkeys were initially implanted with the head fixation device several months previous to electrophysiological investigation, to allow optimal osseous-integration, including growth of the bone above the implant's footplate. In a second step, the chronic recording chamber was implanted above the brain region of interest. The present study proposes two original approaches for both implants. First, based on a CT scan of the monkey, a plastic replicate of the skull was obtained in the form of a 3D print, used to accurately shape and position the two implants. This would ensure a perfect match with the skull surface. Second, the part of the implants in contact with the bone was coated with hydroxyapatite, presenting chemical similarity to natural bone, thus promoting excellent osseous-integration. The longevity of the implants used here was 4 years for the head fixation device and 1.5 years for the chronic chamber. There were no adverse events and daily care was easy. This is clear evidence that the present implanting strategy was successful and provokes less discomfort to the animals.
Glucocorticoids are widely used to treat chronic lung disease in premature infants but their longer-term adverse effects on the cardiovascular system raise concerns. We reported that neonatal dexamethasone treatment in rats induced in the short term molecular indices of cardiac oxidative stress and cardiovascular tissue remodelling at weaning, and that neonatal combined antioxidant and dexamethasone treatment was protective at this time. In this study, we investigated whether such effects of neonatal dexamethasone have adverse consequences for NO bioavailability and cardiovascular function at adulthood, and whether neonatal combined antioxidant and dexamethasone treatment is protective in the adult. Newborn rat pups received daily i.p. injections of a human-relevant tapering dose of dexamethasone (D; n = 8; 0.5, 0.3, 0.1 g g(-1)) or D with vitamins C and E (DCE; n = 8; 200 and 100 mg kg(-1), respectively) on postnatal days 1-3 (P1-3); vitamins were continued from P4 to P6. Controls received equal volumes of vehicle from P1 to P6 (C; n = 8). A fourth group received vitamins alone (CCE; n = 8). At P100, plasma NO metabolites (NOx) was measured and isolated hearts were assessed under both Working and Langendorff preparations. Relative to controls, neonatal dexamethasone therapy increased mortality by 18% (P &lt; 0.05). Surviving D pups at adulthood had lower plasma NOx concentrations (10.6  0.8 vs. 28.0  1.5 M), an increased relative left ventricular (LV) mass (70  2 vs. 63  1%), enhanced LV end-diastolic pressure (14  2 vs. 8  1 mmHg) and these hearts failed to adapt output with increased preload (cardiac output: 2.9  2.0 vs. 10.6  1.2 ml min(-1)) or afterload (cardiac output: -5.3  2.0 vs.1.4  1.2 ml min(-1)); all P &lt; 0.05. Combined neonatal dexamethasone with antioxidant vitamins improved postnatal survival, restored plasma NOx and protected against cardiac dysfunction at adulthood. In conclusion, neonatal dexamethasone therapy promotes cardiac dysfunction at adulthood. Combined neonatal treatment with antioxidant vitamins is an effective intervention.
Mitochondria are cellular organelles with crucial roles in ATP synthesis, metabolic integration, reactive oxygen species (ROS) synthesis and management, the regulation of apoptosis (namely via the intrinsic pathway), among many others. Additionally, mitochondria in different organs or cell types may have distinct properties that can decisively influence functional analysis. In terms of the importance of mitochondria in mammalian reproduction, and although there are species-specific differences, these aspects involve both energetic considerations for gametogenesis and fertilization, control of apoptosis to ensure the proper production of viable gametes, and ROS signaling, as well as other emerging aspects. Crucially, mitochondria are the starting point for steroid hormone biosynthesis, given that the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone (a common precursor for all steroid hormones) takes place via the activity of the cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) on the inner mitochondrial membrane. Furthermore, mitochondrial activity in reproduction has to be considered in accordance with the very distinct strategies for gamete production in the male and female. These include distinct gonad morpho-physiologies, different types of steroids that are more prevalent (testosterone, estrogens, progesterone), and, importantly, the very particular timings of gametogenesis. While spermatogenesis is complete and continuous since puberty, producing a seemingly inexhaustible pool of gametes in a fixed environment; oogenesis involves the episodic production of very few gametes in an environment that changes cyclically. These aspects have always to be taken into account when considering the roles of any common element in mammalian reproduction.

Connectome is a term with a short history but a long past. Since the origins of neuroscience the concept of a 'map of neural connections' has been a constant inspiring idea for those who believed the brain as the organ of intellect. A myriad of proto-connectome maps have been produced throughout the centuries, each one reflecting the theory and method of investigation that prevailed at the time. Even contemporary definitions of the connectome rest upon the formulation of a neuronal theory that has been proposed over a hundred years ago. So, what is new? In this article we attempt to trace the development of certain anatomical and physiological concepts at the origins of modern definitions of the connectome. We argue that compared to previous attempts current connectomic approaches benefit from a wealth of imaging methods that in part could justify the enthusiasm for finally succeeding in achieving the goal. One of the unique advantages of contemporary approaches is the possibility of using quantitative methods to define measures of connectivity where structure, function and behaviour are integrated and correlated. We also argue that many contemporary maps are inaccurate surrogates of the true anatomy and a comprehensive connectome of the human brain remains a far distant point in the history to come.
Significant resources are now being devoted to large-scale international studies attempting to map the connectome - the brain's wiring diagram. This review will focus on the use of human neuroimaging approaches to map the connectome at a macroscopic level. This emerging field of human connectomics brings both opportunities and challenges. Opportunities arise from the ability to apply a powerful toolkit of mathematical and computational approaches to interrogate these rich datasets, many of which are being freely shared with the scientific community. Challenges arise in methodology, interpretability and biological or clinical validity. This review discusses these challenges and opportunities and highlights potential future directions.
The human brain is a complex, interconnected network par excellence. Accurate and informative mapping of this human connectome has become a central goal of neuroscience. At the heart of this endeavor is the notion that brain connectivity can be abstracted to a graph of nodes, representing neural elements (e.g., neurons, brain regions), linked by edges, representing some measure of structural, functional or causal interaction between nodes. Such a representation brings connectomic data into the realm of graph theory, affording a rich repertoire of mathematical tools and concepts that can be used to characterize diverse anatomical and dynamical properties of brain networks. Although this approach has tremendous potential - and has seen rapid uptake in the neuroimaging community - it also has a number of pitfalls and unresolved challenges which can, if not approached with due caution, undermine the explanatory potential of the endeavor. We review these pitfalls, the prevailing solutions to overcome them, and the challenges at the forefront of the field.
The brain continuously maintains a remarkably high level of intrinsic activity. This activity is non-stationary and its dynamics reveal highly structured patterns across several spatial scales, from fine-grained functional architecture in sensory cortices to large-scale networks. The mechanistic function of this activity is only poorly understood. The central goal of the current review is to provide an integrated summary of recent studies on structure, dynamics and behavioral consequences of spontaneous brain activity. In light of these empirical observations we propose that the structure of ongoing activity and its itinerant nature can be understood as an indispensible memory system modeling the statistical structure of the world. We review the dynamic properties of ongoing activity, and how they are malleable over short to long temporal scales that permit adapting over a range of short- to long-term cognitive challenges. We conclude by reviewing how the functional significance of ongoing activity manifests in its impact on human action, perception, and higher cognitive function.
Central to the development of clinical applications of functional connectomics for neurology and psychiatry is the discovery and validation of biomarkers. Resting state fMRI (R-fMRI) is emerging as a mainstream approach for imaging-based biomarker identification, detecting variations in the functional connectome that can be attributed to clinical variables (e.g., diagnostic status). Despite growing enthusiasm, many challenges remain. Here, we assess evidence of the readiness of R-fMRI based functional connectomics to lead to clinically meaningful biomarker identification through the lens of the criteria used to evaluate clinical tests (i.e., validity, reliability, sensitivity, specificity, and applicability). We focus on current R-fMRI-based prediction efforts, and survey R-fMRI used for neurosurgical planning. We identify gaps and needs for R-fMRI-based biomarker identification, highlighting the potential of emerging conceptual, analytical and cultural innovations (e.g., the Research Domain Criteria Project (RDoC), open science initiatives, and Big Data) to address them. Additionally, we note the need to expand future efforts beyond identification of biomarkers for disease status alone to include clinical variables related to risk, expected treatment response and prognosis.
With the increasing availability of advanced imaging technologies, we are entering a new era of neuroscience. Detailed descriptions of the complex brain network enable us to map out a structural connectome, characterize it with graph theoretical methods, and compare it to the functional networks with increasing detail. To link these two aspects and understand how dynamics and structure interact to form functional brain networks in task and in the resting state, we use theoretical models. The advantage of using theoretical models is that by recreating functional connectivity and time series explicitly from structure and pre-defined dynamics, we can extract critical mechanisms by linking structure and function in ways not directly accessible in the real brain. Recently, resting-state models with varying local dynamics have reproduced empirical functional connectivity patterns, and given support to the view that the brain works at a critical point at the edge of a bifurcation of the system. Here, we present an overview of a modeling approach of the resting brain network and give an application of a neural mass model in the study of complexity changes in aging.
A powerful way to probe brain function is to assess the relationship between simultaneous changes in activity across different parts of the brain. In recent years, the temporal activity correlation between brain areas has frequently been taken as a measure of their functional connections. Evaluating 'functional connectivity' in this way is particularly popular in the fMRI community, but has also drawn interest among electrophysiologists. Like hemodynamic fluctuations observed with fMRI, electrophysiological signals display significant temporal fluctuations, even in the absence of a stimulus. These neural fluctuations exhibit a correlational structure over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales. Initial evidence suggests that certain aspects of this correlational structure bear a high correspondence to so-called functional networks defined using fMRI. The growing family of methods to study activity covariation, combined with the diverse neural mechanisms that contribute to the spontaneous fluctuations, has somewhat blurred the operational concept of functional connectivity. What is clear is that spontaneous activity is a conspicuous, energy-consuming feature of the brain. Given its prominence and its practical applications for the functional connectivity mapping of brain networks, it is of increasing importance that we understand its neural origins as well as its contribution to normal brain function.
The human brain connectome is closely linked to the anatomical framework provided by the structural segregation of the cortex into distinct cortical areas. Therefore, a thorough anatomical reference for the analysis and interpretation of connectome data is indispensable to understand the structure and function of different regions of the cortex, the white matter fibre architecture connecting them, and the interplay between these different entities. This article focuses on parcellation schemes of the cerebral grey matter and their relevance for connectome analyses. In particular, benefits and limitations of using different available atlases and parcellation schemes are reviewed. It is furthermore discussed how atlas information is currently used in connectivity analyses with major focus on seed-based and seed-target analyses, connectivity-based parcellation results, and the robust anatomical interpretation of connectivity data. Particularly this last aspect opens the possibility of integrating connectivity information into given anatomical frameworks, paving the way to multi-modal atlases of the human brain for a thorough understanding of structure-function relationships.
CoCoMac, the &quot;Collation of Connectivity Data for the Macaque&quot; is a relational database system which presently constitutes the largest electronic repository of published neuroanatomical connectivity data. Developed since 1996, CoCoMac comprises approximately 40,000 experimental findings on anatomical connections in the macaque brain, as derived from neuroanatomical tract tracing studies. In this historical review, I describe the origin and the history of CoCoMac from a personal perspective, illustrate the principles of its structure and outline the impact it has had on systems neuroscience, in particular as a prelude to the &quot;Human Connectome&quot; research programme.





A case of autoimmune liver hepatitis is reported: the onset was triggered by consumption of green tea infusion in a patient taking oral contraceptives and irbesartan. We hypothesize that our patient, carrying genetic variant of hepatic metabolism making her particularly susceptible to oxidative stress, developed an abnormal response to a mild toxic insult, afforded by a combination of agents (oral contraceptives+irbesartan+green tea) that normally would not be able to cause damage. Her particular hepatic metabolism further increased the drugs' concentration, favoring the haptenization of liver proteins, eventually leading to the development of an autoimmune hepatitis.


The pathological end-state of Parkinson disease is well described from postmortem tissue, but there remains a pressing need to define early functional changes to susceptible neurons and circuits. In particular, mechanisms underlying the vulnerability of the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the importance of protein aggregation in driving the disease process remain to be determined. To better understand the sequence of events occurring in familial and sporadic Parkinson disease, we generated bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice (SNCA-OVX) that express wild-type -synuclein from the complete human SNCA locus at disease-relevant levels and display a transgene expression profile that recapitulates that of endogenous -synuclein. SNCA-OVX mice display age-dependent loss of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons and motor impairments characteristic of Parkinson disease. This phenotype is preceded by early deficits in dopamine release from terminals in the dorsal, but not ventral, striatum. Such neurotransmission deficits are not seen at either noradrenergic or serotoninergic terminals. Dopamine release deficits are associated with an altered distribution of vesicles in dopaminergic axons in the dorsal striatum. Aged SNCA-OVX mice exhibit reduced firing of SNc dopamine neurons in vivo measured by juxtacellular recording of neurochemically identified neurons. These progressive changes in vulnerable SNc neurons were observed independently of overt protein aggregation, suggesting neurophysiological changes precede, and are not driven by, aggregate formation. This longitudinal phenotyping strategy in SNCA-OVX mice thus provides insights into the region-specific neuronal disturbances preceding and accompanying Parkinson disease.
P2X receptor channels open in response to the binding of extracellular ATP, a property that is essential for purinergic sensory signaling. Apo and ATP-bound X-ray structures of the detergent-solubilized zebrafish P2X4 receptor provide a blueprint for receptor mechanisms but unexpectedly showed large crevices between subunits within the transmembrane (TM) domain of the ATP-bound structure. Here we investigate both intersubunit and intrasubunit interactions between TM helices of P2X receptors in membranes using both computational and functional approaches. Our results suggest that intersubunit crevices found in the TM domain of the ATP-bound crystal structure are not present in membrane-embedded receptors but substantiate helix interactions within individual subunits and identify a hot spot at the internal end of the pore where both the gating and permeation properties of P2X receptors can be tuned. We propose a model for the structure of the open state that has stabilizing intersubunit interactions and that is compatible with available structural constraints from functional channels in membrane environments.
Animal data show that cortical development is initially patterned by genetic gradients largely along three orthogonal axes. We previously reported differences in genetic influences on cortical surface area along an anterior-posterior axis using neuroimaging data of adult human twins. Here, we demonstrate differences in genetic influences on cortical thickness along a dorsal-ventral axis in the same cohort. The phenomenon of orthogonal gradations in cortical organization evident in different structural and functional properties may originate from genetic gradients. Another emerging theme of cortical patterning is that patterns of genetic influences recapitulate the spatial topography of the cortex within hemispheres. The genetic patterning of both cortical thickness and surface area corresponds to cortical functional specializations. Intriguingly, in contrast to broad similarities in genetic patterning, two sets of analyses distinguish cortical thickness and surface area genetically. First, genetic contributions to cortical thickness and surface area are largely distinct; there is very little genetic correlation (i.e., shared genetic influences) between them. Second, organizing principles among genetically defined regions differ between thickness and surface area. Examining the structure of the genetic similarity matrix among clusters revealed that, whereas surface area clusters showed great genetic proximity with clusters from the same lobe, thickness clusters appear to have close genetic relatedness with clusters that have similar maturational timing. The discrepancies are in line with evidence that the two traits follow different mechanisms in neurodevelopment. Our findings highlight the complexity of genetic influences on cortical morphology and provide a glimpse into emerging principles of genetic organization of the cortex.
When we run our fingers over the surface of an object, we acquire information about its microgeometry and material properties. Texture information is widely believed to be conveyed in spatial patterns of activation evoked across one of three populations of cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents that innervate the fingertips. Here, we record the responses evoked in individual cutaneous afferents in Rhesus macaques as we scan a diverse set of natural textures across their fingertips using a custom-made rotating drum stimulator. We show that a spatial mechanism can only account for the processing of coarse textures. Information about most natural textures, however, is conveyed through precise temporal spiking patterns in afferent responses, driven by high-frequency skin vibrations elicited during scanning. Furthermore, these texture-specific spiking patterns predictably dilate or contract in time with changes in scanning speed; the systematic effect of speed on neuronal activity suggests that it can be reversed to achieve perceptual constancy across speeds. The proposed temporal coding mechanism involves converting the fine spatial structure of the surface into a temporal spiking pattern, shaped in part by the mechanical properties of the skin, and ascribes an additional function to vibration-sensitive mechanoreceptive afferents. This temporal mechanism complements the spatial one and greatly extends the range of tangible textures. We show that a combination of spatial and temporal mechanisms, mediated by all three populations of afferents, accounts for perceptual judgments of texture.
Identification of genes influencing complex traits is hampered by genetic heterogeneity, the modest effect size of many alleles, and the likely involvement of rare and uncommon alleles. Etiologic complexity can be simplified in model organisms. By genomic sequencing, linkage analysis, and functional validation, we identified that genetic variation of Grm2, which encodes metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 (mGluR2), alters alcohol preference in animal models. Selectively bred alcohol-preferring (P) rats are homozygous for a Grm2 stop codon (Grm2 *407) that leads to largely uncompensated loss of mGluR2. mGluR2 receptor expression was absent, synaptic glutamate transmission was impaired, and expression of genes involved in synaptic function was altered. Grm2 *407 was linked to increased alcohol consumption and preference in F2 rats generated by intercrossing inbred P and nonpreferring rats. Pharmacologic blockade of mGluR2 escalated alcohol self-administration in Wistar rats, the parental strain of P and nonpreferring rats. The causal role of mGluR2 in altered alcohol preference was further supported by elevated alcohol consumption in Grm2 (-/-) mice. Together, these data point to mGluR2 as an origin of alcohol preference and a potential therapeutic target.
The hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are the aggregates of amyloid- (A) peptides and tau protein. Autophagy is a major cellular pathway leading to the removal of aggregated proteins. We have reported recently that autophagy was responsible for amyloid precursor protein cleaved C-terminal fragment (APP-CTF) degradation and amyloid  clearance in an Atg5-dependent manner. Here we aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which autophagy mediates the degradation of APP-CTF and the clearance of amyloid . Through affinity purification followed by mass spectrum analysis, we identified adaptor protein (AP) 2 together with phosphatidylinositol clathrin assembly lymphoid-myeloid leukemia (PICALM) as binding proteins of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3). Further analysis showed that AP2 regulated the cellular levels of APP-CTF. Knockdown of AP2 reduced autophagy-mediated APP-CTF degradation. Immunoprecipitation and live imaging analysis demonstrated that AP2 and PICALM cross-link LC3 with APP-CTF. These data suggest that the AP-2/PICALM complex functions as an autophagic cargo receptor for the recognition and shipment of APP-CTF from the endocytic pathway to the LC3-marked autophagic degradation pathway. This molecular mechanism linking AP2/PICALM and AD is consistent with genetic evidence indicating a role for PICALM as a risk factor for AD.
Childhood abuse increases adult risk for morbidity and mortality. Less clear is how this &quot;toxic&quot; stress becomes embedded to influence health decades later, and whether protective factors guard against these effects. Early biological embedding is hypothesized to occur through programming of the neural circuitry that influences physiological response patterns to subsequent stress, causing wear and tear across multiple regulatory systems. To examine this hypothesis, we related reports of childhood abuse to a comprehensive 18-biomarker measure of multisystem risk and also examined whether presence of a loving parental figure buffers against the impact of childhood abuse on adult risk. A total of 756 subjects (45.8% white, 42.7% male) participated in this ancillary substudy of the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults Study. Childhood stress was determined by using the Risky Families Questionnaire, a well-validated retrospective self-report scale. Linear regression models adjusting for age, sex, race, parental education, and oral contraceptive use found a significant positive relationship between reports of childhood abuse and multisystem health risks [B (SE) = 0.68 (0.16); P &lt; 0.001]. Inversely, higher amounts of reported parental warmth and affection during childhood was associated with lower multisystem health risks [B (SE) = -0.40 (0.14); P &lt; 0.005]. A significant interaction of abuse and warmth (P &lt; 0.05) was found, such that individuals reporting low levels of love and affection and high levels of abuse in childhood had the highest multisystem risk in adulthood.






Currently, there is no effective strategy for the treatment of spinal cord injury (SCI). A suitable combination of modern hydrogel materials, modified to effectively bridge the lesion cavity, combined with appropriate stem cell therapy seems to be a promising approach to repair spinal cord damage. We demonstrate the synergic effect of porosity and surface modification of hydrogels on mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) adhesiveness in vitro and their in vivo survival in an experimental model of SCI. MSCs were seeded on four different hydrogels: hydroxypropylmethacrylate-RGD prepared by heterophase separation (HPMA-HS-RGD) and three other hydrogels polymerized in the presence of a solid porogen: HPMA-SP, HPMA-SP-RGD, and hydroxy ethyl methacrylate [2-(methacryloyloxy)ethyl] trimethylammonium chloride (HEMA-MOETACl). Their adhesion capability and cell survival were evaluated at 1, 7, and 14 days after the seeding of MSCs on the hydrogel scaffolds. The cell-polymer scaffolds were then implanted into hemisected rat spinal cord, and MSC survival in vivo and the ingrowth of endogenous tissue elements were evaluated 1 month after implantation. In vitro data demonstrated that HEMA-MOETACl and HPMA-SP-RGD hydrogels were superior in the number of cells attached. In vivo, the highest cell survival was found in the HEMA-MOETACl hydrogels; however, only a small ingrowth of blood vessels and axons was observed. Both HPMA-SP and HPMA-SP-RGD hydrogels showed better survival of MSCs compared with the HPMA-HS-RGD hydrogel. The RGD sequence attached to both types of HPMA hydrogels significantly influenced the number of blood vessels inside the implanted hydrogels. Further, the porous structure of HPMA-SP hydrogels promoted a statistically significant greater ingrowth of axons and less connective tissue elements into the implant. Our results demonstrate that the physical and chemical properties of the HPMA-SP-RGD hydrogel show the best combination for bridging a spinal cord lesion, while the HEMA-MOETACl hydrogel serves as the best carrier of MSCs.

Glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) and its long acting analogs comprise a novel class of type 2 diabetes (T2D) treatment. What makes them unique among other T2D drugs is their concurrent ability to reduce food intake, a great benefit considering the frequent comorbidity of T2D and obesity. The precise neural site of action underlying this beneficial effect is vigorously researched. In accordance with the classical model of food intake control GLP-1 action on feeding has been primarily ascribed to receptor populations in the hypothalamus and the hindbrain. In contrast to this common view, relevant GLP-1 receptor populations are distributed more widely, with a prominent mesolimbic complement emerging. The physiological relevance of the mesolimbic GLP-1 is suggested by the demonstration that similar anorexic effects can be obtained by independent stimulation of the mesolimbic and hypothalamic GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R). Results reviewed here support the idea that mesolimbic GLP-1R are sufficient to reduce hunger-driven feeding, the hedonic value of food and food-motivation. In parallel, emerging evidence suggests that the range of action of GLP-1 on reward behavior is not limited to food-derived reward but extends to cocaine, amphetamine, and alcohol reward. The new discoveries concerning GLP-1 action on the mesolimbic reward system significantly extend the potential therapeutic range of this drug target.
Synapse formation is a highly regulated process that requires the coordination of many cell biological events. Decades of research have identified a long list of molecular components involved in assembling a functioning synapse. Yet how the various steps, from transporting synaptic components to adhering synaptic partners and assembling the synaptic structure, are regulated and precisely executed during development and maintenance is still unclear. With the improvement of imaging and molecular tools, recent work in vertebrate and invertebrate systems has provided important insight into various aspects of presynaptic development, maintenance, and trans-synaptic signals, thereby increasing our understanding of how extrinsic organizers and intracellular mechanisms contribute to presynapse formation.

Anorexia of aging, defined as a loss of appetite and/or reduced food intake, affects a significant number of elderly people and is far more prevalent among frail individuals. Anorexia recognizes a multifactorial origin characterized by various combinations of medical, environmental and social factors. Given the interconnection between weight loss, sarcopenia and frailty, anorexia is a powerful, independent predictor of poor quality of life, morbidity and mortality in older persons. One of the most important goals in the management of older, frail people is to optimize their nutritional status. To achieve this objective it is important to identify subjects at risk of anorexia and to provide multi-stimulus interventions that ensure an adequate amount of food to limit and/or reverse weight loss and functional decline. Here, we provide a brief overview on the relevance of anorexia in the context of sarcopenia and frailty. Major pathways supposedly involved in the pathogenesis of anorexia are also illustrated. Finally, the importance of treating anorexia to achieve health benefits in frail elders is highlighted.







Several missense mutations in the protein kinase C (PKC) gene have been found to cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously demonstrated that the mutant PKC found in SCA14 is misfolded, susceptible to aggregation and cytotoxic. Molecular chaperones assist the refolding and degradation of misfolded proteins and prevention of the proteins' aggregation. In the present study, we found that the expression of mutant PKC-GFP increased the levels of heat-shock protein 70 (Hsp70) in SH-SY5Y cells. To elucidate the role of this elevation, we investigated the effect of siRNA-mediated knockdown of Hsp70 on the aggregation and cytotoxicity of mutant PKC. Knockdown of Hsp70 exacerbated the aggregation and cytotoxicity of mutant PKC-GFP by inhibiting this mutant's degradation. These findings suggest that mutant PKC increases the level of Hsp70, which protects cells from the mutant's cytotoxicity by enhancing its degradation.


The fetal development of the mammalian eyelid involves the expansion of the epithelium over the developing cornea, fusion into a continuous sheet covering the eye, and a splitting event several weeks later that results in the formation of the upper and lower eyelids. Recent studies have revealed a significant number of molecular signaling components that are essential mediators of eyelid development. Receptor-mediated sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) signaling is known to influence diverse biological processes, but its involvement in eyelid development has not been reported. Here, we show that two S1P receptors, S1P2 and S1P3, are collectively essential mediators of eyelid closure during murine development. Homozygous deletion of the gene encoding either receptor has no apparent effect on eyelid development, but double-null embryos are born with an &quot;eyes open at birth&quot; defect due to a delay in epithelial sheet extension. Both receptors are expressed in the advancing epithelial sheet during the critical period of extension. Fibroblasts derived from double-null embryos have a deficient response to epidermal growth factor, suggesting that S1P2 and S1P3 modulate this essential signaling pathway during eyelid closure.

The strength of the acoustic startle response (ASR) to short bursts of broadband noise or tone pips (4, 8 and 16 kHz) and the prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the ASR elicited by prepulse tones (4, 8 and 16 kHz) were measured in parvalbumin-deficient (PV-/-) mice and in age-matched PV+/+ mice as controls. Hearing thresholds as determined from recordings of auditory brainstem responses were found to be similar in both genotypes. The ASRs to broadband noise and tones of low and middle frequencies were stronger than the ASRs in response to high-frequency tones in both groups. In PV-/- mice, we observed smaller ASR amplitudes in response to relatively weak startling stimuli (80-90 dB sound pressure level (SPL)) of either broadband noise or 8-kHz tones compared to those recorded in PV+/+ mice. For these startling stimuli, PV-/- mice had higher ASR thresholds and longer ASR latencies. PPI of the ASR in PV-/- mice was less effective than in PV+/+ mice, for all tested prepulse frequencies (4, 8 or 16 kHz) at 70 dB SPL. Our findings demonstrate no effect of PV deficiency on hearing thresholds in PV-/- mice. However, the frequency-specific differences in the ASR and the significant reduction of PPI of ASR likely reflect specific changes of neuronal circuits, mainly inhibitory, in the auditory centers in PV-deficient mice.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether short- or long-term nicotine treatment, had an influence on Ca(2+)-induced intracellular Ca(2+) release in astrocytes co-cultured with microvascular endothelial cells, and if the release of interleukin-1 (IL-1) changed during this treatment. We found that nicotine-evoked Ca(2+) transients were not attenuated up to 10d of incubation with nicotine, neither was the 7-nicotine acetylcholine receptor (7-nAChR) protein. After 10d the IL-1 release was decreased. Furthermore, substance P- and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-evoked Ca(2+) transients were attenuated after 10d of nicotine treatment, but glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) had no effect on these transients. The results show that long-term nicotine treatment had no influence on nicotine-evoked Ca(2+) transients or protein expression of the 7-nAChR, but had with a decreased IL-1 release. The Gq protein and inositoltrisphosphate system seems to be influenced by the attenuation of Ca(2+)-evoked intracellular Ca(2+) release after stimulation with substance P and 5-HT.
Despite ample study of conceptual and emotional information processing in language, it remains unclear whether these two types of processing rely on different neural mechanisms. In the present study, the processing of semantic and emotional information was directly compared in 24 participants undergoing electroencephalograms (EEGs). Participants read 120 scenarios ending in three ways (affectively and semantically congruent, affectively incongruent, and semantically incongruent) and were asked to judge the appropriateness of the last word within the context. The data were analyzed using both event-related potentials (ERPs) and event-related spectral perturbation (ERSP) analysis. In addition to the similar N400 effects evoked by both emotional and conceptual incongruity, conceptual incongruity elicited a larger theta power increase, while emotional incongruity induced a gamma band power increase, compared with the congruent condition. The different oscillatory patterns suggest that emotional and conceptual information in language processing may rely on different neural mechanisms, even though both types of processing produced a similar N400 effect.
Kynurenic acid (KYNA), a neuroactive metabolite of tryptophan that acts on different receptors (e.g. those of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and presynaptic 7 nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh)), exerts fundamentally antiglutamatergic effects. In view of its antiglutamatergic properties, an elevation of the KYNA level within the brain might result in neuroprotection. However, the use of KYNA as a neuroprotective agent is rather limited, because it crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to only a poor extent. During recent years, new KYNA derivatives have been developed which can readily traverse the BBB and also exert neuroprotection. However, as KYNA and its derivatives are able to interfere with glutamatergic and cholinergic transmission, the potential risks of interfering with cognitive functions cannot be excluded. This in vivo study on anesthetized rats therefore tested the effects of the administration of KYNA and a KYNA derivative (SZR72) (in a dosage that exerted neuroprotection) on long-term potentiation (LTP) and pure field excitatory postsynaptic potentials induced by contralateral CA3 region stimulation and recorded in the pyramidal layer of the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Surprisingly, KYNA and this derivative did not reduce, but rather increased the induceability of LTP. The possible explanation is discussed in detail. In brief: an elevated KYNA level in the perisynaptic area produced, for example, by exogenous prodrug or derivative administration exerts preferential effects on the extrasynaptic NMDA receptors and the nACh receptors on presynaptic glutamatergic terminals, while sparing the currents mediated by synaptic NMDA and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid receptors. This might be the explanation why the treatment with the prodrug of KYNA or the KYNA derivative in a dosage which induced neuroprotection did not reduce the cognitive functions or the LTP.
Wilson's disease (WD) leads to widespread structural alterations of central nervous system and our objectives were to determine the cortical excitability changes in WD by using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Thirteen patients with WD, diagnosed by the presence of Kayser-Fleischer ring and biochemical tests, were studied. TMS was performed using a figure-of-eight coil attached to Magstim 200 stimulator. Motor evoked potentials (MEP) were recorded from right first dorsal interosseous at rest. Resting motor threshold (RMT) was determined using standard techniques and central motor conduction time (CMCT) by 'F' wave method. Comparison was made with control data of our laboratory. Dysarthria was the presenting symptom in 5 patients (38.5%) and chorea, tremors, dystonia and abnormal gait in 2 patients each (15.4%). RMT was recordable in 10 patients and not recordable in 3. Compared to controls, patients in whom RMT was recordable, had significantly higher mean RMT (80.9  14.8 vs. 41.1  7, p&lt;0.0001) and CMCT (6.7  0.5 ms vs. 4.8  0.6 ms; p&lt;0.0001). In 2 of the 3 patients with non-recordable RMT, MEP could be obtained with active contraction. CMCT in these 2 patients was also prolonged. Patients with WD have reduced cortical excitability and prolonged CMCT which may be due to the intracortical presynaptic motor dysfunction.
Multiple regions in the CNS display propagating correlated activity during embryonic and postnatal development. This activity can be recorded as waves of increased calcium concentrations in spiking neurons or glia cells, and have been suggested to be involved in patterning, axonal guidance and establishment of synaptic transmission. Here, we used calcium imaging in slice cultures of the postnatal cerebellum, and observe spontaneous propagating calcium waves in NeuN-positive granule-like cells. Wave formation was blocked by TTX and the AMPA antagonist NBQX, but persisted after NMDA receptor blockade with MK-801. Whole-cell recordings during wave formation showed cyclic EPSP barrages with an amplitude of 10-20 mV concurrent with wave activity. Local non-propagating putative transglial waves were also present in the cultures, and could be reproduced by pressure application of ATP. We hypothesize, that the propagating wave activity is carried through the tissue by axonal collaterals formed by neighboring granule cells, and further suggest that the correlated activity may be related to processes that ensure correct postnatal wiring of the cerebellar circuits.
Neural circuits interpret sensory information from their environment and use this information to influence behavioral outputs. In Caenorhabditis elegans two bilaterally symmetric cephalic amphid organs each contain the ciliated termini of twelve classes of sensory neurons. Two of these sensory neuron pairs are called the AWB and the AWC neurons. The AWC neurons confer an ability to detect attractive volatile odors such as benzaldehyde, whereas the AWB neurons endow the animal with an ability to detect repulsive volatile odors such as 2-nonanone. Previously, it has been shown that transient nuclear localization of a Protein Kinase G (PKG) called EGL-4 in the AWC neuron facilitates adaptation after sustained odor input, and here we show that constitutively nuclear EGL-4 is required in the AWB neurons for the detection of repellent odors. Furthermore, we show that the G alpha subunit protein GOA-1 regulates the nuclear localization of EGL-4 in both AWB and AWC neurons. These data reveal novel insight into how the localization of an individual kinase can form a turnout switch to modify output in different neurons to drive opposite sensory behaviors.
Transcranial near-infrared laser therapy (TLT) improves stroke outcome in animal models. Adequate laser doses are necessary to exert therapeutic effects. However, applying higher laser energy may cause cortical tissue heating and exacerbate stroke injury. The objective of this study is to examine the thermal effect and safety of transcranial near-infrared laser therapy. Diode laser with a wavelength of 808 nm was used to deliver different power densities to the brain cortex of rabbits. Cortical temperature was monitored and measured using a thermal probe during the 2 min transcranial laser irradiation. Neuro-pathological changes were examined with histological staining 24 h after laser treatment. Transcranial laser irradiation for 2 min at cortical power densities of 22.2 and 55.6 mW/cm(2) with continuous wave (CW) did not increase cortical temperature in rabbits. With the same treatment regime, cortical power density at 111.1 mW/cm(2) increased brain temperature gradually by 0.5 C over the 2 min exposure and returned to baseline values within 1-2 min post-irradiation. Separately, histological staining was evaluated after triple laser exposure of 22.2 mW/cm(2) CW and 111.1 mW/cm(2) pulse wave (PW) and showed normal neural cell morphology. The present study demonstrated that the TLT powers currently utilized in animal stroke studies do not cause cortical tissue heating and histopathological damage.
Intuitively one might expect independent noise to be a powerful tool for desynchronizing a population of synchronized neurons. We here show that, intriguingly, for oscillatory neural populations with adaptive synaptic weights governed by spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) the opposite is true. We found that the mean synaptic coupling in such systems increases dynamically in response to the increase of the noise intensity, and there is an optimal noise level, where the amount of synaptic coupling gets maximal in a resonance-like manner as found for the stochastic or coherence resonances, although the mechanism in our case is different. This constitutes a noise-induced self-organization of the synaptic connectivity, which effectively counteracts the desynchronizing impact of independent noise over a wide range of the noise intensity. Given the attempts to counteract neural synchrony underlying tinnitus with noisers and maskers, our results may be of clinical relevance.

A novel method is introduced for ultrahigh throughput and ultralow cost patterning of biomolecules with nanometer resolution and novel 2D digital nanodot gradients (DNGs) with mathematically defined slopes are created. The technique is based on lift-off nanocontact printing while using high-resolution photopolymer stamps that are rapidly produced at a low cost through double replication from Si originals. Printed patterns with 100 nm features are shown. DNGs with varying spacing between the dots and a record dynamic range of 4400 are produced; 64 unique DNGs, each with hundreds of thousands of dots, are inked and printed in 5.5 min. The adhesive response and haptotaxis of C2C12 myoblast cells on DNGs demonstrated their biofunctionality. The great flexibility in pattern design, the massive parallel ability, the ultra low cost, and the extreme ease of polymer lift-off nanocontact printing will facilitate its use for various biological and medical applications.





Olfactory receptor (OR) expression requires the transcriptional activation of 1 out of 1,000s of OR alleles and a feedback signal that preserves this transcriptional choice. The mechanism by which olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) detect ORs to signal to the nucleus remains elusive. Here, we show that OR proteins generate this feedback by activating the unfolded protein response (UPR). OR expression induces Perk-mediated phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eif2 causing selective translation of activating transcription factor 5 (ATF5). ATF5 induces the transcription of adenylyl cyclase 3 (Adcy3), which relieves the UPR. Our data provide a role for the UPR in defining neuronal identity and cell fate commitment and support a two-step model for the feedback signal: (1) OR protein, as a stress stimulus, alters the translational landscape of the OSN and induces Adcy3 expression; (2), Adcy3 relieves that stress, restores global translation, and makes OR choice permanent.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic itch and inflammatory disorder of the skin that affects one in ten people. Patients suffering from severe AD eventually progress to develop asthma and allergic rhinitis, in a process known as the &quot;atopic march.&quot; Signaling between epithelial cells and innate immune cells via the cytokine thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is thought to drive AD and the atopic march. Here, we report that epithelial cells directly communicate to cutaneous sensory neurons via TSLP to promote itch. We identify the ORAI1/NFAT calcium signaling pathway as an essential regulator of TSLP release from keratinocytes, the primary epithelial cells of the skin. TSLP then acts directly on a subset of TRPA1-positive sensory neurons to trigger robust itch behaviors. Our results support a model whereby calcium-dependent TSLP release by keratinocytes activates both primary afferent neurons and immune cells to promote inflammatory responses in the skin and airways.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, abundant RNA molecules that constitute part of the cell's non-coding RNA &quot;dark matter.&quot; In recent years, the discovery of miRNAs has revolutionised the traditional view of gene expression and our understanding of miRNA biogenesis and function has expanded. Altered expression of miRNAs is increasingly recognized as a feature of many disease states, including neurodegeneration. Here, we review the emerging role for miRNA dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Huntington's disease pathogenesis. We emphasize the complex nature of gene regulatory networks and the need for systematic studies, with larger sample cohorts than have so far been reported, to reveal the most important miRNA regulators in disease. Finally, miRNA diversity and their potential to target multiple pathways, offers novel clinical applications for miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutic agents in neurodegenerative diseases.



The ventromedial spinal cord of mammals contains a neural network known as the locomotor central pattern generator (CPG) which underlies the basic generation and coordination of muscle activity during walking. To understand how this neural network operates, it is necessary to identify, characterize, and map connectivity among its constituent cells. Recently, a series of studies have analyzed the activity pattern of interneurons that are rhythmically active during locomotion and suggested that they belong to one of two functional levels; one responsible for rhythm generation and the other for pattern formation. Here we use electrophysiological techniques to identify locomotor-related interneurons in the lumbar spinal cord of the neonatal mouse. By analyzing their activity during spontaneous deletions that occur during fictive locomotion we are able to distinguish between those likely to belong to the rhythm-generating and pattern-forming levels, and determine the regional distribution of each. Anatomical tracing techniques are also employed to investigate the morphological characteristics of cells belonging to each level. Results demonstrate that putative rhythm-generating cells are medially located and extend locally projecting axons, while those with activity consistent with pattern formation are located more laterally and send axonal projections to the lateral edge of the spinal cord, in the direction of the motoneuron pools. Results of this study provide insight into the detailed anatomical organization of the locomotor CPG.
The zebra finch song system provides an excellent model to study the mechanisms underlying the development of sex difference in brain structure and function. Only male zebra finches sing and the brain nuclei controlling song learning and production are considerably larger than in females. Sexual differentiation may in part be regulated by estrogen, but other molecules including neurotrophic factors likely also affect masculinization. Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a crucial role in numerous aspects of vertebrate brain development and function, including neurogenesis, cell survival, growth of axonal projections, synaptogenesis and processes linked to learning and memory. The current study investigated the expression of BDNF protein in juvenile males and females at four ages, as well as in adults, to begin to evaluate the potential roles of endogenous BDNF in particular stages of structural and functional development of the song system. In both HVC and the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA), males had more BDNF+ cells than females. The number of immunopositive cells increased in males and decreased in females as they matured, in a pattern generally consistent with a role for BDNF in sensorimotor integration of song learning. In addition, in HVC (but not RA) the ratio of mature BDNF compared to its precursor proBDNF was greater in adult males than those at post-hatching day 25, indicating a region-specific shift in the relative availability of the two forms. Collectively, the data suggest that changes in BDNF protein expression across development may be associated with song system maturation, particularly during the sensorimotor integration of masculine vocalizations.
Phoenixin-14 amide, herein referred to as phoenixin, is a newly identified peptide from the rat brain. Using a previously characterized rabbit polyclonal antiserum against phoenixin, enzyme-immunoassay detected a high level (&gt;4.5 ng/g tissue) of phoenixin-immunoreactivity (irPNX) in the rat spinal cords. Immunohistochemical studies revealed irPNX in networks of cell processes in the superficial dorsal horn, spinal trigeminal tract and nucleus of the solitary tract; and in a population of dorsal root, trigeminal and nodose ganglion cells. The pattern of distribution of irPNX in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn was similar to that of substance P immunoreactivity (irSP). Double-labeling the dorsal root ganglion sections showed that irPNX and irSP express in different populations of ganglion cells. In awake mice, intrathecal injection of phoenixin (1 or 5 g) did not significantly affect the tail-flick latency as compared to that in animals injected with artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). Intrathecal administration of phoenixin (0.5, 1.25 or 2.5 g) significantly reduced the number of writhes elicited by intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid (0.6%, 0.3 ml/30 g) as compared to that in mice injected with aCSF. While not affecting the tail-flick latency, phoenixin antiserum (1:100) injected intrathecally 10 min prior to the intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid significantly increased the number of writhes as compared to mice pre-treated with normal rabbit serum. Intrathecal injection of non-amidated phoenixin (2.5 g) did not significantly alter the number of writhes evoked by acetic acid. Our result shows that phoenixin is expressed in sensory neurons of the dorsal root, nodose and trigeminal ganglia, the amidated peptide is bioactive, and exogenously administered phoenixin may preferentially suppress visceral as opposed to thermal pain.
Diabetes is associated with an increased risk for brain disorders, namely cognitive impairments associated with hippocampal dysfunction underlying diabetic encephalopathy. However, the impact of a prediabetic state on cognitive function is unknown. Therefore, we now investigated whether spatial learning and memory deficits and the underlying hippocampal dysfunction were already present in a prediabetic animal model. Adult Wistar rats drinking high-sucrose (HSu) diet (35% sucrose solution during 9 weeks) were compared to controls' drinking water. HSu rats exhibited fasting normoglycemia accompanied by hyperinsulinemia and hypertriglyceridemia in the fed state, and insulin resistance with impaired glucose tolerance confirming them as a prediabetic rodent model. HSu rats displayed a poorer performance in hippocampal-dependent short- and long-term spatial memory performance, assessed with the modified Y-maze and Morris water maze tasks, respectively; this was accompanied by a reduction of insulin receptor- density with normal levels of insulin receptor substrate-1 pSer636/639, and decreased hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor levels without changes of the plasma corticosterone levels. Importantly, HSu animals exhibited increased hippocampal levels of AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits GluA1 and GLUN1, respectively, whereas the levels of protein markers related to nerve terminals (synaptophysin) and oxidative stress/inflammation (HNE, RAGE, TNF-) remained unaltered. These findings indicate that 9 weeks of sucrose consumption resulted in a metabolic condition suggestive of a prediabetic state, which translated into short- and long-term spatial memory deficits accompanied by alterations in hippocampal glutamatergic neurotransmission and abnormal glucocorticoid signaling.
Experiments were done to investigate whether hypothalamic hypocretin-1 (hcrt-1; orexin-A) neurons that sent axonal projections to cardiovascular responsive sites in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) co-expressed leucine-enkephalin (L-Enk), and to determine the effects of co-administration of hcrt-1 and D-Ala2,D-Leu5-Enkephalin (DADL) into NTS on mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate. In the first series, in the Wistar rat the retrograde tract-tracer fluorogold (FG) was microinjected (50nl) into caudal NTS sites at which L-glutamate (0.25 M; 10 nl) elicited decreases in MAP and where fibers hcrt-1 immunoreactive fibers were observed that also contained L-Enk immunoreactivity. Of the number of hypothalamic hcrt-1 immunoreactive neurons identified ipsilateral to the NTS injection site (1207  78), 32.3  2.3% co-expressed L-Enk immunoreactivity and of these, 2.6  1.1% were retrogradely labeled with FG. Hcrt-1/L-Enk neurons projecting to NTS were found mainly within the perifornical region. In the second series, the region of caudal NTS found to contain axons that co-expressed hcrt-1 and L-Enk immunoreactivity was microinjected with a combination of hcrt-1 and DADL in -chloralose anesthetized Wistar rats. Microinjection of DADL into NTS elicited depressor and bradycardia responses similar to those elicited by microinjection of hcrt-1. An hcrt-1 injection immediately after the DADL injection elicited an almost twofold increase in the magnitude of the depressor and bradycardia responses compared to those elicited by hcrt-1 alone. Prior injections of the non-specific opioid receptor antagonist naloxone or the specific opioid -receptor antagonist ICI 154,129 significantly attenuated the cardiovascular responses to the combined hcrt-1-DADL injections. Taken together, these data suggest that activation of hypothalamic-opioidergic neuronal systems contribute to the NTS hcrt-1 induced cardiovascular responses, and that this descending hypothalamo-medullary pathway may represent the anatomical substrate by which hcrt-1/L-Enk neurons function in the coordination of autonomic-cardiovascular responses during different behavioral states.
Certain patterns of neural activity can induce N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR)-dependent synaptic plasticity, one of the important foundations of memory. Here, we report that a patterned high-frequency stimulation (PHS) induces rat hippocampal long-term depression (LTD) in an NMDAR-independent manner that requires coactivation of GABA(A)Rs and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs), and endocytosis of AMPARs. Thus, we disclose that a patterned high-frequency stimulation triggers GABAAR and mAChR-dependent LTD in the hippocampus.
Electromagnetic field (EMF) radiations emitted from mobile phones may cause structural damage to neurons. With the increased usage of mobile phones worldwide, concerns about their possible effects on the nervous system are rising. In the present study, we aimed to elucidate the possible effects of prenatal EMF exposure on the cerebellum of offspring Wistar rats. Rats in the EMF group were exposed to 900-MHz pulse-EMF irradiation for 6h per day during all gestation period. Ten offspring per each group were evaluated for behavioral and electrophysiological evaluations. Cerebellum-related behavioral dysfunctions were analyzed using motor learning and cerebellum-dependent functional tasks (Accelerated Rotarod, Hanging and Open field tests). Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were used for electrophysiological evaluations. The results of the present study failed to show any behavioral abnormalities in rats exposed to chronic EMF radiation. However, whole-cell patch clamp recordings revealed decreased neuronal excitability of Purkinje cells in rats exposed to EMF. The most prominent changes included afterhyperpolarization amplitude, spike frequency, half width and first spike latency. In conclusion, the results of the present study show that prenatal EMF exposure results in altered electrophysiological properties of Purkinje neurons. However, these changes may not be severe enough to alter the cerebellum-dependent functional tasks.
Considerable evidence indicates that dopamine (DA) influences tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)-mediated proteolytic processing of the precursor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (proBDNF) into mature BDNF (mBDNF). However, specific roles in this process for the dopamine D3 receptor (D3R) and the underlying molecular mechanisms are yet to be fully characterized. In the present study, we hypothesized that D3R deletion could influence tPA activity in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Using D3R knockout (D3(-/-)) mice, we show that receptor inactivation is associated with increased tPA expression/activity both in the prefrontal cortex and, to a greater extent, in the hippocampus. Augmented tPA expression in D3(-/-) mice correlated with increased BDNF mRNA levels, plasmin/plasminogen protein ratio and the conversion of proBDNF into mBDNF, as well as enhanced tPA and mBDNF immunoreactivity, as determined by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunoblot and immunohistochemistry. In addition, when compared to wild-type controls, D3(-/-) mice exhibited increased basal activation of the canonical cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A (PKA)-driven Akt/cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) signaling cascade, as determined by the increased Akt phosphorylation both at Thr304 and Ser473 residues, of DA and cAMP-regulated protein of 32kDa (DARPP-32) at Thr34 and a phosphorylation state-dependent inhibition of glycogen synthetase kinase-3 (GSK-3) at Ser9, a substrate of Akt whose constitutive function impairs normal CREB transcriptional activity through phosphorylation at its Ser129 residue. Accordingly, CREB phosphorylation at Ser133 was significantly increased in D3(-/-) mice, whereas the GSK-3-dependent phosphorylation at Ser129 was diminished. Altogether, our finding reveals that mice lacking D3Rs show enhanced tPA proteolytic activity on BDNF which may involve, at least in part, a potentiated Akt/CREB signaling, possibly due to hindered GSK-3 activity.
Compression of spinal roots is an important medical problem, which may arise from intervertebral disc herniation, tumor growth or as a result of high energy accidents. Differently from avulsion, root crushing maintains the central/peripheral nervous system (CNS/PNS) connection, although the axons are axotomized and motoneurons degenerate. Such neuronal death may decrease and delay motor function recovery. In the present study we have investigated the neuroprotective effects of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy following such proximal lesions. Motor recovery and synaptic stabilization were analyzed by the use of morphological and functional approaches. For that, crushing the ventral roots at L4, L5 and L6 was unilaterally performed in Lewis rats. Four weeks after injury, an increased motoneuron survival was observed in the MSC-treated group, coupled with a smaller decrease of inputs at the motoneuron surface and nearby neuropil, seen by synaptophysin and synapsin immunolabeling and decreased astrogliosis, seen by GFAP immunolabeling. In this sense, MSC-treated group displayed a significant preservation of GABAergic terminals, indicating a possible neuroprotection to glutamate excitotoxicity. Motor function recovery was acutely improved in MSC-treated group as compared to Dulbeco's modified eagle medium (DMEM)-treated. Overall, we provide evidence that ventral root crushing (VRC), although milder than avulsion, results in significant loss of motoneurons (~51%) that can be reduced by MSC administration within the spinal cord. Such treatment also improves the number of synapses immunoreactive against molecules present in inhibitory inputs. Also, an increased number of regenerated axons was obtained in the MSC-treated group, in comparison to the DMEM-treated control. Overall, MSC therapy acutely improved limb strength and gait coordination, indicating a possible clinical application of such treatment following proximal lesions at the CNS/PNS interface.
This review evaluates and contextualizes the behavioral studies undertaken on cetaceans in terms of the relationship of these behaviors to special levels of intelligence associated with these marine mammals and the evolution of their relatively and absolutely large brain size. Many believe that the large size of the cetacean brain and reported behaviors indicate the need to create a special status for these animals in terms of their intellect, positing that they are second to humans in terms of general intelligence. Cetacean brains became relatively large approximately 32millionyearsago, at the Archaeocete-Neocete faunal transition, and have since remained stable in relative size. The behaviors reported for modern cetaceans are thought to parallel those of great apes, to the exclusion of other mammals. By creating an autocatalytic model of cetacean brain evolution, the behaviors thought to be indicative of sophisticated cognitive processes can be assessed as to their potential involvement in the evolution of larger brains in cetaceans. By contextualizing these behaviors in a broader comparative framework, and not the limited cetacean - great ape comparisons mostly used, it is evident that the behaviors used to argue for high levels of intelligence in cetaceans are found commonly across mammals and other vertebrates, and are often observed in invertebrates. This contextualization indicates that cetacean intelligence is qualitatively no different to other vertebrates. In addition, the inability of cetaceans to surpass Piaget stage 4/5 on object permanence tests and to solve an &quot;if and only if, then&quot; abstract task indicates the possibility that their levels of general intelligence may be less than that seen in other vertebrates. Sophisticated cognitive abilities appear to play no role in the evolution of large brain size in cetaceans, indicating that alternative theories of large brain size evolution in cetaceans should be considered in more detail.
The role of spinal cannabinoid systems in neuropathic pain of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice was studied. In normal mice, injection of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN-55,212-2 (1 and 3g, i.t.) dose-dependently prolonged the tail-flick latency, whereas there were no changes with the injection of either cannabinoid CB1 (AM 251, 1 g, i.t.) or CB2 (AM 630, 4 g, i.t.) receptor antagonists. AM 251 (1 g, i.t.), but not AM 630 (4 g, i.t.), significantly inhibited the prolongation of the tail-flick latency induced by WIN-55,212-2 (3 g, i.t.). In STZ-induced diabetic mice, the tail-flick latency was significantly shorter than that in normal mice. A low dose of WIN-55,212-2 (1 g, i.t.) significantly recovered the tail-flick latency in STZ-induced diabetic mice. The effect of WIN-55,212-2 (1 g, i.t.) in STZ-induced diabetic mice was significantly inhibited by AM 630 (4 g, i.t.), but not AM 251 (1 g). The selective cannabinoid CB2 receptor agonist L-759,656 (19 and 38 g, i.t.) also dose-dependently recovered the tail-flick latency in STZ-induced diabetic mice, and this recovery was inhibited by AM 630 (4 g, i.t.). The protein levels of cannabinoid CB1 receptors, CB2 receptors and diacylglycerol lipase  (DGL-), the enzyme that synthesizes endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol, in the spinal cord were examined using Western blotting. The protein levels of both cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors were increased in STZ-induced diabetic mice, whereas the protein level of DGL- was significantly decreased. These results indicate that spinal cannabinoid systems are changed in diabetic mice and suggest that cannabinoid CB2 receptor agonists might have an ability to recover diabetic neuropathic pain.
To investigate the role of glutamate receptor subtypes and GABA in orofacial function, six individual topographies of orofacial movement, both spontaneous and induced by the dopamine D1-like receptor agonist [R/S]-3-methyl-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-[3-methyl-phenyl]-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SKF 83959), were quantified in mutant mice with deletion of (a) GluN2A, B or D receptors, and (b) the GABA synthesizing enzyme, 65-kD isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65). In GluN2A mutants, habituation of head movements was disrupted and vibrissae movements were reduced, with an overall increase in locomotion; responsivity to SKF 83959 was unaltered. In GluN2B mutants, vertical and horizontal jaw movements and incisor chattering were increased, with an overall decrease in locomotion; under challenge with SKF 83959, head and vibrissae movements were reduced. In GluN2D mutants, horizontal jaw movements, incisor chattering and vibrissae movements were increased, with reduced tongue protrusions and no overall change in locomotion; under challenge with SKF 83959, horizontal jaw movements were increased. In GAD65 mutants, vertical jaw movements were increased, with disruption to habituation of locomotion; under challenge with SKF 83959, vertical and horizontal jaw movements and incisor chattering were decreased. Effects on orofacial movements differed from their effects on regulation of overall locomotor behavior. These findings (a) indicate novel, differential roles for GluN2A, B and D receptors and for GAD65-mediated GABA in the regulation of individual topographies of orofacial movement and (b) reveal how these roles differ from and/or interact with the established role of D1-like receptors in pattern generators and effectors for such movements.
Long-lasting pain may partly be a consequence of ongoing neuroinflammation, in which astrocytes play a significant role. Following noxious stimuli, increased inflammatory receptor activity, influences in Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity and actin filament organization occur within the central nervous system. In astrocytes, the Ca(2+) signaling system, Na(+) transporters, cytoskeleton, and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines change during inflammation. The aim of this study was to restore these cell parameters in inflammation-reactive astrocytes. We found that the combination of (1) endomorphin-1, an opioid agonist that stimulates the Gi/o protein of the -opioid receptor; (2) naloxone, an opioid antagonist that inhibits the Gs protein of the -opioid receptor at ultralow concentrations; and (3) levetiracetam, an anti-epileptic agent that counteracts the release of IL-1, managed to activate the Gi/o protein and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity, inhibit the Gs protein, and decrease the release of IL-1. The cell functions of astrocytes in an inflammatory state were virtually restored to their normal non-inflammatory state and it could be of clinical significance and may be useful for the treatment of long-term pain.
The cytoarchitecturally-homogeneous appearance of the globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra has long been said to imply a high degree of afferent convergence and sharing of inputs by nearby neurons. Moreover, axon collaterals of neurons in the external segment of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata arborize locally and make inhibitory synapses on other cells of the same type. These features suggest that the connectivity of the basal ganglia may impose spike-time correlations among the cells, and it has been puzzling that experimental studies have failed to demonstrate such correlations. One possible solution arises from studies of firing patterns in basal ganglia cells, which reveal that they are nearly all pacemaker cells. Their high rate of firing does not depend on synaptic excitation, but they fire irregularly because a dense barrage of synaptic inputs normally perturbs the timing of their autonomous activity. Theoretical and computational studies show that the responses of repetitively-firing neurons to shared input or mutual synaptic coupling often defy classical intuitions about temporal synaptic integration. The patterns of spike-timing among such neurons depend on the ionic mechanism of pacemaking, the level of background uncorrelated cellular and synaptic noise, and the firing rates of the neurons, as well as the properties of their synaptic connections. Application of these concepts to the basal ganglia circuitry suggests that the connectivity and physiology of these nuclei may be configured to prevent the establishment of permanent spike-timing relationships between neurons. The development of highly synchronous oscillatory patterns of activity in Parkinson's disease may result from the loss of pacemaking by some basal ganglia neurons, and accompanying breakdown of the mechanisms responsible for active decorrelation.
Ethanol has been described as a teratogen in vertebrate development. During early stages of brain formation, ethanol affects the evagination of the optic vesicles, resulting in synophthalmia or cyclopia, phenotypes where the optic vesicles partially or totally fuse. The mechanisms by which ethanol affects the morphogenesis of the optic vesicles are however largely unknown. In this study we make use of in situ hybridization, electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry to show that ethanol has profound effects on cell organization and gene expression during the evagination of the optic vesicles. Exposure to ethanol during early eye development alters the expression patterns of some genes known to be important for eye morphogenesis, such as rx3/1 and six3a. Furthermore, exposure to ethanol interferes with the acquisition of neuroepithelial features by the eye field cells, which is clear at ultrastructual level. Indeed, ethanol disrupts the acquisition of fusiform cellular shapes within the eye field. In addition, tight junctions do not form and retinal progenitors do not properly polarize, as suggested by the mis-localization and down-regulation of zo1. We also show that the ethanol-induced cyclopic phenotype is significantly different to that observed in cyclopic mutants, suggesting a complex effect of ethanol on a variety of targets. Our results show that ethanol not only disrupts the expression pattern of genes involved in retinal morphogenesis, such as rx3 and rx1, but also disrupts the changes in cell polarity that normally occur during eye field splitting. Thus, ethylic teratology seems to be related not only to modifications in gene expression and cell death but also to alterations in cell morphology.
Hemorrhagic transformation (HT) has been claimed to represent the most feared complication of treatment with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) therapy. In this study, we tested the effect of rosiglitazone on HT in a rat focal cerebral ischemia model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received an injection of 50% dextrose (6ml/kg intraperitoneally) and were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) 10 min later, with the regional cerebral blood flow monitored in vivo by laser-Doppler-flowmetry. Two groups were included: rosiglitazone treatment and vehicle group. In the treatment group, after 1.5h of ischemia, rosiglitazone (2mg/kg) was administered at the onset of reperfusion. Neurobehavioral scores, infarct volume, hemoglobin leakage, hemorrhage rate, the expression of collagen IV and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) were measured at 24h after ischemia. Rosiglitazone improved neurobehavioral deficits, reduced infarct volume and hemorrhage rate, and inhibited hemoglobin leakage, when compared with the vehicle group. In addition, it increased the expression of collagen IV and GLUT1 compared to the vehicle group. Our results suggest that rosiglitazone attenuated the hyperglycemia-induced HT after MCAO, possibly by preservation of GLUT1 expression.
Decades of clinical and basic research indicate significant links between altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis hormone dynamics and major depressive disorder (MDD). Recent neuroimaging studies of MDD highlight abnormalities in stress response circuitry regions which play a role in the regulation of the HPA-axes. However, there is a dearth of research examining these systems in parallel, especially as related to potential trait characteristics. The current study addresses this gap by investigating neural responses to a mild visual stress challenge with real-time assessment of adrenal hormones in women with MDD in remission and controls. Fifteen women with recurrent MDD in remission (rMDD) and 15 healthy control women were scanned on a 3T Siemens MR scanner while viewing neutral and negative (stress-evoking) stimuli. Blood samples were obtained before, during, and after scanning for the measurement of HPA-axis hormone levels. Compared to controls, rMDD women demonstrated higher anxiety ratings, increased cortisol levels, and hyperactivation in the amygdala and hippocampus, p&lt;0.05, family-wise error (FWE)-corrected in response to the stress challenge. Among rMDD women, amygdala activation was negatively related to cortisol changes and positively associated with the duration of remission. Findings presented here provide evidence for differential effects of altered HPA-axis hormone dynamics on hyperactivity in stress response circuitry regions elicited by a well-validated stress paradigm in women with recurrent MDD in remission.
While considerable effort has been made to investigate the neural mechanisms of pain, much less effort has been devoted to itch, at least until recently. However, itch is now gaining increasing recognition as a widespread and costly medical and socioeconomic issue. This is accompanied by increasing interest in the underlying neural mechanisms of itch, which has become a vibrant and rapidly-advancing field of research. The goal of the present forefront review is to describe the recent progress that has been made in our understanding of itch mechanisms.
Learning from feedback involves a network of various cortical and subcortical regions. Although activation in this network has been shown to be especially strong in successful learners, it is currently unclear which of these regions are related to within-subject variation in learning performance. To this aim, 21 subjects performed a probabilistic feedback-learning task consisting of multiple independent Learning blocks and non-learning Control blocks, while functional magnetic resonance imaging data were acquired. In agreement with previous studies, activation in anterior, lateral and medial left prefrontal cortex, insula and superior and inferior parietal cortical regions were found when contrasting Learning and Control blocks. Furthermore, activation in the supplementary motor area, anterior cingulate cortex and bilateral striatum was associated specifically with the learning phase and not the application phase during Learning blocks. Finally, activation only in the ventral striatum was associated with within-subject learning performance across the Learning blocks. Taken together, these latter two results are argued to provide the answer to the main research question: ventral striatum activation is associated with within-subject variations in learning performance. The ventral striatum appears to play a vital role in learning by adjusting behavior based on feedback.

Motor learning requires protein synthesis within the primary motor cortex (M1). Here, we show that the immediate early gene Arc/Arg3.1 is specifically induced in M1 by learning a motor skill. Arc mRNA was quantified using a fluorescent in situ hybridization assay in adult Long-Evans rats learning a skilled reaching task (SRT), in rats performing reaching-like forelimb movement without learning (ACT) and in rats that were trained in the operant but not the motor elements of the task (controls). Apart from M1, Arc expression was assessed within the rostral motor area (RMA), primary somatosensory cortex (S1), striatum (ST) and cerebellum. In SRT animals, Arc mRNA levels in M1 contralateral to the trained limb were 31% higher than ipsilateral (p&lt;0.001), 31% higher than in the contralateral M1 of ACT animals (p&lt;0.001) and 48% higher than in controls (p&lt;0.001). Arc mRNA expression in SRT was positively correlated with learning success between two sessions (r=0.52; p=0.026). For RMA, S1, ST or cerebellum no significant differences in Arc mRNA expression were found between hemispheres or across behaviors. As Arc expression has been related to different forms of cellular plasticity, these findings suggest a link between M1 Arc expression and motor skill learning in rats.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder caused by defective levels of the survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. SMA causes spinal motoneuron (MN) loss, and progressive muscle weakness and paralysis. Currently, there is no effective therapy to cure this disease. Although different strategies focused on increasing the expression of functional SMN protein have been assayed, numerous SMN-independent therapeutic approaches have been demonstrated to have potential effectiveness in improving the SMA phenotype in mouse models and clinical trials. Recent works have shown that compounds which inhibit GSK-3 activity are effective in promoting MN survival and ameliorating lifespan in models of MN diseases including SMA. Taking into account the reported neuroprotective actions of lithium (Li) through the inhibition of GSK-3 in different studies, we tested here its potential efficiency as a therapeutic agent in a mouse model of severe SMA (SMN7 mice). We show that the chronic treatment with Li initiated before the appearance of disease symptoms, although inhibited GSK-3, did not improve the median survival, motor behavior, and spinal MN loss linked to SMA. Li administration did not either ameliorate the microglial and astroglial reaction in the spinal cord or the depletion of glutamatergic synapses on MNs observed in SMN7 animals. Moreover, Li treatment did not mitigate muscle atrophy or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) downregulation in the neuromuscular junctions linked to the disease. However, a significant reduction in apoptotic cell death found in the skeletal muscle of SMA mice was observed after Li treatment.

Neuroendocrine secretion often requires prolonged voltage-gated Ca(2+) entry; however, the ability of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores, such as endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria, to elicit secretion is less clear. We examined this using the bag cell neurons, which trigger ovulation in Aplysia by releasing egg-laying hormone (ELH) peptide. Secretion from cultured bag cell neurons was observed as an increase in plasma membrane capacitance following Ca(2+) influx evoked by a 5-Hz, 1-min train of depolarizing steps under voltage-clamp. The response was similar for step durations of  50 ms, but fell off sharply with shorter stimuli. The capacitance change was attenuated by replacing external Ca(2+) with Ba(2+), blocking Ca(2+) channels, buffering intracellular Ca(2+) with EGTA, disrupting synaptic protein recycling, or genetic knock-down of ELH. Regarding intracellular stores, liberating mitochondrial Ca(2+) with the protonophore, carbonyl cyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenyl-hydrazone (FCCP), brought about an EGTA-sensitive elevation of capacitance. Conversely, no change was observed to Ca(2+) released from the endoplasmic reticulum or acidic stores. Prior exposure to FCCP lessened the train-induced capacitance increase, suggesting overlap in the pool of releasable vesicles. Employing GTP--S to interfere with endocytosis delayed recovery (presumed membrane retrieval) of the capacitance change following FCCP, but not the train. Finally, secretion was correlated with reproductive behavior, in that neurons isolated from animals engaged in egg-laying presented a greater train-induced capacitance elevation vs quiescent animals. The bag cell neuron capacitance increase is consistent with peptide secretion requiring high Ca(2+), either from influx or stores, and may reflect the all-or-none nature of reproduction.
The commission of an error triggers cognitive control processes dedicated to error correction and prevention. Post-error adjustments leading to response slowing following an error (&quot;post-error slowing&quot;; PES) might be driven by changes in excitability of the motor regions and the corticospinal tract (CST). The time-course of such excitability modulations of the CST leading to PES is largely unknown. To track these presumed excitability changes after an error, single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the motor cortex ipsilateral to the responding hand, while participants were performing an Eriksen flanker task. A robotic arm with a movement compensation system was used to maintain the TMS coil in the correct position during the experiment. Magnetic pulses were delivered over the primary motor cortex ipsilateral to the active hand at different intervals (150, 300, 450 ms) after correct and erroneous responses, and the motor-evoked potentials (MEP) of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI) contralateral to the stimulated hemisphere were recorded. MEP amplitude was increased 450 ms after the error. Two additional experiments showed that this increase was neither associated to the correction of the erroneous responses nor to the characteristics of the motor command. To the extent to which the excitability of the motor cortex ipsi- and contralateral to the response hand are inversely related, these results suggest a decrease in the excitability of the active motor cortex after an erroneous response. This modulation of the activity of the CST serves to prevent further premature and erroneous responses. At a more general level, the study shows the power of the TMS technique for the exploration of the temporal evolution of post-error adjustments within the motor system.
The neural correlates of perceptual load induced attentional selection were investigated in an functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment in which attentional selection was manipulated through the variation of perceptual load in target search. Participants searched for a vertically or horizontally oriented bar among heterogeneously (the high load condition) or homogeneously (the low load condition) oriented distractor bars in the central display, which was flanked by a vertical or horizontal bar presented at the left or the right periphery. The search reaction times were longer when the central display was of high load than of low load, and were longer when the flanker was incongruent than congruent with the target. Importantly, the flanker congruency effect was manifested only in the low load condition, not in the high load condition, indicating that the perceptual load in target search determined whether the task-irrelevant flanker was processed. Imaging analyses revealed a set of fronto-parietal regions having higher activations in the high than in the low load condition. Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) was more activated for the incongruent than for the congruent trials. Moreover, ACC and bilateral anterior insula were sensitive to the interaction between perceptual load and flanker congruency such that the activation differences between the incongruent and congruent conditions were significant in the low, but not in the high load condition. These results are consistent with the claim that ACC and bilateral anterior insula may exert executive control by selectively biasing processing in favor of task-relevant information and this biasing depends on the resources currently available to the control system.
In young individuals, caffeine-mediated blockade of adenosine receptors and vasoconstriction has direct repercussions on task-related activations, changes in functional connectivity, as well as global vascular effects. To date, no study has explored the effect of caffeine on brain activation patterns during highly demanding cognitive tasks in the elderly. This prospective, placebo-controlled crossover design comprises 24 healthy elderly individuals (mean age 68.8  4.0 years, 17 females) performing a 2-back working memory (WM) task in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Analyses include complimentary assessment of task-related activations (general linear model, GLM), functional connectivity (tensorial independent component analysis, TICA), and baseline perfusion (arterial spin labeling). Despite a reduction in whole-brain global perfusion (-22.7%), caffeine-enhanced task-related GLM activation in a local and distributed network is most pronounced in the bilateral striatum and to a lesser degree in the right middle and inferior frontal gyrus, bilateral insula, left superior and inferior parietal lobule as well as in the cerebellum bilaterally. TICA was significantly enhanced (+8.2%) in caffeine versus placebo in a distributed and task-relevant network including the pre-frontal cortex, the supplementary motor area, the ventral premotor cortex and the parietal cortex as well as the occipital cortex (visual stimuli) and basal ganglia. The inverse comparison of placebo versus caffeine had no significant difference. Activation strength of the task-relevant-network component correlated with response accuracy for caffeine yet not for placebo, indicating a selective cognitive effect of caffeine. The present findings suggest that acute caffeine intake enhances WM-related brain activation as well as functional connectivity of blood oxygen level-dependent fMRI in elderly individuals.
In Parkinson's disease (PD) levodopa-associated changes in the power and long-range temporal correlations of beta oscillations have been demonstrated, yet the presence and modulation of genuine connectivity in local field potentials (LFP) recorded from the subthalamic nucleus (STN) remains an open question. The present study investigated LFP recorded bilaterally from the STN at wakeful rest in ten patients with PD after overnight withdrawal of levodopa (OFF) and after a single dose levodopa administration (ON). We utilized connectivity measures being insensitive to volume conduction (functional connectivity: non-zero imaginary part of coherency; effective connectivity: phase-slope index). We demonstrated the presence of neuronal interactions in the frequency range of 10-30 Hz in STN-LFP without a preferential directionality of interactions between different contacts along the electrode tracks. While the direction of neuronal interactions per se was preserved after levodopa administration, functional connectivity and the ventral-dorsal information flow were modulated by medication. The OFF-ON differences in functional connectivity were correlated with the levodopa-induced improvement in clinical Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores. We hypothesize that regional neuronal interactions, as reflected in STN-LFP connectivity, might represent a basis for the intra-nuclear spatial specificity of deep brain stimulation. Moreover, our results suggest the potential use of volume conduction-insensitive measures of connectivity in STN-LFP as a marker of clinical motor symptoms in PD.
In the adult CNS, tissue-specific germinal niches, such as the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, contain multipotent neural precursor cells (NPCs) with the capacity to self-renew and differentiate into functional brain cells (i.e. neurons, astrocytes or oligodendrocytes). Due to their intrinsic plasticity, NPCs can be considered an essential part of the cellular mechanism(s) by which the CNS tries to repair itself after an injury. In inflammatory CNS disorders, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), neurogenesis and gliogenesis occur as part of an 'intrinsic' self-repair process. However, full and long-lasting repair in progressive MS is not achieved. Recent data suggest that endogenous NPCs, while trying to repair the damaged CNS in MS, may become the target of the disease itself. It is possible that factors produced during MS, like CNS-infiltrating blood-borne inflammatory mononuclear cells, reactive CNS-resident cells, and humoral mediators, can alter the physiological properties of NPCs, ultimately impairing their ability to promote neural regeneration. Here, we investigate the effect of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) derived from primary progressive (PPMS) and secondary progressive (SPMS) MS patients (CSF-MS) on the survival, proliferation, and differentiation of commercially available human embryonic-derived NPCs named ENStem-A. We found that PPMS derived CSF markedly reduced the proliferation of ENStem-A and increased their differentiation toward neuronal and oligodendroglial cells, compared to control CSF. Similar but less striking results were seen when ENstem-A were treated with SPMS derived CSF. Our findings suggest that in both SPMS and PPMS the CNS milieu, as determined by extrapolation from CSF findings, may stimulate the endogenous pool of NPCs to differentiate into neurons and oligodendrocytes.
Neurons and neighboring astrocytic glia are mostly studied in nervous tissues from rodents whereas less is known on their properties and interactions in the human brain. Here, confocal/multiphoton fluorescence imaging for several hours revealed that co-cultured fetal human cortical neurons and astrocytes show pronounced spontaneous rises of cytosolic Ca(2+) which last for up to several minutes without concomitant changes in either movements or membrane potential of mitochondria. Similar Ca(2+) rises were evoked mainly in neurons by bath-applied glutamate or -aminobutyric acid (GABA) acting via N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)+AMPA/Kainate and GABAA receptors, respectively. Predominantly in astrocytes, Ca(2+) baseline was elevated by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) acting via P2Y1 and P2X7 receptors, likely causing the release of glutamate and glutamine. Mainly astrocytes responded to histamine, whereas the activation of muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors raised Ca(2+) in both cell types. Evoked neuronal and astrocytic Ca(2+) rises could last for several minutes without affecting mitochondrial movements or membrane potential. In contrast, reversible depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential accompanied neuronal Ca(2+) rises induced by cyanide-evoked chemical anoxia or the uncoupling of mitochondrial respiration with carbonyl-cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)-phenylhydrazone (FCCP). During such metabolic perturbation, mitochondrial depolarization also occurred in astrocytes, whereas Ca(2+) was largely unaffected. In summary, fetal human cortical neurons and astrocytes show distinct patterns of neuro/glio-transmitter- and metabolically-evoked Ca(2+) rises and possess active mitochondria. One aspect of our discussion deals with the question of whether the functional mitochondria contribute to cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis that seems to be already well-developed in fetal human cortical brain cells.
Although extensive evidence demonstrates that repeated administration of amphetamine (AMPH) induces behavioral and neurochemical sensitization, the influence of the developmental timing of AMPH administration is unknown. This is an important issue to address because it could help clarify the influence of early drug exposure on neuronal plasticity and the involvement of dopaminergic sensitization in the etiopathology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Thus, we decided to investigate the molecular alterations induced by the administration of AMPH during adolescence, when repeated exposure to the psychostimulant may interfere with developmental neuroplasticity. We investigated the expression of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and of two inducible-early genes (arc and cfos) that bridge neuronal activity with long-lasting functional alterations. We found that peri-pubertal treatment with AMPH induces long-lasting changes in the expression of bdnf and of activity-regulated genes in the hippocampus and in the prefrontal/frontal cortex, and leads to alterations of their short-term modulation in response to a subsequent acute AMPH challenge. These data suggest that AMPH exposure in peri-puberty may negatively affect the maturation of brain structures, such as the prefrontal cortex, which facilitate the development of dopamine sensitization and may contribute to dopamine-dependent behavioral dysfunctions and molecular alterations in adulthood.
The aim of this study was to test the insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) as a neuroprotective agent in a rat model for ischemic stroke and to compare its neuroprotective effects in conscious normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. The effects of subcutaneous IGF-I injection were investigated in both rat strains using the endothelin-1 rat model for ischemic stroke. Motor-sensory functions were measured using the Neurological Deficit Score. Infarct size was assessed by Cresyl Violet staining. Subcutaneous administration of IGF-I resulted in significantly reduced infarct volumes and an increase in motor-sensory functions in normotensive rats. In these rats, IGF-I did not modulate blood flow in the striatum and had no effect on the activation of astrocytes as assessed by GFAP staining. In hypertensive rats, the protective effects of IGF-I were smaller and not always significant. Furthermore, IGF-I significantly reduced microglial activation in the cortex of hypertensive rats, but not in normotensive rats. More detailed studies are required to find out whether the reduction by IGF-I of microglial activation contributes to an impairment IGF-I treatment efficacy. Indeed, we have shown before that microglia in hypertensive rats have different properties compared to those in control rats, as they exhibit a reduced responsiveness to ischemic stroke and lipopolysaccharide.
Oxidative stress aggravates brain injury following ischemia. The glutathione (GSH) system plays a pivotal role in combating oxidative stress in various cell types. To determine whether oral GSH administration elicits anti-oxidative effects, we assessed its potential neuroprotective effects in transient bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO) mice. In nave mice, acute oral administration of GSH significantly increased GSH levels by 1h in the cortex and hippocampus. Eleven days after BCCAO, untreated mice showed significantly decreased GSH levels and an inverse elevation of glutathione-disulfide (GSSG) levels in both the cortex and hippocampus. Oral administration of GSH (100 and 500 mg/kg p.o.) for 10 consecutive days after ischemia restored reduced GSH levels and inhibited GSSG elevation. Notably, post-administration of GSH (100 and 500 mg/kg p.o.) significantly prevented neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA1 region in BCCAO mice, an effect closely correlated with decreased levels of oxidative markers such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and nitrotyrosine in that region. Finally, GSH administration for 10 days improved memory deficits observed in BCCAO mice. Taken together, our findings indicate that the anti-oxidative effect of oral GSH administration ameliorates post-ischemia neuronal cell death and, in turn, may improve memory.
Gamma oscillations have long been considered to emerge late in development. However, recent studies have revealed that gamma oscillations are transiently expressed in the rat barrel cortex during the first postnatal week, a &quot;critical&quot; period of sensory-dependent barrel map formation. The mechanisms underlying the generation and physiological roles of early gamma oscillations (EGOs) in the development of thalamocortical circuits will be discussed in this review. In contrast to adult gamma oscillations, synchronized through gamma-rhythmic perisomatic inhibition, EGOs are primarily driven through feedforward gamma-rhythmic excitatory input from the thalamus. The recruitment of cortical interneurons to EGOs and the emergence of feedforward inhibition are observed by the end of the first postnatal week. EGOs facilitate the precise synchronization of topographically aligned thalamic and cortical neurons. The multiple replay of sensory input during EGOs supports long-term potentiation at thalamocortical synapses. We suggest that this early form of gamma oscillations, which is mechanistically different from adult gamma oscillations, guides barrel map formation during the critical developmental period.
Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) is a ubiquitous transcription factor that regulates immune and cell-survival signaling pathways. NF-B has been reported to be present in neurons wherein it reportedly responds to immune and toxic stimuli, glutamate, and synaptic activity. However, because the brain contains many cell types, assays specifically measuring neuronal NF-B activity are difficult to perform and interpret. To address this, we compared NF-B activity in cultures of primary neocortical neurons, mixed brain cells, and liver cells, employing Western blot of NF-B subunits, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) of nuclear B DNA binding, reporter assay of B DNA binding, immunofluorescence of the NF-B subunit protein p65, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of NF-B-regulated gene expression, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of produced proteins. Assay of p65 showed its constitutive presence in cytoplasm and nucleus of neurons at levels significantly lower than in mixed brain or liver cells. EMSA and reporter assays showed that constitutive NF-B activity was nearly absent in neurons. Induced activity was minimal--many fold lower than in other cell types, as measured by phosphorylation and degradation of the inhibitor IB, nuclear accumulation of p65, binding to B DNA consensus sites, NF-B reporting, or induction of NF-B-responsive genes. The most efficacious activating stimuli for neurons were the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) and interleukin-beta (IL-). Neuronal NF-B was not responsive to glutamate in most assays, and it was also unresponsive to hydrogen peroxide, lipopolysaccharide, norepinephrine, ATP, phorbol ester, and nerve growth factor. The chemokine gene transcripts CCL2, CXCL1, and CXCL10 were strongly induced via NF-B activation by TNF in neurons, but many candidate responsive genes were not, including the neuroprotective genes SOD2 and Bcl-xL. Importantly, the level of induced neuronal NF-B activity in response to TNF or any other stimulus was lower than the level of constitutive activity in non-neuronal cells, calling into question the functional significance of neuronal NF-B activity.
We explored the attenuating effects of NP-9 on -amyloid (A) aggregation and amyloid-induced toxicity. NP-9 is a recently reported monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. In the present study, we found that NP-9 inhibited AChE activity in a dose-dependent manner with a maximal inhibition dose of 8 mg/kg, i.p. It inhibited A aggregation, observed through thioflavin-T assay (IC50=60 M) and scanning electron microscopy (S.E.M.) (no fibril formation). NP-9 has shown marked protection against scopolamine and A1-42-induced memory impairments. It also minimized neuronal loss and amyloid plaque deposition in the brains of A1-42-induced mice model. Therefore, NP-9 could be a promising lead molecule for AD, with effects against MAO-B, AChE, A aggregation, and A1-42 induced toxicity.
Substantial epidemiological evidence shows an increased risk for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) in people with diabetes. Yet the underlying molecular mechanisms still remain to be elucidated. This article reviews the current studies on common pathological processes of Alzheimer's disease and diabetes with particular focus on potential mechanisms through which diabetes affects the initiation and progression of Alzheimer's disease. Impairment of insulin signaling, inflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, advanced glycation end products, APOE4 and cholesterol appear to be important mediators and are likely to act synergistically in promoting AD pathology.
Scratching inhibits pruritogen-evoked responses of neurons in the superficial dorsal horn, implicating a spinal site for scratch inhibition of itch. We investigated if scratching differentially affects neurons depending on whether they are activated by itchy vs. painful stimuli, and if the degree of inhibition depends on the relative location of scratching. We recorded from rat lumbar dorsal horn neurons responsive to intradermal (id) microinjection of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT). During the response to 5-HT, scratch stimuli (3mm, 300 mN, 2 Hz, 20s) were delivered at the injection site within the mechanosensitive receptive field (on-site), or 4-30 mm away, outside of the receptive field (off-site). During off-site scratching, 5-HT-evoked firing was significantly attenuated followed by recovery. On-site scratching excited neurons, followed by a significant post-scratch decrease in 5-HT-evoked firing. Most neurons additionally responded to mustard oil (allyl isothiocyanate). Off-site scratching had no effect, while on-site scratching excited the neurons. These results indicate that scratching exerts a state-dependent inhibitory effect on responses of spinal neurons to pruritic but not algesic stimuli. Moreover, on-site scratching first excited neurons followed by inhibition, while off-site scratching immediately evoked the inhibition of pruritogen-evoked activity. This accounts for the suppression of itch by scratching at a distance from the site of the itchy stimulus.
Tetrabenazine (TBZ) is a reversible inhibitor of vesicular monoamine storage that is used to treat Huntington's disease. TBZ preferentially depletes striatal dopamine (DA), and patients being treated with TBZ often experience parkinsonian side effects. The present studies were conducted to investigate the ability of TBZ to induce tremulous jaw movements (TJMs), which are a rodent model of parkinsonian tremor, and to determine if interference with adenosine A2A receptor transmission can attenuate TJMs and other motor effects of TBZ. In rats, TBZ (0.25-2.0mg/kg) significantly induced TJMs, which primarily occurred in the 3.0-7.5-Hz frequency range. The adenosine A2A antagonist MSX-3 (1.25-10.0mg/kg) significantly attenuated the TJMs induced by 2.0mg/kg TBZ in rats, and also significantly reduced the display of catalepsy and locomotor suppression induced by TBZ. In mice, TBZ (2.5-10.0mg/kg) dose dependently induced TJMs, and adenosine A2A receptor knockout mice showed significantly fewer TJMs compared to wild-type controls. MSX-3 (2.5-10.0mg/kg) also significantly reduced TBZ-induced TJMs in CD1 mice. To provide a cellular marker of these pharmacological conditions, we examined c-Fos expression in the ventrolateral neostriatum (VLS). TBZ (2.0mg/kg) significantly increased the number of c-Fos-positive cells in the VLS, which is indicative of reduced DA D2 receptor transmission, and 10.0mg/kg MSX-3 significantly attenuated the TBZ-induced c-Fos expression. These results indicate that TBZ induces tremor as measured by the TJM model, and that pharmacological antagonism and genetic deletion of adenosine A2A receptors are capable of attenuating this oral tremor.
Postural support alters anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs). Efficient adaptation to changes in postural support in reactive and centrally initiated postural synergies is impaired in Parkinson's disease (PD). This study examined whether APAs are affected differently by familiar and novel supports in people with PD, ON and OFF levodopa. The effect of PD and levodopa on the ability to immediately adapt APAs to changes in support and refine with practice was also investigated. Fourteen people with PD and 14 healthy control participants performed 20 single rapid leg lift tasks in four support conditions: unsupported, bilateral handgrip (familiar), bite plate (novel) and a combined handgrip+bite plate condition. APAs, identified from force plate data, were characterized by an increase in the vertical ground reaction force under the lifted leg as a result of a shift of weight toward the stance limb. Results showed the ability to incorporate familiar and novel external supports into the postural strategy was preserved in PD. Controls and PD patients in the OFF state further refined the postural strategy with practice as evidenced by changes in amplitude of vertical ground reaction forces and forces applied to support apparatus within conditions between the initial and final trials. In the ON state, people with PD failed to refine the use of postural supports in any condition. The results suggest that immediate postural adaptation is intact in people with PD and unaffected by levodopa administration but the ability to refine postural adaptations with task experience is compromised by dopamine therapy.
Previous behavioral studies have revealed that CaV3.2 T-type calcium channels support peripheral nociceptive transmission and electrophysiological studies have established the presence of T-currents in putative nociceptive sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglion (DRG). To date, however, the localization pattern of this key nociceptive channel in the soma and peripheral axons of these cells has not been demonstrated due to lack of isoform-selective anti-CaV3.2 antibodies. In the present study a new polyclonal CaV3.2 antibody is used to localize CaV3.2 expression in rodent DRG neurons using different staining techniques including confocal and electron microscopy (EM). Confocal microscopy of both acutely dissociated cells and short-term cultures demonstrated strong immunofluorescence of anti-CaV3.2 antibody that was largely confined to smaller diameter DRG neurons where it co-localized with established immuno-markers of unmyelinated nociceptors, such as, CGRP, IB4 and peripherin. In contrast, a smaller proportion of these CaV3.2-labeled DRG cells also co-expressed neurofilament 200 (NF200), a marker of myelinated sensory neurons. In the rat sciatic nerve preparation, confocal microscopy demonstrated anti-CaV3.2 immunofluorescence which was co-localized with both peripherin and NF200. Further, EM revealed immuno-gold labeling of CaV3.2 preferentially in association with unmyelinated sensory fibers from mouse sciatic nerve. Finally, we demonstrated the expression of CaV3.2 channels in peripheral nerve endings of mouse hindpaw skin as shown by co-localization with Mrgpd-GFP-positive fibers. The CaV3.2 expression within the soma and peripheral axons of nociceptive sensory neurons further demonstrates the importance of this channel in peripheral pain transmission.
Dysfunctional glutamatergic neurotransmission has been implicated in schizophrenia and mood disorders. As a putative model for these disorders, a mouse line lacking the GluA1 subunit (GluA1-KO) of the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor displays a robust novelty-induced hyperlocomotion associated with excessive neuronal activation in the hippocampus. Agonists of metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptors (mGluR2/3) inhibit glutamate release in various brain regions and they have been shown to inhibit neuronal activation in the hippocampus. Here, we tested a hypothesis that novelty-induced hyperlocomotion in the GluA1-KO mice is mediated via excessive hippocampal neuronal activation by analyzing whether an mGluR2/3 agonist inhibits this phenotypic feature. GluA1-KO mice and littermate wildtype (WT) controls were administered with (1S,2S,5R,6S)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY354740) (15 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min before a 2-h exposure to novel arenas after which c-Fos immunopositive cells were analyzed in the hippocampus. LY354740 (15 mg/kg) decreased hyperactivity in male GluA1-KO mice, with only a minimal effect in WT controls. This was observed in two cohorts of animals, one nave to handling and injections, another pre-handled and accustomed to injections. LY354740 (15 mg/kg) also reduced the excessive c-Fos expression in the dorsal hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell layer in maleGluA1-KO mice, while not affecting c-Fos levels in WT mice. In female mice, no significant effect for LY354740 (15 mg/kg) on hyperactive behavior or hippocampal c-Fos was observed in either genotype or treatment cohort. A higher dose of LY354740 (30 mg/kg) alleviated hyperlocomotion of GluA1-KO males, but not that of GluA1-KO females. In conclusion, the excessive behavioral hyperactivity of GluA1-KO mice can be partly prevented by reducing neuronal excitability in the hippocampus with the mGluR2/3 agonist suggesting that the hippocampal reactivity is strongly involved in the behavioral phenotype of GluA1-KO mice.
Hyperprolinemia is an inherited disorder of proline metabolism and hyperprolinemic patients can present neurological manifestations, such as seizures, cognitive dysfunctions, and schizoaffective disorders. However, the mechanisms related to these symptoms are still unclear. In the present study, we evaluated the in vivo and in vitro effects of proline on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and gene expression in the zebrafish brain. For the in vivo studies, animals were exposed at two proline concentrations (1.5 and 3.0mM) during 1h or 7 days (short- or long-term treatments, respectively). For the in vitro assays, different proline concentrations (ranging from 3.0 to 1000 M) were tested. Long-term proline exposures significantly increased AChE activity for both treated groups when compared to the control (34% and 39%). Moreover, the proline-induced increase on AChE activity was completely reverted by acute administration of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol and sulpiride), as well as the changes induced in ache expression. When assessed in vitro, proline did not promote significant changes in AChE activity. Altogether, these data indicate that the enzyme responsible for the control of acetylcholine levels might be altered after proline exposure in the adult zebrafish. These findings contribute for better understanding of the pathophysiology of hyperprolinemia and might reinforce the use of the zebrafish as a complementary vertebrate model for studying inborn errors of amino acid metabolism.
In nocturnal rodents, brain areas that promote wakefulness have a circadian pattern of neural activation that mirrors the sleep/wake cycle, with more neural activation during the active phase than during the rest phase. To investigate whether differences in temporal patterns of neural activity in wake-promoting regions contribute to differences in daily patterns of wakefulness between nocturnal and diurnal species, we assessed Fos expression patterns in the tuberomammillary (TMM), supramammillary (SUM), and raphe nuclei of male grass rats maintained in a 12:12 h light-dark cycle. Day-night profiles of Fos expression were observed in the ventral and dorsal TMM, in the SUM, and in specific subpopulations of the raphe, including serotonergic cells, with higher Fos expression during the day than during the night. Next, to explore whether the cerebrospinal fluid is an avenue used by the TMM and raphe in the regulation of target areas, we injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit beta (CTB) into the ventricular system of male grass rats. While CTB labeling was scarce in the TMM and other hypothalamic areas including the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which contains the main circadian pacemaker, a dense cluster of CTB-positive neurons was evident in the caudal dorsal raphe, and the majority of these neurons appeared to be serotonergic. Since these findings are in agreement with reports for nocturnal rodents, our results suggest that the evolution of diurnality did not involve a change in the overall distribution of neuronal connections between systems that support wakefulness and their target areas, but produced a complete temporal reversal in the functioning of those systems.
Proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-1 (IL1) regulate both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The interaction between IL1 and endocannabinoid system (ECS) is also emerging, based on the evidence that IL1 effects on striatal spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents are regulated by transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channels, members of the ECS. Furthermore, IL1 has also been shown to control the sensitivity of cannabinoid CB1 receptors controlling GABA transmission (CB1Rs(GABA)) in the striatum. To better detail the synaptic action of IL1, and to clarify its complex interaction with the ECS, here we investigated the possible interplay between IL1 and CB1Rs controlling glutamate transmission (CB1Rs(glu)), other critical elements of the ECS. Our results show that the sensitivity of CB1Rs(glu) is fully blocked in the presence of IL1 in corticostriatal brain slices, and that the protein kinase C/TRPV1 pathway is involved in this effect. IL1 failed to modulate the sensitivity of glutamate synapses to the stimulation of GABAB receptors. We also provided evidence that IL1-CB1Rs(GABA) but not IL1-CB1Rs(glu) interaction is under the control of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/trkB signaling and of lipid raft composition, because BDNF gene partial deletion, pharmacological blockade of trkB and membrane cholesterol removal with methyl--cyclodextrin all blocked IL1-mediated inhibition of CB1Rs(GABA) but left unaltered the sensitivity of CB1Rs(glu) to this cytokine. Our results provide further evidence that synaptic transmission and the ECS are regulated by IL1 in the striatum.
Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is the mainstay of acute stroke treatment and the only approved medical therapy so far. Because of its fibrinolytic action, it is presumed to aggravate intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Since clinical features do not discriminate between ischemic stroke and ICH, brain imaging is strictly required before the initiation of thrombolysis. A recent study has shown that rt-PA does not worsen (primary) ICH in two different experimental mouse models. Here, we further explored this surprising finding and examined hematoma expansion and long-term outcome after rt-PA treatment in a murine model of ICH. We induced ICH by collagenase injection into the right basal ganglia of C57BL/6 mice. At 30 min, 90 min or 4h after ICH induction, respectively, mice were treated with vehicle or 10mg/kg rt-PA. In parallel, we administered the vascular tracer Evans Blue (EB) and sacrificed the mice 2h after injection to assess EB extravasation as a marker of ongoing bleeding and rt-PA induced rebleeding. Additionally, we observed mice which were treated with vehicle or rt-PA 30 min after ICH induction for 72 h and quantified functional outcome and hematoma volume. EB extravasation was highest in the groups that were treated after 30 min and decreased thereafter according to a cessation of active bleeding. At all three time points covering the early phase of ICH, treatment with rt-PA did not increase EB extravasation. In the 72 h observation, there was also no difference in functional outcome and hematoma volume. In our experimental study, we were not able to demonstrate that peracute rt-PA treatment in (primary) ICH has detrimental effects on hematoma expansion, hematoma volume or functional outcome. This finding needs careful consideration in future translational studies.
Central nervous system neurons fail to regenerate after birth, which greatly hampers the effective treatment of many neurodegenerative diseases. Neurons differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells have been considered a possible option for cell-based therapies. Recent discoveries have revealed that fibroblasts can be directly converted into neurons without a transition through a pluripotent state. This approach might serve as a more efficient and convenient method for the cellular therapy of neurodegenerative diseases. Currently, several types of neurons have been directly generated from fibroblasts, including dopamine neurons, motor neurons and neural progenitor cells. In our study, by screening a series of candidate genes, we found that the adenovirus-mediated transduction of Ascl1, Brn3b and Ngn2 can directly convert mouse fibroblasts to retinal ganglion-like cells. The induced retinal ganglion-like cells co-express multiple retinal ganglion cell markers, and exhibit membrane properties of functional neurons. The reprogramming mediated by adenoviruses occurs much sooner than that mediated by lentiviruses. Furthermore, the induced retinal ganglion-like cells that are produced via adenoviral gene delivery are free of exogenous gene integration. Retinal ganglion-like cells that are induced by adenoviruses demonstrate great potential applicability in clinical therapy and provide a novel platform for the research of retinal degenerative diseases.
Persistent exposure to environmental stressors causes dysregulation of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (LHPA) axis and alters GABAA receptor (GABAAR) levels throughout the brain. Social subordination in socially housed female rhesus results in distinctive stress-related physiological and behavioral phenotypes that are dependent on the ovarian hormone estradiol (E2). In the present study, we utilized ovariectomized adult female rhesus monkeys undergoing hormone replacement with E2 to test the hypothesis that the chronic psychosocial stress of subordination alters GABAAR binding potential (GABAAR BPND) in limbic regions implicated in emotional processing including the prefrontal cortex, temporal lobe (amygdala and hippocampus), and hypothalamus. Furthermore, we tested the hypothesis that peripheral administration of a corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptor antagonist (astressin B) would reverse the alterations in GABAAR binding within these regions in subordinate females. After subjects received astressin B or saline for three consecutive days, GABAAR BPND was determined by positron emission tomography (PET) using (18)F-flumazenil as a radioligand. T1-weighted structural magnetic resonance imaging scans were also acquired for PET scan co-registration, in order to perform a region of interest analysis using the pons as a reference region. Compared to socially dominant females, subordinate females exhibited increased GABAAR BPND in the prefrontal cortex but not in the temporal lobe or the hypothalamus. Administration of astressin B eliminated the status difference in GABAAR BPND in the prefrontal cortex, suggesting that the chronic stressor of social subordination modulates GABAergic tone via effects on CRH and the LHPA axis, at least in prefrontal regions.
Bitter reception is mediated by taste receptor cells that coexpress multiple T2Rs, a family of G-protein-coupled receptors. However, it remains elusive how bitter taste information is translated in the brain into appropriate behavioral responses. Here we used a combination of genetic tracing and electrophysiological and immunohistochemical analyses in mice to functionally characterize the neurons in the solitary tract nuclei of the medulla, which receive input from mT2R5-expressing cells. The neurons defined by a transneuronal tracer originating from mT2R5-expressing cells receive glutamatergic synaptic input via the AMPA receptor. The satiety peptide cholecystokinin increases glutamatergic transmission, suggesting an interaction between information processing of taste and the homeostatic control of feeding. Nevertheless, the tracer-labeled neuron types are heterogeneous, and can be classified into catecholamine and pro-opiomelanocortin neurons. Our data reveal that the architectural solution in the first-order central relay that processes information from mT2R5-expressing cells uses unique ensembles of neurons with different neurotransmitters.
In both perceptual and motor learning, numerous studies have shown specificity of learning to the trained eye or hand and to the physical features of the task. However, generalization of learning is possible in both perceptual and motor domains. Here, I review evidence for perceptual and motor learning generalization, suggesting that generalization patterns are affected by the way in which the original memory is encoded and consolidated. Generalization may be facilitated during fast learning, with possible engagement of higher-order brain areas recurrently interacting with the primary visual or motor cortices encoding the stimuli or movements' memories. Such generalization may be supported by sleep, involving functional interactions between low and higher-order brain areas. Repeated exposure to the task may alter generalization patterns of learning and overall offline learning. Development of unifying frameworks across learning modalities and better understanding of the conditions under which learning can generalize may enable to gain insight regarding the neural mechanisms underlying procedural learning and have useful clinical implications.
-Amyloid (A) peptides are derived from the sequential cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). They are enriched in plaques present in Alzheimer's brains and thus play important roles in the pathogenesis of this disease. APP is also known to be expressed in the neurons of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and contributes to neuronal survival and axonal growth during development. However, whether APP and A peptides are involved in nociception and pathological pain states is mostly unknown. In the present study, we have used behavioral, biochemical and morphological approaches to address this issue in both adult rats and APP over-expressing CRND8 transgenic mice. We observed that the A peptide (17-24) was predominantly expressed in small-sized DRG neurons of rats. Following intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of complete Freud's adjuvant (CFA), the levels of APP and A peptides were significantly reduced in the ipsilateral lumbar 4-6 rat DRG. In 3-, 12- and 24-month-old CRND8 mice, pain sensitivity in response to heat and mechanical stimulation was significantly dampened compared to their age-matched wild-type littermates. In parallel with reduced pain sensitivity, the expression of pain mediators such as substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 was significantly reduced in L4-6 DRG of CRND8 mice. Although i.pl. injection of CFA induced a rather similar pattern of inflammatory pain in 3-month-old CRND8 mice and their wild-type littermates, recovery from inflammatory pain seemed faster in 12-month-old CRND8 mice than wild-type mice. These findings suggest that APP and A peptides suppress both nociception and inflammatory pain and are likely involved in blunt pain perception of Alzheimer's patients in clinical settings.
Phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF) is a form of serotonin-dependent respiratory plasticity induced by acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH). pLTF requires spinal Gq protein-coupled serotonin-2 receptor (5-HT2) activation, new synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and activation of its high-affinity receptor, TrkB. Intrathecal injections of selective agonists for Gs protein-coupled receptors (adenosine 2A and serotonin-7; 5-HT7) also induce long-lasting phrenic motor facilitation via TrkB &quot;trans-activation.&quot; Since serotonin released near phrenic motor neurons may activate multiple serotonin receptor subtypes, we tested the hypothesis that 5-HT7 receptor activation contributes to AIH-induced pLTF. A selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist (SB-269970, 5mM, 12 l) was administered intrathecally at C4 to anesthetized, vagotomized and ventilated rats prior to AIH (3, 5-min episodes, 11% O2). Contrary to predictions, pLTF was greater in SB-269970 treated versus control rats (80  11% versus 45  6% 60 min post-AIH; p&lt;0.05). Hypoglossal LTF was unaffected by spinal 5-HT7 receptor inhibition, suggesting that drug effects were localized to the spinal cord. Since 5-HT7 receptors are coupled to protein kinase A (PKA), we tested the hypothesis that PKA inhibits AIH-induced pLTF. Similar to 5-HT7 receptor inhibition, spinal PKA inhibition (KT-5720, 100 M, 15 l) enhanced pLTF (99  15% 60 min post-AIH; p&lt;0.05). Conversely, PKA activation (8-br-cAMP, 100 M, 15 l) blunted pLTF versus control rats (16  5% versus 45  6% 60 min post-AIH; p&lt;0.05). These findings suggest a novel mechanism whereby spinal Gs protein-coupled 5-HT7 receptors constrain AIH-induced pLTF via PKA activity.
Increases in plasma osmolality enhance nitric oxide (NO) levels in magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and modulate the secretion of both vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT). In this paper, we describe the effects of hypertonicity on the electrical properties of MNCs by focusing on the nitrergic modulation of their activity in this condition. Membrane potentials were measured using the patch clamp technique, in the presence of both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission blockers, in coronal brain slices of male Wistar rats. The recordings were first made under a control condition (295 mosm/kg H2O), then in the presence of a hypertonic stimulus (330 mosm/kg H2O) and, finally, with a hypertonic stimulus plus 500 M L-Arginine or 100 M N-nitro-L-Arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME). Hypertonicity per se increased the firing frequency of the neurons. L-Arginine prevented the increase in fire frequency induced by hypertonic stimulus, and L-NAME (inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase) induced an additional increase in frequency when applied together with the hypertonic solution. Moreover, L-Arginine hyperpolarizes the resting potential and decreases the peak value of the after-hyperpolarization; both effects were blocked by L-NAME and hypertonicity and/or L-NAME reduced the time constant of the rising phase of the after-depolarization. These results demonstrate that an intrinsic nitrergic system is part of the mechanisms controlling the excitability of MNCs of the SON when the internal fluid homeostasis is disturbed.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) contains the presympathetic neurons involved in cardiovascular regulation that has been implicated as one of the most important central sites for the antihypertensive action of moxonidine (an 2-adrenergic and imidazoline agonist). Here, we sought to evaluate the cardiovascular effects produced by moxonidine injected into another important brainstem site, the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (commNTS). Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (sSNA) and activity of putative sympathoexcitatory vasomotor neurons of the RVLM were recorded in conscious or urethane-anesthetized, and artificial ventilated male Wistar rats. In conscious or anesthetized rats, moxonidine (2.5 and 5 nmol/50 nl) injected into the commNTS reduced MAP, HR and sSNA. The injection of moxonidine into the commNTS also elicited a reduction of 28% in the activity of sympathoexcitatory vasomotor neurons of the RVLM. To further assess the notion that moxonidine could act in another brainstem area to elicit the antihypertensive effects, a group with electrolytic lesions of the commNTS or sham and with stainless steel guide-cannulas implanted into the 4th V were used. In the sham group, moxonidine (20 nmol/1 l) injected into 4th V decreased MAP and HR. The hypotension but not the bradycardia produced by moxonidine into the 4th V was reduced in acute (1 day) commNTS-lesioned rats. These data suggest that moxonidine can certainly act in other brainstem regions, such as commNTS to produce its beneficial therapeutic effects, such as hypotension and reduction in sympathetic nerve activity.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is a feature of many neurodegenerative disorders. The mechanisms and interactions between astrocytes, extracellular matrix and vascular endothelial cells in regulating the mature BBB are poorly understood. We have previously shown that transitory glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-astrocyte loss, induced by the systemic administration of 3-chloropropanediol, leads to reversible disruption of tight junction complexes and BBB integrity to a range of markers. However, early restoration of BBB integrity to dextran (10-70 kDa) and fibrinogen was seen in the absence of paracellular tight junction proteins claudin-5 and occludin. In the present study we show that in the GFAP-astrocyte-lesioned rat inferior colliculus, paracellular expression of adherens junction proteins (vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin and -catenin) was maintained in vascular endothelial cells that lacked paracellular claudin-5 expression and which showed reversible post-translational occludin modification. Claudin-1 expression paralleled the loss and recovery of claudin-5, while claudin-3 or -12 immunoreactivity was not detected. In addition, the extracellular matrix, as visualized by laminin and fibronectin, underwent extensive reversible remodeling and perivascular CD169 macrophages become abundant throughout the lesioned inferior colliculus. At a time that GFAP-astrocytes repopulated the lesion area and tight junction proteins were returned to paracellular domains, the extracellular matrix and leukocyte profiles normalized and resembled profiles seen in control tissue. This study supports the hypothesis that a combination of paracellular adherens junctional proteins, remodeled basement membrane and the presence of perivascular leukocytes provide a temporary barrier to limit the extravasation of macromolecules and potentially neurotoxic substances into the brain parenchyma until tight junction proteins are restored to paracellular domains.
Focal cortical injuries are well known to cause changes in function and excitability of the surviving cortical areas but the cellular correlates of these physiological alterations are not fully understood. In the present study we employed a well established ex vivo-in vitro model of focal laser lesions in the rat visual cortex and we studied membrane and firing properties of the surviving layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. Patch-clamp recordings, performed in the first week post-injury, revealed an increased input resistance, a depolarized spike threshold as well as alterations in the firing pattern of neurons in the cortex ipsilateral to the lesion. Notably, the reported lesion-induced alterations emerged or became more evident when an exciting perfusing solution, known as modified artificial cerebrospinal fluid, was used to increase the ongoing synaptic activity in cortical slices. Conversely, application of glutamatergic or GABAA receptor blockers reduced the observed alterations and GABAB receptor blockers abolished the differences completely. All together the present findings suggest that changes in synaptic receptors function, following focal cortical injuries, can modulate membrane and firing properties of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. This previously unknown functional interplay between synaptic and membrane properties may constitute a novel cellular mechanism to explain alterations in neuronal network function and excitability following focal cortical injuries.
17-Ethynyl-estradiol (EE2, a synthetic steroidal estrogen) induces antidepressant-like effects in the forced swimming test (FST) similar to those induced by 5-HT and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (dual antidepressants). However, the precise mechanism of action of EE2 has not been studied. In the present study, the participation of estrogen receptors (ERs) and the serotonergic and the noradrenergic presynaptic sites in the antidepressant-like action of EE2 was evaluated in the FST. The effects of the ER antagonist ICI 182,780 (10 g/rat; i.c.v.), the serotonergic and noradrenergic terminal destruction with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT; 200 g/rat, i.c.v.), and N-(2-chloro-ethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP4; 10mg/kg, i.p.) were studied in ovariectomized rats treated with EE2 and subjected to the FST. In addition, the participation of 2-adrenergic receptors in the antidepressant-like action of EE2 was explored using the selective 2-receptor antagonist idazoxan (0.25, 0.5 and 1.0mg/kg, i.p.). EE2 induced an antidepressant-like action characterized by a decrease in immobility behavior with a concomitant increase in swimming and climbing behaviors. The ER antagonist, 5,7-DHT, DSP4, and idazoxan blocked the effects of EE2 on the immobility behavior, whereas ICI 182,780 and 5,7-DHT affected swimming behavior. The noradrenergic compound DSP4 altered climbing behavior, while Idazoxan inhibited the increase of swimming and climbing behaviors induced by EE2. Our results suggest that the antidepressant-like action of EE2 implies a complex mechanism of action on monoaminergic systems and estrogen receptors.
Synaptic plasticity, specifically long-term potentiation and long-term depression, is thought to be the underlying cellular mechanism for learning and memory processes in the brain. About two decades ago a new concept was introduced, namely metaplasticity, which comprises changes that modify the properties of synaptic plasticity due to a priming or preconditioning event. While metaplasticity was initially defined and studied predominantly on a synaptic and cellular level, it soon became apparent that the term could also be very useful to describe plasticity changes on a more global level, including environmental stressors as priming events and altered behavior as outcome measures. We consider here whether it is helpful to conceptualize these latter effects as &quot;behavioral metaplasticity&quot;, and in which sense this view fits into the original concept of metaplasticity. By integrating the literature on environmental effects on plasticity, especially stress, plus developmental aspects as well as genetic and epigenetic modifications, we shape the framework in which the term &quot;behavioral metaplasticity&quot; should be considered and discuss research directions that can help to unravel the mechanisms involved in both synaptic and behavioral metaplasticity.
It is well known that neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) are involved in descending modulation of nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord. It has been shown that activation of neurokinin-1 receptors (NK-1Rs) in the RVM, which are presumably located on pain facilitating ON cells, produces hyperalgesia whereas blockade of NK-1Rs attenuates hyperalgesia. To obtain a better understanding of the functions of NK-1R expressing neurons in the RVM, we selectively ablated these neurons by injecting the stable analog of substance P (SP), Sar(9),Met(O2)(11)-Substance P, conjugated to the ribosomal toxin saporin (SSP-SAP) into the RVM. Rats received injections of SSP-SAP (1 M) or an equal volume of 1 M of saporin conjugated to artificial peptide (Blank-SAP). Stereological analysis of NK-1R- and NeuN-labeled neurons in the RVM was determined 21-24 days after treatment. Withdrawal responses to mechanical and heat stimuli applied to the plantar hindpaw were determined 5-28 days after treatment. Withdrawal responses were also determined before and after intraplantar injection of capsaicin (acute hyperalgesia) or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) (prolonged hyperalgesia). The proportion of NK-1R-labeled neurons in the RVM was 8.8  1.3% in nave rats and 8.1  0.8% in rats treated with Blank-SAP. However, injection of SSP-SAP into the RVM resulted in a 90% decrease in NK-1R-labeled neurons. SSP-SAP did not alter withdrawal responses to mechanical or heat stimuli under normal conditions, and did not alter analgesia produced by morphine administered into the RVM. In contrast, the duration of nocifensive behaviors produced by capsaicin and mechanical and heat hyperalgesia produced by capsaicin and CFA were decreased in rats pretreated with SSP-SAP as compared to those that received Blank-SAP. These data support our earlier studies using NK-1R antagonists in the RVM and demonstrate that RVM neurons that possess the NK-1R do not play a significant role in modulating acute pain or morphine analgesia, but rather are involved in pain facilitation and the development and maintenance of hyperalgesia.
This study investigated the effects of a long-term transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) treatment on cortical motor representation in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). In this double-blind crossover design, patients received either TENS or sham stimulation for 3 weeks (1h per day) on the median nerve region of the most impaired hand, followed by the other stimulation condition after a washout period of 6 months. Cortical motor representation was mapped using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at the baseline and after the 3-week stimulation protocol. Our results revealed that 3 weeks of daily stimulation with TENS significantly decreased the cortical motor representation of the stimulated muscle in MS patients. Although the mechanisms underlying this decrease remain unclear, our findings indicate that TENS has the ability to induce long-term reorganization in the motor cortex of MS patients.
There is mounting evidence that, in addition to texture and olfaction, taste plays a role in the detection of long chain fatty acids. Triglycerides, the main components of oils and dietary fat, are hydrolyzed in the mouth by a lingual lipase secreted from the von Ebner gland and the released free fatty acids are detected by the taste system. GPR40 and GPR120, two fatty acid responsive G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), are expressed in taste bud cells, and knockout mice lacking either of those receptors have blunted taste nerve responses to and reduced preference for fatty acids. Here we investigated whether activation of those GPCRs is sufficient to elicit fat taste and preference. Five non-fatty acid agonists of GPR40 and two non-fatty acid agonists of GPR120 activated the glossopharyngeal nerve of wild-type mice but not of knockout mice lacking the cognate receptor. In human subjects, two-alternative forced choice (2-AFC) tests, triangle tests and sensory profiling showed that non fatty acid agonists of GPR40 dissolved in water are detected in sip and spit tests and elicit a taste similar to that of linoleic acid, whereas 2-AFC tests showed that two agonists of GPR120 in water are not perceived fattier than water alone. Wild-type mice did not show any preference for five agonists of GPR40, two agonists of GPR120 and mixtures of both agonists over water in two-bottle preference tests. Together these data indicate that GPR40 mediated taste perception is not sufficient to generate preference.
Here, we have translated from the rat to the non-human primate a unilateral lumbosacral injury as a model for cauda equina injury. In this morphological study, we have investigated retrograde effects of a unilateral L6-S2 ventral root avulsion (VRA) injury as well as the long-term effects of Wallerian degeneration on avulsed ventral roots at 6-10 months post-operatively in four adult male rhesus monkeys. Immunohistochemistry for choline acetyl transferase and glial fibrillary acidic protein demonstrated a significant loss of the majority of the axotomized motoneurons in the affected L6-S2 segments and signs of an associated astrocytic glial response within the ventral horn of the L6 and S1 spinal cord segments. Quantitative analysis of the avulsed ventral roots showed that they exhibited normal size and were populated by a normal number of myelinated axons. However, the myelinated axons in the avulsed ventral roots were markedly smaller in caliber compared to the fibers of the intact contralateral ventral roots, which served as controls. Ultrastructural studies confirmed the presence of small myelinated axons and a population of unmyelinated axons within the avulsed roots. In addition, collagen fibers were readily identified within the endoneurium of the avulsed roots. In summary, a lumbosacral VRA injury resulted in retrograde motoneuron loss and astrocytic glial activation in the ventral horn. Surprisingly, the Wallerian degeneration of motor axons in the avulsed ventral roots was followed by a repopulation of the avulsed roots by small myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. We speculate that the small axons may represent sprouting or axonal regeneration by primary afferents or autonomic fibers.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a gasotransmitter endogenously generated from the metabolism of L-cysteine by action of two main enzymes called cystathionine -synthase (CBS) and cystathionine -lyase (CSE). This gas has been involved in the pain processing and insulin resistance produced during diabetes development. However, there is no evidence about its participation in the peripheral neuropathy induced by this metabolic disorder. Experimental diabetes was induced by streptozotocin (50mg/kg, i.p.) in female Wistar rats. Streptozotocin injection increased formalin-evoked flinching in diabetic rats as compared to non-diabetic rats after 2 weeks. Peripheral administration of NaHS (an exogenous donor of H2S) and L-cysteine (an endogenous donor of H2S) dose-dependently increased flinching behavior in diabetic and non-diabetic rats. Contrariwise, hydroxylamine (HA, a CBS inhibitor) and DL-propargylglycine (PPG, a CSE inhibitor) decreased formalin-induced nociceptive behavior in both experimental groups. In addition, an ineffective dose of HA and PPG partially prevented the L-cysteine-induced hyperalgesia in diabetic and non-diabetic rats. Interestingly, HA and PPG were three order of magnitude more potent in diabetic rats respect to non-diabetic rats, whereas NaHS was ten times more potent in the streptozotocin-diabetic group. Nine to 11 weeks after diabetes induction, tactile allodynia was observed in the streptozotocin-injected rats. On this condition, subcutaneous administration of PPG or HA reduced tactile allodynia in diabetic rats. Paradoxically, H2S levels were decreased in nerve sciatic, dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord, but not paw nor blood plasma, during diabetes-associated peripheral neuropathy development. Collectively, results suggest that H2S synthesized by CBS and CSE participate in formalin-induced nociception in diabetic and non-diabetic rats, as well as; in tactile allodynia in streptozotocin-injected rats. In addition, data seems to indicate that diabetic rats are more sensible to H2S-induced hyperalgesia than normoglycemic rats.
Progranulin (PGRN) is known to play a role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, it has been demonstrated that patients with the homozygous mutation in the GRN gene present with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, and there is growing evidence that PGRN is related to lysosomal function. In the present study, we investigated the possible role of PGRN in the lysosomes of activated microglia in the cerebral cortex after traumatic brain injury (TBI). We showed that the mouse GRN gene has two possible coordinated lysosomal expression and regulation (CLEAR) sequences that bind to transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator of lysosomal genes. PGRN was colocalized with Lamp1, a lysosomal marker, and Lamp1-positive areas in GRN-deficient (KO) mice were significantly expanded compared with wild-type (WT) mice after TBI. Expression of all the lysosome-related genes examined in KO mice was significantly higher than that in WT mice. The number of activated microglia with TFEB localized to the nucleus was also significantly increased in KO as compared with WT mice. Since the TFEB translocation is regulated by the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activity in the lysosome, we compared ribosomal S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) phosphorylation that reflects mTORC1 activity. S6K1 phosphorylation in KO mice was significantly lower than that in WT mice. In addition, the number of nissl-positive and fluoro-jade B-positive cells around the injury was significantly decreased and increased, respectively, in KO as compared with WT mice. These results suggest that PGRN localized in the lysosome is involved in the activation of mTORC1, and its deficiency leads to increased TFEB nuclear translocation with a resultant increase in lysosomal biogenesis in activated microglia and exacerbated neuronal damage in the cerebral cortex after TBI.
Abnormal plasticity in the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical loop has been suggested to represent a key factor in the pathophysiology of dystonia. In a model of primary paroxysmal dystonia, the dt(sz) mutant hamster, previous experiments have shown a strongly increased long-term potentiation (LTP) in comparison to non-dystonic control hamsters. These basal changes, i.e. in the absence of dystonia, were found in young animals at an age of 5 weeks, when the age-dependent dystonia in dt(sz) mutant reaches highest severity. In the present study we examined in corticostriatal slices (1) whether the increases in synaptic plasticity can be modulated by stressful stimuli which induce dystonic episodes in young mutant hamsters, and (2) whether increases of LTP persist after spontaneous remission of dystonia in animals older than 10 weeks. The present data show that in slices of young mutant hamsters the extent of LTP was not influenced by the presence of dystonia: In comparison to age-matched control hamsters, LTP was increased in mutant hamsters independent of preceding stressful stimulation. After remission of dystonia, i.e., in older dt(sz) mutant hamsters &gt;10 weeks, only LTP could be elicited, while in preparations from age-matched control hamsters, either LTP or long-term depression developed, depending on previous behavioral challenge. We conclude that in mature brain, corticostriatal connections have the potential for changes in metaplasticity, while in dt(sz) mutant hamsters this metaplasticity is persistently infringed even though stress-inducible dystonic symptoms are lost.
Neurotrophic factors delivered from target muscles are essential for motoneuronal survival, mainly during development and early postnatal maturation. It has been shown that the disconnection between motoneurons and their innervated muscle by means of axotomy produces a vast neuronal death in neonatal animals. In the present work, we have evaluated the effects of different neurotrophic factors on motoneuronal survival after neonatal axotomy, using as a model the motoneurons innervating the extraocular eye muscles. With this purpose, neonatal rats were monocularly enucleated at the day of birth (postnatal day 0) and different neurotrophic treatments (NGF, BDNF, NT-3, GDNF and the mixture of BDNF+GDNF) were applied intraorbitally by means of a Gelfoam implant (a single dose of 5 g of each factor). We first demonstrated that extraocular eye muscles of neonatal rats expressed these neurotrophic factors and therefore constituted a natural source of retrograde delivery for their innervating motoneurons. By histological and immunocytochemical methods we determined that all treatments significantly rescued extraocular motoneurons from axotomy-induced cell death. For the dose used, NGF and GDNF were the most potent survival factors for these motoneurons, followed by BDNF and lastly by NT-3. The simultaneous administration of BDNF and GDNF did not increase the survival-promoting effects above those obtained by GDNF alone. Interestingly, the rescue effects of all neurotrophic treatments persisted even 30 days after lesion. The administration of these neurotrophic factors, with the exception of NT-3, also prevented the loss of the cholinergic phenotype observed by 10 days after axotomy. At the dosage applied, NGF and GDNF were revealed again as the most effective neuroprotective agents against the axotomy-induced decrease in ChAT. Two remarkable findings highlighted in the present work that contrasted with other motoneuronal types after neonatal axotomy: first, the extremely high efficacy of NGF as a neuroprotective agent and, second, the long-lasting effects of neurotrophic administration on cell survival and ChAT expression in extraocular motoneurons.
The human brain can dynamically adapt to the changing surroundings. To explore this issue, we adopted graph theoretical tools to examine changes in electroencephalography (EEG) functional networks while listening to music. Three different excerpts of Chinese Guqin music were played to 16 non-musician subjects. For the main frequency intervals, synchronizations between all pair-wise combinations of EEG electrodes were evaluated with phase lag index (PLI). Then, weighted connectivity networks were created and their organizations were characterized in terms of an average clustering coefficient and characteristic path length. We found an enhanced synchronization level in the alpha2 band during music listening. Music perception showed a decrease of both normalized clustering coefficient and path length in the alpha2 band. Moreover, differences in network measures were not observed between musical excerpts. These experimental results demonstrate an increase of functional connectivity as well as a more random network structure in the alpha2 band during music perception. The present study offers support for the effects of music on human brain functional networks with a trend toward a more efficient but less economical architecture.
In the adult rabbit and mouse retina, about 30% of the ON-OFF direction selective ganglion cells (DSGCs) are coupled via gap junctions. In early postnatal rabbit retinas, a greater proportion of morphological ON-OFF DSGCs shows coupling with a larger number of nearby somas. It is not clear whether the coupled ON-OFF DSGCs belong to the same subtype, or how coupling patterns change during development. In this study, we showed that in adult mouse retinas, all coupled ON-OFF DSGCs exhibited preferred directions (PDs) to superior, and this pattern emerged at postnatal day 15 (P15). At P13, the ON-OFF DSGCs with PDs to posterior were also coupled. Every ON-OFF DSGC in every subtype injected at P12 exhibited coupling. Therefore, a rapid decoupling process takes place in DSGCs around eye opening. Light deprivation delayed but did not halt the decoupling process. By using a transgenic mouse line in which green fluorescent protein (GFP) is selectively expressed in DSGCs with PDs to posterior and by performing in situ hybridization of cadherin-6, a marker for the DSGCs with PDs to superior and inferior, we showed that heterologous coupling existed between DSGCs with PDs to anterior and posterior till P12, but this heterologous coupling never spread to DSGCs positive for cadherin-6.
It is widely known that prenatal stress (PS) exposure causes depression-like behaviour to offspring, as well as maladaptive responses including neurobiological and physiological changes. However, the underlying mechanism of PS induced juvenile-onset depression remains largely unravelled. The inadequacies of monoamine deficiency hypothesis, the emerging evidence of altered glutamate neurotransmission in mood disorders, as well as our previous studies inspired us to assess the potential role of glutamatergic system in the pathogenesis of juvenile depression. In this research, we examined the expression of phosphorylated GluR1 subunit of ionotropic receptor alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR), the Na+-dependent glutamate transporters excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) and EAAT3 in the hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex of 1-month-old rat offspring after mid and late PS exposure. Prenatally stressed offspring rats showed significantly prolonged duration of immobility and shortened immobility latency in tail suspension test. We also detected that PS significantly altered the expression of glutamate receptor and glutamate transporters of these depressed rats. In brief, the changes of phosphorylated GluR1 subunit of AMPAR protein level in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, as well as markedly decreased EAAT2 mRNA expression in the hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex and EAAT3 mRNA expression in the hippocampus of stressed rats were both observed. These results underpinned that glutamate receptors and glutamate transporters might be involved in the progress of depression-like behaviour in juvenile rat offspring induced by PS.









The dorsal aspect of the globus pallidus (GP) communicates with the prefrontal cortex and higher-order motor areas, indicating that it plays a role in goal-directed behavior. We examined the involvement of dorsal GP neurons in behavioral goal monitoring and maintenance, essential components of executive function. We trained two macaque monkeys to choose a reach target based on relative target position in a spatial goal task or a target shape in an object-goal task. The monkeys were trained to continue to choose a certain behavioral goal when reward volume was constant and to switch the goals when the volume began to decrease. Because the judgment for the next goal was made in the absence of visual signals, the monkeys were required to monitor and maintain the chosen goals during the reaching movement. We obtained three major findings. (1) GP neurons reflected more of the relative spatial position than the shape of the reaching target during the spatial goal task. During the object-goal task, the shape of the reaching object was represented more than the relative position. (2) The selectivity of individual neurons for the relative position was enhanced during the spatial goal task, whereas the object-shape selectivity was enhanced during the object-goal task. (3) When the monkeys switched the goals, the selectivity for either the position or shape also switched. Together, these findings suggest that the dorsal GP is involved in behavioral goal monitoring and maintenance during execution of goal-oriented actions, presumably in collaboration with the prefrontal cortex.
Recent evidence indicates that inflammatory insults in neonates significantly influenced white matter development and caused behavioral deficits that manifest in young adulthood. The mechanisms underlying these developmental and behavioral complications, however, are not well understood. We hypothesize that acute brain inflammation caused by neonatal infection reduces the bioavailability of iron required for oligodendrocyte maturation and white matter development. Here, we confirm that peripheral Escherichia coli infection in neonates at postnatal day 3 (P3) caused acute brain inflammation that was resolved within 72 h. Nonetheless, transient early life infection (ELI) profoundly influenced behavior, white matter development, and iron homeostasis in the brain. For instance, mice exposed to E. coli as neonates had increased locomotor activity and impaired motor coordination as juveniles (P35) and young adults (P60). In addition, these behavioral deficits were associated with marked hypomyelination and a reduction of oligodendrocytes in subcortical white matter and motor cortex. Moreover, ELI altered transcripts related to cellular sequestration of iron in the brain including hepcidin, ferroportin, and L-ferritin. For example, ELI increased hepcidin mRNA and decreased ferroportin mRNA and protein in the brain at P4, which preceded increased L-ferritin mRNA at P12. Consistent with the mRNA results, L-ferritin protein was robustly increased at P12 specifically in neurons of E. coli infected mice. We interpret these data to indicate that neonatal infection causes significant neuronal sequestration of iron at a time point before myelination. Together, these data indicate a possible role for aberrant neuronal iron storage in neonatal infection-induced disturbances in myelination and behavior.
We describe an engineered fluorescent optogenetic sensor, SuperClomeleon, that robustly detects inhibitory synaptic activity in single, cultured mouse neurons by reporting intracellular chloride changes produced by exogenous GABA or inhibitory synaptic activity. Using a cell-free protein engineering automation methodology that bypasses gene cloning, we iteratively constructed, produced, and assayed hundreds of mutations in binding-site residues to identify improvements in Clomeleon, a first-generation, suboptimal sensor. Structural analysis revealed that these improvements involve halide contacts and distant side chain rearrangements. The development of optogenetic sensors that respond to neural activity enables cellular tracking of neural activity using optical, rather than electrophysiological, signals. Construction of such sensors using in vitro protein engineering establishes a powerful approach for developing new probes for brain imaging.
Macrophages have been implicated in peripheral nerve regeneration for some time, supposedly through their involvement in Wallerian degeneration, the process by which the distal nerve degenerates after axotomy and is cleared by phagocytosis. Thus, in several studies in which macrophage accumulation in the distal nerve was reduced and Wallerian degeneration inhibited, regeneration was delayed. However, this interpretation ignores the more recent findings that macrophages also accumulate around axotomized cell bodies. The function of macrophage action at this second site has not been clear. In two mutant strains of mice, the slow Wallerian degeneration (Wld(s)) mouse and the chemokine receptor CCR2 knock-out mouse, we report that macrophage accumulation after axotomy was abolished in both the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the distal sciatic nerve. To measure neurite outgrowth, DRG neurons were given a conditioning lesion, and outgrowth was measured in vitro 7 d later in the absence of the distal nerve segment. The increased growth normally seen after a conditioning lesion did not occur or was reduced in Wld(s) or CCR2(-/-) mice. In the superior cervical ganglion (SCG), particularly in Wld(s) mice, macrophage accumulation was reduced but not abolished after axotomy. In SCG neurons from Wld(s) mice, the conditioning lesion response was unchanged; however, in CCR2(-/-) mice in which the effect on macrophage accumulation was greater, SCG neurite outgrowth was significantly reduced. These results indicate that macrophages affect neurite outgrowth by acting at the level of peripheral ganglia in addition to any effects they might produce by facilitation of Wallerian degeneration.
Microsaccades during fixation exhibit distinct time courses of frequency and direction modulations after stimulus onsets, but the mechanisms for these modulations are unresolved. On the one hand, microsaccade rate drops within &lt;100 ms after stimulus onset, a phenomenon described as microsaccadic inhibition. On the other, the directions of the rare microsaccades that do occur during inhibition are, surprisingly, the most highly correlated with stimulus location. Here we show, using a combined computational and experimental approach, that these apparently dichotomous observations can simply result from a single mechanism: the phase resetting by stimulus onsets of ongoing microsaccadic oscillatory rhythms during fixation. Using experiments on monkeys and model simulations, we show that stimulus onsets act as countermanding stimuli, such as those in large saccadic countermanding tasks: they cancel an upcoming movement program and start a competing one, thus implementing phase resetting. We also show that the rare microsaccades occurring during microsaccadic inhibition are simply noncanceled movements in the countermanding framework and that they reflect the instantaneous state of visual representations expected in spatial maps representing stimuli. Remarkably, a dynamic interaction between the efficacy of the countermanding process and the metrics of the microsaccade being countermanded not only explains microsaccade rate changes, but it also predicts the time course patterns of microsaccade directions and amplitudes. Our parsimonious framework for understanding microsaccadic modulations around stimulus onsets allows analyzing microsaccades (and larger saccades) using the extensive toolkit of oscillatory dynamical systems often used for modeling spiking neurons, and it constrains neural models of microsaccade triggering.
Although several studies have investigated the neural mechanism of social comparison, it remains unclear whether and how cultural membership, particularly independent versus interdependent cultures, may differentially shape the neural processes underlying social comparison. In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we examined the behaviors and neural response patterns of Korean (i.e., interdependent culture) and American (i.e., independent culture) participants while performing a financial gambling task simultaneously and independently with a partner. Upon seeing the partner's income, greater modulation of the activity in the ventral striatum (VS) and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) by relative gain was observed in Korean than American participants, suggesting greater sensitivity of Koreans toward social comparison. The strength of functional connectivity between the VS and the vmPFC predicted individual variability in the degree to which participants' decisions were affected by relative incomes. Additional model-based fMRI analysis further confirmed the primary role of the vmPFC in biasing decisions based on relative incomes. In summary, the present study provides the first neural evidence for decision biases due to social comparison and their individual and cultural variations.
Transcallosal inhibitory interactions between primary motor cortices are important to suppress unintended movements in a resting limb during voluntary activation of the contralateral limb. The functional contribution of transcallosal inhibition targeting the voluntary active limb remains unknown. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we examined transcallosal inhibition [by measuring interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) and the ipsilateral silent period (iSP)] in the preparatory and execution phases of isotonic slower self-paced and ballistic movements performed by the ipsilateral index finger into abduction and the elbow into flexion in intact humans. We demonstrate decreased IHI in the preparatory phase of self-paced and ballistic index finger and elbow movements compared to rest; the decrease in IHI was larger during ballistic than self-paced movements. In contrast, in the execution phase, IHI and the iSP increased during ballistic compared to self-paced movements. Transcallosal inhibition was negatively correlated with reaction times in the preparatory phase and positively correlated with movement amplitude in the execution phase. Together, our results demonstrate a widespread contribution of transcallosal inhibition to ipsilateral movements of different speeds with a functional role during rapid movements; at faster speeds, decreased transcallosal inhibition in the preparatory phase may contribute to start movements rapidly, while the increase in the execution phase may contribute to stop the movement. We argue that transcallosal pathways enable signaling of the time of discrete behavioral events during ipsilateral movements, which is amplified by the speed of a movement.
The lateral intraparietal area (LIP) in the macaque contains a priority-based representation of the visual scene. We previously showed that the mean spike rate of LIP neurons is strongly influenced by spatially wide-ranging surround suppression in a manner that effectively sharpens the priority map. Reducing response variability can also improve the precision of LIP's priority map. We show that when a monkey plans a visually guided delayed saccade with an intervening distractor, variability (measured by the Fano factor) decreases both for neurons representing the saccade goal and for neurons representing the broad spatial surround. The reduction in Fano factor is maximal for neurons representing the saccade goal and steadily decreases for neurons representing more distant locations. LIP Fano factor changes are behaviorally significant: increasing expected reward leads to lower variability for the LIP representation of both the target and distractor locations, and trials with shorter latency saccades are associated with lower Fano factors in neurons representing the surround. Thus, the LIP Fano factor reflects both stimulus and behavioral engagement. Quantitative modeling shows that the interaction between mean spike count and target-receptive field (RF) distance in the surround during the predistractor epoch is multiplicative: the Fano factor increases more steeply with mean spike count further away from the RF. A negative-binomial model for LIP spike counts captures these findings quantitatively, suggests underlying mechanisms based on trial-by-trial variations in mean spike rate or burst-firing patterns, and potentially provides a principled framework to account simultaneously for the previously observed unsystematic relationships between spike rate and variability in different brain areas.
Sirtuins (SIRTs), class III histone deacetylases, are well characterized for their control of cellular physiology in peripheral tissues, but their influence in brain under normal and pathological conditions remains poorly understood. Here, we establish an essential role for SIRT1 and SIRT2 in regulating behavioral responses to cocaine and morphine through actions in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region. We show that chronic cocaine administration increases SIRT1 and SIRT2 expression in the mouse NAc, while chronic morphine administration induces SIRT1 expression alone, with no regulation of all other sirtuin family members observed. Drug induction of SIRT1 and SIRT2 is mediated in part at the transcriptional level via the drug-induced transcription factor FosB and is associated with robust histone modifications at the Sirt1 and Sirt2 genes. Viral-mediated overexpression of SIRT1 or SIRT2 in the NAc enhances the rewarding effects of both cocaine and morphine. In contrast, the local knockdown of SIRT1 from the NAc of floxed Sirt1 mice decreases drug reward. Such behavioral effects of SIRT1 occur in concert with its regulation of numerous synaptic proteins in NAc as well as with SIRT1-mediated induction of dendritic spines on NAc medium spiny neurons. These studies establish sirtuins as key mediators of the molecular and cellular plasticity induced by drugs of abuse in NAc, and of the associated behavioral adaptations, and point toward novel signaling pathways involved in drug action.
Amyloid- (A), major constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD), is generated by proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretase. Several lipids, especially cholesterol, are associated with AD. Phytosterols are naturally occurring cholesterol plant equivalents, recently been shown to cross the blood-brain-barrier accumulating in brain. Here, we investigated the effect of the most nutritional prevalent phytosterols and cholesterol on APP processing. In general, phytosterols are less amyloidogenic than cholesterol. However, only one phytosterol, stigmasterol, reduced A generation by (1) directly decreasing -secretase activity, (2) reducing expression of all -secretase components, (3) reducing cholesterol and presenilin distribution in lipid rafts implicated in amyloidogenic APP cleavage, and by (4) decreasing BACE1 internalization to endosomal compartments, involved in APP -secretase cleavage. Mice fed with stigmasterol-enriched diets confirmed protective effects in vivo, suggesting that dietary intake of phytosterol blends mainly containing stigmasterol might be beneficial in preventing AD.
The ability of animals to extract predictive information from the environment to inform their future actions is a critical component of decision-making. This phenomenon is studied in the laboratory using the pavlovian-instrumental transfer protocol in which a stimulus predicting a specific pavlovian outcome biases choice toward those actions earning the predicted outcome. It is well established that this transfer effect is mediated by corticolimbic afferents on the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc-S), and recent evidence suggests that -opioid receptors (DORs) play an essential role in this effect. In DOR-eGFP knock-in mice, we show a persistent, learning-related plasticity in the translocation of DORs to the somatic plasma membrane of cholinergic interneurons (CINs) in the NAc-S during the encoding of the specific stimulus-outcome associations essential for pavlovian-instrumental transfer. We found that increased membrane DOR expression reflected both stimulus-based predictions of reward and the degree to which these stimuli biased choice during the pavlovian-instrumental transfer test. Furthermore, this plasticity altered the firing pattern of CINs increasing the variance of action potential activity, an effect that was exaggerated by DOR stimulation. The relationship between the induction of membrane DOR expression in CINs and both pavlovian conditioning and pavlovian-instrumental transfer provides a highly specific function for DOR-related modulation in the NAc-S, and it is consistent with an emerging role for striatal CIN activity in the processing of predictive information. Therefore, our results reveal evidence of a long-term, experience-dependent plasticity in opioid receptor expression on striatal modulatory interneurons critical for the cognitive control of action.
In the primate visual system, the ganglion cells of the magnocellular pathway underlie motion and flicker detection and are relatively transient, while the more sustained ganglion cells of the parvocellular pathway have comparatively lower temporal resolution, but encode higher spatial frequencies. Although it is presumed that functional differences in bipolar cells contribute to the tuning of the two pathways, the properties of the relevant bipolar cells have not yet been examined in detail. Here, by making patch-clamp recordings in acute slices of macaque retina, we show that the bipolar cells within the magnocellular pathway, but not the parvocellular pathway, exhibit voltage-gated sodium (NaV), T-type calcium (CaV), and hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) currents, and can generate action potentials. Using immunohistochemistry in macaque and human retinae, we show that NaV1.1 is concentrated in an axon initial segment (AIS)-like region of magnocellular pathway bipolar cells, a specialization not seen in transient bipolar cells of other vertebrates. In contrast, CaV3.1 channels were localized to the somatodendritic compartment and proximal axon, but were excluded from the AIS, while HCN1 channels were concentrated in the axon terminal boutons. Simulations using a compartmental model reproduced physiological results and indicate that magnocellular pathway bipolar cells initiate spikes in the AIS. Finally, we demonstrate that NaV channels in bipolar cells augment excitatory input to parasol ganglion cells of the magnocellular pathway. Overall, the results demonstrate that selective expression of voltage-gated channels contributes to the establishment of parallel processing in the major visual pathways of the primate retina.
One of the largest treatment gaps for mental, neurological, and substance use (MNS) disorders in the world can be seen in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). According to the World Health Organization (WHO), about 80% of people with serious MNS disorders living in low- and middle-income countries do not receive needed health services. A critical barrier to bridge this treatment gap is the ability to provide adequate human resources for the delivery of essential interventions for MNS disorders. An international workshop was convened in 2009, by the U.S. Institute of Medicine (IOM) Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous Systems Disorders and the Uganda National Academy of Sciences (UNAS) Forum on Health and Nutrition, to bring together stakeholders from across SSA and to foster discussions about improving care for people suffering from MNS disorders and what steps, with potential for the greatest impact, might be considered to bridge the treatment gap. Due to the broad interest to further examine the treatment gap, the IOM forum organized a second workshop in Kampala, Uganda on September 4 and 5, 2012. The workshop's purpose was to discuss candidate core competencies that providers might need to help ensure the effective delivery of services for MNS disorders. The workshop focused specifically on depression, psychosis, epilepsy, and alcohol use disorders. Strengthening Human Resources Through Development of Candidate Core Competencies for Mental, Neurological, and Substance Use Disorders in Sub-Saharan Africa: Workshop Summary outlines the presentations and discussions by expert panelists and participants of the plenary sessions of the workshop. This summary includes an overview of challenges faced by MNS providers in the SSA, perspectives on the next steps, the 2009 workshop, and more.


The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a physical and metabolic entity that isolates the brain from the systemic circulation. The barrier consists of tight junctions between endothelial cells that contain egress transporters and catabolic enzymes. To cross the BBB, a drug must possess the appropriate physicochemical properties to achieve a sufficient time-concentration profile in brain interstitial fluid (ISF). In this overview, we review techniques to measure BBB permeation, which is evidenced by the free concentration of compound in brain ISF over time. We consider a number of measurement techniques, including in vivo microdialysis and brain receptor occupancy following perfusion. Consideration is also given to the endothelial and nonendothelial cell systems used to assess both the BBB permeation of a test compound and its interactions with egress transporters, and computer models employed for predicting passive permeation and the probability of interactions with BBB transporters.

Across ontogenetic development, individuals gather manifold experiences during which they detect regularities in their environment and thereby accumulate knowledge. This knowledge is used to guide behavior, make predictions, and acquire further new knowledge. In this review, we discuss the influence of prior knowledge on memory from both the psychology and the emerging cognitive neuroscience literature and provide a developmental perspective on this topic. Recent neuroscience findings point to a prominent role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and of the hippocampus (HC) in the emergence of prior knowledge and in its application during the processes of successful memory encoding, consolidation, and retrieval. We take the lateral PFC into consideration as well and discuss changes in both medial and lateral PFC and HC across development and postulate how these may be related to the development of the use of prior knowledge for remembering. For future direction, we argue that, to measure age differential effects of prior knowledge on memory, it is necessary to distinguish the availability of prior knowledge from its accessibility and use.
The neuropeptide, orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N or simply, nociceptin), is expressed in both neuronal and non-neuronal tissue, including the immune system. In the brain, OFQ/N has been investigated in relation to stress, anxiety, learning and memory, and addiction. More recently, it has also been found that OFQ/N influences glial cell functions, including oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and microglial cells. However, this latter research is relatively small, but potentially important, when observations regarding the relationship of OFQ/N to stress and emotional functions is taken into consideration and integrated with the growing evidence for its involvement in cells that mediate inflammatory events. This review will first provide an overview and understanding of how OFQ/N has been implicated in the HPA axis response to stress, followed by an understanding of its influence on natural and learned anxiety-like behavior. What emerges from an examination of the literature is a neuropeptide that appears to counteract anxiogenic influences, but paradoxically, without attenuating HPA axis responses generated in response to stress. Studies utilized both central administration of OFQ/N, which was shown to activate the HPA axis, as well as antagonism of NOP-R, the OFQ/N receptor. In contrast, antagonist or transgenic OFQ/N or NOP-R knockout studies, showed augmentation of HPA axis responses to stress, suggesting that OFQ/N may be needed to control the magnitude of the HPA axis response to stress. Investigations of behavior in standard exploratory tests of anxiogenic behavior (eg., elevated plus maze) or learned fear responses have suggested that OFQ/N is needed to attenuate fear or anxiety-like behavior. However, some discrepant observations, in particular, those that involve appetitive behaviors, suggest a failure of NOP-R deletion to increase anxiety. However, it is also suggested that OFQ/N may operate in an anxiolytic manner when initial anxiogenic triggers (eg., the neuropeptide CRH) are initiated. Finally, the regulatory functions of OFQ/N in relation to emotion-related behaviors may serve to counteract potential neuroinflammatory events in the brain. This appears to be evident within the glial cell environment of the brain, since OFQ/N has been shown to reduce the production of proinflammatory cellular and cytokine events. Given that both OFQ/N and glial cells are activated in response to stress, it is possible that there is a possible convergence of these two systems that has important repercussions for behavior and neuroplasticity.
It is well known that trauma is frequently accompanied by spontaneous functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, BBB scores showed a gradual return of locomotor functions after SCT. Proteomics analysis revealed 16 differential protein spots in the gastrocnemius muscle between SCT and normal rats. Of these differential proteins, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A1 (elf-5A1), a highly conserved molecule throughout eukaryotes, exhibited marked upregulation in the gastrocnemius muscle after SCT. To study the role of eIF-5A1 in the restoration of hindlimb locomotor functions following SCT, we used siRNA to downregulate the mRNA level of eIF-5A1. Compared with untreated SCT control rats, those subjected to eIF-5A1 knockdown exhibited impaired functional recovery. Moreover, gene expression microarrays and bioinformatic analysis showed high correlation between three main signal pathways (ErbB, MAPK and neurotrophin signal pathways) and eIF-5A1. These signal pathways regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and neurocyte growth. Consequently, eIF-5A1 played a pivotal role via these signal pathways in hindlimb locomotor functional recovery after SCT, which could pave the way for the development of a new strategy for the treatment of spinal cord injury in clinical trials.
When a visible frame is offset left or right of an observer's objective midline, subjective midline is pulled toward the frame's center, resulting in an illusion of perceived space known as the Roelofs effect. However, a large frame is not necessary to generate the effect-even a small peripheral stimulus is sufficient, raising the possibility that the effect would be brought about by any stimulus that draws attention away from the midline. To assess the relationship between attention and distortions of perceived space, we adopted a paradigm that included a spatial cue that attracted the participant's attention, and an occasional probe whose location was to be reported. If shifts of attention cause the Roelofs effect, the probe's perceived location should vary with the locus of attention. Exogenous attentional cues caused a Roelofs-like effect, but these cues created an asymmetry in the visual display that may have driven the effect directly. In contrast, there was no mislocation after endogenous cues that contained no asymmetry in the visual display. A final experiment used color-contingent attentional cues to eliminate the confound between cue location and asymmetry in the visual display, and provided a clear demonstration that the Roelofs effect is caused by an asymmetric visual display, independent of any shift of attention.
Understanding the architecture of mammalian brain at single-cell resolution is one of the key issues of neuroscience. However, mapping neuronal soma and projections throughout the whole brain is still challenging for imaging and data management technologies. Indeed, macroscopic volumes need to be reconstructed with high resolution and contrast in a reasonable time, producing datasets in the TeraByte range. We recently demonstrated an optical method (confocal light sheet microscopy, CLSM) capable of obtaining micron-scale reconstruction of entire mouse brains labeled with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). Combining light sheet illumination and confocal detection, CLSM allows deep imaging inside macroscopic cleared specimens with high contrast and speed. Here we describe the complete experimental pipeline to obtain comprehensive and human-readable images of entire mouse brains labeled with fluorescent proteins. The clearing and the mounting procedures are described, together with the steps to perform an optical tomography on its whole volume by acquiring many parallel adjacent stacks. We showed the usage of open-source custom-made software tools enabling stitching of the multiple stacks and multi-resolution data navigation. Finally, we illustrated some example of brain maps: the cerebellum from an L7-GFP transgenic mouse, in which all Purkinje cells are selectively labeled, and the whole brain from a thy1-GFP-M mouse, characterized by a random sparse neuronal labeling.




Social interactions provide agents with the opportunity to earn higher benefits than when acting alone and contribute to evolutionary stable strategies. A basic requirement for engaging in beneficial social interactions is to recognize the actor whose movement results in reward. Despite the recent interest in the neural basis of social interactions, the neurophysiological mechanisms identifying the actor in social reward situations are unknown. A brain structure well suited for exploring this issue is the striatum, which plays a role in movement, reward, and goal-directed behavior. In humans, the striatum is involved in social processes related to reward inequity, donations to charity, and observational learning. We studied the neurophysiology of social action for reward in rhesus monkeys performing a reward-giving task. The behavioral data showed that the animals distinguished between their own and the conspecific's reward and knew which individual acted. Striatal neurons coded primarily own reward but rarely other's reward. Importantly, the activations occurred preferentially, and in approximately similar fractions, when either the own or the conspecific's action was followed by own reward. Other striatal neurons showed social action coding without reward. Some of the social action coding disappeared when the conspecific's role was simulated by a computer, confirming a social rather than observational relationship. These findings demonstrate a role of striatal neurons in identifying the social actor and own reward in a social setting. These processes may provide basic building blocks underlying the brain's function in social interactions.
The ability to flexibly, rapidly, and accurately perform novel tasks is a hallmark of human behavior. In our everyday lives we are often faced with arbitrary instructions that we must understand and follow, and we are able to do so with remarkable ease. It has frequently been argued that this ability relies on symbol processing, which depends critically on the ability to represent variables and bind them to arbitrary values. Whereas symbol processing is a fundamental feature of all computer systems, it remains a mystery whether and how this ability is carried out by the brain. Here, we provide an example of how the structure and functioning of the prefrontal cortex/basal ganglia working memory system can support variable binding, through a form of indirection (akin to a pointer in computer science). We show how indirection enables the system to flexibly generalize its behavior substantially beyond its direct experience (i.e., systematicity). We argue that this provides a biologically plausible mechanism that approximates a key component of symbol processing, exhibiting both the flexibility, but also some of the limitations, that are associated with this ability in humans.
In schizophrenia, cognitive dysfunction is highly predictive of poor patient outcomes and is not responsive to current medications. Postmortem studies have suggested that cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are correlated with modifications in the number and size of inhibitory synapses. To test if these modifications lead to cognitive deficits, we have created a dominant-negative virus [adeno-associated (AAV)-DN1] that disrupts the clustering of -aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) at postsynaptic inhibitory specializations. When injected into the frontal cortex of mice, AAV-DN1 impairs GABA(A)R 2 subunit and GABA transporter 1 (GAT-1) clustering, but increases GABA(A)R 1 subunit clustering on the perisomatic region, with no influence on axon-initial segment clustering. Mice expressing AAV-DN1 have prepulse inhibition deficits and impairments in working memory. Significantly, these behavioral deficits are paralleled by a reduction in electroencephalography -power. Collectively, our study provides functional evidence revealing that GABAergic synapses in the prefrontal cortex directly contribute to cognition and -power.

PICK1 (protein interacting with C-kinase 1) is a peripheral membrane protein with high expression in brain, testis, pancreas and other neuroendocrine tissues. Male Pick1 knockout mice are completely infertile, with a phenotype resembling the human disease globozoospermia. Since PICK1 is expressed in both testis and neuroendocrine tissues, infertility of Pick1 knockout mice may be due to either impaired neuroendocrine function or abnormal spermatogenesis. To distinguish these two possibilities, we restored PICK1's expression in the testis by seminiferous tubule microinjection of PICK1-containing lentivirus. By examining the testis-specific Pick1 transgenic mice, we found that PICK1's expression in testis rescued the spermatogenic abnormalities and male infertility in Pick1 knockout mice. Our results indicate that the infertility is caused by the lack of PICK1 in the testis rather than in other organs. In addition, we found that seminiferous tubule microinjection of lentivirus has a strong preference to produce testis-specific transgenic mice.
The NMDA receptor family of glutamate receptor ion channels is formed by obligate heteromeric assemblies of GluN1, GluN2, and GluN3 subunits. GluN1 and GluN3 bind glycine, whereas GluN2 binds glutamate. Crystal structures of the GluN1 and GluN3A ligand-binding domains (LBDs) in their apo states unexpectedly reveal open- and closed-cleft conformations, respectively, with water molecules filling the binding pockets. Computed conformational free energy landscapes for GluN1, GluN2A, and GluN3A LBDs reveal that the apo-state LBDs sample closed-cleft conformations, suggesting that their agonists bind via a conformational selection mechanism. By contrast, free energy landscapes for the AMPA receptor GluA2 LBD suggest binding of glutamate via an induced-fit mechanism. Principal component analysis reveals a rich spectrum of hinge bending, rocking, twisting, and sweeping motions that are different for the GluN1, GluN2A, GluN3A, and GluA2 LBDs. This variation highlights the structural complexity of signaling by glutamate receptor ion channels.
The dynorphin opioid peptides control glutamate neurotransmission in the hippocampus. Alcohol-induced dysregulation of this circuit may lead to impairments in spatial learning and memory. This study examines whether changes in the hippocampal dynorphin and glutamate systems are related, and contribute to impairment of spatial learning and memory in a rat model of cognitive deficit associated with alcohol binge drinking. Hippocampal dynorphins (radioimmunoassay) and glutamate (in vivo microdialysis) were analyzed in Wistar rats exposed to repeated moderate-dose ethanol bouts that impair spatial learning and memory in the Water Maze Task (WMT). The highly selective, long-acting -opioid receptor (KOR) antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) was administered systemically or into the hippocampal CA3 region to test a role of dynorphins in alcohol-induced dysregulations in glutamate neurotransmission and behavior in the WMT. The ethanol treatment impaired learning and memory, upregulated dynorphins and increased glutamate overflow in the CA3 region. Administration of nor-BNI after cessation of ethanol exposure reversed ethanol-induced changes in glutamate neurotransmission in animals exposed to ethanol and normalized their performance in the WMT. The findings suggest that impairments of spatial learning and memory by binge-like ethanol exposure are mediated through the KOR activation by upregulated dynorphins resulting in elevation in glutamate levels. Selective KOR antagonists may correct alcohol-induced pathological processes, thus representing a novel pharmacotherapy for treating of ethanol-related cognitive deficits.





Surgical procedures as a prelude to optical imaging are a rate-limiting step in experimental neuroscience. Towards automation of these procedures, we describe the use of nonlinear optical techniques to create a thinned skull window for transcranial imaging. Metrology by second harmonic generation was used to map the surfaces of the skull and define a cutting path. Plasma-mediated laser ablation was utilized to cut bone. Mice prepared with these techniques were used to image subsurface cortical vasculature and blood flow. The viability of the brain tissue was confirmed via histological analysis and supports the utility of solely optical techniques for osteotomy and potentially other surgical procedures.








Among glioma treatment strategies, 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-based fluorescence-guided resection (FGR) and photodynamic therapy (PDT) have been used as effective novel approaches against malignant glioma. However, insufficient intracellular protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) accumulation limits the application of FGR and PDT in the marginal areas of gliomas. To overcome these issues, we assessed the intracellular levels of PpIX in human glioma cell lines and rat cortical astrocytes pretreated with 0.1M arsenic trioxide (ATO). Apoptosis and cell viability after PDT were evaluated using Annexin V-FITC apoptosis detection kit and MTT assay, respectively. In order to find out the possible mechanism, we investigated the expression of the key enzymes in the heme biosynthesis pathway, which regulates porphyrin synthesis in glioma cells. Our findings showed that the 5-ALA-induced PpIX accumulation in glioma cell lines pretreated with 0.1M ATO was increased relative to the control groups. No changes in fluorescence intensity were detected in the rat cortical astrocytes pretreated using the same ATO concentration. Apoptosis following PDT in glioma cells pretreated with 0.1M ATO were significantly higher than in control groups, especially late apoptotic cells, while the cell viability was decreased. The expression of CPOX was upregulated in glioma cells after pretreatment with 0.1M ATO. We concluded that ATO was a potential optional approach in enhancing intracellular PpIX accumulation and improving the benefits of 5-ALA-induced FGR and PDT in glioma.
Multiple sclerosis is a major cause of neurological disability, and particularly occurs in young adults. It is characterised by conspicuous patches of damage throughout the brain and spinal cord, with loss of myelin and myelinating cells (oligodendrocytes), and damage to neurons and axons. Multiple sclerosis is incurable, but stem-cell therapy might offer valuable therapeutic potential. Efforts to develop stem-cell therapies for multiple sclerosis have been conventionally built on the principle of direct implantation of cells to replace oligodendrocytes, and therefore to regenerate myelin. Recent progress in understanding of disease processes in multiple sclerosis include observations that spontaneous myelin repair is far more widespread and successful than was previously believed, that loss of axons and neurons is more closely associated with progressive disability than is myelin loss, and that damage occurs diffusely throughout the CNS in grey and white matter, not just in discrete, isolated patches or lesions. These findings have introduced new and serious challenges that stem-cell therapy needs to overcome; the practical challenges to achieve cell replacement alone are difficult enough, but, to be useful, cell therapy for multiple sclerosis must achieve substantially more than the replacement of lost oligodendrocytes. However, parallel advances in understanding of the reparative properties of stem cells--including their distinct immunomodulatory and neuroprotective properties, interactions with resident or tissue-based stem cells, cell fusion, and neurotrophin elaboration--offer renewed hope for development of cell-based therapies. Additionally, these advances suggest avenues for translation of this approach not only for multiple sclerosis, but also for other common neurological and neurodegenerative diseases.


Recent studies demonstrated that the antihypertensive drug Valsartan improved spatial and episodic memory in mouse models of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and human subjects with hypertension. However, the molecular mechanism by which Valsartan can regulate cognitive function is still unknown. Here, we investigated the effect of Valsartan on dendritic spine formation in primary hippocampal neurons, which is correlated with learning and memory. Interestingly, we found that Valsartan promotes spinogenesis in developing and mature neurons. In addition, we found that Valsartan increases the puncta number of PSD-95 and trends toward an increase in the puncta number of synaptophysin. Moreover, Valsartan increased the cell surface levels of AMPA receptors and selectively altered the levels of spinogenesis-related proteins, including CaMKII and phospho-CDK5. These data suggest that Valsartan may promote spinogenesis by enhancing AMPA receptor trafficking and synaptic plasticity signaling.
Synthetic glucocorticoids, like dexamethasone (dex), restrict growth of the fetus and program its adult physiology, in part by altering placental phenotype. The route and timing of dex administration determine the fetal and adult outcomes, but whether these factors affect placental phenotype remains unknown. This study compared placental morphology, amino acid transport, and gene expression in mice given dex orally or by subcutaneous injection over the periods of most rapid placental (Days [D] 11-16) or fetal (D14-19) growth (term is D21). Compared with untreated and saline-injected controls, both dex treatments reduced placental weight at D16 and 19 and fetal weight and total labyrinthine volume at D19 to a similar extent. Only oral dex treatment from D11 to D16 reduced labyrinthine fetal capillary volume on D16 and increased placental C-methylaminoisobutyric acid (MeAIB) clearance at D19, 3 days after treatment ended. Neither route of dex treatment altered placental expression of Slc38a, Hsd11b, or the glucocorticoid receptor, Nr3c1, at D16. In contrast, both routes of dex treatment from D14 to D19 increased placental Hsd11b2 expression and labyrinthine maternal vessel volume. Furthermore, injection per se altered placental expression of Nr3c1, Hsd11b1, and specific Slc38a isoforms in an age-related manner. Overall, MeAIB clearance was not related to Slc38a transporter expression but was correlated inversely with maternal corticosterone concentrations when dex was undetectable in maternal plasma at D19. The effects of dex on placental phenotype, therefore, depend on both the route and timing of administration and may relate to local glucocorticoid availability during and after the treatment period.
We briefly identify several critical issues in current computational neuroscience, and present our opinions on potential solutions based on bioimage informatics, especially automated image computing.


Neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R) mediates down-regulation of human norepinephrine (NE) transporter (hNET) via protein kinase C (PKC). However, native NET regulation by NK1R and the mechanism by which NK1R targets NET among other potential effectors are unknown. Effect of NK1R activation on native NET regulation and NET/NK1R interaction were studied using rat brain synaptosomes expressing native NET and NK1R as well as human placental trophoblast (HTR) cells coexpressing WT-hNET or NK1R/PKC-resistant hNET-T258A,S259A double mutant (NET-DM) and hNK1R. The selective NK1R agonist, GR73632, and Substance-P (SP) inhibited NE transport and reduced plasma membrane expression of NET and NK1R. Pretreatment with the NK1R antagonist, EMEND (aprepitant) prevented these NK1R-mediated effects. Immunoprecipitation experiments showed that NET forms stable complexes with NK1R. In HTR cells, combined biotinylation and immunoprecipitation studies revealed plasma membrane localization of NETNK1R complexes. Receptor activation resulted in the internalization of NETNK1R complexes. Lipid raft and immunoprecipitation analyses revealed the presence of NETNK1R complexes exclusively in non-raft membrane fractions under basal/unstimulated conditions. However, NK1R activation led to translocation of NETNK1R complexes to raft-rich membrane fractions. Importantly, PKC was found in association with raft-localized NET following SP treatment. Similar to WT-NET, PKC-resistant NET-DM was found in association with NK1R exclusively in non-raft fractions. However, SP treatment failed to translocate NET-DMNK1R complexes from non-raft fractions to raft fractions. Collectively, these results suggest that NK1R forms physical complexes with NET and that the receptor-mediated Thr(258) + Ser(259) motif-dependent translocation of NETNK1R complexes into raft-rich microdomains facilitates NET/NK1R interaction with PKC to coordinate spatially restricted NET regulation.
Neonatal overnutrition results in accelerated development of high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic defects in adulthood. To understand whether the increased susceptibility was associated with aggravated inflammation and dysregulated lipid metabolism, we studied metabolic changes and insulin signaling in a chronic postnatal overnutrition (CPO) mouse model. Male Swiss Webster pups were raised with either three pups per litter to induce CPO or ten pups per litter as control (CTR) and weaned to either low-fat diet (LFD) or HFD. All animals were killed on the postnatal day 150 (P150) except for a subset of mice killed on P15 for the measurement of stomach weight and milk composition. CPO mice exhibited accelerated body weight gain and increased body fat mass prior to weaning and the difference persisted into adulthood under conditions of both LFD and HFD. As adults, insulin signaling was more severely impaired in epididymal white adipose tissue (WAT) from HFD-fed CPO (CPO-HFD) mice. In addition, HFD-induced upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines was exaggerated in CPO-HFD mice. Consistent with greater inflammation, CPO-HFD mice showed more severe macrophage infiltration than HFD-fed CTR (CTR-HFD) mice. Furthermore, when compared with CTR-HFD mice, CPO-HFD mice exhibited reduced levels of several lipogenic enzymes in WAT and excess intramyocellular lipid accumulation. These data indicate that neonatal overnutrition accelerates the development of insulin resistance and exacerbates HFD-induced metabolic defects, possibly by worsening HFD-induced inflammatory response and impaired lipid metabolism.
Mitochondria are implicated in a variety of degenerative disorders and aging. Mitochondria are responsive to the oxygen in their environment, yet tissue culture is performed at atmospheric (21%) oxygen and not at physiological (1-11%) oxygen levels found in tissues. We employed imaging of mitochondrial probes, mass spectrometry, Western blots, and ATP assays of the human neuroblastoma cell-line SH-SY5Y and imaging of mitochondrial probes in human primary neurons under standard nonphysiological oxygen conditions (atmospheric) and under physiological oxygen levels in the nervous system to assess the impact of oxygen on mitochondrial function. SH-SY5Y cells cultured in physiological 5% oxygen exhibited the lowest reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, indicating that culture at 5% oxygen is favored; these results were mimicked in primary human cells. Mass spectrometric analysis revealed extensive mitochondrial proteomic alterations in SH-SY5Y cells based on oxygen culture condition. Among these, the rotenone-sensitive subunit of complex I NDUFV3 was increased in cells cultured at 5% oxygen. Rotenone is a Parkinson's disease-linked toxin, and correspondingly SH-SY5Y cells cultured at 5% oxygen also exhibited over 10 times greater sensitivity to rotenone than those cultured in atmospheric, 21%, oxygen. Our results indicate that neuronal mitochondria are responsive to oxygen levels and produce differential responses under different oxygen levels.
When a red star is placed in the middle of an Ehrenstein figure so as to be collinear with the surrounding black rays, a reddish veil is perceived to fill the white center. This is called neon color spreading. To better understand the processes that give rise to this phenomenon, we studied the temporal properties of the effect. Specifically, we presented a &quot;sustained&quot; black Ehrenstein figure (rays) for 600 ms and a &quot;transient&quot; red star for 48 ms, or the converse pattern, at various stimulus onset asynchronies (-100-700 ms) and asked subjects to compare the strength of the neon color in the test stimulus to that of a reference pattern in which the transient star had an onset asynchrony of 300 ms. Additional exposure durations of 24 and 96 ms were used for each transient stimulus in order to study the effect of temporal integration. Simultaneity of the on- and off-transients of the star and the Ehrenstein rays were found to optimize neon color spreading, especially when both stimuli terminated together. Longer exposure durations of the transient stimulus up to 96 ms further improved the effect. Neon color spreading was much reduced when the transient stimulus was presented soon after the beginning of the sustained stimulus, with a gradual build-up towards the end. These results emphasize the importance of stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) and stimulus termination asynchrony (STA) for the perception of neon color spreading.




The potential to use Schwann cells (SCs) in neural repair for patients suffering from neurotrauma and neurodegenerative diseases is well recognized. However, significant cell death after transplantation hinders the clinical translation of SC-based therapies. Various factors may contribute to the death of transplanted cells. It is known that prolonged activation of P2X7 purinoceptors (P2X7R) can lead to death of certain types of cells. In this study, we show that rat SCs express P2X7R and exposure of cultured SCs to high concentrations of ATP (3-5 mM) or a P2X7R agonist, 2'(3')-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)ATP (BzATP) induced significant cell death rapidly. High concentrations of ATP and BzATP increased ethidium uptake by SCs, indicating increased membrane permeability to large molecules, a typical feature of prolonged P2X7R activation. SC death, as well as ethidium uptake, induced by ATP was blocked by an irreversible P2X7R antagonist oxidized ATP (oxATP) or a reversible P2X7R antagonist A438079. oxATP also significantly inhibits the increase of intracellular free calcium induced by minimolar ATP concentrations. Furthermore, ATP did not cause death of SCs isolated from P2X7R-knockout mice. All these results suggest that P2X7R is responsible for ATP-induced SC death in vitro. When rat SCs were treated with oxATP before transplantation into uninjured rat spinal cord, 35% more SCs survived than untreated SCs 1 week after transplantation. Moreover, 58% more SCs isolated from P2X7R-knockout mice survived after being transplanted into rat spinal cord than SCs from wild-type mice. This further confirms that P2X7R is involved in the death of transplanted SCs. These results indicate that targeting P2X7R on SCs could be a potential strategy to improve the survival of transplanted cells. As many other types of cells, including neural stem cells, also express P2X7R, deactivating P2X7R may improve the survival of other types of transplanted cells.
Transcription factors and chromatin modifiers are known to contribute to cell specification. However, whether and how they jointly act is poorly understood. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Ninkovic etal. show that Pax6 and Brg1 cooperate to modulate gene expression in order to direct neurogenic fate in the olfactory bulb.




Deleterious sustained inflammation mediated by activated microglia is common to most of neurologic disorders. Here, we identified sirtuin 2 (SIRT2), an abundant deacetylase in the brain, as a major inhibitor of microglia-mediated inflammation and neurotoxicity. SIRT2-deficient mice (SIRT2(-/-)) showed morphological changes in microglia and an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines upon intracortical injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This response was associated with increased nitrotyrosination and neuronal cell death. Interestingly, manipulation of SIRT2 levels in microglia determined the response to Toll-like receptor (TLR) activation. SIRT2 overexpression inhibited microglia activation in a process dependent on serine 331 (S331) phosphorylation. Conversely, reduction of SIRT2 in microglia dramatically increased the expression of inflammatory markers, the production of free radicals, and neurotoxicity. Consistent with increased NF-B-dependent transcription of inflammatory genes, NF-B was found hyperacetylated in the absence of SIRT2, and became hypoacetylated in the presence of S331A mutant SIRT2. This finding indicates that SIRT2 functions as a 'gatekeeper', preventing excessive microglial activation through NF-B deacetylation. Our data uncover a novel role for SIRT2 opening new perspectives for therapeutic intervention in neuroinflammatory disorders.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a potent lipid signaling molecule, modulates inflammatory responses through activation of downstream G-protein coupled EP(1-4) receptors. Here, we investigated the cell-specific in vivo function of PGE2 signaling through its E-prostanoid 2 (EP2) receptor in murine innate immune responses systemically and in the CNS. In vivo, systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) resulted in a broad induction of cytokines and chemokines in plasma that was significantly attenuated in EP2-deficient mice. Ex vivo stimulation of peritoneal macrophages with LPS elicited proinflammatory responses that were dependent on EP2 signaling and that overlapped with in vivo plasma findings, suggesting that myeloid-lineage EP2 signaling is a major effector of innate immune responses. Conditional deletion of the EP2 receptor in myeloid lineage cells in Cd11bCre;EP2(lox/lox) mice attenuated plasma inflammatory responses and transmission of systemic inflammation to the brain was inhibited, with decreased hippocampal inflammatory gene expression and cerebral cortical levels of IL-6. Conditional deletion of EP2 significantly blunted microglial and astrocytic inflammatory responses to the neurotoxin MPTP and reduced striatal dopamine turnover. Suppression of microglial EP2 signaling also increased numbers of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra independent of MPTP treatment, suggesting that microglial EP2 may influence development or survival of DA neurons. Unbiased microarray analysis of microglia isolated from adult Cd11bCre;EP2(lox/lox) and control mice demonstrated a broad downregulation of inflammatory pathways with ablation of microglial EP2 receptor. Together, these data identify a cell-specific proinflammatory role for macrophage/microglial EP2 signaling in innate immune responses systemically and in brain.
In natural scenes, objects rarely occur in isolation but appear within a spatiotemporal context. Here, we show that the perceived size of a stimulus is significantly affected by the context of the scene: brief previous presentation of larger or smaller adapting stimuli at the same region of space changes the perceived size of a test stimulus, with larger adapting stimuli causing the test to appear smaller than veridical and vice versa. In a human fMRI study, we measured the blood oxygen level-dependent activation (BOLD) responses of the primary visual cortex (V1) to the contours of large-diameter stimuli and found that activation closely matched the perceptual rather than the retinal stimulus size: the activated area of V1 increased or decreased, depending on the size of the preceding stimulus. A model based on local inhibitory V1 mechanisms simulated the inward or outward shifts of the stimulus contours and hence the perceptual effects. Our findings suggest that area V1 is actively involved in reshaping our perception to match the short-term statistics of the visual scene.
Linguistic content can be conveyed both in speech and in writing. But how similar is the neural processing when the same real-life information is presented in spoken and written form? Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we recorded neural responses from human subjects who either listened to a 7 min spoken narrative or read a time-locked presentation of its transcript. Next, within each brain area, we directly compared the response time courses elicited by the written and spoken narrative. Early visual areas responded selectively to the written version, and early auditory areas to the spoken version of the narrative. In addition, many higher-order parietal and frontal areas demonstrated strong selectivity, responding far more reliably to either the spoken or written form of the narrative. By contrast, the response time courses along the superior temporal gyrus and inferior frontal gyrus were remarkably similar for spoken and written narratives, indicating strong modality-invariance of linguistic processing in these circuits. These results suggest that our ability to extract the same information from spoken and written forms arises from a mixture of selective neural processes in early (perceptual) and high-order (control) areas, and modality-invariant responses in linguistic and extra-linguistic areas.
The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) is an integral locus for morphine action. Although it is clear that glia contribute to the development of morphine tolerance, to date, the investigation of their role has been limited to spinal and medullary loci. Opioids induce a neuroinflammatory response that opposes acute and long-term analgesia, thereby limiting their efficacy as therapeutic agents. Recent data suggest that the innate immune receptor Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), along with its coreceptor myeloid differentiation factor-2 (MD-2), mediates these effects. To date, the brain loci through which TLR4 modulates morphine tolerance have not been identified. We have previously demonstrated that chronic subcutaneous morphine results in tolerance that is accompanied by increases in vlPAG glial cell activity. Using in vivo pharmacological manipulations of vlPAG glia and TLR4 in the adult male rat, we show that intra-vlPAG administration of the general glial cell metabolic inhibitor propentofylline or the astrocyte activity inhibitor fluorocitrate attenuate tolerance to morphine. Characterization of MD-2 expression within the PAG revealed dense MD-2 expression throughout the vlPAG. Further, antagonizing vlPAG TLR4 dose dependently prevented the development of morphine tolerance, and vlPAG microinjections of TLR4 agonists dose dependently produced a &quot;naive&quot; tolerance to subsequent challenge doses of morphine. Finally, using a model of persistent inflammatory pain and pharmacological manipulation of TLR4 we demonstrate that systemic antagonism of TLR4 potentiated acute morphine antihyperalgesia. These results, together, indicate that vlPAG glia regulate morphine tolerance development via TLR4 signaling, and implicate TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of pain.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a target-derived neurotrophic growth factor that controls many aspects of sensory and sympathetic neuronal development. The identification of transcription factors and downstream target genes that mediate NGF-dependent neuronal differentiation and target field innervation is currently a major challenge. Here, we show that the Pea3 transcription factor family members Etv4 and Etv5 are expressed by developing TrkA-positive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons during the period of target innervation. Real-time PCR assays indicated that Etv4 and Etv5 mRNAs are significantly induced by NGF in different neuronal cells, suggesting that they could be involved in the biological responses induced by this neurotrophin. Interestingly, distal axon application of NGF in compartmentalized cultures of rat DRG sensory neurons was sufficient to induce a significant increase in Etv4 and Etv5 mRNA expression. Pharmacological assays also revealed that activation of MEK/ERK (MAPK) pathway is required for Etv4 and Etv5 gene induction in response to NGF. Downregulation of Etv4 and Etv5 using small interference RNA knockdown experiments inhibited NGF-induced neurite outgrowth of rat sensory neurons, while overexpression of full-length Etv4 or Etv5 potentiated neuronal differentiation in response to this neurotrophin. Together, these data establish Etv4 and Etv5 as essential molecules of the transcriptional program linking neurotrophin signaling to sensory neuronal differentiation, and suggest that they can be involved in NGF-mediated target innervation.
Pain's complex influence on behavior implies that it involves an action component, although little is known about how the human brain adaptively translates painful sensations into actions. The consistent activation of premotor and motor-related regions during pain, including the midcingulate cortex (MCC), raises the question of whether these areas contribute to an action component. In this fMRI experiment, we controlled for voluntary action-related processing during pain by introducing a motor task during painful or nonpainful stimulation. The MCC (particularly the caudal cingulate motor zone [CCZ]), motor cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum responded during action regardless of pain. Crucially, however, these regions did not respond to pain unless an action was performed. Reaction times were fastest during painful stimulation and correlated with CCZ activation. These findings are consistent with the results of an activation likelihood estimate meta-analysis in which activation across experiments involving pain, action execution, or action preparation (with a total of 4929 subjects) converged in a similar network. These findings suggest that specific motor-related areas, including the CCZ, play a vital role in the control and execution of context-sensitive behavioral responses to pain. In contrast, bilateral insular cortex responded to pain stimulation regardless of action.
Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) and other conventional Hebbian-type plasticity rules are prone to produce runaway dynamics of synaptic weights. Once potentiated, a synapse would have higher probability to lead to spikes and thus to be further potentiated, but once depressed, a synapse would tend to be further depressed. The runaway synaptic dynamics can be prevented by precisely balancing STDP rules for potentiation and depression; however, experimental evidence shows a great variety of potentiation and depression windows and magnitudes. Here we show that modifications of synapses to layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons from rat visual and auditory cortices in slices can be induced by intracellular tetanization: bursts of postsynaptic spikes without presynaptic stimulation. Induction of these heterosynaptic changes depended on the rise of intracellular calcium, and their direction and magnitude correlated with initial state of release mechanisms. We suggest that this type of plasticity serves as a mechanism that stabilizes the distribution of synaptic weights and prevents their runaway dynamics. To test this hypothesis, we develop a cortical neuron model implementing both homosynaptic (STDP) and heterosynaptic plasticity with properties matching the experimental data. We find that heterosynaptic plasticity effectively prevented runaway dynamics for the tested range of STDP and input parameters. Synaptic weights, although shifted from the original, remained normally distributed and nonsaturated. Our study presents a biophysically constrained model of how the interaction of different forms of plasticity--Hebbian and heterosynaptic--may prevent runaway synaptic dynamics and keep synaptic weights unsaturated and thus capable of further plastic changes and formation of new memories.
A hallmark of voluntary motor control is the ability to adjust motor patterns for novel mechanical or visuomotor contexts. Recent work has also highlighted the importance of feedback for voluntary control, leading to the hypothesis that feedback responses should adapt when we learn new motor skills. We tested this prediction with a novel paradigm requiring that human subjects adapt to a viscous elbow load while reaching to three targets. Target 1 required combined shoulder and elbow motion, target 2 required only elbow motion, and target 3 (probe target) required shoulder but no elbow motion. This simple approach controlled muscle activity at the probe target before, during, and after the application of novel elbow loads. Our paradigm allowed us to perturb the elbow during reaching movements to the probe target and identify several key properties of adapted stretch responses. Adapted long-latency responses expressed (de-) adaptation similar to reaching errors observed when we introduced (removed) the elbow load. Moreover, reaching errors during learning correlated with changes in the long-latency response, showing subjects who adapted more to the elbow load displayed greater modulation of their stretch responses. These adapted responses were sensitive to the size and direction of the viscous training load. Our results highlight an important link between the adaptation of feedforward and feedback control and suggest a key part of motor adaptation is to adjust feedback responses to the requirements of novel motor skills.
Inflammation has been implicated in the progression of neurological disease, yet precisely how inflammation affects neuronal function remains unclear. Tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) is a proinflammatory cytokine that regulates synapse function by controlling neurotransmitter receptor trafficking and homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Here we characterize the mechanisms through which TNF regulates inhibitory synapse function in mature rat and mouse hippocampal neurons. Acute application of TNF induces a rapid and persistent decrease of inhibitory synaptic strength and downregulation of cell-surface levels of GABA(A)Rs containing 1, 2, 2/3, and 2 subunits. We show that trafficking of GABA(A)Rs in response to TNF is mediated by neuronally expressed TNF receptor 1 and requires activation of p38 MAPK, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), and dynamin GTPase. Furthermore, TNF enhances the association of PP1 with GABA(A)R 3 subunits and dephosphorylates a site on 3 known to regulate phospho-dependent interactions with the endocytic machinery. Conversely, we find that calcineurin and PP2A are not essential components of the signaling pathway and that clustering of the scaffolding protein gephyrin is only reduced after the initial receptor endocytosis. Together, these findings demonstrate a distinct mechanism of regulated GABA(A)R endocytosis that may contribute to the disruption of circuit homeostasis under neuroinflammatory conditions.
Bursts of dendritic calcium spikes play an important role in excitability and synaptic plasticity in many types of neurons. In single Purkinje cells, spontaneous and synaptically evoked dendritic calcium bursts come in a variety of shapes with a variable number of spikes. The mechanisms causing this variability have never been investigated thoroughly. In this study, a detailed computational model using novel simulation routines is applied to identify the roles that stochastic ion channels, spatial arrangements of ion channels, and stochastic intracellular calcium have toward producing calcium burst variability. Consistent with experimental recordings from rats, strong variability in the burst shape is observed in simulations. This variability persists in large model sizes in contrast to models containing only voltage-gated channels, where variability reduces quickly with increase of system size. Phase plane analysis of Hodgkin-Huxley spikes and of calcium bursts identifies fluctuation in phase space around probabilistic phase boundaries as the mechanism determining the dependence of variability on model size. Stochastic calcium dynamics are the main cause of calcium burst fluctuations, specifically the calcium activation of mslo/BK-type and SK2 channels. Local variability of calcium concentration has a significant effect at larger model sizes. Simulations of both spontaneous and synaptically evoked calcium bursts in a reconstructed dendrite show, in addition, strong spatial and temporal variability of voltage and calcium, depending on morphological properties of the dendrite. Our findings suggest that stochastic intracellular calcium mechanisms play a crucial role in dendritic calcium spike generation and are therefore an essential consideration in studies of neuronal excitability and plasticity.
Movement is accompanied by changes in the degree to which neurons in corticobasal ganglia loops synchronize their activity within discrete frequency ranges. Although two principal frequency bands--beta (15-30 Hz) and gamma (60-90 Hz)--have been implicated in motor control, the precise functional correlates of their activities remain unclear. Local field potential (LFP) recordings in humans with Parkinson's disease undergoing surgery for deep brain stimulation to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) indicate that spectral changes both anticipate movement and occur perimovement. The extent to which such changes are modulated by cognitive factors involved in making a correct response seems critical in characterizing the functional associations of these oscillations. Accordingly, by recording LFP activity from the STN in parkinsonian patients, we demonstrate that perimovement beta and gamma reactivity is modulated by task complexity in a dopamine-dependent manner, despite the dynamics of the movement remaining unchanged. In contrast, spectral changes occurring in anticipation of future movement were limited to the beta band and, although modulated by dopaminergic therapy, were not modulated by task complexity. Our findings suggest two dopamine-dependent processes indexed by spectral changes in the STN: (1) an anticipatory activity reflected in the beta band that signals the likelihood of future action but does not proactively change with the cognitive demands of the potential response, and (2) perimovement activity that involves reciprocal beta and gamma band changes and is not exclusively related to explicit motor processing. Rather perimovement activity can also vary with, and may reflect, the cognitive complexity of the task.
Risk is a ubiquitous feature of life. It plays an important role in economic decisions by affecting subjective reward value. Informed decisions require accurate risk information for each choice option. However, risk is often not constant but changes dynamically in the environment. Therefore, risk information should be updated to the current risk level. Potential mechanisms involve error-driven updating, whereby differences between current and predicted risk levels (risk prediction errors) are used to obtain currently accurate risk predictions. As a major reward structure, the orbitofrontal cortex is involved in coding key reward parameters such as reward value and risk. In this study, monkeys viewed different visual stimuli indicating specific levels of risk that deviated from the overall risk predicted by a common earlier stimulus. A group of orbitofrontal neurons displayed a risk signal that tracked the discrepancy between current and predicted risk. Such neuronal signals may be involved in the updating of risk information.
Principal cells in layer V of the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) have a nodal position in the cortical-hippocampal network. They are the main recipients of hippocampal output and receive inputs from several cortical areas, including a prominent one from the retrosplenial cortex (RSC), likely targeting basal dendrites of layer V neurons. The latter project to extrahippocampal structures but also relay information to the superficial layers of MEC, closing the hippocampal-entorhinal loop. In the rat, we electrophysiologically and morphologically characterized RSC input into MEC and conclude that RSC provides an excitatory input to layer V pyramidal cells. Ultrastructural analyses of anterogradely labeled RSC projections showed that RSC axons in layer V of MEC form predominantly asymmetrical, likely excitatory, synapses on dendritic spines (90%) or shafts (8%), with 2% symmetrical, likely inhibitory, synapses on shafts and spines. The overall excitatory nature of the RSC input was confirmed by an optogenetic approach. Patterned laser stimulation of channelrhodopsin-expressing presynaptic RSC axons evoked exclusively EPSPs in recorded postsynaptic layer V cells. All responding layer V pyramidal cells had an axon extending toward the white matter. Half of these neurons also sent an axon to superficial layers. Confocal imaging of RSC synapses onto MEC layer V neurons shown to project superficially by way of retrogradely labeling from superficial layers confirmed that proximal dendrites of superficially projecting cells are among the targets of inputs from RSC. The excitatory RSC input thus interacts with both entorhinal-cortical and entorhinal-hippocampal circuits.
Shank3, which encodes a scaffolding protein at glutamatergic synapses, is a genetic risk factor for autism. In this study, we examined the impact of Shank3 deficiency on the NMDA-type glutamate receptor, a key player in cognition and mental illnesses. We found that knockdown of Shank3 with a small interfering RNA (siRNA) caused a significant reduction of NMDAR-mediated ionic or synaptic current, as well as the surface expression of NR1 subunits, in rat cortical cultures. The effect of Shank3 siRNA on NMDAR currents was blocked by an actin stabilizer, and was occluded by an actin destabilizer, suggesting the involvement of actin cytoskeleton. Since actin dynamics is regulated by the GTPase Rac1 and downstream effector p21-activated kinase (PAK), we further examined Shank3 regulation of NMDARs when Rac1 or PAK was manipulated. We found that the reducing effect of Shank3 siRNA on NMDAR currents was mimicked and occluded by specific inhibitors for Rac1 or PAK, and was blocked by constitutively active Rac1 or PAK. Immunocytochemical data showed a strong reduction of F-actin clusters after Shank3 knockdown, which was occluded by a PAK inhibitor. Inhibiting cofilin, the primary downstream target of PAK and a major actin depolymerizing factor, prevented Shank3 siRNA from reducing NMDAR currents and F-actin clusters. Together, these results suggest that Shank3 deficiency induces NMDAR hypofunction by interfering with the Rac1/PAK/cofilin/actin signaling, leading to the loss of NMDAR membrane delivery or stability. It provides a potential mechanism for the role of Shank3 in cognitive deficit in autism.
Development of orientation maps in ferret and cat primary visual cortex (V1) has been shown to be stable, in that the earliest measurable maps are similar in form to the eventual adult map, robust, in that similar maps develop in both dark rearing and in a variety of normal visual environments, and yet adaptive, in that the final map pattern reflects the statistics of the specific visual environment. How can these three properties be reconciled? Using mechanistic models of the development of neural connectivity in V1, we show for the first time that realistic stable, robust, and adaptive map development can be achieved by including two low-level mechanisms originally motivated from single-neuron results. Specifically, contrast-gain control in the retinal ganglion cells and the lateral geniculate nucleus reduces variation in the presynaptic drive due to differences in input patterns, while homeostatic plasticity of V1 neuron excitability reduces the postsynaptic variability in firing rates. Together these two mechanisms, thought to be applicable across sensory systems in general, lead to biological maps that develop stably and robustly, yet adapt to the visual environment. The modeling results suggest that topographic map stability is a natural outcome of low-level processes of adaptation and normalization. The resulting model is more realistic, simpler, and far more robust, and is thus a good starting point for future studies of cortical map development.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) play a critical role in learning and memory; however, there is a lack of evidence for a direct relationship between a well characterized decline in NMDAR function and impaired cognition during aging. The present study was designed to test the idea that a redox-mediated decrease in the NMDAR component of synaptic transmission during aging is related to a specific cognitive phenotype: impaired memory for rapidly acquired novel spatial information. Young and middle-aged male F344 rats were provided 1 d of training on the spatial version of the water maze, and retention was examined 24 h later. The performance of young rats was used as a criterion for classifying middle-aged rats as impaired and unimpaired on the task. Subsequent construction of CA3-CA1 synaptic input-output curves in hippocampal slices confirmed an age-related decrease in synaptic responses, including the NMDAR component of synaptic transmission. Examination of synaptic transmission according to behavioral classification revealed that animals classified as impaired exhibited a decrease in the total and the NMDAR component of the synaptic response relative to unimpaired animals. Furthermore, bath application of the reducing agent dithiothreitol increased the NMDAR component of the synaptic response to a greater extent in impaired animals relative to unimpaired and young rats. These results provide evidence for a link between the redox-mediated decline in NMDAR function and emergence of an age-related cognitive phenotype, impairment in the rapid acquisition and retention of novel spatial information.
Fragile X syndrome, the most common form of heritable mental retardation, is a developmental disorder with known effects within sensory systems. Altered developmental plasticity has been reported in the visual and somatosensory systems in Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mice. Behavioral studies have revealed maladaptive auditory responses in fragile X syndrome patients and Fmr1 KO mice, suggesting that adaptive plasticity may also be impaired in the auditory system. Here we show that, whereas tonotopic frequency representation develops normally in Fmr1 KO mice, developmental plasticity in primary auditory cortex is grossly impaired. This deficit can be rescued by pharmacological blockade of mGluR5 receptors. These results support the mGluR hypothesis of fragile X mental retardation and suggest that deficient developmental plasticity may contribute to maladaptive auditory processing in fragile X syndrome.
Chronic stress promotes depression, but how it disrupts cognition and mood remains unknown. Chronic stress causes atrophy of pyramidal cell dendrites in the hippocampus and cortex in human and animal models, and a depressive-like behavioral state. We now test the hypothesis that excitatory temporoammonic (TA) synapses in the distal dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells in rats are altered by chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) and restored by chronic antidepressant treatment, in conjunction with the behavioral consequences of CUS. We observed a decrease in AMPAR-mediated excitation at TA-CA1 synapses, but not Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses, after CUS, with a corresponding layer-specific decrease in GluA1 expression. Both changes were reversed by chronic fluoxetine. CUS also disrupted long-term memory consolidation in the Morris water maze, a function of TA-CA1 synapses. The decreases in TA-CA1 AMPAR-mediated excitation and performance in the consolidation test were correlated positively with decreases in sucrose preference, a measure of anhedonia. We conclude that chronic stress selectively decreases AMPAR number and function at specific synapses and suggest that this underlies various depressive endophenotypes. Our findings provide evidence that glutamatergic dysfunction is an underlying cause of depression and that current first-line antidepressant drugs act by restoring excitatory synaptic strength. Our findings suggest novel therapeutic targets for this debilitating disease.

Local recurrent networks in neocortex are critical nodes for sensory processing, but their regulation by experience is much less understood than for long-distance (translaminar or cross-columnar) projections. We studied local L2/3 recurrent networks in rat somatosensory cortex during deprivation-induced whisker map plasticity, by expressing channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) in L2/3 pyramidal cells and measuring light-evoked synaptic currents in exvivo S1 slices. In columns with intact whiskers, brief light impulses evoked recurrent excitation and supralinear inhibition. Deprived columns showed modestly reduced excitation and profoundly reduced inhibition, providing a circuit locus for disinhibition of whisker-evoked responses observed in L2/3 invivo. Slower light ramps elicited sustained gamma frequency oscillations, which were nearly abolished in deprived columns. Reduction in gamma power was also observed in spontaneous LFP oscillations in L2/3 of deprived columns invivo. Thus, L2/3 recurrent networks are a powerful site for homeostatic modulation of excitation-inhibition balance and regulation of gamma oscillations.
Recent advances in neuroscience have engendered interest in large-scale brain networks. Using a consistent database of cortico-cortical connectivity, generated from hemisphere-wide, retrograde tracing experiments in the macaque, we analyzed interareal weights and distances to reveal an important organizational principle of brain connectivity. Using appropriate graph theoretical measures, we show that although very dense (66%), the interareal network has strong structural specificity. Connection weights exhibit a heavy-tailed lognormal distribution spanning five orders of magnitude and conform to a distance rule reflecting exponential decay with interareal separation. A single-parameter random graph model based on this rule predicts numerous features of the cortical network: (1) the existence of a network core and the distribution of cliques, (2) global and local binary properties, (3) global and local weight-based communication efficiencies modeled as network conductance, and (4) overall wire-length minimization. These findings underscore the importance of distance and weight-based heterogeneity in cortical architecture and processing.
A novel experience induces the Arc/Arg3.1 gene as well as plasticity of CA1 neural networks. To understand how these are linked, we briefly exposed GFP reporter mice of Arc transcription to a novel environment. Excitatory synaptic function of CA1 neurons with recent invivo Arc induction (ArcGFP+) was similar to neighboring noninduced neurons. However, in response to group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation, ArcGFP+ neurons preferentially displayed long-term synaptic depression (mGluR-LTD) and robust increases in dendritic Arc protein. mGluR-LTD in ArcGFP+ neurons required rapid protein synthesis and Arc, suggesting that dendritic translation of Arc underlies the priming of mGluR-LTD. In support of this idea, novelty exposure increased Arc messenger RNA in CA1 dendrites and promoted mGluR-induced translation of Arc inhippocampal synaptoneurosomes. Repeated experience suppressed synaptic transmission onto ArcGFP+ neurons and occluded mGluR-LTD exvivo. mGluR-LTD priming in neurons with similar Arc activation history may contribute to encoding a novel environment.
What causes critical periods (CPs) to open? For the best-studied case, ocular dominance plasticity in primary visual cortex in response to monocular deprivation (MD), the maturation of inhibition is necessary and sufficient. How does inhibition open the CP? We present a theory: the transition from pre-CP to CP plasticity arises because inhibition preferentially suppresses responses to spontaneous relative to visually driven input activity, switching learning cues from internal to external sources. This differs from previous proposals in (1) arguing that the CP can open without changes in plasticity mechanisms when activity patterns become more sensitive to sensory experience through circuit development, and (2) explaining not simply a transition from no plasticity to plasticity, but a change in outcome of MD-induced plasticity from pre-CP to CP. More broadly, hierarchical organization of sensory-motor pathways may develop through a cascade of CPs induced as circuit maturation progresses from &quot;lower&quot; to &quot;higher&quot; cortical areas.
The neural circuits governing vital behaviors, such as respiration and locomotion, are comprised of discrete neuronal populations residing within the brainstem and spinal cord. Work over the past decade has provided a fairly comprehensive understanding of the developmental pathways that determine the identity of major neuronal classes within the neural tube. However, the steps through which neurons acquire the subtype diversities necessary for their incorporation into a particular circuit are still poorly defined. Studies on the specification of motor neurons indicate that the large family of Hox transcription factors has a key role in generating the subtypes required for selective muscle innervation. There is also emerging evidence that Hox genes function in multiple neuronal classes to shape synaptic specificity during development, suggesting a broader role in circuit assembly. This Review highlights the functions and mechanisms of Hox gene networks and their multifaceted roles during neuronal specification and connectivity.
In the September 12, 2013 issue of Nature, the Epi4K Consortium (Allen etal., 2013) reported sequencing 264patient trios with epileptic encephalopathies. The Consortium focused on genes exceptionally intolerant to sequence variations and found substantial interconnections with autism and intellectual disability gene networks.
The sodium-proton exchanger NHE6 contributes to proper endosomal acidification. NHE6 mutations are alsolinked to autism-related disorders. In this issue of Neuron, using NHE6-knockout mice, Ouyang etal. (2013) uncover how dysregulation of endosomal pH leads to disturbances in BDNF signaling and neuronal morphogenesis defects.
It is unclear why motor neurons selectively degenerate in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Saxena etal. (2013) demonstrate that excitation of motor neurons can prevent their demise in a mouse model of inherited ALS by a mechanism involving the mTOR pathway.
Experience shapes neural circuits during critical periods in early life. The timing of critical periods is regulated by both genetics and the environment. Here we study the functional significance of such temporal regulations in the mouse primary visual cortex, where critical period plasticity drives binocular matching of orientation preference. We find that the binocular matching is permanently disrupted in mice that have a precocious critical period due to genetically enhanced inhibition. The disruption is specific to one type of neuron, the complex cells, which, as we reveal, normally match after the simple cells. Early environmental enrichment completely rescues the deficit by inducing histone acetylation and consequently advancing the matching process to coincide with the precocious plasticity. Our experiments thus demonstrate that the proper timing of the critical period is essential for establishing normal binocularity and the detrimental impact of its genetic misregulation can be ameliorated by environmental manipulations via epigenetic mechanisms.
Stress is frequently reported to be deleterious to spatial learning and memory. However, there are many instances in which spatial performance is not affected by stress. This discrepancy observed across different studies, in addition to the animals' strain and gender, may be caused by the type of the task employed to assess stress-related behavioral changes. The present experiments set out to investigate the effects of repeated restraint stress (3h/21 days) on spatial performance within the two wet-land (Morris water task; MWT) and dry-land (the ziggurat task; ZT) tasks for spatial learning and memory in adult male Wistar rats. All rats were tested before and after stress treatment. Stressed rats gained less weight than controls. Stress also enhanced circulating corticosterone (CORT). We did not observe a deleterious effect of stress on spatial learning and memory in either of the tasks: both groups successfully performed the wet- and dry-land tasks across all spatial testing days, indicating intact spatial cognition in control and stress rats. However, daily restraint stress for 21 days significantly caused enhancement in rats' memory-dependent returns during the goal-directed investigation in the ZT. The number of returns on learning days was not affected by repeated restraint stress. Return-based spatial investigation induced by stress only on memory days in the dry-land task, not only emphasize on the task-dependent nature of stress-related alterations, it may reveal one of the silent, but arguably deleterious effects of stress on spatial memory in Wistar rats.
Stress pathology is associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation and aberrant glucocorticoid responses. Recent studies indicate increases in prefrontal cortical ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba-1) staining following repeated restraint, reflecting increased microglial densities. Our experiments tested expression of Iba-1 staining in the prelimbic cortex (PL), infralimbic cortex (IL) and the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) following two-week exposure to repeated restraint (RR) and chronic variable stress (CVS), representing homotypic and heterotypic regimens, respectively. Unstressed animals served as controls. We specifically examined Iba-1 immunofluorescence in layers 2 and 3 versus layers 5 and 6 of the PL and IL, using both cell number and field staining density. Iba-1 field staining density was increased in both the PL and IL following RR in comparison to controls. This effect was not observed following CVS. Furthermore, PVN Iba-1 immunoreactivity was not affected by either stress regimen. Cell number did not vary within any brain areas or across stress exposures. Changes in microglial field density did not reflect changes in vascular density. Increases in PL and IL microglial density indicate selective microglial activation during RR, perhaps due to mild stress in the context of limited elevations in anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid actions. This research was supported by NIH grants [MH049698 and MH069860].
There are important and enduring differences between individuals in the magnitude of all aspects of the stress response. Among the neuropeptide systems, the endogenous opioids enkephalin (ENK) and dynorphin (DYN), are very interesting candidates to participate in the naturally occurring variations in coping styles and to determine the individual capacity for adaptation during chronic stress exposure. Under chronic social stress exposure, we hypothesize that changes in the ENKergic vs DYNergic neuronal systems within specific nuclei of the basal forebrain contribute to naturally occurring variations in coping styles and will determine individual capacities for stress adaptation. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to a resident-intruder model of defeat for 7 days. The average latency to be defeated over seven consecutive days was calculated for each intruder rat. Based on this distribution, we chose an average defeat latency of 350s as a cutoff criterion to define resilient and vulnerable rats. A subpopulation assumed a subordinate posture in a relatively short latency (&lt;350s, SL) and the other subpopulation resisted defeat resulting in longer latencies (&gt;350s, LL) to assume this posture and were identified as being vulnerable and resilient respectively. Rats were euthanized 24h after the last stress session. ENK mRNA expression was lower in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala in vulnerable compared to control and resilient individuals. In contrast, there was no difference between resilient and control individuals. DYN mRNA is increased only within the dorsal and medial shell of the NAc of vulnerable rats compared to control individuals. There was no difference between resilient and control individuals. DYN mRNA is increased in resilient individuals in the central area of the striatum, caudal part, compared to control individuals. DYN is also increased in medial area of the striatum, caudal part in resilient and vulnerable compared to control individuals. These results have broad implications for understanding the functional roles of opioid neurotransmission following repeated social stress and suggest that ENK could facilitate the adaptation of behavioral responses by opposition to the DYN neurotransmission that appears to promote maladaptive behavioral response to chronic social stress.
Responses to acute stressors are determined in part by stress history. For example, a history of chronic stress results in facilitated responses to a novel stressor and this facilitation is considered to be adaptive. We previously demonstrated that repeated exposure of rats to the resident-intruder model of social stress results in the emergence of two subpopulations that are characterized by different coping responses to stress. The submissive subpopulation failed to show facilitation to a novel stressor and developed a passive strategy in the Porsolt forced swim test. Because a passive stress coping response has been implicated in the propensity to develop certain psychiatric disorders, understanding the unique circuitry engaged by exposure to a novel stressor in these subpopulations would advance our understanding of the etiology of stress-related pathology. An ex vivo functional imaging technique, manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI), was used to identify and distinguish brain regions that are differentially activated by an acute swim stress (15 min) in rats with a history of social stress compared to controls. Specifically, Mn(2+) was administered intracerebroventricularly prior to swim stress and brains were later imaged ex vivo to reveal activated structures. When compared to controls, all rats with a history of social stress showed greater activation in specific striatal, hippocampal, hypothalamic, and midbrain regions. The submissive subpopulation of rats was further distinguished by significantly greater activation in amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and septum, suggesting that these regions may form a circuit mediating responses to novel stress in individuals that adopt passive coping strategies. The finding that different circuits are engaged by a novel stressor in the two subpopulations of rats exposed to social stress implicates a role for these circuits in determining individual strategies for responding to stressors. Finally, these data underscore the utility of ex vivo MEMRI to identify and distinguish circuits engaged in behavioral responses.
There are sex differences in the rates of many stress-sensitive psychological disorders such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). As medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala are implicated in many of these disorders, understanding differential stress effects in these regions may shed light on the mechanisms underlying sex-dependent expression of disorders like depression and anxiety. Prefrontal cortex and amygdala are key regions in the neural circuitry underlying fear conditioning and extinction, which thus has emerged as a useful model of stress influences on the neural circuitry underlying regulation of emotional behavior. This review outlines the current literature on sex differences and stress effects on dendritic morphology within medial prefrontal cortex and basolateral amygdala. Such structural differences and/or alterations can have important effects on fear conditioning and extinction, behaviors that are mediated by the basolateral amygdala and prefrontal cortex, respectively. Given the importance of extinction-based exposure therapy as a treatment for anxiety disorders such as PTSD, understanding the neural mechanisms by which stress differentially influences fear learning and extinction in males and females is an important goal for developing sex-appropriate interventions for stress-related disorders.
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is best known as an incretin hormone, secreted from L cells in the intestine in response to nutrient ingestion to stimulate glucose-dependent insulin secretion. However, GLP-1 is also expressed in neurons, and plays a major role in regulation of homeostatic function within the central nervous system (CNS). This review summarizes our current state of knowledge on the role GLP-1 plays in neural coordination of the organismal stress response. In the brain, the primary locus of GLP-1 production is in the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the ventrolateral medulla of the hindbrain. GLP-1 immunoreactive fibers directly innervate hypophysiotrophic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), placing GLP-1 in prime position to integrate hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical responses. Exogenous central GLP-1 activates HPA axis stress responses, and responses to a variety of stressors can be blocked by a GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) antagonist, confirming an excitatory role in glucocorticoid secretion. In addition, central infusion of GLP-1R agonist increases heart rate and blood pressure, and activates hypothalamic and brainstem neurons innervating sympathetic preganglionic neurons, suggesting a sympathoexcitatory role of GLP-1 in the CNS. Bioavailability of preproglucagon (PPG) mRNA and GLP-1 peptide is reduced by exogenous or endogenous glucocorticoid secretion, perhaps as a mechanism to reduce GLP-1-mediated stress excitation. Altogether, the data suggest that GLP-1 plays a key role in activation of stress responses, which may be connected with its role in central regulation of energy homeostasis.
While habituation develops to a repeated psychological stressor, manipulating certain parameters of the stress challenge experience may lead to dishabituation of the stress response. In this experiment, we investigated whether the behavioral, endocrine, and neural responses (c-fos mRNA immediate early gene expression) to a psychological stressor (restraint) differ when the duration of the stressor given on the test day violates expectations based on prior stress experience. Rats experienced 10 min of daily restraint on Days 1-4 followed by a challenge with either the same duration (10 min) or a longer duration (30 min) of restraint on Day 5. Rats' behavior was video recorded during the Day 5 restraint episode, and trunk blood and brain tissue were collected 30 min following restraint onset. Struggling behavior was manually scored as active attempts to escape the restraint device. Rats who experienced the same duration of repeated restraint showed a significant decrease of plasma corticosterone (CORT) compared to the 10 min acute restraint group (habituation). In addition, these rats showed decreased active struggling over repeated restraint trials. Conversely, the rats showed an increased CORT response (dishabituation) when they experienced a longer duration of restraint on Day 5 than they had previously. These rats showed a habituated behavioral response during the first 10 min of restraint, however struggling behavior increased once the duration of restraint exceeded the expected duration (with a peak at 12 min). This peak in struggling behavior did not occur during 30 min acute restraint, indicating that the effect was related to the memory of previous restraint experience and not due to a longer duration of restraint. In contrast, these animals showed habituated c-fos mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), lateral septum (LS), and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in response to the increased stressor duration. Thus, there was a dissociation between c-fos mRNA expression in key stress responsive brain regions and the behavioral and endocrine response to increased stressor duration. This dissociation may have been due to a greater lag time for c-fos mRNA responses to reflect the impact of a dishabituation response. In conclusion, habituation of the endocrine and behavioral stress response occurred when the duration of the stressor matches the previous experience, while dishabituation of the stress response was triggered (with remarkable temporal precision) by an unexpected increase in stress duration.
Aspirin is commonly used most often at low daily doses. We report a case of acute aspirin intoxication resulting in a transitory hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo. Such intoxications occur at doses of several grams. The disorders caused by aspirin are fortunately reversible. The mechanisms of ototoxicity appear to involve, in part, electro-mobility of the outer hair cells of the inner ear by inhibiting the movement of prestin.
The hearing is routinely tested in all newborns in most European countries. Thereafter, no hearing test is performed in a systematic way, despite the many conditions that can cause hearing loss in the first years of life. If language acquisition is possible with only one ear, even a unilateral hearing loss can be the cause of learning difficulties at school. In Geneva, a screening program for hearing deficit was introduced in 1955 in all primary schools of the canton. This paper shows the efficiency of the program, which can detect unnoticed deafness, sometimes in children whose neonatal screening had proved normal. Such a program should be applied to all private schools and to schools for disabled children.
Although millions of electric bikes (E-bikes) operate in China and many associated deaths and injuries have been reported, E-bikers' on-road practices are poorly characterized and few direct observational studies have been performed. This study aims to describe riding behaviors among E-bikers and to investigate factors influencing these practices to inform injury prevention. In March 2012, a cross-sectional observational study was conducted at 14 randomly selected intersections in Suzhou during a 7-day period. A pro-forma observation checklist was used to collect data on road riding practice. Adjusted Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI) to assess the likelihood of specific riding practices among E-bikers were evaluated using mixed-effects logistic regression. Among 18,150 E-bikers observed, 37.6% rode E-bikes with cycling pedals, 86.0% of E-bikes were registered, 26.6% did not comply with the road rules, and 41.1% wore at least one safety item. The overall prevalence of carrying passengers, riding in a motor vehicle lane, running red lights, riding in opposite directions (i.e., facing oncoming traffic), mobile phone use, and helmet use were 12.4% (95%CI: 11.9-12.9%), 1.9% (95%CI: 1.7-2.1%), 4.8% (95%CI: 4.5-5.1%), 3.4% (95%CI: 3.1-3.7%), 0.4% (95%CI: 0.3-0.5%), and 9.0% (95%CI: 8.5-9.4%), respectively. Male E-bikers was associated with increased helmet use and riding in motor vehicle lanes, whereas riding a registered E-bike was associated with reduced likelihood of carrying passengers. This study demonstrates common road rule violations and low helmet use among E-bikers and supports the urgent need to develop additional regulations and behavioral interventions to improve safety practice among E-bikers in China.
Glycogen storage disease type II - also called Pompe disease or acid maltase deficiency - is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder, caused by an accumulation of glycogen in the lysosome due to deficiency of the lysosomal acid alpha-glucosidase enzyme. Pompe disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the acid -glucosidase (GAA), located on chromosome 17q25.2-q25.3. The different disease phenotypes are related to the levels of residual GAA activity in muscles. The clinical spectrum ranging from the classical form with early onset and severe phenotype to not-classical form with later onset and milder phenotype is described.







Recent studies have highlighted a group of 4-repeat (4R) tauopathies that are characterised neuropathologically by widespread, globular glial inclusions (GGIs). Tau immunohistochemistry reveals 4R immunoreactive globular oligodendroglial and astrocytic inclusions and the latter are predominantly negative for Gallyas silver staining. These cases are associated with a range of clinical presentations, which correlate with the severity and distribution of underlying tau pathology and neurodegeneration. Their heterogeneous clinicopathological features combined with their rarity and under-recognition have led to cases characterised by GGIs being described in the literature using various and redundant terminologies. In this report, a group of neuropathologists form a consensus on the terminology and classification of cases with GGIs. After studying microscopic images from previously reported cases with suspected GGIs (n=22), this panel of neuropathologists with extensive experience in the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases and a documented record of previous experience with at least one case with GGIs, agreed that (1) GGIs were present in all the cases reviewed; (2) the morphology of globular astrocytic inclusions was different to tufted astrocytes and finally that (3) the cases represented a number of different neuropathological subtypes. They also agreed that the different morphological subtypes are likely to be part of a spectrum of a distinct disease entity, for which they recommend that the overarching term globular glial tauopathy (GGT) should be used. Type I cases typically present with frontotemporal dementia, which correlates with the fronto-temporal distribution of pathology. Type II cases are characterised by pyramidal features reflecting motor cortex involvement and corticospinal tract degeneration. Type III cases can present with a combination of frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease with fronto-temporal cortex, motor cortex and corticospinal tract being severely affected. Extrapyramidal features can be present in Type II and III cases and significant degeneration of the white matter is a feature of all GGT subtypes. Improved detection and classification will be necessary for the establishment of neuropathological and clinical diagnostic research criteria in the future.
-Synuclein (-syn) is a protein prevalent in neural tissue and known to undergo axonal transport. Intracellular -syn aggregates are a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Braak and collaborators have suggested that in people who are destined to eventually develop PD, -syn aggregate pathology progresses following a stereotypic pattern, starting in the olfactory bulb (OB) and the gut. -Synuclein aggregates are postulated to spread to interconnected brain regions over several years. Thus, propagation of the pathology via neural pathways can potentially explain how -syn aggregates spread in PD. We have now studied if -syn can transfer from the OB to other brain structures through neural connections, by injecting different molecular species of human -syn (monomers, oligomers, fibrils) into the OB of wild-type mice. We found that non-fibrillar human -syn is taken up very quickly by OB neurons. Within minutes to hours, it is also found in neurons in structures connected to the OB. Conversely, when we injected bovine serum albumin used as a control protein, we found that it does not diffuse beyond the OB, is rarely taken up by OB cells, and does not transfer to other structures. Taken together, our results show that OB cells readily take up -syn, and that monomeric and oligomeric, but not fibrillar, forms of -syn are rapidly transferred to interconnected structures within the timeframe we explored. Our results support the idea that -syn can transfer along neural pathways and thereby contribute to the progression of the -syn-related pathology.
The most common cause of familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TAR DNA-binding protein-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP) has been found to be an expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat (GGGGCC) in a noncoding region of the gene C9ORF72. Hippocampal sclerosis (HpScl) is a common finding in FTLD-TDP. Our objective was to screen for the presence of C9ORF72 hexanucleotide repeat expansions in a pathologically confirmed cohort of &quot;pure&quot; hippocampal sclerosis cases (n=33), outside the setting of FTLD-TDP and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using a recently described repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation (C9RANT) antibody that was found to be highly specific for c9FTD/ALS, we identified a single &quot;pure&quot; HpScl autopsy case with a repeat expansion in C9ORF72 (c9HpScl). Mutation screening was also performed with repeat-primed polymerase chain reaction and further confirmed with Southern blotting. The c9HpScl patient had a 14-year history of a slowly progressive amnestic syndrome and a clinical diagnosis of probable AD. Neuropsychological testing revealed memory impairment, but no deficits in other cognitive domains. Autopsy showed hippocampal sclerosis with TDP-43 immunoreactive neuronal inclusions relatively limited to limbic lobe structures. Neuritic pathology immunoreactive for p62 was more frequent than TDP-43 in amygdala and hippocampus. Frequent p62-positive neuronal inclusions were present in cerebellar granule neurons as is typical of C9ORF72 mutation carriers. There was no significant FTLD or motor neuron disease. C9RANT was found to be sensitive and specific in this autopsy-confirmed series of HpScl cases. The findings in this patient suggest that the clinical and pathologic spectrum of C9ORF72 repeat expansion is wider than frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease, including cases of progressive amnestic dementia with restricted TDP-43 pathology associated with HpScl.
Immune surveillance of the central nervous system (CNS) by T cells is important to keep CNS-trophic viruses in a latent state, yet our knowledge of the characteristics of CNS-populating T cells is incomplete. We performed a comprehensive, multi-color flow-cytometric analysis of isolated T cells from paired corpus callosum (CC) and peripheral blood (PB) samples of 20 brain donors. Compared to PB, CC T cells, which were mostly located in the perivascular space and sporadically in the parenchyma, were enriched for cells expressing CD8. Both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in the CC had a late-differentiated phenotype, as indicated by lack of expression of CD27 and CD28. The CC contained high numbers of T cells expressing chemokine receptor CX3CR1 and CXCR3 that allow for homing to inflamed endothelium and tissue, but hardly cells expressing the lymph node-homing receptor CCR7. Despite the late-differentiated phenotype, CC T cells had high expression of the IL-7 receptor -chain CD127 and did not contain the neurotoxic cytolytic enzymes perforin, granzyme A, and granzyme B. We postulate that CNS T cells make up a population of tissue-adapted differentiated cells, which use CX3CR1 and CXCR3 to home into the perivascular space, use IL-7 for maintenance, and lack immediate cytolytic activity, thereby preventing immunopathology in response to low or non-specific stimuli. The presence of these cells in this tightly regulated environment likely enables a fast response to local threats. Our results will enable future detailed exploration of T-cell subsets in the brain involved in neurological diseases.

Otosclerosis, the single most common cause of hearing impairment in white adults, is characterised by bone dystrophy localized to the otic capsule and isolated endochondral bone sclerosis with alternating phases of bone resorption and formation. Conductive hearing loss develops when otosclerotic foci invade the stapedio-vestibular joint (oval window) and interfere with free motion of the stapes, but affected subjects frequently develop profound sensorineural hearing loss. The aetiology of otosclerosis is unknown. In the last years, several association studies have been performed and have suggested that single nucleotide polymorphisms in some genes may be implicated in development of otosclerosis. The strongest association has been demonstrated for the reelin gene, located on chromosome 7q22.1, which encodes an extracellular matrix protein. The involvement of reelin in the pathogenesis of otosclerosis is controversial; it was identified in European and North African populations, but was excluded in an Indian population. To analyze the role of reelin in otosclerosis, it has been studied in a case-control analysis for the polymorphism rs39335 in a southern Italy population. In this population, the pathogenic link between the rs39335 variant and otosclerosis was excluded.


Research has revealed that haptic perception of parallelity deviates from physical reality. Large and systematic deviations have been found in haptic parallelity matching most likely due to the influence of the hand-centered egocentric reference frame. Providing information that increases the influence of allocentric processing has been shown to improve performance on haptic matching. In this study allocentric processing was stimulated by providing informative vision in haptic matching tasks that were performed using hand- and arm-centered reference frames. Twenty blindfolded participants (ten men, ten women) explored the orientation of a reference bar with the non-dominant hand and subsequently matched (task HP) or mirrored (task HM) its orientation on a test bar with the dominant hand. Visual information was provided by means of informative vision with participants having full view of the test bar, while the reference bar was blocked from their view (task VHP). To decrease the egocentric bias of the hands, participants also performed a visual haptic parallelity drawing task (task VHPD) using an arm-centered reference frame, by drawing the orientation of the reference bar. In all tasks, the distance between and orientation of the bars were manipulated. A significant effect of task was found; performance improved from task HP, to VHP to VHPD, and HM. Significant effects of distance were found in the first three tasks, whereas orientation and gender effects were only significant in tasks HP and VHP. The results showed that stimulating allocentric processing by means of informative vision and reducing the egocentric bias by using an arm-centered reference frame led to most accurate performance on parallelity matching.
Distortions of body image have often been investigated in clinical disorders. Much of this literature implicitly assumes healthy adults maintain an accurate body image. We recently developed a novel, implicit, and quantitative measure of body image - the Body Image Task (BIT). Here, we report a large-scale analysis of performance on this task by healthy adults. In both an in-person and an online version of the BIT, participants were presented with an image of a head as an anchoring stimulus on a computer screen, and told to imagine that the head was part of a mirror image of themselves in a standing position. They were then instructed to judge where, relative to the head, each of several parts of their body would be located. The relative positions of each landmark can be used to construct an implicit perceptual map of bodily structure. We could thus measure the internally-stored body image, although we cannot exclude contributions from other representations. Our results show several distortions of body image. First, we found a large and systematic over-estimation of width relative to height. These distortions were similar for both males and females, and did not closely track the idiosyncrasies of individual participant's own bodies. Comparisons of individual body parts showed that participants overestimated the width of their shoulders and the length of their upper arms, relative to their height, while underestimating the lengths of their lower arms and legs. Principal components analysis showed a clear spatial structure to the distortions, suggesting spatial organisation and segmentation of the body image into upper and lower limb components that are bilaterally integrated. These results provide new insight into the body image of healthy adults, and have implications for the study and rehabilitation of clinical populations.
Are different magnitudes, such as Arabic numerals, length and area, processed by the same system? Answering this question can shed light on the building blocks of our mathematical abilities. A shared representation theory suggested that discriminability of all magnitudes complies with Weber's law. The current work examined this suggestion. We employed comparative judgment tasks to investigate different types of comparisons - conceptual comparison of numbers, physical comparison of numbers and physical comparison of different shapes. We used 8 different size ratios and plotted reaction time as a function of these ratios. Our findings suggest that the relationship between discriminability and size ratio is not always linear, as previously suggested; rather, it is modulated by the type of comparison and the type of stimuli. Hence, we suggest that the representation of magnitude is not as rigid as previously suggested; it changes as a function of task demands and familiarity with the compared stimuli.

The aim of this study is to analyze how maternal diet during the lactational period influences the adipose tissue response to chronic caloric restriction in offspring. Lactating dams were subjected to one of three treatments: 50% food restriction (FR), ad lib standard chow (AL), or ad lib high-fat diet (HF). Juveniles were first weaned onto standard chow, then in adulthood 50% calorically restricted and maintained at 90% of normal body weight for 60 d. HF animals showed increased percent body fat compared with AL and FR animals despite equivalent body weights. HF animals showed alterations in the balance of adipose tissue lipogenic (FAS, LPL) and lipolytic (HSL) gene expression that may underlie their propensity to maintain fat stores under caloric restriction.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) is widely available as a dietary supplement and remains under consideration as a treatment for age-associated neurodegenerative conditions. However, no studies have determined if supplementation, initiated relatively late in life, could have beneficial effects on mild functional impairments associated with normal brain aging. Accordingly, the current study assessed the effect of CoQ intake in older mice for which cognitive and psychomotor impairments were already evident. Separate groups of young (3.5 months) and relatively old mice (17.5 months) were fed a control diet or a diet supplemented with low (0.72 mg/g) or high (2.81 mg/g) concentrations of CoQ for 15 weeks. After 6 weeks, the mice were given tests for spatial learning (Morris water maze), spontaneous locomotor activity, motor coordination, and startle reflex. Age-related impairments in cognitive and psychomotor functions were evident in the 17.5-month-old mice fed the control diet, and the low-CoQ diet failed to affect any aspect of the impaired performance. However, in the Morris water maze test, old mice on the high-CoQ diet swam to the safe platform with greater efficiency than the mice on the control diet. The old mice supplemented with the high-CoQ diet did not show improvement when spatial performance was measured using probe trials and failed to show improvement in other tests of behavioral performance. Protein oxidative damage was decreased in the mitochondria from the heart, liver, and skeletal muscle of the high-CoQ-supplemented mice and, to some extent, in the brain mitochondria. Contrasting with the deleterious effect of long-term CoQ supplementation initiated during young adulthood previously published, this study suggests that CoQ improves spatial learning and attenuates oxidative damage when administered in relatively high doses and delayed until early senescence, after age-related declines have occurred. Thus, in individuals with age-associated symptoms of cognitive decline, high-CoQ intake may be beneficial.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) represents a major and increasing public health concern and is both the most frequent cause of mortality and disability in young adults and a chief cause of morbidity in the elderly. Albeit mTBI patients do not show clear structural brain defects and, generally, do not require hospitalization, they frequently suffer from long-lasting cognitive, behavioral, and emotional problems. No effective pharmaceutical therapy is available, and existing treatment chiefly involves intensive care management after injury. The diffuse neural cell death evident after mTBI is considered mediated by oxidative stress and glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Prior studies of the long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonist, exendin-4 (Ex-4), an incretin mimetic approved for type 2 diabetes mellitus treatment, demonstrated its neurotrophic/protective activity in cellular and animal models of stroke, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and, consequent to commonalities in mechanisms underpinning these disorders, Ex-4 was assessed in a mouse mTBI model. In neuronal cultures in this study, Ex-4 ameliorated H2O2-induced oxidative stress and glutamate toxicity. To evaluate in vivo translation, we administered steady-state Ex-4 (3.5 pM/kg/min) or saline to control and mTBI mice over 7 days starting 48 h prior to or 1 h post-sham or mTBI (30 g weight drop under anesthesia). Ex-4 proved well-tolerated and fully ameliorated mTBI-induced deficits in novel object recognition 7 and 30 days post-trauma. Less mTBI-induced impairment was evident in Y-maze, elevated plus maze, and passive avoidance paradigms, but when impairment was apparent Ex-4 induced amelioration. Together, these results suggest that Ex-4 may act as a neurotrophic/neuroprotective drug to minimize mTBI impairment.
The biomechanical understanding of increasing anterior column load with progressing kyphosis leading to subsequent vertebral compression fracture (VCF) established the basic rationale for kyphoplasty. The lumbar spine can support an effort of 500 kg in the axis of the vertebral body, and a bending moment of 20 Nm in flexion. Consequently, if this effort is forward deviated of only 10 cm, the acceptable effort will be reduced to 20 kg so it is important to restore the vertebral anterior wall after a VCF: the authors describe the biomechanical modifications in the spine after kyphoplasty.
The current study examined the relationships among marijuana dependence, a theoretical model of condom use intentions, and subsequent condom use behavior in justice-involved adolescents. Participants completed baseline measures of prior sexual and substance use behavior. Of the original 720 participants, 649 (90.13 %) completed follow-up measures 6 months later. There were high levels of marijuana use (58.7 % met criteria for dependence) and risky sexual behavior among participants. Baseline model constructs were associated with condom use intentions, and intentions were a significant predictor of condom use at follow-up. Marijuana dependence did not significantly influence the relationships between model constructs, nor did it moderate the relationship of model constructs with subsequent condom use. Findings suggest that the theoretical model of condom use intentions is equally valid regardless of marijuana dependence status, suggesting that interventions to reduce sexual risk behavior among both marijuana dependent and non-dependent justice-involved adolescents can be appropriately based on the model.



The aim of this study was to determine the factors that mediate changes in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) ratings by community-dwelling people with Alzheimer disease (AD) and carers over a period of 18 months. We completed an 18-month longitudinal study of 80 community-dwelling older adults diagnosed with probable AD of mild or moderate severity (NINCDS-ADRD criteria) and their family carers. The primary outcome of interest was the 18-month change in HRQoL ratings as measured with the Quality of Life-AD (QoL-AD) (by carer and by self). Explanatory variables included demographics, lifestyle, cognition, awareness, psychopathology, burden-of-care, use of medication, and functionality in daily life. We found a significant decline (8.7%, P=0.003) in QoL-AD carer-ratings, but not in self-ratings. The final parsimonious model of predictors of changes in QoL-AD self-ratings explained 22.6% of the variance; only changes on Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale Anxiety retained significance. The final model of predictors of changes in carer-ratings explained 55.0% of the variance: that is, changes on Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly, changes on Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale Depression, practicing hobbies at 18 months, and number of visit(s) or admission(s) to hospital. HRQoL self-ratings and carer-ratings of community-dwelling people with AD do not decline at same rate over 18 months and changes are associated with different factors. Interventions designed to optimize quality of life of people with AD should consider carefully whose HRQoL ratings they wish to change.
Education, occupation, premorbid intelligence, and brain size are surrogate markers for cognitive reserve. Whether these markers have biological influence on Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology is not known. We thus aimed to investigate the effect of cognitive reserve proxies on longitudinal change of AD biomarkers. A total of 819 participants with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment, and mild AD were enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and followed up with repeated measures of cerebrospinal fluid, positron emission tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging biomarkers. Generalized estimating equations were used to assess whether biomarker rates of change were modified by reserve proxies. Cerebrospinal fluid A42 decline was slower in normal cognition participants with higher cognitive reserve indexed by education, occupation, and American National Adult Reading Test (ANART). The decline of [F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography uptake was slower in AD participants with better performance on the ANART. Education, occupation, and ANART did not modify the rates of magnetic resonance imaging hippocampal atrophy in any group. These findings remained unchanged after accounting for APOE 4, longitudinal missing data, and baseline cognitive performance. Higher levels of reserve markers may slow the rate of amyloid deposition before cognitive impairment and preserve glucose metabolism at the dementia stage over the course of AD pathologic progression.
Recently, Coppola and colleagues demonstrated that a rare microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) sequence variant, c.454G&gt;A (p.A152T) significantly increases the risk of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) spectrum disorders and Alzheimer disease (AD) in a screen of 15,369 subjects. We describe clinical features of 9 patients with neurodegenerative disease (4 women) harboring p.A152T, aged 51 to 79 years at symptom onset. Seven developed FTD spectrum clinical syndromes, including progressive supranuclear palsy syndrome (n=2), behavioral variant FTD (bvFTD, n=1), nonfluent variant primary progressive aphasia (nfvPPA, n=2), and corticobasal syndrome (n=2); 2 patients were diagnosed with clinical AD. Thus, MAPT p.A152T is associated with a variety of FTD spectrum clinical presentations, although patients with clinical AD are also identified. These data warrant larger studies with clinicopathologic correlation to elucidate the influence of this genetic variant on neurodegenerative disease.
Progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) is typically associated with pathological changes consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration. A 65-year-old male presented with effortful speech, markedly impaired naming and features of speech apraxia, consistent with PNFA. Perceptuospatial function, calculation and executive function were intact. Brain SPECT showed left perisylvian hypoperfusion. He deteriorated profoundly over the subsequent eight months, with appearances on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging typical of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which was confirmed pathologically at postmortem examination. While the presence of PNFA with speech apraxia is thought to predict underlying tauopathy, sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease may mimic this presentation and present in a highly circumscribed form not previously described.

Medications for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are only partially effective. Ideally, new treatment targets would derive from a known pathophysiology. Such data are not available for ADHD. We combine evidence for new etiologic pathways with bioinformatics data to assess the possibility that existing drugs might be repositioning for treating ADHD. We use this approach to determine if prior data implicating the sodium/hydrogen exchanger 9 gene (SLC9A9) in ADHD implicate sodium/hydrogen exchange (NHE) inhibitors as potential treatments. We assessed the potential for repositioning by assessing the similarity of drug-protein binding profiles between NHE inhibitors and drugs known to treat ADHD using the Drug Repositioning and Adverse Reaction via Chemical-Protein Interactome server. NHE9 shows a high degree of amino acid similarity between NHE inhibitor sensitive NHEs in the region of the NHE inhibitor recognition site defined for NHE1. We found high correlations in drug-protein binding profiles among most ADHD drugs. The drug-protein binding profiles of some NHE inhibitors were highly correlated with ADHD drugs whereas the profiles for a control set of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) were not. Further experimental work should evaluate if NHE inhibitors are suitable for treating ADHD.
Although there is a long history to examinations of sex differences in the familial (and specifically, genetic) transmission of schizophrenia, there have been few investigators who have systematically and rigorously studied this issue. This is true even in light of population and clinical studies identifying significant sex differences in incidence, expression, neuroanatomic and functional brain abnormalities, and course of schizophrenia. This review highlights the history of work in this arena from studies of family transmission patterns, linkage and twin studies to the current molecular genetic strategies of large genome-wide association studies. Taken as a whole, the evidence supports the presence of genetic risks of which some are sex-specific (i.e., presence in one sex and not the other) or sex-dependent (i.e., quantitative differences in risk between the sexes). Thus, a concerted effort to systematically investigate these questions is warranted and, as we argue here, necessary in order to fully understand the etiology of schizophrenia.
In this article, we review studies detailing the correspondence between peripheral blood and brain tissue across various domains of high-throughput -omic analysis in order to provide a context for evaluating blood-based biomarker studies. Specifically, we reviewed seven studies comparing patterns of DNA methylation (i.e., an aspect of the epigenome), eight articles comparing patterns of gene expression (i.e., the transcriptome), and three articles comparing patterns of protein expression (i.e., the proteome). Our review of the epigenomic literature suggests that CpG-island methylation levels are generally highly correlated (r=0.90) between blood and brain. Our review of transcriptomic studies suggests that between 35% and 80% of known transcripts are present in both brain and blood tissue samples; estimates of cross-tissue correlation in expression levels were found to range from 0.25 to 0.64, with stronger correlations observed among particular subsets of genes. Relative to the epigenome and transcriptome, the proteome has not been as fully compared between brain and blood samples, highlighting an important area for future work as whole-proteome profiling methods mature. Beyond reviewing the relevant studies, we discuss some of the assumptions, methodological issues, and gaps in knowledge that should be addressed in order to better understand how the multiple &quot;-omes&quot; of the brain are reflected in the peripheral blood. A better understanding of these relationships is a critical precursor to the validation of biomarkers for brain disorders.


The effect of hypercapnia on outwardly rectifying currents was examined in locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in slices from neonatal rats [postnatal day 3 (P3)-P15]. Two outwardly rectifying currents [4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive transient current and tetraethyl ammonium (TEA)-sensitive sustained current] were found in LC neurons. 4-AP induced a membrane depolarization of 3.6  0.6 mV (n = 4), while TEA induced a smaller membrane depolarization of 1.2  0.3 mV (n = 4). Hypercapnic acidosis (HA) inhibited both currents. The maximal amplitude of the TEA-sensitive current was reduced by 52.1  4.5% (n = 5) in 15% CO2 [extracellular pH (pHo) 7.00, intracellular pH (pHi) 6.96]. The maximal amplitude of the 4-AP-sensitive current was reduced by 34.5  3.0% (n = 6) in 15% CO2 (pHo 7.00, pHi 6.96), by 29.4  6.8% (n = 6) in 10% CO2 (pHo 7.15, pHi 7.14), and increased by 29.0  6.4% (n = 6) in 2.5% CO2 (pHo 7.75, pHi 7.35). 4-AP completely blocked hypercapnia-induced increased firing rate, but TEA did not affect it. When LC neurons were exposed to HA with either pHo or pHi constant, the 4-AP-sensitive current was inhibited. The data show that the 4-AP-sensitive current (likely an A current) is inhibited by decreases in either pHo or pHi. The change of the A current by various levels of CO2 is correlated with the change in firing rate induced by CO2, implicating the 4-AP-sensitive current in chemosensitive signaling in LC neurons.
High-strength static magnetic fields (&gt;7 tesla) perturb the vestibular system causing dizziness, nystagmus, and nausea in humans; and head motion, locomotor circling, conditioned taste aversion, and c-Fos induction in brain stem vestibular nuclei in rodents. To determine the role of head orientation, mice were exposed for 15 min within a 14.1-tesla magnet at six different angles (mice oriented parallel to the field with the head toward B+ at 0; or pitched rostrally down at 45, 90, 90 sideways, 135, and 180), followed by a 2-min swimming test. Additional mice were exposed at 0, 90, and 180 and processed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Magnetic field exposure induced circular swimming that was maximal at 0 and 180 but attenuated at 45 and 135. Mice exposed at 0 and 45 swam counterclockwise, whereas mice exposed at 135 and 180 swam clockwise. Mice exposed at 90 (with their rostral-caudal axis perpendicular to the magnetic field) did not swim differently than controls. In parallel, exposure at 0 and 180 induced c-Fos in vestibular nuclei with left-right asymmetries that were reversed at 0 vs. 180. No significant c-Fos was induced after 90 exposure. Thus, the optimal orientation for magnetic field effects is the rostral-caudal axis parallel to the field, such that the horizontal canal and utricle are also parallel to the field. These results have mechanistic implications for modeling magnetic field interactions with the vestibular apparatus of the inner ear (e.g., the model of Roberts et al. of an induced Lorenz force causing horizontal canal cupula deflection).
By 2050, nearly 1 in 5 Americans (19%) will be an immigrant, including Hispanics, Blacks, and Asians, compared to the 1 in 8 (12%) in 2005. They will vary in the extent to which they are at risk for mental health disorders. Given this increase in cultural diversity within the United States and costly population health disparities across cultural groups, it is essential to develop a more comprehensive understanding of how culture affects basic psychological and biological mechanisms. We examine these basic mechanisms that underlie population disparities in mental health through cultural neuroscience. We discuss the challenges to and opportunities for cultural neuroscience research to determine sociocultural and biological factors that confer risk for and resilience to mental health disorders across the globe.
Translational research is needed to leverage discoveries from the frontiers of genome science to improve public health. So far, public health researchers have largely ignored genetic discoveries, and geneticists have ignored important aspects of population health science. This mutual neglect should end. In this article, we discuss 3 areas where public health researchers can help to advance translation: (1) risk assessment: investigate genetic profiles as components in composite risk assessments; (2) targeted intervention: conduct life-course longitudinal studies to understand when genetic risks manifest in development and whether intervention during sensitive periods can have lasting effects; and (3) improved understanding of environmental causation: collaborate with geneticists on gene-environment interaction research. We illustrate with examples from our own research on obesity and smoking.
Aging of the brain is characterized by several neurochemical modifications involving structural proteins, neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and related receptors. Alterations of neurochemical indices of synaptic function are indicators of age-related impairment of central functions, such as locomotion, memory and sensory performances. Several studies demonstrate that ionotropic GABA receptors, glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), and somatostatinergic subpopulations of GABAergic neurons are markedly decreased in experimental animal brains during aging. Additionally, levels of several neuropeptides co-expressed with GAD decrease during aging. Thus, the age-related decline in cognitive functions could be attributable, at least in part, to decrements in GABA inhibitory neurotransmission. In this study, we showed that chronic supplementation of taurine to aged mice significantly ameliorated the age-dependent decline in spatial memory acquisition and retention. We also demonstrated that concomitant with the amelioration in cognitive function, taurine caused significant alterations in the GABAergic and somatostatinergic system. These changes included (1) increased levels of the neurotransmitters GABA and glutamate, (2) increased expression of both isoforms of GAD (65 and 67) and the neuropeptide somatostatin, (3) decreased hippocampal expression of the 3 subunits of the GABAA receptor, (4) increased expression in the number of somatostatin-positive neurons, (5) increased amplitude and duration of population spikes recorded from CA1 in response to Schaefer collateral stimulation and (6) enhanced paired pulse facilitation in the hippocampus. These specific alterations of the inhibitory system caused by taurine treatment oppose those naturally occurring in the aging brain, suggesting a protective role of taurine in this process. An increased understanding of age-related neurochemical changes in the GABAergic system will be important in elucidating the underpinnings of the functional changes of aging. Taurine supplementation might help forestall the age-related decline in cognitive functions through interaction with the GABAergic system.
Creatine is an amino acid that has a pivotal role in energy metabolism of cells. Creatine acts as an &quot;ATP shuttle&quot;, carrying ATP to the sites where it is utilized, through its reversible phosphorylation by creatine kinase. Moreover, the creatine-phosphocreatine system delays ATP depletion during anoxia or ischemia, thus exerting a neuroprotective role during those pathological conditions. Thus, its administration has been advocated as a treatment or prevention of several conditions involving the central nervous system. However, creatine crosses poorly the blood-brain barrier and the cell plasma membrane, thus its administration has but a limited effect. The use of more lipophilic creatine derivatives has thus been suggested. However, such a synthesis is complicated by the intrinsic characteristics of the creatine molecule that hardly reacts with other molecules and easily cyclizes to creatinine. We obtained amide derivatives from creatine starting from a new protected creatine molecule synthesized by us, the so-called (Boc)2-creatine. We used a temporary protection only on the creatine guanidine group while allowing a good reactivity on the carboxylic group. This temporary protection ensured efficient creatine dissolution in organic solvents and offered simultaneous protection of creatine toward intramolecular cyclization to creatinine. In this manner, it was possible to selectively conjugate molecules on the carboxylic group. The creatine guanidine group was easily released from the protection at the end of the reaction, thus obtaining the desired creatine derivative.




Hemorrhagic type of moyamoya disease (MMD) is extremely rare in children. Ischemia following hemorrhage is very rare in MMD. There are only 11 reports of mixed-type of MMD, with the patient having both hemorrhage and ischemia in the same hemisphere at the time of presentation, or at different time periods. The ischemia is usually secondary to a precipitating cause. However, there are no reports of a child presenting with both ischemia and hemorrhage in different hemispheres. We present a previously unreported phenomenon of MMD, presenting as hemorrhage and ischemia in opposite hemispheres and review the relevant literature.



The amphoteric C31G solution contains equimolar alkyl dimethlyglycine and alkyl dimethyl amine oxide buffered with citric acid. C31G acts as a broad spectrum antiviral and an antibacterial. No previous in vivo studies have been done to test C31G in an animal model of HSV-1 ocular keratitis. We assessed the anti-herpetic activity of C31G in the rabbit eye model using three treatment groups: (1) 1% trifluorothymidine (TFT); (2) 0.25% C31G plus 0.5% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC); and (3) vehicle, 0.5% HPMC. Scarified rabbit corneas were inoculated with the HSV-1 strain McKrae. On post inoculation (PI) day 3, rabbits were placed in three balanced groups based on slit-lamp examination (SLE) scores. Treatment began on PI day 3, five times a day for five consecutive days. In addition to the daily, masked SLE scoring, the eyes were assessed daily for stromal opacity, scleral inflammation, neovascularization, eyelid inflammation, inflammatory discharge, and epiphora. C31G and TFT were very effective in reducing the lesions and pathogenesis associated with HSV-1 ocular keratitis. The vehicle control scores were significantly higher and did not effectively treat HSV-1 keratitis. C31G has the potential to be used to treat herpetic keratitis as well as other herpetic topical lesions in humans.


Methadone detoxification is among the widely used treatment programs for opioid dependence. The aims of this study were to identify which patient baseline factors and treatment regimen features are predictors of the treatment outcome in an outpatient flexible dose-duration methadone detoxification program. We studied 126 opioid dependents in a naturalistic nonexperimental clinical setting. The patients were assessed for baseline demographic characteristics, and drug abuse characteristics. Treatment regimen features were recorded during the program. Successful treatment completion was defined as the last daily dose of methadone being less than 15 mg, negative urine analysis in the last two weeks of treatment, and based on the final clinician-client's decision. Out of 126 patients, 60 patients completed detoxification successfully. Younger age, longer duration of the opioid abuse, and higher subjective opiate intoxication severity before treatment entry were all significantly associated with negative treatment outcome. Among treatment regimen features, higher maximum methadone dose had a marginally significant independent effect on treatment failure. Patients with maximum methadone dose of more than 75 mg per day had around ten times worse success rate when compared to those who received lesser doses. The study findings could be used to predict treatment outcome and prognosis in a more individualized and patient-tailored approach in the real clinical setting. Guideline development for treatment selection and outcome monitoring in addiction medicine based on similar studies could enhance treatment outcome in clinical services.

Some mothers experience neutral or negative feelings toward their new infant. This study examined the association between symptoms of postnatal depression and mother-infant bonding and the persistence of these feelings over the first year. Bonding was assessed using the Mother-Infant Bonding Scale (MIBQ), at four times postnatal, &quot;early weeks&quot; (1-4 weeks), 9 weeks, 16 weeks and 1 year, in 50 depressed, Edinburgh Postnatal Depression scale (EPDS) 13 at 4 weeks post natal, and 29 non-depressed mothers. A significant association between the EPDS score at 4 weeks and bonding score at 1-4 weeks, 9 weeks, and at 1 year postnatal, (2)(1) = 9.85, p &lt; 0.01, 5.44, p &lt; 0.05 and 5.21, p &lt; 0.05, respectively, was found, with a trend at 16 weeks. There was a strong association between bonding in the early weeks and all later time points (2)(1) = 17.26, p &lt; 0.001, 7.89, p &lt; 0.01 and 13.69, p &lt; 0.001, respectively. Regression showed early bonding rather than early depression was the major predictor of bonding at 1 year. Women who are depressed postnatally can fail to bond well with their baby and this can persist for a year. Early identification and intervention for poor bonding is indicated.
A case of multiple intracranial abscesses in an immune-competent young girl is reported. She had chicken pox. Two weeks later, she presented with multiple intracranial abscesses. No significant cardiac abnormality was detected on transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE). The condition was treated medically. However, one of the abscesses adjacent to the CSF pathways enlarged on treatment and caused obstructive hydrocephalus that required stereotactic aspiration. Gram stain showed gram positive cocci in chain. Pus was sterile on culture. She was treated with broad spectrum IV antibiotics based on Gram staining report for 6 weeks followed by another 8 weeks of oral antibiotics. She made good recovery and had been leading a normal life. The abscess capsules took 30 months to resolve completely on MRI. A repeat TTE done in the follow up showed enlarged right heart chambers with a suggestion of a venosus ASD. A trans-esophageal echocardiogram (TEE) confirmed the presence of sinus venosus ASD from the SVC side with mainly left to right shunt. There was also partial anomalous drainage of the pulmonary veins. The patient underwent correction of the defect and has been doing well.


In a spoken utterance, a talker expresses linguistic constituents in serial order. A listener resolves these linguistic properties in the rapidly fading auditory sample. Classic measures agree that auditory integration occurs at a fine temporal grain. In contrast, recent studies have proposed that sensory integration of speech occurs at a coarser grain, approximate to the syllable, on the basis of indirect and relatively insensitive perceptual measures. Evidence from cognitive neuroscience and behavioral primatology has also been adduced to support the claim of sensory integration at the pace of syllables. In the present investigation, we used direct performance measures of integration, applying an acoustic technique to isolate the contribution of short-term acoustic properties to the assay of modulation sensitivity. In corroborating the classic finding of a fine temporal grain of integration, these functional measures can inform theory and speculation in accounts of speech perception.
Although it is generally recognized that the concurrent performance of two tasks incurs costs, the sources of these dual-task costs remain controversial. The serial bottleneck model suggests that serial postponement of task performance in dual-task conditions results from a central stage of response selection that can only process one task at a time. Cognitive-control models, by contrast, propose that multiple response selections can proceed in parallel, but that serial processing of task performance is predominantly adopted because its processing efficiency is higher than that of parallel processing. In the present study, we empirically tested this proposition by examining whether parallel processing would occur when it was more efficient and financially rewarded. The results indicated that even when parallel processing was more efficient and was incentivized by financial reward, participants still failed to process tasks in parallel. We conclude that central information processing is limited by a serial bottleneck.
In recent years, studies have revealed an interaction between two systems of attention-alerting and executive control. Specifically, warning cues increase the influence of cognitive conflict under certain conditions. One of the problems of interpreting this effect is that warning cues can trigger two processes simultaneously-a high arousal state and strategic temporal expectancy. The goal of the present study was to clarify which process underlies the increased congruency effects following a warning event. In two experiments, the influence of warning cues on flanker congruency was examined while controlling for the effects of temporal expectancy and arousal. Experiment 1 revealed a strong effect of warning cues on congruency, even when the warning cues were not temporally predictive. This effect was evident at two short cue-to-target intervals of 100 and 500ms, but not following a 900-ms interval. Experiment 2 revealed that this effect was not altered even when the warning cues predicted with high certainty that the target would appear at long cue-to-target intervals (e.g., 900ms). We suggest that the interaction between alerting and executive control reflects the involvement of a subcortical mechanism responsible for increasing arousal.


Urothelial cells in the urinary bladder express neural properties including: (1) release of neurotransmitters and neurotrophic factors, (2) expression of neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels, and (3) sensitivity to mechanical and chemical stimuli. These properties have focused attention on the possible contribution of the urothelium to the storage and emptying functions of the bladder. In addition chemicals released from urothelial cells can affect the excitability of adjacent afferent nerves and this interaction can be affected by pathological conditions. This raises the possibility that abnormal urothelial-afferent interactions may contribute to bladder dysfunctions and therefore be a target for drug therapy.
Bulbospinal neurons in the ventral medulla play important roles in the regulation of sympathetic outflow. Physiological evidence suggests that these neurons are activated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA subtypes of glutamate receptors. In this study, we examined bulbospinal neurons in the ventral medulla for the presence of immunoreactivity for the NMDA NR1 subunit, which is essential for NMDA receptor function. Rats received bilateral injections of cholera toxin B into the tenth thoracic spinal segment to label bulbospinal neurons. Triple immunofluorescent labeling was used to detect cholera toxin B with a blue fluorophore, NR1 with a red fluorophore, and either tyrosine hydroxylase or tryptophan hydroxylase with a green fluorophore. In the rostral ventrolateral medulla, NR1 occurred in all bulbospinal tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons and 96% of bulbospinal tyrosine hydroxylase-negative neurons, which were more common in sections containing the facial nucleus. In the raphe pallidus, the parapyramidal region, and the marginal layer, 98% of bulbospinal tryptophan hydroxylase-positive neurons contained NR1 immunoreactivity. NR1 was also present in all of the bulbospinal tryptophan hydroxylase-negative neurons, which comprised 20% of bulbospinal neurons in raphe pallidus and the parapyramidal region. These results show that virtually all bulbospinal tyrosine hydroxylase and non-tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and virtually all bulbospinal serotonin and non-serotonin neurons in raphe pallidus and the parapyramidal region express NR1, the obligatory subunit of the NMDA receptor. NMDA receptors on bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventral medulla likely influence sympathoexcitation in normal and pathological conditions.
A high MAPK1/3 (also known as ERK2/1, respectively) activity, preventing spontaneous activation, is essential to maintain cell cycle arrest of mature oocytes of mammals, frogs or invertebrates such as starfish. Mature oocytes would undergo a &quot;suicide&quot;-like cell death if not fertilized. We previously have reported that downregulation of MAPK1/3 in unfertilized sea urchin eggs induces a calcium-dependent entry into mitosis. We show here that this event is followed by a series of pseudo-mitotic cell cycles associated with transient Cai increases, preceding CASP3/caspase-3 activation and apoptosis. However, cell death was delayed after inhibition of the Cai transients or of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK), with roscovitine. In these conditions, eggs enter an autophagy program as suggested by detection of processed LC3B by western blot, immunofluorescence and immunogold staining, visualization of autophagy vesicles by electron microscopy, and an increase in acidic vesicular organelles (AVOs). We found that bafilomycin A 1 or an association of leupeptin and pepstatin, which are widely used to study autophagy, may act upon calcium signaling or cell cycle events, respectively, and not only on autophagy events. Finally, inhibition of PtdIns 3-kinase with wortmannin or LY294002 powerfully stimulated cell death of unfertilized eggs, which suggests that this activity does not negatively regulate autophagy as is often reported, but rather stimulates survival in unfertilized eggs. We suggest that apoptosis of unfertilized eggs is the consequence of an aberrant short attempt of development that occurs if MAPK1/3 is inactivated, but these eggs can use autophagy as a survival program when the cell cycle is blocked.

Available evidence suggests there is functional differentiation among hippocampal and parahippocampal subregions and along the dorsoventral (septotemporal) axis of the hippocampus. The aim of this study was to characterize and compare the efferent and afferent connections of perirhinal areas 35 and 36, postrhinal cortex, and the lateral and medial entorhinal areas (LEA and MEA) with dorsal and ventral components of the hippocampal formation (dentate gyrus, hippocampus cornu ammonis fields, and subiculum) as well as the presubiculum, and the parasubiculum. The entorhinal connections were also characterized with respect to the LEA and MEA dentate gyrus-projecting bands. In general, the entorhinal connections with the hippocampal formation are much stronger than the perirhinal and postrhinal connections. The entorhinal cortex projects strongly to all components of the hippocampal formation, whereas the perirhinal and postrhinal cortices project weakly and only to CA1 and the subiculum. In addition, the postrhinal cortex preferentially targets the dorsal CA1 and subiculum, whereas the perirhinal cortex targets ventral subiculum. Similarly, the perirhinal cortex receives more input from ventral hippocampal formation structures and the postrhinal cortex receives more input from dorsal hippocampal structures. The LEA and the MEA medial band are more strongly interconnected with ventral hippocampal structures, whereas the MEA lateral band is more interconnected with dorsal hippocampal structures. With regard to the presubiculum and parasubiculum, the postrhinal cortex and the MEA lateral band receive stronger input from the dorsal presubiculum and caudal parasubiculum. In contrast, the LEA and MEA medial bands receive stronger input from the ventral presubiculum and rostral parasubiculum.
Medial temporal lobe (MTL) areas are crucial for memory tasks such as spatial working memory and temporal association memory, which require an active maintenance of memory for a short period of time (a few hundred milliseconds to tens of seconds). Recent work has shown that the projection from layer III neurons in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) to hippocampal region CA1, the temporoammonic (TA) pathway, might be specially important for these memory tasks. In addition, lesions to the entorhinal cortex disrupt persistent firing in CA1 which is believed to support active maintenance of memory. Injection of cholinergic antagonists and group I mGlu receptor antagonists to the MEC impairs spatial working memory and temporal association memory. Consistent with this, we have shown that group I mGlu receptor activation supports persistent firing in principal cells of the MEC layer III in vitro (Yoshida et al. [39]). However, it still remains unknown whether cholinergic receptor activation also supports persistent firing in MEC layer III neurons. In this paper, we tested this in MEC layer III cells using both ruptured and perforated whole-cell recordings in vitro. We report that the majority of cells we recorded from in MEC layer III show persistent firing during perfusion of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (2-10M). In addition, repeated stimulation gradually suppressed persistent firing. We further discuss the possible role of persistent firing in memory function in general.
The structures of the medial temporal lobe, e.g., the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, perirhinal cortex, and parahippocampal cortex, are known to be essential for long-term memory processing and hence are labeled the medial temporal lobe memory system. Nevertheless, the exact contributions of each structure and the involvement in different cognitive processes remain controversial. This article discusses recent findings dealing with recognition memory and a long lasting involvement of the hippocampus and perirhinal cortex in episodic memory, based on functional imaging and lesion studies. Furthermore, a new paradigm employing objective manipulations of recollection and familiarity is presented, showing no anatomical distinction for these two processes, as opposed to studies using subjective ratings. Additionally, results regarding an involvement of the medial temporal lobe in visual processing are presented, in general supporting the visual-mnemonic theory. The discussed findings show that many questions regarding the functional organization remain unsolved, and that we are in need of further research to create a comprehensive model of the medial temporal lobe. For this, we might need to give up the distinctions into different cognitive processes and start to investigate the different types of representations that are processed by the medial temporal lobe.
Over the past five decades, per capita caloric intake has increased by approximately 28% in the United States. Excessive intake of calories from fats and sugars (high energy diets; HEDs) negatively impacts hippocampal-dependent memory. These deleterious effects of HEDs on hippocampal function involve HED-induced decreases in neuronal growth factors, neurogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. Given that HEDs also alter responses to emotional arousal, the present experiment determined whether the effects of HEDs on memory depend on the emotional arousal produced by the memory task during encoding. Rats were fed a high fat/sugar cafeteria-style diet for 4 weeks and then tested in a low or high emotional arousal version of a spatial object place recognition task. The results demonstrated that the HED prevented the memory-enhancing effects of emotional arousal. Thus, altered responses to emotional arousal likely contribute to HED-induced memory impairments, particularly in stressful memory tasks such as the spatial water maze.
Electrical stimulation thresholds required to elicit eyeblinks with either pontine or cerebellar interpositus stimulation were measured before and after classical eyeblink conditioning with paired pontine stimulation (conditioned stimulus, CS) and corneal airpuff (unconditioned stimulus, US). Pontine stimulation thresholds dropped dramatically after training and returned to baseline levels following extinction, whereas interpositus thresholds and input-output functions remained stable across training sessions. Learning rate, magnitude of threshold change, and electrode placements were correlated. Pontine projection patterns to the cerebellum were confirmed with retrograde labeling techniques. These results add to the body of literature suggesting that the pons relays CS information to the cerebellum and provide further evidence of synaptic plasticity in the cerebellar network.
I argue here that we have succeeded in localizing an essential memory trace for a basic form of associative learning and memory--classical conditioning of discrete responses learned with an aversive stimulus--to the anterior interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum. We first identified the entire essential circuit, using eyelid conditioning as the model system, and used reversible inactivation, during training, of critical structures and pathways to localize definitively the essential memory trace. In recognition of the 30th anniversary of Behavioral Neuroscience, I highlight 1 paper (Tracy, Thompson, Krupa, &amp; Thompson, 1998) that was particularly significant for the progress of this research program. In this review, I present definitive evidence that the essential memory trace for eyelid conditioning is localized to the cerebellum and to no other part of the essential circuit, using electrical stimulation of the pontine nuclei-mossy fibers projecting to the cerebellum as the conditional stimulus (CS; it proved to be a supernormal stimulus resulting in much faster learning than with any peripheral CS) and using an electrical stimulus to the output of the cerebellum as a test, which did not change. Pontine patterns of projection to the cerebellum were confirmed with retrograde labeling techniques.
In 1984, there was considerable evidence that the hippocampus was important for spatial learning and some evidence that it was also involved in duration discrimination. The article &quot;Hippocampus, Time, and Memory&quot; (Meck, Church, &amp; Olton, 1984), however, was the first to isolate the effects of hippocampal damage on specific stages of temporal processing. In this review, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Behavioral Neuroscience, we look back on factors that contributed to the long-lasting influence of this article. The major results were that a fimbria-fornix lesion (a) interferes with the ability to retain information in temporal working memory, and (b) distorts the content of temporal reference memory, but (c) did not decrease sensitivity to signal duration. This was the first lesion experiment in which the results were interpreted by a well-developed theory of behavior (scalar timing theory). It has led to extensive research on the role of the hippocampus in temporal processing by many investigators. The most important ones are the development of computational models with plausible neural mechanisms (such as the striatal beat-frequency model of interval timing), the use of multiple behavioral measures of timing, and empirical research on the neural mechanisms of timing and temporal memory using ensemble recording of neurons in prefrontal-striatal-hippocampal circuits.
In 1985, a brief report published in Behavioral Neuroscience established the link between neonatal handling and concentrations of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the adult rat, suggesting a neurobiological basis for the attenuated stress reactivity observed in handled versus nonhandled offspring. To celebrate the 30th anniversary of Behavioral Neuroscience, this article explores the research that preceded and followed from this brief but significant publication. Changes in hippocampal GR induced by handling were determined to be the outcome of a cascade of cellular and molecular events involving thyroid hormones, serotonin turnover, and transcription factor binding to the Nr3c1 gene, leading to increased GR mRNA and protein. Though many hypotheses were proposed for the &quot;handling effect,&quot; the role of handling-induced changes in maternal care, particularly pup licking/grooming (LG), generated a productive scientific framework for understanding the handling phenomenon. Indeed, LG has since been demonstrated to alter GR levels through the signaling pathways described for handling. Moreover, epigenetic mechanisms have been discovered to play a critical role in the effects of early life experience and particularly in the regulation of Nr3c1. Overall, the research avenues that have evolved from the initial finding of handling-induced changes in GR have broad applications to our understanding of plasticity, resilience, and the transmission of traits across generations.
The advent of the selective cholinergic toxin, 192 IgG-saporin, dramatically shaped subsequent research on the role of the basal forebrain in learning and memory. In particular, several articles (including the authors' 1995 Behavioral Neuroscience paper; M. G. Baxter, D. J. Bucci, L. K., Gorman, R. G. Wiley, &amp; M. Gallagher, 1995) revealed that selective removal of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons had surprisingly little effect on spatial learning and memory. Here, as part of the series commemorating the 30th anniversary of Behavioral Neuroscience, we describe how our earlier findings prompted a reconsideration of the cholinergic contribution to cognitive function and also led to several new research directions, including renewed interest in basal forebrain GABA-ergic neurons and cholinergic contributions to neurocognitive development. The authors also describe how the successful use of 192 IgG-saporin led to the development and popularity of a wide range of selective new neurotoxic agents. Finally, they consider the utility of the permanent lesion approach in the wake of new transgenic and optogenetic methods.
Testing optokinetic head or eye movements is an established method to determine visual performance of laboratory animals, including chickens, guinea pigs, mice, or fish. It is based on the optokinetic reflex which causes the animals to track a drifting stripe pattern with eye and head movements. We have developed an improved version of the optomotor test with better control over the stimulus parameters, as well as a high degree of automation. The stripe pattern is presented on computer monitors surrounding the animal. By tracking the head position of freely moving animals in real time, the visual angle under which the stripes of the pattern appeared was kept constant even for changing head positions. Furthermore, an algorithm was developed for automated evaluation of the tracking performance of the animal. Comparing the automatically determined behavioral score with manual assessment of the animals' tracking behavior confirmed the reliability of our methodology. As an example, we reproduced the known contrast sensitivity function of wild type mice. Furthermore, the progressive decline in visual performance of a mouse model of retinal degeneration, rd10, was demonstrated.
Our experiment examined the ability of crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) to discriminate between familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics of equivalent social status, and investigated whether this species displays dear enemy or nasty neighbor effects. Pairs of size and sex matched crayfish fought to establish social status and the resulting dominant and subordinate crayfish then participated in a choice phase in which they interacted with two conspecifics tethered in an arena. Both choice conspecifics had the same social status and sex, but one was familiar (the focal animal's previous opponent) and the other was novel. We found that subordinate focal animals of both sexes spent significantly more time in proximity to the unfamiliar choice animal, behavior inconsistent with the dear enemy and nasty neighbor hypotheses. In contrast, male and female dominant focals differed significantly: females spent more time close to and fighting with the familiar choice animal while male dominants responded equivalently to the two choice animals. Thus the response of crayfish toward familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics was complex and not explained by a single hypothesis. We suggest that, in addition to familiarity and unfamiliarity, the perceived threat-level of opponents influences the behavior of crayfish toward conspecifics.
Internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for severe health anxiety can be effective, but not all patients achieve full remission. Under these circumstances, knowledge about predictors is essential for the clinician in order to make reliable treatment recommendations. The primary aim of this study was to investigate clinical, demographic, and therapy process-related predictors of Internet-based CBT for severe health anxiety. We performed three types of analyses on data from a sample comprising participants (N = 81) who had received Internet-based CBT in a randomized controlled trial. Outcomes were a) end state health anxiety, b) improvement in health anxiety (continuous change scores), and c) clinically significant improvement. Outcomes were assessed at six-month follow-up. The results showed that the most stable predictors of both end state health anxiety and improvement were baseline health anxiety and depressive symptoms. Treatment adherence, i.e. the number of completed treatment modules, also significantly predicted outcome. Notably, health anxiety at baseline was positively associated with symptom improvement while depressive symptoms was negatively related to improvement. Demographic factors were largely without significant impact on end state symptoms or improvement. We conclude that baseline symptom burden and adherence to treatment have strong predictive effects in Internet-based CBT for severe health anxiety.
According to cognitive-behavioral models of social anxiety disorder (SAD), four of the important maintaining mechanisms are avoidance, self-focused attention, anticipatory processing and post-event cognitive processing. Individual cognitive therapy (ICT) and cognitive behavioral group therapy (CBGT) both have substantial empirical support. However, it is unclear whether they achieve their effects by similar or different mechanisms. The aim of this study was to investigate whether changes in the four maintenance processes mediate clinical improvement in ICT and CBGT for SAD. We analyzed data from participants (N = 94) who received either ICT or CBGT in two separate RCTs. The results showed that ICT had larger effects than CBGT on social anxiety and each of the four potential mediators. More pertinently, moderated mediation analyses revealed significant between-treatment differences. Whereas improvement in ICT was mainly mediated by reductions in avoidance and self-focused attention, improvement in CBGT was mediated by changes in self-focused attention and in anticipatory and post-event processing. These results support the importance of the putative mediators, but suggest that their relative weights are moderated by treatment type.


Molecular processes regulating cholinergic functions play an important role in the control of respiration under hypoxia. Cholinergic alterations and its further complications in respiration due to hypoxic insult in neonatal rats and the effect of glucose, oxygen, and epinephrine resuscitation was evaluated in the present study. Receptor binding and gene expression studies were done in the corpus striatum to analyse the changes in total muscarinic receptors, muscarinic M1, M2, M3 receptors, and the enzymes involved in acetylcholine metabolism, choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase. Neonatal hypoxia decreased total muscarinic receptors with reduced expression of muscarinic M1, M2, and M3 receptor genes. The reduction in acetylcholine metabolism is indicated by the downregulated choline acetyltransferase and upregulated acetyl cholinesterase expression. These cholinergic disturbances were reversed to near control in glucose-resuscitated hypoxic neonates. The adverse effects of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine administration are also reported. The present findings points to the cholinergic alterations due to neonatal hypoxic shock and suggests a proper resuscitation method to ameliorate these striatal changes.
PDZ domains are highly abundant protein-protein interaction modules and are often found in multidomain scaffold proteins. PDZ-domain-containing scaffold proteins regulate multiple biological processes, including trafficking and clustering receptors and ion channels at defined membrane regions, organizing and targeting signalling complexes at specific cellular compartments, interfacing cytoskeletal structures with membranes, and maintaining various cellular structures. PDZ domains, each with ~90-amino-acid residues folding into a highly similar structure, are best known to bind to short C-terminal tail peptides of their target proteins. A series of recent studies have revealed that, in addition to the canonical target-binding mode, many PDZ-target interactions involve amino acid residues beyond the regular PDZ domain fold, which we refer to as extensions. Such extension sequences often form an integral structural and functional unit with the attached PDZ domain, which is defined as a PDZ supramodule. Correspondingly, PDZ-domain-binding sequences from target proteins are frequently found to require extension sequences beyond canonical short C-terminal tail peptides. Formation of PDZ supramodules not only affords necessary binding specificities and affinities demanded by physiological functions of PDZ domain targets, but also provides regulatory switches to be built in the PDZ-target interactions. At the 20th anniversary of the discovery of PDZ domain proteins, we try to summarize structural features and target-binding properties of such PDZ supramodules emerging from studies in recent years.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID)s are abnormal involuntary movements limiting the chronic use of L-DOPA, the main pharmacological treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Serotonin receptors are thought to contribute to LID but serotonin 1B (5-HT1B) receptors have never been investigated in any primate models of PD and LID. Therefore, we measured 5-HT1B receptors with [(3)H]GR 125743 autoradiography in controls, MPTP-lesioned monkeys, and L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys, with or without Ro 61-8048 treatment, a kynurenine hydroxylase inhibitor alleviating LID. In normal condition, 5-HT1B receptor specific binding was highest in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), high in the globus pallidus (GP), nucleus accumbens and substantia innominata and lower in the caudate nucleus and putamen. 5-HT1B receptors were increased in caudate nucleus, putamen and SNr of MPTP monkeys compared to controls. L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys had elevated 5-HT1B receptor specific binding in caudate nucleus, putamen, SNr and internal GP. In all these brain regions, increases were prevented by co-administration of Ro 61-8048. No effect of MPTP lesion or treatment was observed for 5-HT1B specific binding in the external GP, nucleus accumbens and substantia innominata. This study is the first description in primates of altered brain 5-HT1B receptors associated with prevention of LID.
Enabling optical control over biological processes is a defining goal of the new field of optogenetics. Control of membrane voltage by natural rhodopsin family ion channels has found widespread acceptance in neuroscience, due to the fact that these natural proteins control membrane voltage without further engineering. In contrast, optical control of intracellular biological processes has been a fragmented effort, with various laboratories engineering light-responsive properties into proteins in different manners. In the present article, we review the various systems that have been developed for controlling protein functions with light based on vertebrate rhodopsins, plant photoregulatory proteins and, most recently, the photoswitchable fluorescent protein Dronpa. By allowing biology to be controlled with spatiotemporal specificity and tunable dynamics, light-controllable proteins will find applications in the understanding of cellular and organismal biology and in synthetic biology.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is responsible for the hydrolysis of the endogenous cannabinoid (CB) receptor ligand anandamide. Here we have investigated whether the expression levels of FAAH and CB1 receptors influence the prognostic value of markers of angiogenesis in prostate cancer. Data from a cohort of 419 patients who were diagnosed with prostate cancer at transurethral resection for lower urinary tract symptoms, of whom approximately 2/3 had been followed by expectancy, were used. Scores for the angiogenesis markers endoglin and von Willebrand factor (vWf), the endocannabinoid markers fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) and cannabinoid CB1 receptors and the cell proliferation marker Ki-67 were available in the database. For the cases followed by expectancy, the prognostic value of endoglin was dependent upon the tumour epithelial FAAH immunoreactivity (FAAH-IR) and CB1IR scores, and the non-malignant epithelial FAAH-IR scores, but not the non-malignant CB1IR scores or the tumour blood vessel FAAH-IR scores. This dependency upon the tumour epithelial FAAH-IR or CB1IR scores was less apparent for vWf, and was not seen for Ki-67. Using an endoglin cut-off value of 10 positively stained vessels per core and a median split of tumour FAAH-IR, four groups could be generated, with 15year of disease-specific survival (%) of 687 (low endoglin, low FAAH), 4511 (high endoglin, low FAAH), 776 (low endoglin, high FAAH) and 2110 (high endoglin, high FAAH). Thus, the cases with high endoglin and high FAAH scores have the poorest rate of disease-specific survival. At diagnosis, the number of cases with tumour stages 1a-1b relative to stages 2-4 was sensitive to the endoglin score in a manner dependent upon the tumour FAAH-IR. It is concluded that the prognostic value of endoglin as a marker of neovascularisation in prostate cancer can be influenced by the expression level of markers of the endocannabinoid system. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Lipid Metabolism in Cancer.

Aging is associated with an increased incidence of pathological conditions such as neurodegeneration, cardiovascular and renal disease, and cancer. These conditions are believed to be linked to a disruption in cell homeodynamics, which is regulated by essential trace elements. In this study we used hair elementary analysis by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) to examine age-related profiles of 47 elements in both rats and common marmoset monkeys. Hair was collected from young adult (6months) and aged (18months) Long-Evans male rats, and young adult (2years), middle-aged (4years) and aged (&gt;8years) marmosets. The results revealed that aging reduces content levels of cobalt, potassium and seleniumwhile content levels of aluminium, arsenic, boron, mercury, molybdenum, and titanium were elevated in aged rats. Similarly, aged marmosets showed reduced levels of cobalt and elevated levels of aluminium. Case studies in aged rats revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with elevated levels of sodium, potassium and cadmium and reduced zinc, while renal failure was linked to elevated content of potassium, chloride and boron and reduced contents of manganese. Carcinoma was linked to elevated arsenic and reduced selenium levels. These findings indicate that hair elementary profiles in healthy aging and age-related diseases reflect altered cell and organ metabolic functions. Cobalt and aluminium in particular may serve as biomarkers of aging in animal models. Thus, elementary deposition in hair may have predictive and diagnostic value in age-related pathological conditions, including cardiovascular and kidney disease and cancer.
Brain intricacies and the difficulty that scientists encounter in revealing its function with standard approaches such as electrical stimulation of neurons have led to the exploration of new tools that enable the study of neural circuits in a remote and non-invasive way. To this end, optogenetics has initialised a revolution for neuroscience in the last decade by enabling simultaneous monitoring and stimulation of specific neuronal populations in intact brain preparations through genetically targeted expression of light sensitive proteins and molecular photoswitches. In addition to ongoing molecular probe development and optimisation, novel optical techniques hold immense potential to amplify and diversify the utility of optogenetic methods. Importantly, by improving the spatio-temporal resolution of light stimulation, neural circuits can be photoactivated in patterns mimicking endogenous physiological processes. The following synopsis addresses the possibilities and limitations of optical stimulation methods applied to and developed for activation of neuronal optogenetic tools.
The bioinspired approach has been key in combining the disciplines of robotics with neuroscience in an effective and promising fashion. Indeed, certain aspects in the field of neuroscience, such as goal-directed locomotion and behaviour selection, can be validated through robotic artefacts. In particular, swimming is a functionally important behaviour where neuromuscular structures, neural control architecture and operation can be replicated artificially following models from biology and neuroscience. In this article, we present a biomimetic system inspired by the lamprey, an early vertebrate that locomotes using anguilliform swimming. The artefact possesses extra- and proprioceptive sensory receptors, muscle-like actuation, distributed embedded control and a vision system. Experiments on optimised swimming and on goal-directed locomotion are reported, as well as the assessment of the performance of the system, which shows high energy efficiency and adaptive behaviour. While the focus is on providing a robotic platform for testing biological models, the reported system can also be of major relevance for the development of engineering system applications.


Individuals with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) display poor emotional conflict adaptation, a cognitive control process requiring the adjustment of performance based on previous-trial conflict. It is unclear whether GAD-related conflict adaptation difficulties are present during tasks without emotionally-salient stimuli. We examined conflict adaptation using the N2 component of the event-related potential (ERP) and behavioral responses on a Flanker task from 35 individuals with GAD and 35 controls. Groups did not differ on conflict adaptation accuracy; individuals with GAD also displayed intact RT conflict adaptation. In contrast, individuals with GAD showed decreased amplitude N2 principal component for conflict adaptation. Correlations showed increased anxiety and depressive symptoms were associated with longer RT conflict adaptation effects and lower ERP amplitudes, but not when separated by group. We conclude that individuals with GAD show reduced conflict-related component processes that may be influenced by compensatory activity, even in the absence of emotionally-salient stimuli.
Prominent posterior EEG alpha is associated with depression and clinical response to antidepressants. Given that religious belief was protective against depression in a longitudinal study of familial risk, we hypothesized that individuals who differed by strength of spiritual beliefs might also differ in EEG alpha. Clinical evaluations and self-reports of the importance of religion or spirituality (R/S) were obtained from 52 participants, and again at 10-y followup when EEG was measured. EEG alpha was quantified using frequency PCA of current source densities (CSD-fPCA). Participants who rated R/S as highly important at initial assessment showed greater alpha compared to those who did not. Those who rated R/S important in both sessions showed greater alpha than those who changed their ratings. EEG differences were particularly well-defined for participants with lifetime depression. Findings extend the view of alpha as a marker for affective processes, suggesting an association with the ontogenesis of spirituality.
The purpose of the study was to test the hypothesis that sound context modulates the magnitude of auditory distraction, indexed by behavioral and electrophysiological measures. Participants were asked to identify tone duration, while irrelevant changes occurred in tone frequency, tone intensity, and harmonic structure. Frequency deviants were randomly intermixed with standards (Uni-Condition), with intensity deviants (Bi-Condition), and with both intensity and complex deviants (Tri-Condition). Only in the Tri-Condition did the auditory distraction effect reflect the magnitude difference among the frequency and intensity deviants. The mixture of the different types of deviants in the Tri-Condition modulated the perceived level of distraction, demonstrating that the sound context can modulate the effect of deviance level on processing irrelevant acoustic changes in the environment. These findings thus indicate that perceptual contrast plays a role in change detection processes that leads to auditory distraction.
Reward insensitivity in depression and dysphoria has been demonstrated by self-report, behavioral, and neuroscience data. These findings show less anticipated and experienced pleasure to rewarding stimuli, no behavioral adaptation in anticipation of rewards, and altered functioning in reward-related brain areas. The present study expands previous research by using cardiovascular reactivity to three levels of reward as an indicator of effort mobilization. Undergraduates with low versus high depression scores worked on a cognitive task in anticipation of no, versus a small, versus a significant amount of money for successful task performance. Results of pre-ejection period and heart rate reactivity confirmed the expected linear increase as a function of reward value in nondysphoric participants and the expected blunted response across all reward levels in dysphoric participants. The present findings thus show that dysphoric individuals have a motivational deficit in terms of reduced effort-related cardiac reactivity when anticipating a monetary reward.
Young adults more accurately remember own-age than older faces. We tested whether this own-age bias (OAB) is reduced by increased experience. Young experts (geriatric nurses) and controls performed a recognition experiment with young and old faces. Critically, while control participants demonstrated better memory for young faces, no OAB was observed in the experts. Event-related potentials revealed larger N170 and P2 amplitudes for young than old faces in both groups, suggesting no group differences during early perceptual processing. At test, N250 repetition effects were more anteriorily distributed for own- than other-age faces in control participants, whereas experts showed no corresponding effects. A larger late positive component (LPC) for old than young faces was observed in controls, but not in experts. Larger LPCs may reflect prolonged stimulus processing compromising memory retrieval. In sum, experience with other-age faces does not affect early perceptual processing, but modulates later stages related to memory retrieval.
Inhaling carbon dioxide (CO2)-enriched air induces fear and panic symptoms resembling real-life panic attacks, the hallmark of panic disorder. The present study aimed to describe the emotional and cardiovascular effects evoked by inhaling CO2, taking shortcomings of previous studies into account. Healthy volunteers underwent a double inhalation of 0, 9, 17.5, and 35% CO2, according to a randomized, cross-over design. In addition to fear, discomfort, and panic symptom ratings, blood pressure and heart rate were continuously monitored. Results showed a dose-dependent increase in all self-reports. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure rose with increasing CO2 concentration, whereas heart rate results were less consistent. Diastolic blood pressure and heart rate variation correlated with fear and discomfort. Based on this relationship and the observation that the diastolic blood pressure most accurately mimicked the degree of self-reported emotions, it might serve as a putative biomarker to assess the CO2-reactivity in the future.
Exosomes are nanovesicles secreted into the extracellular environment upon internal vesicle fusion with the plasma membrane. The molecular content of exosomes is a fingerprint of the releasing cell type and of its status. For this reason, and because they are released in easily accessible body fluids such as blood and urine, they represent a precious biomedical tool. A growing body of evidence suggests that exosomes may be used as biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of malignant tumors. This article focuses on the exploitation of exosomes as diagnostic tools for human tumors and discusses possible applications of the same strategies to other pathologies, such as neurodegenerative diseases.
A series of novel (1S)-(-)-verbenone derivatives was synthesized bearing a 4-styryl scaffold. The synthesized compounds were tested for their anti-oxidant, anti-excitotoxic, and anti-ischemic activities. These derivatives significantly reduced oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neuronal injury and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-evoked excitotoxicity in cortical neurons. Furthermore, compound 3f was identified as a potent anti-ischemic agent in an in vitro ischemic model, potentially due to the inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-evoked excitotoxicity and oxidative/nitrosative stress.
Comprehensive analysis of DNA methylation patterns is critical for understanding the molecular basis of many human diseases. While hundreds of PCR-based DNA methylation studies are published every year, the selection and implementation of appropriate methods for these studies can be challenging for molecular genetics researchers not yet familiar with methylation analysis. Here we review the most commonly used PCR-based DNA methylation analysis techniques: bisulfite sequencing PCR (BSP), methylation specific PCR (MSP), MethyLight, and methylation-sensitive high resolution melting (MS-HRM). We provide critical analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of each approach as well as a series of guidelines to assist in selecting and implementing an appropriate method.
The neurosciences intensive care unit provides specialized medical and nursing care to both the neurosurgical and neurological patient. This second of two articles describes the role it plays in the management of patients with neurological conditions.
The creation of neurosciences intensive care units was born out of the awareness that a group of neurological and neurosurgical patients required specialized intensive medical and nursing care. This first of two articles describes the role of neurosciences intensive care in the management of trauma and neurosurgical conditions.
We describe the operative technique and our preliminary experience with use of the Renishaw neuromate() stereotactic robot to implant depth electrodes for investigation of focal epilepsy in the UK. Conventional electrocorticography involving a craniotomy and implantation of grids of electrodes directly onto the brain surface is invasive and carries a high risk of major complications such as acute subdural haematoma and infection. Robot-guided depth electrodes implantation for stereotactic electroencephalography is a less invasive technique that allows accurate implantation of multiple deep brain electrodes along predefined trajectories, and has not been associated with any major surgical complications in our initial experience.
We report the case of a 14-month-old infant presenting with unresponsiveness and seizure following thoracic surgery. Imaging showed full territory left middle cerebral artery infarct and signs of raised intracranial pressure (ICP) that required emergency decompressive craniectomy (DC). The child made a good functional recovery. We discuss the case.
ebrain (www.ebrainjnc.com) is a comprehensive e-learning platform for the clinical neurosciences. It is owned by the Joint Neurosciences Council which is formed from the UK neuroscience specialty associations including the Society of British Neurosurgeons. ebrain has been developed in association with the European Neurology Associations and University College London. The content was written in 2010/11 and the programme was launched in November 2011. It is now one year old. This article reviews the history of the development, its progress since launch, and the plans for the future of this project.
Craving for chocolate is a common phenomenon, which may evolve to an addictive-like behaviour and contribute to obesity. Nepicastat is a selective dopamine -hydroxylase (DBH) inhibitor that suppresses cocaine-primed reinstatement of cocaine seeking in rats. We verified whether nepicastat was able to modify the reinforcing and motivational properties of a chocolate solution and to prevent the reinstatement of chocolate seeking in rats. Nepicastat (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) produced a dose-related inhibition of operant self-administration of the chocolate solution in rats under fixed-ratio 10 (FR10) and progressive-ratio schedules of reinforcement, measures of the reinforcing and motivational properties of the chocolate solution, respectively. The effect of nepicastat on the reinstatement of chocolate seeking was studied in rats in which lever-responding had been extinguished by removing the chocolate solution for approximately 8 d. Nepicastat dose-dependently suppressed the reinstatement of lever-responding triggered by a 'priming' of the chocolate solution together with cues previously associated with the availability of the reward. In a separate group of food-restricted rats trained to lever-respond for regular food pellets, nepicastat reduced FR10 lever-responding with the same potency as for the chocolate solution. Spontaneous locomotor activity was not modified by nepicastat doses that reduced self-administration of the chocolate solution and regular food pellets and suppressed the reinstatement of chocolate seeking. The results indicate that nepicastat reduces motivation to food consumption sustained by appetite or palatability. Moreover, the results suggest that DBH inhibitors may be a new class of pharmacological agents potentially useful in the prevention of relapse to food seeking in human dieters.




High frequency deep brain stimulation of the thalamus can help ameliorate severe essential tremor. Here we explore how the efficacy, efficiency and selectivity of thalamic deep brain stimulation might be improved in this condition. We started from the hypothesis that the effects of electrical stimulation on essential tremor may be phase dependent, and that, in particular, there are tremor phases at which stimuli preferentially lead to a reduction in the amplitude of tremor. The latter could be exploited to improve deep brain stimulation, particularly if tremor suppression could be reinforced by cumulative effects. Accordingly, we stimulated 10 patients with essential tremor and thalamic electrodes, while recording tremor amplitude and phase. Stimulation near the postural tremor frequency entrained tremor. Tremor amplitude was also modulated depending on the phase at which stimulation pulses were delivered in the tremor cycle. Stimuli in one half of the tremor cycle reduced median tremor amplitude by 10%, while those in the opposite half of the tremor cycle increased tremor amplitude by a similar amount. At optimal phase alignment tremor suppression reached 27%. Moreover, tremor amplitude showed a non-linear increase in the degree of suppression with successive stimuli; tremor suppression was increased threefold if a stimulus was preceded by four stimuli with a similar phase relationship with respect to the tremor, suggesting cumulative, possibly plastic, effects. The present results pave the way for a stimulation system that tracks tremor phase to control when deep brain stimulation pulses are delivered to treat essential tremor. This would allow treatment effects to be maximized by focussing stimulation on the optimal phase for suppression and by ensuring that this is repeated over many cycles so as to harness cumulative effects. Such a system might potentially achieve tremor control with far less power demand and greater specificity than current high frequency stimulation approaches, and may lower the risk for tolerance and rebound.
Many neurological conditions are caused by immensely heterogeneous gene mutations. The diagnostic process is often long and complex with most patients undergoing multiple invasive and costly investigations without ever reaching a conclusive molecular diagnosis. The advent of massively parallel, next-generation sequencing promises to revolutionize genetic testing and shorten the 'diagnostic odyssey' for many of these patients. We performed a pilot study using heterogeneous ataxias as a model neurogenetic disorder to assess the introduction of next-generation sequencing into clinical practice. We captured 58 known human ataxia genes followed by Illumina Next-Generation Sequencing in 50 highly heterogeneous patients with ataxia who had been extensively investigated and were refractory to diagnosis. All cases had been tested for spinocerebellar ataxia 1-3, 6, 7 and Friedrich's ataxia and had multiple other biochemical, genetic and invasive tests. In those cases where we identified the genetic mutation, we determined the time to diagnosis. Pathogenicity was assessed using a bioinformatics pipeline and novel variants were validated using functional experiments. The overall detection rate in our heterogeneous cohort was 18% and varied from 8.3% in those with an adult onset progressive disorder to 40% in those with a childhood or adolescent onset progressive disorder. The highest detection rate was in those with an adolescent onset and a family history (75%). The majority of cases with detectable mutations had a childhood onset but most are now adults, reflecting the long delay in diagnosis. The delays were primarily related to lack of easily available clinical testing, but other factors included the presence of atypical phenotypes and the use of indirect testing. In the cases where we made an eventual diagnosis, the delay was 3-35 years (mean 18.1 years). Alignment and coverage metrics indicated that the capture and sequencing was highly efficient and the consumable cost was 400 (460 or US$620). Our pathogenicity interpretation pathway predicted 13 different mutations in eight different genes: PRKCG, TTBK2, SETX, SPTBN2, SACS, MRE11, KCNC3 and DARS2 of which nine were novel including one causing a newly described recessive ataxia syndrome. Genetic testing using targeted capture followed by next-generation sequencing was efficient, cost-effective, and enabled a molecular diagnosis in many refractory cases. A specific challenge of next-generation sequencing data is pathogenicity interpretation, but functional analysis confirmed the pathogenicity of novel variants showing that the pipeline was robust. Our results have broad implications for clinical neurology practice and the approach to diagnostic testing.
The Frontal Assessment Battery is a set of six subtests that is used widely to assess frontal cortical executive dysfunction. Performance on the Frontal Assessment Battery has been shown to be sensitive to various neurodegenerative diseases, but it has never been shown to be sensitive to damage restricted to the frontal cortex. Thus, despite its wide use, it has never been validated on an appropriate population of patients with frontal lesions. The present study shows that, of the six subtests that comprise the Frontal Assessment Battery, only performance on the verbal fluency subtest (mental flexibility) was specifically sensitive to injury restricted to the frontal cortex. Performance of patients with damage to the dorsal part of the medial frontal region in the language-dominant left hemisphere was impaired. None of these patients was aphasic at the time of testing. The critical region in the dorsomedial frontal cortex includes the supplementary speech zone but is not restricted to it: it extends into the cingulate motor region and the paracingulate cortex as well as the medial prefrontal areas 8 and 9. The results indicate that the Frontal Assessment Battery is not a sensitive measure of prefrontal cortical dysfunction, except for the verbal fluency subtest.
Reorganization of eloquent cortex enables rescue of language functions in patients who sustain brain injury. Individuals with left-sided, early-onset focal epilepsy often show atypical (i.e. bilateral or right-sided) language dominance. Surprisingly, many patients fail to show such interhemispheric shift of language despite having major epileptogenic lesions in close proximity to eloquent cortex. Although a number of epilepsy-related factors may promote interhemispheric plasticity, it has remained unexplored if neuroanatomical asymmetries linked to human language dominance modify the likelihood of atypical lateralization. Here we examined the asymmetry of the planum temporale, one of the most striking asymmetries in the human brain, in relation to language lateralization in children with left-sided focal epilepsy. Language functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 51 children with focal epilepsy and left-sided lesions and 36 healthy control subjects. We examined the association of language laterality with a range of potential clinical predictors and the asymmetry of the length of the planum temporale. Using voxel-based methods, we sought to determine the effect of lesion location (in the affected left hemisphere) and grey matter density (in the unaffected right hemisphere) on language laterality. Atypical language lateralization was observed in 19 patients (38%) and in four controls (11%). Language laterality was increasingly right-sided in patients who showed atypical handedness, a left perisylvian ictal electroencephalographic focus, and a lesion in left anterior superior temporal or inferior frontal regions. Most striking was the relationship between rightward asymmetry of the planum temporale and atypical language (R = 0.70, P &lt; 0.0001); patients with a longer planum temporale in the right (unaffected) hemisphere were more likely to have atypical language dominance. Voxel-based regression analysis confirmed that increased grey matter density in the right temporo-parietal junction was correlated with right hemisphere lateralization of language. The length of the planum temporale in the right hemisphere was the main predictor of language lateralization in the epilepsy group, accounting for 48% of variance, with handedness accounting for only a further 5%. There was no correlation between language lateralization and planum temporale asymmetry in the control group. We conclude that asymmetry of the planum temporale may be unrelated to language lateralization in healthy individuals, but the size of the right, contra-lesional planum temporale region may reflect a 'reserve capacity' for interhemispheric language reorganization in the presence of a seizure focus and lesions within left perisylvian regions.
Surgical treatment of epilepsy is a challenge for patients with non-contributive brain magnetic resonance imaging. However, surgery is feasible if the seizure-onset zone is precisely delineated through intracranial electroencephalography recording. We recently described a method, volumetric imaging of epileptic spikes, to delineate the spiking volume of patients with focal epilepsy using magnetoencephalography. We postulated that the extent of the spiking volume delineated with volumetric imaging of epileptic spikes could predict the localizability of the seizure-onset zone by intracranial electroencephalography investigation and outcome of surgical treatment. Twenty-one patients with non-contributive magnetic resonance imaging findings were included. All patients underwent intracerebral electroencephalography investigation through stereotactically implanted depth electrodes (stereo-electroencephalography) and magnetoencephalography with delineation of the spiking volume using volumetric imaging of epileptic spikes. We evaluated the spatial congruence between the spiking volume determined by magnetoencephalography and the localization of the seizure-onset zone determined by stereo-electroencephalography. We also evaluated the outcome of stereo-electroencephalography and surgical treatment according to the extent of the spiking volume (focal, lateralized but non-focal or non-lateralized). For all patients, we found a spatial overlap between the seizure-onset zone and the spiking volume. For patients with a focal spiking volume, the seizure-onset zone defined by stereo-electroencephalography was clearly localized in all cases and most patients (6/7, 86%) had a good surgical outcome. Conversely, stereo-electroencephalography failed to delineate a seizure-onset zone in 57% of patients with a lateralized spiking volume, and in the two patients with bilateral spiking volume. Four of the 12 patients with non-focal spiking volumes were operated upon, none became seizure-free. As a whole, patients having focal magnetoencephalography results with volumetric imaging of epileptic spikes are good surgical candidates and the implantation strategy should incorporate volumetric imaging of epileptic spikes results. On the contrary, patients with non-focal magnetoencephalography results are less likely to have a localized seizure-onset zone and stereo electroencephalography is not advised unless clear localizing information is provided by other presurgical investigation methods.
Voltage-gated potassium channel complex antibodies, particularly those directed against leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1, are associated with a common form of limbic encephalitis that presents with cognitive impairment and seizures. Faciobrachial dystonic seizures have recently been reported as immunotherapy-responsive, brief, frequent events that often predate the cognitive impairment associated with this limbic encephalitis. However, these observations were made from a retrospective study without serial cognitive assessments. Here, we undertook the first prospective study of faciobrachial dystonic seizures with serial assessments of seizure frequencies, cognition and antibodies in 10 cases identified over 20 months. We hypothesized that (i) faciobrachial dystonic seizures would show a differential response to anti-epileptic drugs and immunotherapy; and that (ii) effective treatment of faciobrachial dystonic seizures would accelerate recovery and prevent the development of cognitive impairment. The 10 cases expand both the known age at onset (28 to 92 years, median 68) and clinical features, with events of longer duration, simultaneously bilateral events, prominent automatisms, sensory aura, and post-ictal fear and speech arrest. Ictal epileptiform electroencephalographic changes were present in three cases. All 10 cases were positive for voltage-gated potassium channel-complex antibodies (346-4515 pM): nine showed specificity for leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1. Seven cases had normal clinical magnetic resonance imaging, and the cerebrospinal fluid examination was unremarkable in all seven tested. Faciobrachial dystonic seizures were controlled more effectively with immunotherapy than anti-epileptic drugs (P = 0.006). Strikingly, in the nine cases who remained anti-epileptic drug refractory for a median of 30 days (range 11-200), the addition of corticosteroids was associated with cessation of faciobrachial dystonic seizures within 1 week in three and within 2 months in six cases. Voltage-gated potassium channel-complex antibodies persisted in the four cases with relapses of faciobrachial dystonic seizures during corticosteroid withdrawal. Time to recovery of baseline function was positively correlated with time to immunotherapy (r = 0.74; P = 0.03) but not time to anti-epileptic drug administration (r = 0.55; P = 0.10). Of 10 cases, the eight cases who received anti-epileptic drugs (n = 3) or no treatment (n = 5) all developed cognitive impairment. By contrast, the two who did not develop cognitive impairment received immunotherapy to treat their faciobrachial dystonic seizures (P = 0.02). In eight cases without clinical magnetic resonance imaging evidence of hippocampal signal change, cross-sectional volumetric magnetic resonance imaging post-recovery, after accounting for age and head size, revealed cases (n = 8) had smaller brain volumes than healthy controls (n = 13) (P &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, faciobrachial dystonic seizures can be prospectively identified as a form of epilepsy with an expanding phenotype. Immunotherapy is associated with excellent control of the frequently anti-epileptic drug refractory seizures, hastens time to recovery, and may prevent the subsequent development of cognitive impairment observed in this study.
Previous drug screens aiming to identify disease-modifying compounds for Parkinson's disease have typically been based on toxin-induced in vitro and in vivo models of this neurodegenerative condition. All these compounds have failed to have a reliable disease-modifying effect in subsequent clinical trials. We have now established a novel approach, namely to screen an entire compound library directly in patient tissue to identify compounds with a rescue effect on mitochondrial dysfunction as a crucial pathogenic mechanism in Parkinson's disease. The chosen Microsource Compound library contains 2000 compounds, including 1040 licensed drugs and 580 naturally occurring compounds. All 2000 compounds were tested in a step-wise approach for their rescue effect on mitochondrial dysfunction in parkin (PARK2) mutant fibroblasts. Of 2000 compounds, 60 improved the mitochondrial membrane potential by at least two standard deviations. Subsequently, these 60 compounds were assessed for their toxicity and drug-like dose-response. The remaining 49 compounds were tested in a secondary screen for their rescue effect on intracellular ATP levels. Of 49 compounds, 29 normalized ATP levels and displayed drug-like dose response curves. The mitochondrial rescue effect was confirmed for 15 of these 29 compounds in parkin-mutant fibroblasts from additional patients not included in the initial screen. Of 15 compounds, two were chosen for subsequent functional studies, namely ursocholanic acid and the related compound dehydro(11,12)ursolic acid lactone. Both compounds markedly increased the activity of all four complexes of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The naturally occurring compound ursolic acid and the licensed drug ursodeoxycholic acid are chemically closely related to ursocholanic acid and dehydro(11,12)ursolic acid lactone. All four substances rescue mitochondrial function to a similar extent in parkin-mutant fibroblasts, suggesting a class effect. The mitochondrial rescue effect depends on activation of the glucocorticoid receptor with increased phosphorylation of Akt and was confirmed for both ursocholanic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid in a Parkin-deficient neuronal model system. Of note, both ursocholanic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid also rescued mitochondrial function in LRRK2(G2019S) mutant fibroblasts. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of undertaking drug screens in Parkinson's disease patients' tissue and has identified a group of chemically-related compounds with marked mitochondrial rescue effect. Drug repositioning is considered to be a time- and cost-saving strategy to assess drugs already licensed for a different condition for their neuroprotective effect. We therefore propose both ursolic acid as a naturally occurring compound, and ursodeoxycholic acid as an already licensed drug as promising compounds for future neuroprotective trials in Parkinson's disease.
Widely distributed brain regions in temporal, parietal and frontal cortex have been found to be involved in semantic processing, but the anatomical connections supporting the semantic system are not well understood. In a group of 76 right-handed brain-damaged patients, we tested the relationship between the integrity of major white matter tracts and the presence of semantic deficits. The integrity of white matter tracts was measured by percentage of lesion voxels obtained in structural imaging and mean fractional anisotropy values obtained in diffusion tensor imaging. Semantic deficits were assessed by jointly considering the performance on three semantic tasks that vary in the modalities of input (visual and auditory stimuli) and output (oral naming and associative judgement). We found that the lesion volume and fractional anisotropy value of the left inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, left anterior thalamic radiation, and left uncinate fasciculus significantly correlated with severity of impairment in all three semantic tasks. These associations remained significant even when we controlled for a wide range of potential confounding variables, including overall cognitive state, whole lesion volume, or type of brain damage. The effects of these three white matter tracts could not be explained by potential involvement of relevant grey matter, and were (relatively) specific to object semantic processing, as no correlation with performance on non-object semantic control tasks (oral repetition and number processing tasks) was observed. These results underscore the causal role of left inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, left anterior thalamic radiation, and left uncinate fasciculus in semantic processing, providing direct evidence for (part of) the anatomical skeleton of the semantic network.
The enhancing effect of emotion on subsequent memory retrieval is well established. Patients with frontotemporal dementia show profound emotion processing difficulties, yet the extent to which such deficits attenuate emotional enhancement of memory remains unknown. Here, we studied the intersection between emotion and memory using a visual forced-choice recognition test for negative and neutral stimuli in 34 patients with frontotemporal dementia compared with 10 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 15 control subjects. Control subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease recognized more emotional than neutral items, as demonstrated by a significant interaction between emotion and memory for true recognition. This emotional enhancement effect was notably absent in the frontotemporal dementia cohort, with comparable recognition performance regardless of emotional content. Voxel-based morphometry analyses revealed distinct neural substrates for overall memory versus emotional memory performance. Overall memory performance correlated with the hippocampus, precuneus and posterior cingulate, regions crucial for successful episodic memory performance. Emotional enhancement of memory, by contrast, was associated exclusively with the integrity of the right orbitofrontal and subcallosal cortex. Our findings demonstrate differential disruption of emotional enhancement of memory in neurodegenerative disorders, and point toward the potentially pivotal role of the orbitofrontal cortex in supporting the successful retrieval of emotionally charged negative stimuli.

A single intrathecal dose of adenosine 2A receptor (A2AR) agonist was previously reported to produce a multi-week reversal of allodynia in a chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of neuropathic pain. We aimed to determine if this long-term reversal was induced by A2AR agonism versus more generalized across adenosine receptor subtypes, and begin to explore the intracellular signaling cascades involved. In addition, we sought to identify whether the enduring effect could be extended to other models of neuropathic pain. We tested an A1R and A2BR agonist in CCI and found the same long duration effect with A2BR but not A1R agonism. An A2AR agonist (ATL313) produced a significant long-duration reversal of mechanical allodynia induced by long established CCI (administered 6 weeks after surgery), spinal nerve ligation and sciatic inflammatory neuropathy. To determine if ATL313 had a direct effect on glia, ATL313 was coadministered with lipopolysaccharide to neonatal microglia and astrocytes in vitro. ATL313 significantly attenuated TNF production in both microglia and astrocytes but had no effect on LPS induced IL-10. Protein kinase C significantly reversed the ATL313 effects on TNF in vitro in microglia and astrocytes, while a protein kinase A inhibitor only effected microglia. Both intrathecal PKA and PKC inhibitors significantly reversed the effect of the A2AR agonist on neuropathic allodynia. Therefore, A2AR agonists administered IT remain an exciting novel target for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is modulated by a number of intrinsic and extrinsic factors including local signalling molecules, exercise, aging and inflammation. Inflammation is also a major contributor to several hippocampal-associated disorders. Interleukin-1beta (IL-1) is the most predominant pro-inflammatory cytokine in the brain, and an increase in its concentration is known to decrease the proliferation of both embryonic and adult hippocampal neural precursor cells (NPCs). Recent research has focused on the role of nuclear receptors as intrinsic regulators of neurogenesis, and it is now established that the orphan nuclear receptor TLX is crucial in maintaining the NPC pool in neurogenic brain regions. To better understand the involvement of TLX in IL-1-mediated effects on hippocampal NPC proliferation, we examined hippocampal NPC proliferation and TLX expression in response to IL-1 treatment in an adult rat hippocampal neurosphere culture system. We demonstrate that IL-1 reduced the proliferation of hippocampal NPCs and TLX expression in a dose and time-dependent manner and that co-treatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist or IL-1 receptor siRNA prevented these effects. We also report a dose-dependent effect of IL-1 on the composition of cell phenotypes in the culture and on expression of TLX in these cells. This study thus provides evidence of an involvement of TLX in IL-1-induced changes in adult hippocampal neurogenesis, and offers mechanistic insight into disorders in which neuroinflammation and alterations in neurogenesis are characteristic features.
A considerable number of studies demonstrate that acute and chronic stressors prime CNS innate immune responses to subsequent pro-inflammatory challenges and that glucocorticoids mediate, in part, stress-induced sensitization of pro-inflammatory immune responses. Here, we explore the notion that GCs produce a persisting sensitization of CNS innate immune effectors (e.g. microglia) so that they will generate a potentiated pro-inflammatory response after the GC rise has dissipated, thereby enhancing the sickness response to infection or injury and maximizing the animal's ability to neutralize danger. The stress-induced GC response is conceptualized here as an neuroendocrine warning signal or alarmin to the innate immune system, which prepares or sensitizes the innate immune response to potential danger. Thus, a new understanding of the stress response and its function (priming CNS innate immune responses to infection or injury during a fight/flight emergency) would be suggested.
It is not unusual to find it stated as a fact that the left hemisphere is specialized for the processing of rapid, or temporal aspects of sound, and that the dominance of the left hemisphere in the perception of speech can be a consequence of this specialization. In this review we explore the history of this claim and assess the weight of this assumption. We will demonstrate that instead of a supposed sensitivity of the left temporal lobe for the acoustic properties of speech, it is the right temporal lobe which shows a marked preference for certain properties of sounds, for example longer durations, or variations in pitch. We finish by outlining some alternative factors that contribute to the left lateralization of speech perception.
The present study examined the locus where inhibition of non-target languages is exerted during trilingual word production by analyzing the cue-locked and stimulus-locked ERPs respectively in the n-2 language repetition paradigm. During the experiment, Uighur-Chinese-English trilinguals overtly named Arabic digits in one of their three languages according to a visually presented cue while their behavioral and electrophysiological responses were recorded. The behavioral data revealed insignificant n-2 repetition costs. Cue-locked ERPs revealed also only tiny or marginally significant n-2 repetition effects over some midline electrodes. The stimulus-locked ERP data showed a more negative ERP component elicited by the n-2 repetition trials than the n-2 non-repetition trials around 250 ms after stimulus onset, but no significant difference in this ERP effect between different languages was found. The results indicate that inhibition of non-target languages occurs at the lemma selection phase rather than the language task schemas phase during trilingual language production.
The Japanese writing system employs two distinct categories of characters: Kana and Kanji. The difference between Kana and Kanji writing corresponds roughly to that between phonological and lexical systems in Western languages. When typing, most Japanese use alphabetical characters based purely on phonological rules. In particular, the Romaji system is used, in which a syllable consists of a single vowel, a consonant-vowel compound (e.g., ka, ki), or a sequence of consonant-y(semivowel)-vowel (e.g., kya, kyu). We describe a right-handed Japanese patient who developed pure agraphia that affected Romaji writing but preserved Kana and Kanji writing and who had a lesion in the left pars opercularis of the inferior frontal gyrus that extended to the anterior precentral gyrus. The patient demonstrated literal paragraphia in spelling Romaji across modalities. Our findings suggested that the patient's agraphia in Romaji after a confined left frontal infarction was manifested by a selective impairment in syllable-to-grapheme conversion.
&quot;Embodied&quot; proposals claim that the meaning of at least some words, concepts and constructions is grounded in knowledge about actions and objects. An alternative &quot;disembodied&quot; position locates semantics in a symbolic system functionally detached from sensorimotor modules. This latter view is not tenable theoretically and has been empirically falsified by neuroscience research. A minimally-embodied approach now claims that action-perception systems may &quot;color&quot;, but not represent, meaning; however, such minimal embodiment (misembodiment?) still fails to explain why action and perception systems exert causal effects on the processing of symbols from specific semantic classes. Action perception theory (APT) offers neurobiological mechanisms for &quot;embodied&quot; referential, affective and action semantics along with &quot;disembodied&quot; mechanisms of semantic abstraction, generalization and symbol combination, which draw upon multimodal brain systems. In this sense, APT suggests integrative-neuromechanistic explanations of why both sensorimotor and multimodal areas of the human brain differentially contribute to specific facets of meaning and concepts.
The problem of how word meaning is processed in the brain has been a topic of intense investigation in cognitive neuroscience. While considerable correlational evidence exists for the involvement of sensory-motor systems in conceptual processing, it is still unclear whether they play a causal role. We investigated this issue by comparing the performance of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with that of age-matched controls when processing action and abstract verbs. To examine the effects of task demands, we used tasks in which semantic demands were either implicit (lexical decision and priming) or explicit (semantic similarity judgment). In both tasks, PD patients' performance was selectively impaired for action verbs (relative to controls), indicating that the motor system plays a more central role in the processing of action verbs than in the processing of abstract verbs. These results argue for a causal role of sensory-motor systems in semantic processing.
Our behavior reflects the neural circuits sculpted by our experiences during early temporary windows of heightened brain plasticity called critical periods. Such heightened plasticity declines in adulthood, often limiting recovery of function. On the other hand, the adult brain also needs stability. Failed stabilization can disrupt circuit computations by allowing modification by undesirable information, which may lead to mental disorders. Understanding the mechanisms regulating the critical periods of neural plasticity can provide insights toward therapeutic interventions for neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we discuss the potential contributions of &quot;molecular brakes&quot; on the critical period plasticity in the visual system to the etiology of psychiatric disorders. Interestingly, recent findings for the pathophysiological changes associated with schizophrenia indicate excessive plasticity due to the removal of molecular brakes. Applying the mechanistic understandings of critical period plasticity in the visual system to cognitive development may provide a conceptual framework for exploring novel endophenotypes and therapeutic approaches to treat psychiatric disorders.
The involvement of glutamate in early brain development has been somewhat controversial. A large body of in vitro evidences indicates that the neurotransmitter glutamate influences early developmental events such as proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Paradoxically, loss-of-function mouse models of glutamatergic signaling that are generated by genetic deletion of receptors or the process of glutamate release exhibit normal brain development. The absence of an effect following genetic disruption of glutamatergic signaling might reflect compensation from other neurotransmitters such as GABA and glycine, both of which can depolarize immature neurons similar to glutamate. To overcome this potential confusion, we examined the direct consequences of extracellular glutamate buildup on brain development by reducing the levels of glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT1. GLAST/GLT1 double knockout mice (DKO) exhibit multiple brain defects, including cortical, hippocampal, and amygdalar disorganization with perinatal mortality. Several essential aspects of neuronal development, such as stem cell proliferation, radial migration, and neuronal differentiation were impaired in these mutants. The deletion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 1 subunit in DKO mice almost completely rescued multiple brain defects. These results provide direct in vivo evidence that glutamatergic activity through NMDA receptors does indeed modulate early brain developmental processes.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) have been shown to be a promising cell type for the study of neuronal differentiation; however, few attempts had been made to differentiate these cells into inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons. In this study, we over-expressed mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 (Mash1), a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor, in Sprague-Dawley rat BMSCs via lentiviral vectors, and then induced neuronal differentiation of these cells using conditioned medium. Our Western blot results show that, under conditions of differentiation, Mash1-overexpressing BMSCs exhibit an increased expression of neuronal markers and a greater degree of neuronal morphology compared to control, non-Mash1-overexpressing cells. Using immunocytochemistry, we observed increased expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67), as well as neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) and 3-tubulin, in Mash1-overexpressing BMSCs compared to control cells. Moreover, we also found the differentiated cells showed representative traces of action potentials in electrophysiological characterization. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that over-expression of Mash1 can improve GABAergic differentiation of BMSCs in vitro.
The distribution, colocalization with enzymes producing nitric oxide (NO), and the synaptic organization of neurons containing two calcium-binding proteins (CaBPs) - parvalbumin (Parv) and calbindin-D28K (Calb) - were investigated in the rat periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). Parv-immunopositive (ParvIP) neurons were detected in the mesencephalic nucleus and rarely in the PAG. CalbIP neurons were found both in the dorsolateral (PAG-dl) and ventrolateral PAG (PAG-vl); their size ranged from 112.96 m(2) (PAG-dl) to 125.13 m(2) (PAG-vl). Ultrastructurally Parv and Calb immunoreactivity was mostly found in dendritic profiles. Axon terminals containing each of the two CaBPs formed symmetric synapses. Moreover both Parv and Calb were used to label a subpopulation of NO-producing neurons. Colocalization was investigated using two protocols: (i) a combination of Calb and Parv immunocytochemistry (Icc) with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry (Hi) and (ii) neuronal NO synthase-Icc (nNOS) (immunofluorescence). Both techniques demonstrated a complete lack of colocalization of Parv and NADPH-d/nNOS in PAG neurons. Double-labeled (DL) neurons (Calb-NADPH-d; Calb-nNOS) were detected in PAG-dl. NADPH-d-Hi/Calb-Icc indicated that 41-47% of NADPH-d-positive neurons contained Calb, whereas 17-23% of CalbIP cells contained NADPH-d. Two-color immunofluorescence revealed that 53-66% of nNOSIP cells colocalized with Calb and 24-34% of CalbIP neurons contained nNOS. DL neuron size was 104.44 m(2); neurons labeled only with NADPH-d or Calb measured 89.793 m(2) and 113.48 m(2), respectively. Together with previous findings (Barbaresi et al. [2012]) these data suggest that: Therefore the important aspect of the PAG intrinsic organization emerging from this and previous double-labeling studies is the chemical diversity of NO-synthesizing neurons, which is likely related to the different functions in which these neurons are involved.

Abstract available from the publisher.

Fads in psychiatry are little more than bad ideas with short half-lives. They have arisen because of the great discontinuities that have swept psychiatry unlike other specialties in the 20th century: the transition in the 1920s from asylum-based biological psychiatry to psychoanalysis, and the transition in the 1960s from psychoanalysis to a biological model based on psychopharmacology. In no other medical specialty has the knowledge base been scrapped and rebuilt, and then again scrapped and rebuilt. In these great transitions, when psychiatry each time has had to reconstruct from scratch, bad ideas have crept in with good. Psychiatry, in its heavy use of consensus conferences, is often unable to employ science as a means of discarding fads, which, once installed, are often difficult to remove. Each of the great paradigms of psychiatry in the last hundred years has given rise to fads, and psychopharmacology is no exception, with faddish uses of neurotransmitter doctrine claiming centre stage. Only when psychiatry becomes firmly linked to the neurosciences will its subjugation to the turbulence of faddism be moderated.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a serine/threonine protein kinase involved in human cancers including glioblastoma. We have previously demonstrated that GSK3 inhibition enhances temozolomide effect in glioma cells. In this report, we investigated the molecular mechanisms of sensitization of glioblastoma cells to temozolomide by GSK3 inhibition, focusing on O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene silencing. Glioblastoma tissues from patients treated with the GSK3-inhibiting drugs were subjected to immunohistochemistry and methylation-specific PCR assay. Human glioblastoma cell lines T98G, U138, U251 and U87 were treated with a small-molecule GSK3 inhibitor, AR-A014418 or GSK3-specific small interfering RNA. The combined effect of temozolomide and AR-A014418 on cell proliferation was determined by AlamarBlue assay and an isobologram method. MGMT promoter methylation was estimated by methylation-specific PCR and MethyLight assay. MGMT gene expression was evaluated by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR. c-Myc and DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3A binding to the MGMT promoter was estimated by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. GSK3 inhibition decreased phosphorylation of glycogen synthase and reduced MGMT expression and increased MGMT promoter methylation in clinical tumors. In glioblastoma cell lines, GSK3 inhibition decreased cell viability, enhanced temozolomide effect and downregulated MGMT expression with relevant changes in the methylation levels of the MGMT promoter. Here, we showed for the first time that c-Myc binds to the MGMT promoter with consequent recruitment of DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3A, regulating the levels of MGMT promoter methylation. The results of this study suggest that GSK3 inhibition enhances temozolomide effect by silencing MGMT expression via c-Myc-mediated promoter methylation.

Grantsmanship is an integral component of surviving and thriving in academic science, especially in the current funding climate. Therefore, any additional opportunities to write, read, and review grants during graduate school may have lasting benefits on one's career. We present here our experience with a small, student-run grant program at Georgetown University Medical Center. Founded in 2010, this program has several goals: 1) to give graduate students an opportunity to conduct small, independent research projects; 2) to encourage graduate students to write grants early and often; and 3) to give graduate students an opportunity to review grants. In the 3 yr since the program's start, 28 applications have been submitted, 13 of which were funded for a total of $40,000. From funded grants, students have produced abstracts and manuscripts, generated data to support subsequent grant proposals, and made new professional contacts with collaborators. Above and beyond financial support, this program provided both applicants and reviewers an opportunity to improve their writing skills, professional development, and understanding of the grants process, as reflected in the outcome measures presented. With a small commitment of time and funding, other institutions could implement a program like this to the benefit of their graduate students.
Ingestion of fatty foods increases dopamine release in the substantia nigra, producing a positive hedonic state. Tellez etal. (2013) demonstrate that an intestinal signal generated by fat consumption, oleoylethanolamide, stimulates central dopamine activity, thus regulating the reward value of fat and establishing a link between caloric-homeostatic and hedonic-homeostatic controllers.
It is now widely accepted that neurogenesis continues throughout life. Accumulating evidence suggests that neurotransmitters are essential signaling molecules that control the different steps of neurogenesis. Nevertheless, we are only beginning to understand the precise role of neurotransmitter receptors andin particular excitatory glutamatergic transmission in the differentiation of adult-born neurons. Recent technical advances allow single-cell gene deletion to study cell-autonomous effects during the maturation of adult-born neurons. Single-cell gene deletion overcomes some of the difficulties in interpreting global gene deletion effects on entire brain areas or systemic pharmacological approaches that might result in compensatory circuit effects. The aim of this review is to summarize recent advances in the understanding of the role of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) during the differentiation of adult-born neurons and put them in perspective with previous findings on cortical development.
Recently, various studies shed light on the functional significance of enhancer RNAs. Two recent studies published in Nature by Li et al. and Lam et al. highlight the importance of these newly characterized RNA molecules and their key role in controlling transcriptional programs.
During the last decade, the idea of a &quot;translational&quot; approach has become commonplace within the field of neuroscience. Despite the rapid adaptation of this theoretical framework, few examples of hypothesis-driven translation start with a pre-clinical finding and end with a positive clinical result and no examples of a novel medication have been developed in this way for the treatment of cognition-related disorders. Whereas instances of successful translation exist, most of these are the result of post-hoc hypothesis testing, rather than a priori hypothesis creation. Indeed, part of this disconnection between pre-clinical and clinical results has been driven by paradigms used at both the pre-clinical level (measurement of behaviors that might not be relevant to a patient population) and the clinical level (use of test batteries that cannot be modeled in a pre-clinical environment). However, automated cognition batteries that require responses to stimuli displayed upon a video monitor are decreasing the distance between pre-clinical and clinical behavioral studies. In the last 5 years, numerous papers have been published demonstrating that cognitive functions can be measured in a similar manner in the rodent as in a clinical setting via touch-screen-equipped operant boxes. Here, we argue that the touch-screen approach has the potential of being a powerful tool for the translation of pre-clinical hypotheses into positive clinical findings.
The challenge of modelling a complex and multifaceted disorder such as schizophrenia is epitomised by the considerable degree of phenotypic variability described in patients and by the absence of specific and consistent neuropathological biomarkers. The pattern and severity of a range of clinical features, including florid psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations and delusions, negative symptoms and cognitive dysfunction, together with age at onset, course of illness and other indices, can vary greatly between individual patients. The undefined nature of the relationship between diagnosis and underlying aetiology has complicated research in the field of clinical and preclinical neuroscience, thereby making it difficult to generate or evaluate appropriate disease models of schizophrenia. In the present review, we explore those conceptual and practical issues that relate specifically to the genetic modelling of schizophrenia and related disorders in rodents. Practical issues that impact on the robustness of endophenotypic findings and their translational relevance are discussed with reference to evidence from selective genetic models of candidate risk genes and copy number variants implicated in schizophrenia.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a developmental disorder characterized by symptoms of inattention, impulsivity and hyperactivity that adversely affect many aspects of life. Whereas the etiology of ADHD remains unknown, growing evidence indicates a genetic involvement in the development of this disorder. The brain circuits associated with ADHD are rich in monoamines, which are involved in the mechanism of action of psychostimulants and other medications used to treat this disorder. Dopamine (DA) is believed to play a major role in ADHD but other neurotransmitters are certainly also involved. Genetically modified mice have become an indispensable tool used to analyze the contribution of genetic factors in the pathogenesis of human disorders. Although rodent models cannot fully recapitulate complex human psychiatric disorders such as ADHD, transgenic mice offer an opportunity to directly investigate in vivo the specific roles of novel candidate genes identified in ADHD patients. Several knock-out and transgenic mouse models have been proposed as ADHD models, mostly based on targeting genes involved in DA transmission, including the gene encoding the dopamine transporter (DAT1). These mutant models provided an opportunity to evaluate the contribution of dopamine-related processes to brain pathology, to dissect the neuronal circuitry and molecular mechanisms involved in the antihyperkinetic action of psychostimulants and to evaluate novel treatments for ADHD. New transgenic models mouse models targeting other genes have recently been proposed for ADHD. Here, we discuss the recent advances and pitfalls in modeling ADHD endophenotypes in genetically altered animals.
Mice and rats emit and perceive calls in the ultrasonic range, i.e., above the human hearing threshold of about 20 kHz: so-called ultrasonic vocalizations (USV). Juvenile and adult rats emit 22-kHz USV in aversive situations, such as predator exposure and fighting or during drug withdrawal, whereas 50-kHz USV occur in appetitive situations, such as rough-and-tumble play and mating or in response to drugs of abuse, e.g., amphetamine. Aversive 22-kHz USV and appetitive 50-kHz USV serve distinct communicative functions. Whereas 22-kHz USV induce freezing behavior in the receiver, 50-kHz USV lead to social approach behavior. These opposite behavioral responses are paralleled by distinct patterns of brain activation. Freezing behavior in response to 22-kHz USV is paralleled by increased neuronal activity in brain areas regulating fear and anxiety, such as the amygdala and periaqueductal gray, whereas social approach behavior elicited by 50-kHz USV is accompanied by reduced activity levels in the amygdala but enhanced activity in the nucleus accumbens, a brain area implicated in reward processing. These opposing behavioral responses, together with distinct patterns of brain activation, particularly the bidirectional tonic activation or deactivation of the amygdala elicited by 22-kHz and 50-kHz USV, respectively, concur with a wealth of behavioral and neuroimaging studies in humans involving emotionally salient stimuli, such as fearful and happy facial expressions. Affective ultrasonic communication therefore offers a translational tool for studying the neurobiology underlying socio-affective communication. This is particularly relevant for rodent models of neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by social and communication deficits, such as autism and schizophrenia.
Rodent models of depression have been developed in an effort to identify novel antidepressant compounds and to further our understanding of the pathophysiology of depression. Various rodent models of depression and antidepressant-like behaviour are currently used but, clearly, none of these current models fully recapitulate all features of depression. Moreover, these models have not resulted in the development of novel non-monoaminergic-based antidepressants with clinical efficacy. Thus, a refinement of the current models of depression is required. The present review outlines the most commonly used models of depression and antidepressant drug-like activity and suggests several factors that should be considered when refining these models.


Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic (1937-2003) transformed the study of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the neural basis of mental representation, the basic building block of abstract thought. Her pioneering research first identified the dorsolateral PFC (dlPFC) region essential for spatial working memory, and the extensive circuits of spatial cognition. She discovered the cellular basis of working memory, illuminating the dlPFC microcircuitry underlying spatially tuned, persistent firing, whereby precise information can be held &quot;in mind&quot;: persistent firing arises from recurrent excitation within glutamatergic pyramidal cell circuits in deep layer III, while tuning arises from GABAergic lateral inhibition. She was the first to discover that dopamine is essential for dlPFC function, particularly through D1 receptor actions. She applied a host of technical approaches, providing a new paradigm for scientific inquiry. Goldman-Rakic's work has allowed the perplexing complexities of mental illness to begun to be understood at the cellular level, including atrophy of the dlPFC microcircuits subserving mental representation. She correctly predicted that impairments in dlPFC working memory activity would contribute to thought disorder, a cardinal symptom of schizophrenia. Ten years following her death, we look back to see how she inspired an entire field, fundamentally changing our view of cognition and cognitive disorders.
Recent investigations into the neural basis of elite sporting performance have focused on whether cortical activity might characterize individual differences in ability. However, very little is understood about how changes in brain structure might contribute to individual differences in expert motor control. We compared the behavior and brain structure of healthy controls with a group of karate black belts, an expert group who are able to perform rapid, complex movements that require years of training. Using 3D motion tracking, we investigated whether the ability to control ballistic arm movements was associated with differences in white matter microstructure. We found that karate experts are better able than novices to coordinate the timing of inter-segmental joint velocities. Diffusion tensor imaging revealed significant differences between the groups in the microstructure of white matter in the superior cerebellar peduncles (SCPs) and primary motor cortex-brain regions that are critical to the voluntary control of movement. Motor coordination, the amount of experience, and the age at which training began were all associated with individual differences in white matter integrity in the cerebellum within the karate groups. These findings suggest a role for the white matter pathways of the SCPs in motor expertise.
Anatomical connectivity differences between the dorsal and ventral lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the non-human primate strongly suggests that these regions support different functions. However, after years of study, it remains unclear whether these regions are functionally distinct. In contrast, there has been a groundswell of recent studies providing evidence for a rostro-caudal functional organization, along the lateral as well as dorsomedial frontal cortex. Thus, it is not known whether dorsal and ventral regions of lateral PFC form distinct functional networks and how to reconcile any dorso-ventral organization with the medio-lateral and rostro-caudal axes. Here, we used resting-state connectivity data to identify parallel dorsolateral and ventrolateral streams of intrinsic connectivity with the dorsomedial frontal cortex. Moreover, we show that this connectivity follows a rostro-caudal gradient. Our results provide evidence for a novel framework for the intrinsic organization of the frontal cortex that incorporates connections between medio-lateral, dorso-ventral, and rostro-caudal axes.
During aging receptive field properties degrade, the ability of the circuit to process temporal information is impaired and behaviors mediated by the circuit can become impaired. These changes are mediated by changes in the properties of neural circuits, particularly the balance of excitation and inhibition, the intrinsic properties of neurons, and the anatomy of connections in the circuit. In this study, properties of thalamorecipient pyramidal neurons in layer 3 were examined in the hindpaw region of rat primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in vitro. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) resulting from trains of electrical stimulation of thalamocortical afferents were recorded. Excitatory postsynaptic currents were larger in old S1, but showed no difference in temporal dynamics; IPSCs showed significantly less suppression across the train in old S1, partly due to a decrease in GABAB signaling. Neurons in old S1 were more likely to exhibit burst firing, due to an increase in T-current. Significant differences in dendritic morphology were also observed in old S1, accompanied by a decrease in dendritic spine density. These data directly demonstrate changes in the properties of the thalamorecipient circuit in old S1 and help to explain the changes observed in responses during aging.
Preparing to stop an inappropriate action requires keeping in mind the task goal and using this to influence the action control system. We tested the hypothesis that different subregions of prefrontal cortex show different temporal profiles consistent with dissociable contributions to preparing-to-stop, with dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) representing the task goal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) implementing action control. Five human subjects were studied using electrocorticography recorded from subdural grids over right lateral frontal cortex. On each trial, a task cue instructed the subject whether stopping might be needed or not (Maybe Stop [MS] or No Stop [NS]), followed by a go cue, and on some MS trials, a subsequent stop signal. We focused on go trials, comparing MS with NS. In the DLPFC, most subjects had an increase in high gamma activity following the task cue and the go cue. In contrast, in the VLPFC, all subjects had activity after the go cue near the time of the motor response on MS trials, related to behavioral slowing, and significantly later than the DLPFC activity. These different temporal profiles suggest that DLPFC and VLPFC could have dissociable roles, with DLPFC representing task goals and VLPFC implementing action control.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), which shows high risk for conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD), is accompanied by progressive visual deteriorations that so far are poorly understood. Here, we compared dorsal and ventral visual stream functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity among amnestic MCI, healthy elderly, and young participants during structure-from-motion (SFM) face categorization performance. Task performance varied with stimulus depth and duration levels and differences among groups were highly correlated with face-related fMRI activation patterns. Young participants showed larger activation to faces than scrambled faces (face sensitivity) in the right fusiform face area (FFA) and right occipital face area (OFA) whereas in elderly, this difference was reduced. Surprisingly, in MCI, scrambled faces elicited larger activation in right FFA/OFA than faces. The latter observation may be related to the additional finding of elevated depth sensitivity in left FFA/OFA of MCI, suggesting that an increased representation of low-level stimulus aspects may impair face perception in MCI. Discriminant function analysis using face and depth sensitivity indices in FFA/OFA classified MCI and healthy elderly with 88.2% accuracy, marking a fundamental distinction between groups. Potentially related findings include altered activation patterns in dorsal-ventral stream integration regions and attention-related networks of MCI patients. Our results highlight aberrant visual and additional potentially compensatory processes that identify dispositions of (preclinical) AD.
We combined magnetoencephalography (MEG) with magnetic resonance imaging and electrocorticography to separate in anatomy and latency 2 fundamental stages underlying speech comprehension. The first acoustic-phonetic stage is selective for words relative to control stimuli individually matched on acoustic properties. It begins 60 ms after stimulus onset and is localized to middle superior temporal cortex. It was replicated in another experiment, but is strongly dissociated from the response to tones in the same subjects. Within the same task, semantic priming of the same words by a related picture modulates cortical processing in a broader network, but this does not begin until 217 ms. The earlier onset of acoustic-phonetic processing compared with lexico-semantic modulation was significant in each individual subject. The MEG source estimates were confirmed with intracranial local field potential and high gamma power responses acquired in 2 additional subjects performing the same task. These recordings further identified sites within superior temporal cortex that responded only to the acoustic-phonetic contrast at short latencies, or the lexico-semantic at long. The independence of the early acoustic-phonetic response from semantic context suggests a limited role for lexical feedback in early speech perception.
The mammalian cerebral cortex can be tangentially subdivided into tens of functional areas with distinct cyto-architectures and neural circuitries; however, it remains elusive how these areal borders are genetically elaborated during development. Here we establish original bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mouse lines that specifically recapitulate cadherin-6 (Cdh6) mRNA expression profiles in the layer IV of the somatosensory cortex and by detailing their cortical development, we show that a sharp Cdh6 gene expression boundary is formed at a mediolateral coordinate along the cortical layer IV as early as the postnatal day 5 (P5). By further applying mouse genetics that allows rigid cell fate tracing with CreERT2 expression, it is demonstrated that the Cdh6 gene expression boundary set at around P4 eventually demarcates the areal border between the somatosensory barrel and limb field at P20. In the P6 cortical cell pellet culture system, neurons with Cdh6 expression preferentially form aggregates in a manner dependent on Ca(2+) and electroporation-based Cdh6 overexpression limited to the postnatal stages perturbs area-specific cell organization in the barrel field. These results suggest that Cdh6 expression in the nascent cortical plate may serve solidification of the protomap for cortical functional areas.
The feeling of being excluded from a social interaction triggers social pain, a sensation as intense as actual physical pain. Little is known about the neurophysiological underpinnings of social pain. We addressed this issue using intracranial electroencephalography in 15 patients performing a ball game where inclusion and exclusion blocks were alternated. Time-frequency analyses showed an increase in power of theta-band oscillations during exclusion in the anterior insula (AI) and posterior insula, the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sACC), and the fusiform &quot;face area&quot; (FFA). Interestingly, the AI showed an initial fast response to exclusion but the signal rapidly faded out. Activity in the sACC gradually increased and remained significant thereafter. This suggests that the AI may signal social pain by detecting emotional distress caused by the exclusion, whereas the sACC may be linked to the learning aspects of social pain. Theta activity in the FFA was time-locked to the observation of a player poised to exclude the participant, suggesting that the FFA encodes the social value of faces. Taken together, our findings suggest that theta activity represents the neural signature of social pain. The time course of this signal varies across regions important for processing emotional features linked to social information.
The cerebellum is commonly studied in the context of the classical eyeblink conditioning model, which attributes an adaptive motor function to cerebellar learning processes. This model of cerebellar function has quite a few shortcomings and may in fact be somewhat deficient in explaining the myriad functions attributed to the cerebellum, functions ranging from motor sequencing to emotion and cognition. The involvement of the cerebellum in these motor and non-motor functions has been demonstrated in both animals and humans in electrophysiological, behavioral, tracing, functional neuroimaging, and PET studies, as well as in clinical human case studies. A closer look at the cerebellum's evolutionary origin provides a clue to its underlying purpose as a tool which evolved to aid predation rather than as a tool for protection. Based upon this evidence, an alternative model of cerebellar function is proposed, one which might more comprehensively account both for the cerebellum's involvement in a myriad of motor, affective, and cognitive functions and for the relative simplicity and ubiquitous repetitiveness of its circuitry. This alternative model suggests that the cerebellum has the ability to detect coincidences of events, be they sensory, motor, affective, or cognitive in nature, and, after having learned to associate these, it can then trigger (or &quot;mirror&quot;) these events after having temporally adjusted their onset based on positive/negative reinforcement. The model also provides for the cerebellum's direction of the proper and uninterrupted sequence of events resulting from this learning through the inhibition of efferent structures (as demonstrated in our lab).
Cerebellum seems to have a role both in feeding behavior and emotion regulation; therefore, it is a region that warrants further neuroimaging studies in eating disorders, severe conditions that determine a significant impairment in the physical and psychological domain. The aim of this study was to examine the cerebellum intrinsic connectivity during functional magnetic resonance imaging resting state in anorexia nervosa (AN), bulimia nervosa (BN), and healthy controls (CN). Resting state brain activity was decomposed into intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs) using group spatial independent component analysis on the resting blood oxygenation level dependent time courses of 12 AN, 12 BN, and 10 CN. We extracted the cerebellar ICN and compared it between groups. Intrinsic connectivity within the cerebellar network showed some common alterations in eating disordered compared to healthy subjects (e.g., a greater connectivity with insulae, vermis, and paravermis and a lesser connectivity with parietal lobe); AN and BN patients were characterized by some peculiar alterations in connectivity patterns (e.g., greater connectivity with the insulae in AN compared to BN, greater connectivity with anterior cingulate cortex in BN compared to AN). Our data are consistent with the presence of different alterations in the cerebellar network in AN and BN patients that could be related to psychopathologic dimensions of eating disorders.
This study aimed at investigating the effect of distraction on working memory and its underlying neural mechanisms in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). To this end, we studied hemodynamic activity in the prefrontal cortex using near-infrared spectroscopy while 16 children with ADHD and 10 typically developing (TD) children performed a working memory task. This task had two conditions: one involved a distraction during the memory delay interval, whereas the other had no systematic distraction. The ADHD patients showed significantly poorer behavioral performance compared with the TD group, particularly under the distraction. The ADHD group exhibited significantly higher level of prefrontal activation than did TD children. The activity level was positively correlated with the severity of ADHD symptoms. These results suggest that the impairment in the inhibition of distraction is responsible for the working memory deficits observed in ADHD children. Inefficient processing in the prefrontal cortex appears to underlie such deficits.
This cross-sectional study examined the Dark Triad personality traits and their correlates in non-clinical youths aged 12-18 years (N = 117). Child- and parent-report data were obtained on Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy as well as on Big Five personality factors and symptoms of aggression and delinquency. Results indicated that especially Machiavellianism and psychopathy were in a theoretically meaningful way related to Big Five factors: that is, both traits were associated with lower levels of agreeableness, conscientiousness, and openness/intellect, and higher levels of emotional instability. Further, Machiavellianism and psychopathy also emerged as significant and unique correlates of symptoms of aggression and delinquency, which further underlines the importance of these Dark Triad traits in the pathogenesis of disruptive behavior problems in youths.

Artificial nighttime illumination has recently become commonplace throughout the world; however, in common with other animals, humans have not evolved in the ecological context of chronic light at night. With prevailing evidence linking the circadian, endocrine, immune, and metabolic systems, understanding these relationships is important to understanding the etiology and progression of several diseases. To eliminate the covariate of sleep disruption in light at night studies, researchers often use nocturnal animals. However, the assumption that light at night does not affect sleep in nocturnal animals remains unspecified. To test the effects of light at night on sleep, we maintained Swiss-Webster mice in standard light/dark (LD) or dim light at night (DLAN) conditions for 8-10 wks and then measured electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) biopotentials via wireless telemetry over the course of two consecutive days to determine differences in sleep timing and homeostasis. Results show no statistical differences in total percent time, number of episodes, maximum or average episode durations in wake, slow-wave sleep (SWS), or rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. No differences were evident in SWS delta power, an index of sleep drive, between groups. Mice kept in DLAN conditions showed a relative increase in REM sleep during the first few hours after the dark/light transition. Both groups displayed normal 24-h circadian rhythms as measured by voluntary running wheel activity. Groups did not differ in body mass, but a marked negative correlation of body mass with percent time spent awake and a positive correlation of body mass with time spent in SWS was evident. Elevated body mass was also associated with shorter maximum wake episode durations, indicating heavier animals had more trouble remaining in the wake vigilance state for extended periods of time. Body mass did not correlate with activity levels, nor did activity levels correlate with time spent in different sleep states. These data indicate that heavier animals tend to sleep more, potentially contributing to further weight gain. We conclude that chronic DLAN exposure does not significantly affect sleep timing or homeostasis in mice, supporting the use of dim light with nocturnal rodents in chronobiology research to eliminate the possible covariate of sleep disruption.
The differential diagnosis of panic attacks (PAs) from temporal lobe epilepsy is important and challenging. Despite advances in understanding the neural basis of psychiatric disorders, current practice strongly emphasizes dichotomous thinking of either &quot;functional&quot; PAs of psychiatric etiology or a seizure disorder. We present a case with PA features strongly suggestive of a seizure disorder. An extensive workup failed to resolve the dichotomy between functional and neurological. The possibility is raised that there may be degrees of abnormal hyperexcitability, leading to the emergence of symptoms, but not enough to generate large potentials that can be detected at the scalp.
Altered concentrations of bile acid (BA) in the colon can cause diarrhea or constipation. More than 25% of patients with irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea or chronic diarrhea in Western countries have BA malabsorption (BAM). As BAM is increasingly recognized, proper diagnostic methods are needed to help direct the most effective course of treatment for the chronic bowel dysfunction. We review the methodologies, advantages, and disadvantages oftools that directly measure BAM: the (14)C-glycocholate breath and stool test, the (75)selenium homotaurocholic acid test (SeHCAT), and measurements of 7 -hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4) and fecal BAs. The (14)C-glycocholate test is laborious and no longer widely used. The (75)SeHCAT has been validated but is not available in the United States. Measurement of serum C4 is a simple and accurate method that can be used for most patients but requires further clinical validation. Assays to quantify fecal BA (total and individual levels) are technically cumbersome and not widely available. Regrettably, none of these tests are routinely available in the United States; assessment of the therapeutic effects of a BA binder is used as a surrogate for diagnosis of BAM. Recent data indicate the advantages to studying fecal excretion of individual BAs and their role in BAM; these could support the use of the fecal BA assay, compared with other tests. Measurement of fecal BA levels could become a routine addition to the measurement of fecal fat in patients with unexplained diarrhea. Availability ultimately determines whether the C4, SeHCAT, or fecal BA test is used; more widespread availability of such tests would enhance clinical management of these patients.







In some anti-ganglioside antibody-mediated neuropathies, human and experimental data suggest a common pathogenic mechanism of dysfunction/disruption at the node of Ranvier resulting in a pathophysiologic continuum from transitory nerve conduction failure to axonal degeneration. The traditional classification of polyneuropathies into demyelinating or axonal may generate some confusion in the electrophysiological diagnosis of Guillain-Barr syndrome subtypes associated with anti-ganglioside antibodies. The axonal forms show, besides axonal degeneration, promptly reversible nerve conduction failure. This may be interpreted, by a single electrophysiological study, as demyelinating conduction block or distal axonal degeneration leading to errors in classification and in establishing prognosis. Moreover the term axonal may be misleading as it is commonly associated to axonal degeneration and not to a transitory, promptly reversible, dysfunction of the excitable axolemma. To focus on the site of nerve injury and overcome the classification difficulties, we propose the new category of nodo-paranodopathy which seems appropriate to various acute and chronic neuropathies associated with anti-ganglioside antibodies and we think better systematizes the neuropathies characterized by an autoimmune attack targeting the nodal region.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a central nervous system disorder that is associated with progressive oligodendrocyte and neuronal loss, axonal degeneration, and demyelination. Several medications that mitigate immune abnormalities reduce both the frequency of relapses and inflammation on magnetic resonance imaging, leading to improved outcomes for people with the relapsing-remitting form of MS. However, there are no treatments for the progressive forms of MS where neurons and axons continue to degenerate; here, neuroprotective therapies, or medications that rebuild myelin to confer axonal well-being, may be useful. Quetiapine fumarate is an atypical antipsychotic with reported remyelinating and neuroprotective properties in inflammatory and noninflammatory models of demyelination, including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, and both cuprizone- and global cerebral ischemia-induced demyelination. Preclinical studies suggest that quetiapine may exert these effects by stimulating proliferation and maturation of oligodendrocytes, releasing neurotrophic factors, increasing antioxidant defences, scavenging for free radicals, and inhibiting activated microglia, astrocytes, and T lymphocytes. Additionally, quetiapine may be beneficial for psychiatric and nonpsychiatric symptoms of MS including depression, anxiety, insomnia, and possibly even pain. These data indicate that clinical trials are justified to determine the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of quetiapine fumarate in MS.
The stimulation of hepatic glycogenesis is a ubiquitous response to a glucose challenge and quantifying its contribution to glucose uptake informs its role in restoring euglycemia. Glycogenesis can be quantified with labeled water provided that exchange of glucose-6-phosphate hydrogen 2 (G6P-H2) and body water via glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, and exchange of positions 4, 5 and 6 hydrogens (G6P-H456) via transaldolase, are known. These exchanges were quantified in 24-h fasted rats (Rattus norvegicus; n=6) and 21-day fasted seabass (Dicentrarchus labrax; n=8) by administration of a glucose load (2000mgkg(-1)) enriched with [U-(2)H7]glucose and by quantifying hepatic glycogen (2)H-enrichments after 2h (rats) and 48h (seabass). Direct pathway contributions of the glucose load to glycogenesis were also estimated. G6P-H2 and body water exchange was 611% for rat and 473% for seabass. Transaldolase-mediated exchange of G6P-H456 was 51% for rat and 101% for seabass. Conversion of the glucose load to hepatic glycogen was significant in seabass (24954mgkg(-1)) but negligible in rats (121mgkg(-1)). Preload plasma glucose levels were similar for seabass and rats (3.30.7 and 4.40.1mmolL(-1), respectively) but post-load plasma glucose was significantly higher in seabass compared to rats (14.61.8 versus 5.80.3mmolL(-1), p&lt;0.01). In conclusion, G6P-H2 and body water exchange is incomplete for both species and has to be accounted for in estimating hepatic glycogen synthesis and direct pathway activities with labeled water tracers. Transaldolase-mediated exchange is insignificant. Hepatic direct pathway glycogenesis plays a prominent role in seabass glucose load disposal, but a negligible role in the rat.

This review presents concepts of scientific integrative medicine and relates them to the physiology of catecholamine systems and to the pathophysiology of catecholamine-related disorders. The applications to catecholamine systems exemplify how scientific integrative medicine links systems biology with integrative physiology. Concepts of scientific integrative medicine include (i) negative feedback regulation, maintaining stability of the body's monitored variables; (ii) homeostats, which compare information about monitored variables with algorithms for responding; (iii) multiple effectors, enabling compensatory activation of alternative effectors and primitive specificity of stress response patterns; (iv) effector sharing, accounting for interactions among homeostats and phenomena such as hyperglycemia attending gastrointestinal bleeding and hyponatremia attending congestive heart failure; (v) stress, applying a definition as a state rather than as an environmental stimulus or stereotyped response; (vi) distress, using a noncircular definition that does not presume pathology; (vii) allostasis, corresponding to adaptive plasticity of feedback-regulated systems; and (viii) allostatic load, explaining chronic degenerative diseases in terms of effects of cumulative wear and tear. From computer models one can predict mathematically the effects of stress and allostatic load on the transition from wellness to symptomatic disease. The review describes acute and chronic clinical disorders involving catecholamine systems-especially Parkinson disease-and how these concepts relate to pathophysiology, early detection, and treatment and prevention strategies in the post-genome era.





Remembering the past and imagining the future are complex endeavours proposed to rely on a core neurobiological brain system. In the behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), regional patterns of brain atrophy affect medial prefrontal and temporal cortices of this core network. While autobiographical memory impairments have been documented in bvFTD, it remains unknown whether the ability to imagine future events is also compromised. Here, we investigated episodic future thinking in 10 bvFTD patients and contrasted their performance with Alzheimer's disease (AD, n=10) and healthy matched Control (n=10) participants. Participants were asked to remember 3 events from the previous year and to envisage 3 possible events that could occur in the next year. Both patient groups showed equivalent episodic detail performance for the retrieval of past events and the simulation of possible future episodes. Patients with bvFTD, however, showed additional impairments for the generation of external (non-episodic) details irrespective of condition. Voxel-based morphometry analyses revealed divergent neural correlates of episodic past and future thinking performance specific to each patient group. Atrophy in the posterior cingulate cortex was implicated in the disruption of past and future thinking in AD. In contrast, in bvFTD, disruption of past retrieval correlated with atrophy in medial prefrontal regions, whereas future thinking deficits were associated with atrophy of frontopolar, medial temporal regions including the right hippocampus, and lateral temporal and occipital cortices. Our results point to the involvement of multiple brain regions in facilitating retrieval of past, and simulation of future, events. Damage to any of these key regions thus adversely affects the ability to engage in personally relevant mental time travel.
The human brain is a highly interconnected network. Recent studies have shown that the functional and anatomical features of this network are organized in an efficient small-world manner that confers high efficiency of information processing at relatively low connection cost. However, it has been unclear how the architecture of functional brain networks is related to performance in working memory (WM) tasks and if these networks can be modified by WM training. Therefore, we conducted a double-blind training study enrolling 66 young adults. Half of the subjects practiced three WM tasks and were compared to an active control group practicing three tasks with low WM demand. High-density resting-state electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded before and after training to analyze graph-theoretical functional network characteristics at an intracortical level. WM performance was uniquely correlated with power in the theta frequency, and theta power was increased by WM training. Moreover, the better a person's WM performance, the more their network exhibited small-world topology. WM training shifted network characteristics in the direction of high performers, showing increased small-worldness within a distributed fronto-parietal network. Taken together, this is the first longitudinal study that provides evidence for the plasticity of the functional brain network underlying WM.

Affectively salient stimuli are capable of capturing attentional resources which allow the brain to change the current course of action in order to respond to potentially advantageous or threatening stimuli. Here, we investigated the behavioral and cerebral impact of peripherally presented affective stimuli on the subsequent processing of foveal information. To this end, we recorded whole-head magnetoencephalograms from 12 participants while they made speeded responses to the direction of left- or right-oriented arrows that were presented foveally at fixation. Each arrow was preceded by a peripherally presented pair of pictures, one emotional (unpleasant or pleasant), and one neutral. Paired pictures were presented at 12 of eccentricity to the left and right of a central fixation cross. We observed that the participants responded more quickly when the orientation of the arrow was congruent with the location of the previously presented emotional scene. Results show that non-predictive emotional information in peripheral vision interferes with subsequent responses to foveally presented targets. Importantly, this behavioral effect was correlated with an early (135msec) increase of left fronto-central activity for the emotionally congruent combination, whose cerebral sources were notably located in the left orbitofrontal cortex. We therefore suggest that the prior spatial distribution of emotional salience, like physical salience, grabs attentional resources and modifies the performance in the center of the visual field. Thus, these data shed light on the neurobehavioral correlates of the emotional coding of visual space.
It has been posited that the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is involved in the visual-to-motor transformation for reach planning. Such a transformation is required because in general the retinal information and the arm motor command do not align, for example in the case of non-zero eye/head orientations. Here, we present behavioral data from a patient with unilateral optic ataxia consecutive to damage to the superior parietal lobule including the intraparietal sulcus in the right hemisphere, who we asked to reach to visual targets under different head roll angles. An accurate visual-to-motor transformation has to integrate head roll to compensate for the rotated retinal location of the target, resulting in a head roll-independent pattern of reach endpoints. If however, head roll is not compensated for, reach endpoints should vary across different head rolls, reflecting a reach plan based on the rotated retinal target location. Remarkably, the patient compensated for head roll when reaching to targets presented within his intact right visual field (VF) (not different from controls) but not for reaches to targets in the contralesional left VF. The amount of compensation was the same irrespective of whether the initial hand position was located in the left or right VF, showing that this transformation concerns only the target location and not the hand-target motor vector. We interpret these findings as causal evidence for the involvement of the PPC in integrating head roll signals in the visual-to-motor transformation of the reach target.




The aging process in the hippocampus is associated with aberrant epigenetic marks, such as DNA methylation and histone tail alterations. Recent evidence suggests that caloric restriction (CR) can potentially delay the aging process, while upregulation of antioxidants may also have a beneficial effect in this respect. We have recently observed that CR attenuates age-related changes in the levels of the epigenetic molecules DNA methyltransferase 3a, 5-methylcytidine (5- mC) and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in the mouse hippocampus while overexpression of the antioxidant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) does not. However, the impact of aging on the levels of histone-modifying enzymes such as histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in the hippocampus has not been studied in much detail. Here, we investigated immunoreactivity (IR) of HDAC2 in three subregions of the hippocampus (dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1-2) of mice taken from large cohorts of aging wild-type and transgenic mice overexpressing normal human SOD1, which were kept under normal diet or CR from weaning onwards. Independent from the genotype, aging (between 12 and 24 months) increased levels of HDAC2 IR in the hippocampus. Moreover, CR prevented this age-related increase, particularly in the CA3 and CA1-2 subregions, while SOD1 overexpression did not. Quantitative image analyses showed that HDAC2 IR correlated positively with 5-mC IR while these markers were shown to colocalize in the nucleus of hippocampal cells. Together with recent literature reports, these findings suggest that altered levels of epigenetic regulatory proteins including HDAC2 regulate age-related changes in the mouse hippocampus and that CR may prevent these age-related changes.
Melanoma, a malignant tumor of melanocytes, causes the majority (75%) of all skin cancer-related deaths. The overall efficacy of different anti-cancer therapies on metastatic melanoma is quite limited, due to its high resistance to all forms of conventional treatments, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy, leading to low patient survival rates. The present review identifies possible strategies for the treatment of advanced melanoma and describes two novel agents, Ipilimumab and Vemurafenib, which may now be useful for clinical practice. Ipilimumab, a humanized, IgG1 monoclonal antibody, acts through immune-modulation since it blocks cytotoxic T-lymphocyte- associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4), producing favourable antitumor immune system responses and reducing tolerance to tumor-associated antigens. Vemurafenib is a novel oral small-molecule kinase inhibitor with high selectivity and efficacy toward a specific mutated oncogenic BRAF-signalling mediator. The mechanism of action of Vemurafenib involves selective inhibition of the mutated BRAF(V600E) kinase that leads to reduced signalling through the aberrant MAPK pathway. However, as patients commonly develop Vemurafenib resistance, clinical trials of Vemurafenib in combination with Ipilimumab or other targeted or cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents may provide more effective regimens with longterm clinical benefits, emphasizing the importance of simultaneously targeting several pathways. As both drugs had only modest effects on median survival, new therapeutic combinations are needed, such as BRAF inhibitors with MEK inhibitors or combinations of immunomodulators and pathway inhibitors. Such strategies should have the potential of maximizing antitumor effect while minimizing and improving clinical benefit. Nevertheless, these two new agents open a promising view into an effective management of melanoma.
The morphological and functional diversity of astrocytes, and their essential contribution in physiological and pathological conditions, are starting to emerge. However, experimental systems to investigate neuron-glia interactions and develop innovative approaches for the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) disorders are still very limited. Fluorescent reporter genes have been used to visualize populations of astrocytes and produce an atlas of gene expression in the brain. Knock-down or knock-out of astrocytic proteins using transgenesis have also been developed, but these techniques remain complex and time-consuming. Viral vectors have been developed to overexpress or silence genes of interest as they can be used for both in vitro and in vivo studies in adult mammalian species. In most cases, high transduction efficiency and long-term transgene expression are observed in neurons but there is limited expression in astrocytes. Several strategies have been developed to shift the tropism of lentiviral vectors (LV) and allow local and controlled gene expression in glial cells. In this review, we describe how modifications of the interaction between the LV envelope glycoprotein and the surface receptor molecules on target cells, or the integration of cell-specific promoters and miRNA post-transcriptional regulatory elements have been used to selectively express transgenes in astrocytes.
There is growing evidence that astrocytes are involved in the neuropathology of major depression. In particular, decreases in glial cell density observed in the cerebral cortex of individuals with major depressive disorder are accompanied by a reduction of several astrocytic markers suggesting that astrocyte dysfunction may contribute to the pathophysiology of major depression. In rodents, glial loss in the prefrontal cortex is sufficient to induce depressive-like behaviors and antidepressant treatment prevents the stress-induced reduction of astrocyte number in the hippocampus. Collectively, these data support the existence of a link between astrocyte loss or dysfunction, depressive-like behavior and antidepressant treatment. Astrocytes are increasingly recognized to play important roles in neuronal development, neurotransmission, synaptic plasticity and maintenance of brain homeostasis. It is also well established that astrocytes provide trophic, structural, and metabolic support to neurons. In this article, we review evidence that antidepressants regulate energy metabolism and neurotrophic factor expression with particular emphasis on studies in astrocytes. These observations support a role for astrocytes as new targets for antidepressants. The contribution of changes in astrocyte glucose metabolism and neurotrophic factor expression to the therapeutic effects of antidepressants remains to be established.
Studies in the central nervous system (CNS) and retina have revealed the significance of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), an essential omega-3, 22 carbon 6 double bond (22:6), fatty acid. DHA is necessary for various functions in the CNS, including neuronal membrane bio- and synaptogenesis in memory and vision, and it is the precursor for docosanoids and neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1; 10R,17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,13E,15Z,19Z hexaenoic acid), a DHA bio-derivative with neuroprotective properties. This review covers three targets in ophthalmology for mediator lipidomics, a subgroup within the field of metabolomics: inflammation, neuroprotection and nerve regeneration. It also discusses the role DHA, NPD1 and other lipid mediators play in these three areas.


It has been known since the 1970s that the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the brain's main biological clock, and since the 1990s that it uses a genetic clock based on transcriptional-translational loops to tell time. However, the recent demonstration that many other cells in the brain and the body also make use of the same genetic clock raises the question of how the SCN synchronizes all of the other clocks to arrive at a coherent circadian profile of physiology and behavior. In this review, we re-examine the evidence that the SCN clock is necessary for bringing order to the body's biological rhythms, and the circuitry of the circadian timing system by which it accomplishes this goal. Finally, we review the evidence that under conditions of restricted food availability, other clocks may be able to take over from the SCN to determine rhythms of behavior and physiology.
Orexin deficiency results in the sleep disorder narcolepsy in many mammalian species, including mice, dogs, and humans, suggesting that the orexin system is particularly important for normal regulation of sleep/wakefulness states, and especially for maintenance of wakefulness. This review discusses animal models of narcolepsy; the contribution of each orexin receptor subtype to the narcoleptic phenotypes; and the etiology of orexin neuronal death. It also raises the possibility of novel therapies targeting the orexin system for sleep disorders including insomia and narcolepsy-cataplexy.
Sleep and circadian rhythm disruption (SCRD) is a common feature in many neuropsychiatric diseases including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. Although the precise mechanisms remain unclear, recent evidence suggests that this comorbidity is not simply a product of medication or an absence of social routine, but instead reflects commonly affected underlying pathways and mechanisms. For example, several genes intimately involved in the generation and regulation of circadian rhythms and sleep have been linked to psychiatric illness. Further, several genes linked to mental illness have recently been shown to also play a role in normal sleep and circadian behaviour. Here we describe some of the emerging common mechanisms that link circadian rhythms, sleep and SCRD in severe mental illnesses. A deeper understanding of these links will provide not only a greater understanding of disease mechanisms, but also holds the promise of novel avenues for therapeutic intervention.
Mammalian sleep is regulated by two distinct mechanisms. A circadian oscillator provides timing signals that organize sleep and wake across the 24 hour day. A homeostatic mechanism increases sleep drive and sleep amounts (or intensity) as a function of prior time awake. The cellular mechanisms of sleep homeostasis are poorly defined, but are thought to be primarily neuronal. According to one view, sleep homeostasis arises from interactions between subcortical neurons that register sleep pressure and other neurons that promote either sleep or wakefulness. Alternatively, sleep drive may arise independently among neurons throughout the brain in a use-dependent fashion. Implicit in both views is the idea that sleep homeostasis is solely the product of neurons. In this article, I discuss an emerging view that glial astrocytes may play an essential role in sleep homeostasis.
The purpose of this review is to outline our latest hypothesis on the mechanisms responsible for the genesis of paradoxical (REM) sleep (PS). On the basis of recent data, we propose that the onset and maintenance of PS are due to the activation by intrinsic and extrinsic factors of MCH/GABAergic neurons located in the lateral hypothalamic area. These neurons would inhibit during PS, GABAergic PS-off neurons located in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray region. A number of results strongly suggest that these PS-off neurons gate the activation of the PS-on glutamatergic neurons located in the sublaterodorsal tegmental nucleus (SLD) and responsible for cortical activation and muscle atonia via descending projections to GABA/glycinergic neurons localized in the ventral medullary reticular nuclei.
The reciprocal interactions between sleep and immune function are well-studied. Insufficient sleep induces innate immune responses as evidenced by increased expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in the brain and periphery. Conversely, immune challenges upregulate immunomodulator expression, which alters central nervous system-mediated processes and behaviors, including sleep. Recent studies indicate that glial cells, namely microglia and astrocytes, are active contributors to sleep and immune system interactions. Evidence suggests glial regulation of these interactions is mediated, in part, by adenosine and adenosine 5'-triphosphate actions at purinergic type 1 and type 2 receptors. Furthermore, microglia and astrocytes may modulate declines in sleep-wake behavior and immunity observed in aging.


Morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular disease is exceedingly high worldwide. Depressive illness afflicts a significant portion of the population worldwide. Epidemiological studies have confirmed the high co-morbidity between these two entities and the co-morbidity is bidirectional. Systems that contribute to this co-morbidity include the central and autonomic nervous systems, the neuroendocrine, immune, vascular and hematologic systems. Specific pathophysiologic factors include imbalance between the sympathetic and the parasympathetic systems, sympathoadrenal activation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation, immune system dysregulation with release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, platelet activation and hypercoaguability. Inflammation occurs in cardiac and cardiovascular pathology independent of the presence or absence of depression and in depression. Inflammation is closely associated with endothelial dysfunction which is a preamble to atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis. A likely common instigator underlying this co-morbidity is mental stress leading to sustained sympathetic overdrive and diminished vagal tone. Diminished vagal tone contributes to a pro-inflammatory status which affects neurotransmitter regulation, specifically serotonergic transmission. Stress hormones and certain pro-inflammatory substances released by macrophages and microglia upregulate the rate-limiting enzymes in the metabolic pathway of tryptophan. This results in a shunt in tryprophan metabolism away from serotonin formation and down the kynurenine pathway with resulting formation of neurotoxic metabolites.
The eating disorders anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) are severe psychiatric disorders with high mortality. Our knowledge about the neurobiology of eating disorders is very limited, and the question remains whether alterations in brain structure or function in eating disorders are state related, remnants of the illness or premorbid traits. The brain reward system is a relatively well-characterized brain circuitry that plays a central role in the drive to eat and individuals with current or past eating disorders showed alterations in those pathways compared to controls. Here we propose that structural and functional alterations in the insula and frontal cortex, including orbitofrontal and cingulate regions, areas that contribute to reward and anxiety processing, could predispose to developing an eating disorder and that adaptive changes in those circuits in response to malnutrition or repeated binge eating and purging could further promote illness behavior, hinder recovery and contribute to relapse.
Medically ill adolescents are at increased risk for psychological distress and/or functional impairment. However, there are few research studies examining the optimal psychiatric treatments for this population. Psychiatric medication recommendations are largely based on studies of youth with a primary psychiatric disorder, adult studies, hypothesized mechanisms of action, and/or clinical experience. This paper provides evidence-informed recommendations for the psychopharmacological treatment of acutely medically ill adolescents suffering from significant psychological distress and/or functional impairment. Representing the most common problems among medically ill adolescents that are treated with psychiatric medications, recommendations are provided for anxiety and depression; iatrogenic medical trauma, inadequate sleep and insomnia; and, delirium.
Individuals frequently use the Internet to search for medical information. However, for some individuals, searching for medical information on the Internet is associated with an exacerbation of health anxiety. Researchers have termed this phenomenon as cyberchondria. The present research sought to shed further light onto the phenomenology of cyberchondria. In particular, the moderating effect of intolerance of uncertainty (IU) on the relationship between the frequency of Internet searches for medical information and health anxiety was examined using a large sample of medically healthy community adults located in the United States (N=512). The purported moderating effect of IU was supported. More specifically, the relationship between the frequency of Internet searches for medical information and health anxiety grew increasingly stronger as IU increased. This moderating effect of IU was not attributable to general distress. These results suggest that IU is important for better understanding the exacerbation of health anxiety in response to Internet searches for medical information. Conceptual and therapeutic implications of these results are discussed.
Interleukin-4 (IL-4) is a potent antiinflammatory cytokine. However its use in the clinic is hampered by side effects. We here describe the identification of a novel synthetic peptide, termed Ph8, derived from -helix C of IL-4, which interacts with IL-4 receptor  (IL-4R). Employing various cultured genetically engineered cell lines and primary lymphocytes, surface plasmon resonance, qPCR, ELISA and immunoblotting techniques we found that Ph8 bound IL-4R and mimicked the anti-inflammatory effects of IL-4 by inhibiting TNF- production by macrophages in vitro. It induced phosphorylation of STAT6 65kD but inhibited phosphorylation of STAT6 110 kD induced by IL-4 in a B-cell line that expressed the type I receptor. It also inhibited the IL-4-stimulated expression of a STAT6-inducible reporter gene in cells that expressed the type II receptor. Ph8 inhibited the proliferation of Th1/2 cells and downregulated the production of IFN- in stimulated Th1 cells. Moreover, Ph8 did not induce any shift in Th1/Th2 profile. This is a favorable effect and it is indicating that Ph8 could block general T cell activation and inflammatory responses without further inducing the side effects generally associated with IL-4 signaling. These data collectively show that Ph8 is only a partial agonist of IL-4 mimicking its desirable properties. In agreement, Ph8 treatment of rats with collagen-induced arthritis, a Th1- and antibody- mediated disease of joint, delayed the manifestation of chronic inflammation and reduced acute inflammation in carrageenan-induced edema. Our findings indicate that Ph8 is a promising potential drug candidate for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.

The enteric nervous system (ENS) is a vital part of the autonomic nervous system that regulates many gastrointestinal functions, including motility and secretion. All neurons and glia of the ENS arise from neural crest-derived cells that migrate into the gastrointestinal tract during embryonic development. It has been known for many years that a subpopulation of the enteric neural crest-derived cells expresses pan-neuronal markers at early stages of ENS development. Recent studies have demonstrated that some enteric neurons exhibit electrical activity from as early as E11.5 in the mouse, with further maturation of activity during embryonic and postnatal development. This article discusses the maturation of electrophysiological and morphological properties of enteric neurons, the formation of synapses and synaptic activity, and the influence of neural activity on ENS development.
EEG is a primary method for studying temporally precise neuronal processes across the lifespan. Most of this work focuses on event related potentials (ERPs); however, using time-locked time frequency analysis to decompose the EEG signal can identify and distinguish multiple changes in brain oscillations underlying cognition (Bastiaansen et al., 2010). Further this measure is thought to reflect changes in inter-neuronal communication more directly than ERPs (Nunez and Srinivasan, 2006). Although time frequency has elucidated cognitive processes in adults, applying it to cognitive development is still rare. Here, we review the basics of neuronal oscillations, some of what they reveal about adult cognitive function, and what little is known relating to children. We focus on language because it develops early and engages complex cortical networks. Additionally, because time frequency analysis of the EEG related to adult language comprehension has been incredibly informative, using similar methods with children will shed new light on current theories of language development and increase our understanding of how neural processes change over the lifespan. Our goal is to emphasize the power of this methodology and encourage its use throughout developmental cognitive neuroscience.
Typical adolescent behaviour such as increased risk-taking and novelty-seeking is probably related to developmental changes in the brain reward system. This functional MRI study investigated how brain activation related to two components of reward processing (Reward Anticipation and Reward Outcome) changes with age in a sample of 39 children, adolescents and young adults aged 10-25. Our data revealed age-related changes in brain activity during both components of reward processing. Activation related to Reward Anticipation increased with age, while activation related to Reward Outcome decreased in various regions of the reward network. This shift from outcome to anticipation was confirmed by subsequent analyses showing positive correlations between age and the difference in activation between Reward Anticipation and Reward Outcome. The shift was predominantly present in striatal regions and was accompanied by a significant effect of age on behaviour, with older participants showing more response speeding on potentially rewarding trials than younger participants. This study provides evidence for functional changes in the reward system which may underlie typical adolescent behaviour.
BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) is commonly used to study differences in neuronal activity between human populations. As the BOLD response is an indirect measure of neuronal activity, meaningful interpretation of differences in BOLD responses between groups relies upon a stable relationship existing between neuronal activity and the BOLD response across these groups. However, this relationship can be altered by changes in neurovascular coupling or energy consumption, which would lead to problems in identifying differences in neuronal activity. In this review, we focus on fMRI studies of people with autism, and comparisons that are made of their BOLD responses with those of control groups. We examine neurophysiological differences in autism that may alter neurovascular coupling or energy use, discuss recent studies that have used fMRI to identify differences between participants with autism and control participants, and explore experimental approaches that could help attribute between-group differences in BOLD signals to either neuronal or neurovascular factors.
Across development children show marked improvement in their executive functions (EFs), including the ability to hold information in working memory and to deploy cognitive control, allowing them to ignore prepotent responses in favor of newly learned behaviors. How does the brain support these age-related improvements? Age-related cortical gray-matter thinning, thought to result from selective pruning of inefficient synaptic connections and increases in myelination, may support age-related improvements in EFs. Here we used structural MRI to measure cortical thickness. We investigate the association between cortical thickness in three cortical regions of interest (ROIs), and age-related changes in cognitive control and working memory in 5-10 year old children. We found significant associations between reductions in cortical thickness and age-related improvements in performance on both working memory and cognitive control tasks. Moreover, we observed a dissociation between ROIs typically thought to underlie changes in cognitive control (right Inferior Frontal gyrus and Anterior Cingulate cortex) and age-related improvements in cognitive control, and ROIs for working memory (superior parietal cortex), and age-related changes in a working memory task. These data add to our growing understanding of how structural maturation of the brain supports vast behavioral changes in executive functions observed across childhood.
Musicians have increased resilience to the effects of noise on speech perception and its neural underpinnings. We do not know, however, how early in life these enhancements arise. We compared auditory brainstem responses to speech in noise in 32 preschool children, half of whom were engaged in music training. Thirteen children returned for testing one year later, permitting the first longitudinal assessment of subcortical auditory function with music training. Results indicate emerging neural enhancements in musically trained preschoolers for processing speech in noise. Longitudinal outcomes reveal that children enrolled in music classes experience further increased neural resilience to background noise following one year of continued training compared to nonmusician peers. Together, these data reveal enhanced development of neural mechanisms undergirding speech-in-noise perception in preschoolers undergoing music training and may indicate a biological impact of music training on auditory function during early childhood.
Previous behavioral studies have suggested that morphological awareness is impaired in Chinese children with reading disability (RD), but how this is reflected in brain alterations is not known. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the current study compared morphological processing in a RD group (11-13 years old) to an age-matched typically developing (TD) group. Participants made semantic relatedness judgments to incongruent word pairs that were either semantically related but did not share a morpheme or semantically unrelated but did share a morpheme. This was compared to conditions where semantic relatedness and morphemic information was congruent. A smaller incongruency effect was found in left dorsal posterior (BA9) and ventral anterior (BA47) inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) in the RD compared to the TD, suggesting that the RD is less sensitive to morphological information. This was a specific deficit as a phonological control task that manipulated congruency between orthography and phonology did not show group differences in the IFG. Moreover, brain activation in the IFG for the incongruency effect in the semantic task was negatively correlated with reading skill for the RD group only, suggesting that higher skill children with RD may rely on a compensatory whole-word strategy by ignoring the morphemic information.



Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a facilitatory role in neuronal development and promotion of differentiation. Mechanisms that oppose BDNF's stimulatory effects create balance and regulate dendritic growth. However, these mechanisms have not been studied. We have focused our studies on the BDNF-induced neuropeptide OrphaninFQ/ Nociceptin (OFQ); while BDNF is known to enhance synaptic activity, OFQ has opposite effects on activity, learning, and memory. We have now examined whether OFQ provides a balance to the stimulatory effects of BDNF on neuronal differentiation in the hippocampus. Golgi staining in OFQ knockout (KO) mice revealed an increase in primary dendrite length as well as spine density, suggesting that endogenous OFQ inhibits dendritic morphology. We have also used cultured hippocampal neurons to demonstrate that exogenous OFQ has an inhibitory effect on dendritic growth and that the neuropeptide alters the response to BDNF when pre-administered. To determine if BDNF and OFQ act in a feedback loop, we inhibited the actions of the BDNF and OFQ receptors, TrkB and NOP using ANA-12 and NOP KO mice respectively but our data suggest that the two factors do not act in a negative feedback loop. We found that the inhibition of dendritic morphology induced by OFQ is via enhanced RhoA activity. Finally, we have evidence that RhoA activation is required for the inhibitory effects of OFQ on dendritic morphology. Our results reveal basic mechanisms by which neurons not only regulate the formation of proper dendritic growth during development but also control plasticity in the mature nervous system.
The function and modulation of neural circuits underlying motor skill may involve rhythmic oscillations (Feller, 1999; Marder and Goaillard, 2006; Churchland et al., 2012). In the proposed pattern generator for birdsong, the cortical nucleus HVC, the frequency and power of oscillatory bursting during singing increases with development (Crandall et al., 2007; Day et al., 2009). We examined the maturation of cellular activity patterns that underlie these changes. Single unit ensemble recording combined with antidromic identification (Day et al., 2011) was used to study network development in anesthetized zebra finches. Autocovariance quantified oscillations within single units. A subset of neurons oscillated in the theta/alpha/mu/beta range (8-20 Hz), with greater power in adults compared to juveniles. Across the network, the normalized oscillatory power in the 8-20 Hz range was greater in adults than juveniles. In addition, the correlated activity between rhythmic neuron pairs increased with development. We next examined the functional impact of the oscillators on the output neurons of HVC. We found that the firing of oscillatory neurons negatively correlated with the activity of cortico-basal ganglia neurons (HVC(X)s), which project to Area X (the song basal ganglia). If groups of oscillators work together to tonically inhibit and precisely control the spike timing of adult HVC(X)s with coordinated release from inhibition, then the activity of HVC(X)s in juveniles should be decreased relative to adults due to uncorrelated, tonic inhibition. Consistent with this hypothesis, HVC(X)s had lower activity in juveniles. These data reveal network changes that shape cortical-to-basal ganglia signaling during motor learning.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) displays considerable morphological plasticity as a result of differences in activity level, as well as aging. This is true of both presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the NMJ. Yet, despite these variations in NMJ structure, proper presynaptic to postsynaptic coupling must be maintained in order for effective cell-to-cell communication to occur. Here, we examined the NMJs of muscles with different activity profiles (soleus and EDL), on both slow- and fast-twitch fibers in those muscles, and among young adult and aged animals. We used immunofluorescent techniques to stain nerve terminal branching, presynaptic vesicles, postsynaptic receptors, as well as fast/slow myosin heavy chain. Confocal microscopy was used to capture images of NMJs for later quantitative analysis. Data were subjected to a two-way ANOVA (main effects for myofiber type and age), and in the event of a significant (p&lt;0.05) F ratio, a post hoc analysis was performed to identify pairwise differences. Results showed that the NMJs of different myofiber types routinely displayed differences in presynaptic and postsynaptic morphology (although the effect on NMJ size was reversed in the soleus and the EDL), but presynaptic to postsynaptic relationships were tightly maintained. Moreover, the ratio of presynaptic vesicles relative to nerve terminal branch length also was similar despite differences in muscles, their fiber type, and age. Thus, in the face of considerable overall structural differences of the NMJ, presynaptic to postsynaptic coupling remains constant, as does the relationship between presynaptic vesicles and the nerve terminal branches that support them.


Recent studies have shown that nascent hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) derive directly from the ventral aortic endothelium (VAE) via endothelial to hematopoietic transition (EHT). However, whether EHT initiates from a random or predetermined subpopulation of VAE, as well as the molecular mechanism underlying this process, remain unclear. We previously reported that different zebrafish stem cell leukemia (scl) isoforms are differentially required for HSC formation in the ventral wall of the dorsal aorta. However, the exact stage at which these isoforms impact HSC development was not defined. Here, using in vivo time-lapse imaging of scl isoform-specific reporter transgenic zebrafish lines, we show that prior to EHT scl- is selectively expressed in hemogenic endothelial cells, a unique subset of VAE cells possessing hemogenic potential, whereas scl- is expressed later in nascent HSCs as they egress from VAE cells. In accordance with their expression, loss-of-function studies coupled with in vivo imaging analysis reveal that scl- acts earlier to specify hemogenic endothelium, which is later transformed by runx1 into HSCs. Our results also reveal a previously unexpected role of scl- in maintaining newly born HSCs in the aorta-gonads-mesonephros. Thus, our data suggest that a defined hemogenic endothelial population preset by scl- supports the deterministic emergence of HSCs, and unravel the cellular mechanisms by which scl isoforms regulate HSC development.
Stem cells generate progeny that undergo terminal differentiation. The initiation and maintenance of the differentiated status is crucial for tissue development, function and homeostasis. Drosophila neural stem cells (neuroblasts) are a model for stem cell self-renewal and differentiation; they divide asymmetrically to self-renew and generate the neurons and glia of the CNS. Here we report the identification of midlife crisis (mdlc; CG4973) as a gene required for the maintenance of neuronal differentiation and for neuroblast proliferation in Drosophila. mdlc encodes a ubiquitously expressed zinc-finger-containing protein with conserved orthologs from yeast to humans that are reported to have a role in RNA splicing. Using clonal analysis, we demonstrate that mdlc mutant neurons initiate but fail to complete differentiation, as judged by the loss of the pro-differentiation transcription factor Prospero, followed by derepression of the neuroblast factors Deadpan, Asense and Cyclin E. RNA-seq shows that loss of Mdlc decreases pros transcript levels and results in aberrant pros splicing. Importantly, misexpression of the full-length human ortholog, RNF113A, completely rescues all CNS defects in mdlc mutants. We conclude that Mdlc plays an essential role in maintaining neuronal differentiation, raising the possibility that RNF113A regulates neuronal differentiation in the human CNS.



Kisspeptin, a key factor in the neuroendocrinological regulation of animal reproduction, is a peptide product encoded by kiss genes, which act as the natural ligand of GPR54. Over the last decade, multiple functional molecular forms of kisspeptin have been found in vertebrate species. In fish, the major molecular structural form is kisspeptin-10. The kisspeptin/GPR54 system has multiple important functions in reproduction. This review provides an overview of our current knowledge on kisspeptin and its role in regulating fish reproductive, including the distribution and location of kisspeptin neurons in the brain, the molecular polymorphism of fish kisspeptin, functional diversity, the molecular mechanism of fish reproductive regulation, and the molecular evolution of kisspeptin as well as the co-regulation of fish reproduction by kisspeptin and other functional molecules. Perspectives on the future of kisspeptin regulation in fish reproduction are also highlighted.

Mouse cytochrome P450 2b9 (Cyp2b9) is a testosterone 16-hydroxylase enzyme showing female-specific expression in many inbred mouse strains, including C57BL/6J. Previous studies have recognized that some sex-dependently secreted endogenous modulating factors were involved in the sexually dimorphic expression of Cyp2b9 through transcriptional regulation. In this study, we found evidence that some microRNAs contributed to the sexually biased expression of Cyp2b9 via post-transcriptional regulation. Cyp2b9 was upregulated in livers of hepatocyte-specific Dicer1 knockout mice at 3 weeks. The age-dependent downregulation of Cyp2b9 in the livers of male mice was diminished when Dicer1 was specifically knocked out in hepatocytes. When these data were combined with bioinformatics analysis and microRNA profiles of male and female mice, we found that 18 microRNAs were associated with the sexually dimorphic expression of Cyp2b9, which showed higher expression levels in male C57BL/6J mice when compared with females. Luciferase assays revealed that approximate half of these microRNAs repressed luciferase activity in a reporter system containing the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of Cyp2b9, and also inhibited Cyp2b9 protein expression. MicroRNA seed region mutation or mutations in putative binding sites of the microRNAs in Cyp2b9 3'-UTR led to the loss of the suppression of luciferase activity. There was also a negative correlation between the levels of these microRNAs and Cyp2b9. Our results suggested that multiple microRNAs participated in the regulation of Cyp2b9 expression, and that the lower expression levels of these microRNAs potentially contributed to the female-specific expression of Cyp2b9 in the livers of C57BL/6J mice.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurobehavioral developmental disorder in children and adults characterized by a persistent pattern of impulsiveness, inattention and hyperactivity. It affects about 3-10% of children and 2-5% of adolescents and adults and occurs about four times more commonly in boys than girls. The cause of ADHD is unknown, but it has strong genetic and environment components. The first-line treatment options for ADHD include behavioral therapy, pharmacotherapy with stimulants or both. Methylphenidate and amphetamine salts are the stimulant drugs of choice for ADHD treatment. Amphetamines act by increasing presynaptic release of dopamine and other biogenic amines in the brain. Methylphenidate inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine and therefore its pharmacology is identical to that of amphetamines. Lisdex-amfetamine is a prodrug of dextroamphetamine with low feasibility for abuse. Atomoxetine, a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is an alternative, non-stimulant drug for ADHD but it is less efficacious than stimulants. Stimulants are generally safe but are associated with adverse effects including headache, insomnia, anorexia and weight loss. There is increased awareness about serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse events with ADHD drugs including concern for growth suppression in children. Stimulants have a high potential for abuse and dependence, and should be handled safely to prevent misuse and abuse.

Memory is critical to understanding animal movement but has proven challenging to study. Advances in animal tracking technology, theoretical movement models and cognitive sciences have facilitated research in each of these fields, but also created a need for synthetic examination of the linkages between memory and animal movement. Here, we draw together research from several disciplines to understand the relationship between animal memory and movement processes. First, we frame the problem in terms of the characteristics, costs and benefits of memory as outlined in psychology and neuroscience. Next, we provide an overview of the theories and conceptual frameworks that have emerged from behavioural ecology and animal cognition. Third, we turn to movement ecology and summarise recent, rapid developments in the types and quantities of available movement data, and in the statistical measures applicable to such data. Fourth, we discuss the advantages and interrelationships of diverse modelling approaches that have been used to explore the memory-movement interface. Finally, we outline key research challenges for the memory and movement communities, focusing on data needs and mathematical and computational challenges. We conclude with a roadmap for future work in this area, outlining axes along which focused research should yield rapid progress.
The gut microbiota contributes to fat mass and the susceptibility to obesity. However, the underlying mechanisms are not completely understood. To investigate whether the gut microbiota affects hypothalamic and brainstem body fat-regulating circuits, we compared gene expression of food intake-regulating neuropeptides between germ-free and conventionally raised (CONV-R) mice. We found that CONV-R mice had decreased expression of the antiobesity neuropeptide glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) precursor proglucagon (Gcg) in the brainstem. Moreover, in both the hypothalamus and the brainstem, CONV-R mice had decreased expression of the antiobesity neuropeptide brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf). CONV-R mice had reduced expression of the pro-obesity peptides neuropeptide-Y (Npy) and agouti-related protein (Agrp), and increased expression of the antiobesity peptides proopiomelanocortin (Pomc) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (Cart) in the hypothalamus. The latter changes in neuropeptide expression could be secondary to elevated fat mass in CONV-R mice. Leptin treatment caused less weight reduction and less suppression of orexigenic Npy and Agrp expression in CONV-R mice compared with germ-free mice. The hypothalamic expression of leptin resistance-associated suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (Socs-3) was increased in CONV-R mice. In conclusion, the gut microbiota reduces the expression of 2 genes coding for body fat-suppressing neuropeptides, Gcg and Bdnf, an alteration that may contribute to fat mass induction by the gut microbiota. Moreover, the presence of body fat-inducing gut microbiota is associated with hypothalamic signs of Socs-3-mediated leptin resistance, which may be linked to failed compensatory body fat reduction.
Elevated nighttime light exposure is associated with symptoms of metabolic syndrome. In industrialized societies, high-fat diet (HFD) and exposure to light at night (LAN) often cooccur and may contribute to the increasing obesity epidemic. Thus, we hypothesized that dim LAN (dLAN) would provoke additional and sustained body mass gain in mice on a HFD. Male mice were housed in either a standard light/dark cycle or dLAN and fed either chow or HFD. Exposure to dLAN and HFD increase weight gain, reduce glucose tolerance, and alter insulin secretion as compared with light/dark cycle and chow, respectively. The effects of dLAN and HFD appear additive, because mice exposed to dLAN that were fed HFD display the greatest increases in body mass. Exposure to both dLAN and HFD also change the timing of food intake and increase TNF and MAC1 gene expression in white adipose tissue after 4 experimental weeks. Changes in MAC1 gene expression occur more rapidly due to HFD as compared with dLAN; after 5 days of experimental conditions, mice fed HFD already increase MAC1 gene expression in white adipose tissue. HFD also elevates microglia activation in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and hypothalamic TNF, IL-6, and Ikbkb gene expression. Microglia activation is increased by dLAN, but only among chow-fed mice and dLAN does not affect inflammatory gene expression. These results suggest that dLAN exaggerates weight gain and peripheral inflammation associated with HFD.
Parkinson disease (PD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder with high incidence in the elderly, where environmental and genetic factors are involved in etiology. In addition, epigenetic mechanisms, including deregulation of DNA methylation have been recently associated to PD. As accurate diagnosis cannot be achieved pre-mortem, identification of early pathological changes is crucial to enable therapeutic interventions before major neuropathological damage occurs. Here we investigated genome-wide DNA methylation in brain and blood samples from PD patients and observed a distinctive pattern of methylation involving many genes previously associated to PD, therefore supporting the role of epigenetic alterations as a molecular mechanism in neurodegeneration. Importantly, we identified concordant methylation alterations in brain and blood, suggesting that blood might hold promise as a surrogate for brain tissue to detect DNA methylation in PD and as a source for biomarker discovery.

The Italian League Against Epilepsy has issued evidence-based guidelines to help practicing physicians in their decision to stop or withhold antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in patients achieving a prolonged period of seizure freedom. Six adult and two child neurologists, divided into four pairs, critically appraised 128 published reports and provided graded recommendations answering 15 key questions: length of the seizure-free period after treatment initiation, difference in seizure-free periods in children and adults, electroencephalography (EEG) pattern at the time of discontinuation, etiology of epilepsy, seizure type(s), patient's age and sex, family history of epilepsy, history of febrile seizures, epilepsy syndrome, seizure frequency before entering remission, duration of active epilepsy, tapering period, number and type of AEDs taken at time of discontinuation, combination of risk factors for recurrence, and length of patient monitoring after treatment discontinuation. Based on the available data, the following recommendations can be outlined: (1) antiepileptic treatment might be discontinued after a minimum period of 2 years of seizure freedom; shorter seizure-free periods are associated to a higher risk of relapse; (2) in children, AED discontinuation could be considered after less than two seizure-free years because of a marginally higher risk of relapse for early withdrawal; (3) factors, such as abnormal EEG (including epileptiform abnormalities) at the time of treatment discontinuation, a documented etiology of seizures (including mental retardation, perinatal insults, and abnormal neurologic examination), partial seizures, or an older age at disease onset, enhance the risk of relapse; however, patients should not be encouraged to withhold treatment unless a combination of two or more of these factors is present; (4) female sex, family history of epilepsy, history of febrile seizures, disease length/severity, and number and type of drugs taken should not influence the decision to stop treatment; (5) epilepsy syndrome should be always included in the decision process; (6) slow (at least 6 months) AED discontinuation should be encouraged; in any case the duration of the tapering period should be tailored to the patient's needs and preference; and (7) patient discontinuing treatment should be followed for no &lt;2 years. As a general habit, the decision to stop treatment should be discussed and shared with each patient, taking into account social and personal complications of a seizure relapse and the medical complications of chronic AED treatment.

It has been documented that anteromedial temporal lobe dysfunction can cause impairment in emotional intelligence. In particular, medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is associated with disorders in emotion recognition from facial expressions. About one-third of patients with MTLE experienced febrile seizures (FSs) during childhood. In the present study, we investigated facial emotion recognition ability in a group of 38 school-aged children with antecedent FSs and in an age- and sex-matched control group. Children with abnormal general visuoperceptual abilities were excluded. Children with FSs showed lower recognition scores versus controls in both matching (28.64 vs 33.47; p&lt;.0001) and labeling (21.25 vs 23.03; p=.001) facial emotions. Our findings support the hypothesis that FSs can be associated during childhood with a dysfunction within the neural network subserving the processing of facial expressions of the basic emotions.
Epidemiological data show that up to 20-30% of patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNESs), resembling drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE), are referred to tertiary epilepsy centers. Furthermore, both disorders present high psychiatric comorbidity, and video-EEG is the gold standard to make differential diagnoses. In this study, we described and compared the clinical presentation and the frequency of psychiatric disorders codified in DSM IV in two groups of patients, one with PNESs and the other with DRE, admitted in a tertiary care epilepsy center of Buenos Aires, Argentina. We included 35 patients with PNESs and 49 with DRE; all were admitted in the video-EEG unit in order to confirm an epilepsy diagnosis and determine surgical treatment possibilities. All patients underwent a neurological and psychiatric assessment, according to standardized protocol (SCID I and II; DSM IV criteria). Student's t test was performed to compare continuous variables and Chi square test to compare qualitative variables. In this study, 33 (67%) patients with DRE and 35 (100%) patients with PNESs met criteria for at least one disorder codified in Axis I of DSM IV (p=0.003). Differences in the frequency of psychiatric disorder presentation were found between groups. Anxiety disorders (16.32% vs 40%; p=0.015), trauma history (24.5% vs 48.57%; p=0.02), posttraumatic stress disorder (4.08% vs 22.85%; p=0.009), and personality cluster B disorders (18.37% vs 42.86%; p=0.02) were more frequent in the group with PNESs. Psychotic disorders were more frequent in the group with DRE (20.4% vs 2.85%; p=0.019). Depression was equally prevalent in both groups. Standardized psychiatric assessment provides information that could be used by the mental health professional who receives the referral in order to improve quality of care and smooth transitions to proper PNES treatment, which should include a multidisciplinary approach including neurology and psychiatry.
Reducing the burden of epilepsy in low- and middle-income countries requires understanding of the cultural aspects of epilepsy. This cross-sectional study among individuals attending a clinic in an urban setting in Paramaribo, Suriname aimed to obtain information on the knowledge of and attitudes towards epilepsy and epilepsy treatment, comparing people with epilepsy (PWE) to those without epilepsy. This study also explored the help-seeking behavior and experience of having epilepsy in PWE. While the results of interviews with 49 PWE and 33 controls compared favorably to studies conducted in similar countries, a significant minority of PWE still rely on traditional remedies. Prejudices regarding social roles, schooling, and occupational choices of PWE also remain prevalent. Currently, the major source of information for both groups is the media, but there could be opportunities for the local epilepsy association to play a larger role. These findings, despite some selection bias, could be useful in bringing conventional medical treatment strategies to more PWE in Suriname, as well as empower patient organizations in designing stigma-reducing interventions.
Epilepsy is a heterogeneous and chronic neurological condition of undefined etiology in the majority of cases. Similarly, the pathogenesis of the unprovoked seizures that lead to epilepsy is not known. We are interested in the factors that modify inherent seizure susceptibility, with a particular focus on those occurring during the prenatal and early postnatal periods. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were bred in-house or transported during pregnancy at one of two gestational days (G9 or G16). The effects of transport stress, maternal behavior, and offspring sex were then examined in terms of how they were related to provoked seizure susceptibility to kainic acid (KA) or a model of febrile convulsions (FCs) on postnatal day 14 (P14). We also examined the pattern of neuronal activation in the hippocampus and amygdala as indicated by the density of FosB protein immunoreactivity (FosB-ir). Results demonstrated only a small and inconsistent effect of transport alone, suggesting that the groups differed slightly prior to experimental manipulations. However, the influence of maternal behaviors such as licking and grooming (LG), arched back nursing (ABN), and dam-off time (DO) exerted a much stronger effect on the offspring. Dams designated as high LG gave birth to smaller litters, had pups that weighed less, had greater seizure susceptibility and severity, and had more FosB-ir neurons predominantly in the ventral hippocampus and the medial subnucleus of the amygdala (MeA). We also found a sex-dependent effect such that P14 males were smaller than their female littermates and had a greater seizure susceptibility and severity. Taken together, these results suggest an impact of prenatal and postnatal factors, as well as sex, on seizure susceptibility in young animals.
In this study we used EEG-fMRI to investigate whether peri-ventricular nodular heterotopia (PNH) are connected to the seizure generating network in individuals initially diagnosed with absence seizures (AS) who were later found to have co-existent PNH. We performed event related EEG-fMRI of the patients typical events as well as performing functional connectivity (FC) seeded from the PNH to answer this question. Both subjects demonstrated event related BOLD change in the &quot;core&quot; absence network. Subject 1 also displayed event related BOLD increase in the nodules while FC analysis demonstrated connectivity between the nodules and the thalami and striatum bilaterally. The second subject did not display event related BOLD in the PNH but FC analysis demonstrated strong connections between the PNH and the parietal cortex. This study demonstrates that the peri-ventricular nodules can show connectivity to the absence network in individuals with AS and may be involved in seizure generation.






Continuous theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) can modify behavior, but effects are inconsistent and their mechanisms insufficiently understood. As coherence in resting-state networks influences human behavior, we hypothesized that cTBS may act via modulation of neural oscillation coherence. This study used electroencephalography (EEG) to investigate whether behavioral effects of cTBS on visuospatial attention are associated with coherence changes in the attention network. In healthy human subjects, cTBS of the right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and the right frontal eye field was compared with sham stimulation. Effects on visuospatial attention were quantified with a visual exploration task, and network effects were assessed from surface EEG with inverse solutions and source coherence analyses. Before stimulation, left visual exploration was linearly correlated with alpha-band coherence between the right temporo-parietal cortex and the rest of the brain. Posterior parietal cortex stimulation induced neglect-like visual exploration behavior in the majority, but not all, subjects. It reduced alpha-band coherence between the stimulation site and the rest of the brain but also enhanced it between the contralateral left parietal cortex and the rest of the brain. The contralateral increase correlated with the induced reduction in left visual attention. The behavioral response of individual participants to cTBS could be predicted by coherence in the right temporo-parietal junction before stimulation. Behavioral effects of cTBS therefore depend on network states before stimulation and are linearly associated with changes in network interactions. In particular, cTBS modulates an interhemispheric competition in alpha-band coherence. EEG network imaging might help to optimize therapeutic cTBS in the future.
Neuronal networks are thought to gradually adapt to altered neuronal activity over many hours and days. For instance, when activity is increased by suppressing synaptic inhibition, excitatory synaptic transmission is reduced. The underlying compensatory cellular and molecular mechanisms are thought to contribute in important ways to maintaining normal network operations. Seizures, due to their massive and highly synchronised discharging, probably challenge the adaptive properties of neurons, especially when seizures are frequent and intense - a condition common in early childhood. In the experiments reported here, we used rat and mice hippocampal slice cultures to explore the effects that recurring seizure-like activity has on the developing hippocampus. We found that developing networks adapted rapidly to recurring synchronised activity in that the duration of seizure-like events was reduced by 42% after 4h of activity. At the same time, the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents in pyramidal cells, the expression of biochemical biomarkers for glutamatergic synapses and the branching of pyramidal cell dendrites were all dramatically reduced. Experiments also showed that the reduction in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits and postsynaptic density protein 95 expression were N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent. To explore calcium signaling mechanisms in network adaptation, we tested inhibitors of calcineurin, a protein phosphatase known to play roles in synaptic plasticity and activity-dependent dendrite remodeling. We found that FK506 was able to prevent all of the electrophysiological, biochemical, and anatomical changes produced by synchronised network activity. Our results show that hippocampal pyramidal cells and their networks adapt rapidly to intense synchronised activity and that calcineurin play an important role in the underlying processes.
Speech motor control develops gradually as the acoustics of speech are mapped onto the positions and movements of the articulators. In this event-related potential (ERP) study, children and adults aged 4-30years produced vocalizations while exposed to frequency-altered feedback. Vocal pitch variability and the latency of vocal responses were found to differ as a function of age. ERP responses indexed by the P1-N1-P2 complex were also modulated as a function of age. P1 amplitudes decreased with age, whereas N1 and P2 amplitudes increased with age. In addition, a correlation between vocal variability and N1 amplitudes was found, suggesting a complex interaction between behavioural and neurological responses to frequency-altered feedback. These results suggest that the neural systems that integrate auditory feedback during vocal motor control undergo robust changes with age and physiological development.


Both the serotonin transporter linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val66Met polymorphisms have been shown to interact with unfavourable environment in relation to depression symptoms and to depression diagnosis. Several attempts have been made to study a three-way interaction effect of these factors on depression, however with contradictory results. We aimed to test the hypothesis of a three-way interaction effect and to attempt at replication in an independent population-based sample. Family maltreatment, sexual abuse and depression were self-reported by an adolescent population-based cohort (N=1393) from the county of Vstmanland, Sweden. DNA was isolated from saliva, and used for genotyping of the 5-HTTLPR and BDNF Val66Met polymorphisms. Neither 5-HTTLPR or BDNF genotypes separately, nor in interaction with each other had any relation to depression, however in an environment adjusted model a two-way interaction and a three-way interaction effect was found. Both 5-HTTLPR and BDNF Val66Met interacted with unfavourable environment in relation to depressive symptoms (Adj R=0.19). Depressive symptoms and depression were more common among carriers of either the ss/sl+Val/Val or the ll+Met genotypes in the presence of early-life adversities. This three-way effect was more pronounced among girls. The current study, with a virtually similar set-up compared to previous studies, can partially confirm previous findings and their generalizability. The study also shows the importance of genetic plasticity in individuals with different environmental exposure, for different phenotypic expression.
The serotonin system and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are involved in the biological vulnerability to suicidal behaviour. Altered levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulphate ester DHEAS have been reported in neuropsychiatric conditions. The aim of this study was to investigate CSF levels of 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and CSF and plasma levels of cortisol and DHEAS in 28 medication free suicide attempters and 19 healthy volunteers. Another aim was to investigate the relationship between neuroendocrine measures and childhood trauma in suicide attempters. As the study design includes a longitudinal part, we investigated whether CSF cortisol, 5-HIAA or DHEAS would predict subsequent suicide. We hypothesized higher cortisol levels in suicide attempters and lower CSF 5-HIAA levels and higher cortisol levels in suicide victims. Suicide attempters had higher CSF and plasma cortisol levels compared to healthy volunteers. Male suicide attempters had higher CSF DHEAS levels and female suicide attempters had lower CSF 5-HIAA levels compared to male and female healthy volunteers respectively. Exposure to interpersonal violence as a child showed a negative correlation with CSF cortisol/DHEAS ratio adjusted for age, gender and depression severity in a regression analysis. Suicide victims tended to have low CSF 5-HIAA and high CSF cortisol. Abused suicide victims had higher CSF cortisol compared to suicide victims with low exposure to interpersonal violence as a child. The results underlie the important role of the serotonergic system and HPA axis in suicidal behaviour and suggest that CSF DHEAS may be elevated in male suicide attempters.
Vortioxetine (Lu AA21004) is a new potential substance for the treatment of anxiety and mood disorders. It has high affinity for the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) and moderate affinity for the 5-HT1A receptor in vitro. Positron emission tomography (PET) has commonly been used to examine the relation between dose/plasma concentration and occupancy to predict relevant dose intervals in a clinical setting. In this study 11 control subjects were examined with PET and [C]MADAM at baseline, after a single dose and after 9 days of dosing with Lu AA21004 (2.5, 10 or 60 mg) for quantification of 5-HTT occupancy. Four subjects were examined with PET and [C]WAY 100635 at baseline, after a single dose and after 9 days of dosing of Lu AA21004 (30 mg) for quantification of 5-HT(1A) occupancy. To allow for quantification of binding in the raphe nuclei, PET data were analyzed using wavelet aided parametric imaging. 5-HTT occupancy ranged from 2 (mean, 2.5 mg day 1) to 97% (60 mg day 9). The apparent affinity of Lu AA21004 binding to 5-HTT (KD(ND)) was calculated to 16.7 nM (R=0.95), and the corresponding oral dose (KD(ND)-dose) to 8.5 mg (R=0.91). No significant occupancy of 5-HT(1A) receptors was found after dosing of 30 mg Lu AA21004. Based on the literature and the present [C]MADAM binding data, a dose of 20-30 mg Lu AA21004 is suggested to give clinically relevant occupancy of the 5-HTT.
The ventral subiculum (vSub) of the hippocampus is critically involved in mediating the forebrain's response to stress, particularly with regard to psychogenic stressors. Stress, in turn, is known to aggravate many psychiatric conditions including schizophrenia, depression, anxiety, and drug abuse. Pathological alterations in hippocampal function have been identified in all these disorders; thus, it is of interest to understand how stress affects this brain region. The vSub receives dense projections from the stress-related locus coeruleus (LC); however, it is not known what role this input plays in signaling stressful stimuli. In this study, the direct LC innervation of the vSub was investigated as a potential mediator of stress responses in this region. To examine responses to an acute stressor, the effect of footshock on single vSub neurons was tested in rats. Footshock inhibited 13%, and activated 48% of neurons in this region. Importantly, responses to footshock were correlated with LC stimulation-evoked responses in single neurons, and LC inactivation blocked these responses. Furthermore, prazosin, an alpha-1 antagonist, reversed footshock-evoked inhibition, revealing an underlying activation. Inactivation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) did not block phasic footshock-evoked activation; however, it reduced tonic activity in the vSub. These results suggest that the LC NE system plays an important role in mediating stress responses in the vSub. Footshock evokes both inhibition and excitation in the vSub, by activating noradrenergic inputs from the LC. These responses may contribute to stress adaptation; while an imbalance of this system may lead to pathological stress responses in mental disorders.
While the hippocampal formation and the prefrontal cortex each have a well-established role in cognitive and mnemonic processes, the extent and manner in which these structures interact to achieve these functions has not been fully delineated. Recent research in rodents compellingly supports the idea that the projection of neurons extending from the CA1 region of the hippocampus and from the subiculum to the prefrontal cortex, referred to here as the H-PFC pathway, is critically involved in aspects of cognition related to executive function and to emotional regulation. Concurrently, it is becoming evident that persons suffering from schizophrenia, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder display structural anomalies and aberrant functional coupling within the hippocampal-prefrontal circuit. Considering that these disorders involve varying degrees of cognitive impairment and emotional dysregulation, dysfunction in the H-PFC pathway might therefore be the common element of their pathophysiology. This overlap might also be intertwined with the pathway's evident susceptibility to stress and with its relationship to the amygdala. In consequence, the H-PFC pathway is a potentially crucial element of the pathophysiology of several psychiatric diseases, and it offers a specific target for therapeutic intervention, which is consistent with the recent emphasis on reframing psychiatric diseases in terms of brain circuits.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (LDX) compared with placebo in children and adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Europe. Osmotic-release oral system methylphenidate (OROS-MPH) was included as a reference arm. Patients (6-17 years old) with a baseline ADHD Rating Scale version IV (ADHD-RS-IV) total score  28 were randomized (1:1:1) to dose-optimized LDX (30, 50, or 70 mg/day), OROS-MPH (18, 36, or 54 mg/day) or placebo for 7 weeks. Primary and key secondary efficacy measures were the investigator-rated ADHD-RS-IV and the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) rating, respectively. Safety assessments included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), electrocardiograms, and vital signs. Of 336 patients randomized, 196 completed the study. The difference between LDX and placebo in least squares mean change in ADHD-RS-IV total score from baseline to endpoint was -18.6 (95% confidence interval [CI]: -21.5 to -15.7) (p&lt;0.001; effect size, 1.80). The difference between OROS-MPH and placebo in least squares mean change in ADHD-RS-IV total score from baseline to endpoint was -13.0 (95% CI: -15.9 to -10.2) (p&lt;0.001; effect size, 1.26). The proportions (95% CI) of patients showing improvement (CGI-I of 1 or 2) at endpoint were 78% (70-86), 14% (8-21), and 61% (51-70) for LDX, placebo, and OROS-MPH. The most common TEAEs for LDX were decreased appetite, headache, and insomnia. Mean changes in vital signs were modest and consistent with the known profile of LDX. LDX was effective and generally well tolerated in children and adolescents with ADHD.
Adverse life events during pregnancy may impact upon the developing fetus, predisposing prenatally stressed offspring to the development of psychopathology. In the present study, we examined the effects of prenatal restraint stress (PS) on anxiety- and depression-related behavior in both male and female adult Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, gene expression profiles within the hippocampus and frontal cortex (FC) were examined in order to gain more insight into the molecular mechanisms that mediate the behavioral effects of PS exposure. PS significantly increased anxiety-related behavior in male, but not female offspring. Likewise, depression-related behavior was increased in male PS rats only. Further, male PS offspring showed increased basal plasma corticosterone levels in adulthood, whereas both PS males and females had lower stress-induced corticosterone levels when compared to controls. Microarray-based profiling of the hippocampus and FC showed distinct sex-dependent changes in gene expression after PS. Biological processes and/or signal transduction cascades affected by PS included glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, neurotrophic factor signaling, phosphodiesterase (PDE)/ cyclic nucleotide signaling, glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) signaling, and insulin signaling. Further, the data indicated that epigenetic regulation is affected differentially in male and female PS offspring. These sex-specific alterations may, at least in part, explain the behavioral differences observed between both sexes, i.e. relative vulnerability versus resilience to PS in male versus female rats, respectively. These data reveal novel potential targets for antidepressant and mood stabilizing drug treatments including PDE inhibitors and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors.
Methylphenidate is the first-choice pharmacological intervention for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The pharmacological and behavioral effects of methylphenidate are well described, but less is known about neurochemical brain changes induced by methylphenidate. This level of analysis may be informative on how the behavioral effects of methylphenidate are established. This paper reviews structural and functional MRI studies that have investigated effects of methylphenidate in children with ADHD. Structural MRI studies provide evidence that long-term stimulant treatment may normalize structural brain changes found in the white matter, the anterior cingulate cortex, the thalamus, and the cerebellum in ADHD. Moreover, preliminary evidence suggests that methylphenidate treatment may normalize the trajectory of cortical development in ADHD. Functional MRI has provided evidence that methylphenidate administration has acute effects on brain functioning, and even suggests that methylphenidate may normalize brain activation patterns as well as functional connectivity in children with ADHD during cognitive control, attention, and during rest. The effects of methylphenidate on the developing brain appear highly specific and dependent on numerous factors, including biological factors such as genetic predispositions, subject-related factors such as age and symptom severity, and task-related factors such as task difficulty. Future studies on structural and functional brain changes in ADHD may benefit from inclusion strategies guided by current medication status and medication history. Further studies on the effects of methylphenidate treatment on structural and functional MRI parameters are needed to address unresolved issues of the long-term effects of treatment, as well as the mechanism through which medication-induced brain changes bring about clinical improvement.

Seeing Suzie bite an apple or reading the sentence 'Suzie munched the apple' both convey a similar idea. But is there a common neural basis for action comprehension when generated through video or text? The current study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to address this question. Participants observed videos or read sentences that described two categories of actions: eating and cleaning. A conjunction analysis of video and sentence stimuli revealed that cleaning actions (compared to eating actions) showed a greater response in dorsal frontoparietal regions, as well as within the medial fusiform gyrus. These findings reveal supramodal representations of perceived actions in the human brain, which are specific to action categories and independent of input modality (video or written words). In addition, some brain regions associated with cleaning and eating actions showed an interaction with modality, which was manifested as a greater sensitivity for video compared with sentence stimuli. Together, this pattern of results demonstrates both supramodal and modality-sensitive representations of action categories in the human brain, a finding with implications for how we understand other people's actions from video and written sources.
The desire to increase rewards and minimize punishing events is a powerful driver in behaviour. Here, we assess how the value of a location affects subsequent deployment of goal-directed attention as well as involuntary capture of attention on a trial-to-trial basis. By tracking eye position, we investigated whether the ability of an irrelevant, salient visual stimulus to capture gaze (stimulus-driven attention) is modulated by that location's previous value. We found that distractors draw attention to them significantly more if they appear at a location previously associated with a reward, even when gazing towards them now leads to punishments. Within the same experiment, it was possible to demonstrate that a location associated with a reward can also bias subsequent goal-directed attention (indexed by action choices) towards it. Moreover, individuals who were vulnerable to being distracted by previous reward history, as indexed by oculomotor capture, were also more likely to direct their actions to those locations when they had a free choice. Even when the number of initial responses was made to be rewarded and punished stimuli were equalized, the effects of previous reward history on both distractibility and action choices remained. Finally, a covert attention task requiring button-press responses rather than overt gaze shifts demonstrated the same pattern of findings. Thus, past rewards can act to modulate both subsequent stimulus-driven as well as goal-directed attention. These findings reveal that there can be surprising short-term costs of using reward cues to regulate behaviour. They show that current valence information, if maintained inappropriately, can have negative subsequent effects, with attention and action choices being vulnerable to capture and bias, mechanisms that are of potential importance in understanding distractibility and abnormal action choices.
Saccade endpoints are most frequently characterized by an undershooting bias. Notably, however, some evidence suggests that saccades can be made to systematically under- or overshoot a target based on the magnitude of the eccentricities within a given block of trials (i.e., the oculomotor range effect hypothesis). To address that issue, participants completed stimulus-driven saccades in separate blocks of trials (i.e., proximal vs. distal) that entailed an equal number of targets but differed with respect to the magnitude of their eccentricities. In the proximal block, target eccentricities were 3.0, 5.5, 8.0, 10.5 and 13.0, whereas in the distal block target eccentricities were 10.5, 13.0, 15.5, 18.0 and 20.5. If the range effect represents a tenable hypothesis, then the magnitude of target eccentricities within each block should selectively influence saccade endpoint bias. More specifically, the eccentricities common to the proximal and distal blocks (i.e., 10.5 and 13.0) should elicit a systematic under- and overshooting bias, respectively. Results for the proximal and distal blocks showed a reliable undershooting bias across target eccentricities, and a direct comparison of the common eccentricities indicated that the undershooting bias was not modulated between blocks. Moreover, our results show that the presence of online target vision did not influence the undershooting bias. Thus, the present findings provide no support for an oculomotor range effect; rather, results evince the mediation of saccades via a control strategy that minimizes movement time and/or the energy requirements of the response.
It is well established that cortical motor stimulation results in contralateral upper limb (UL) activity. Motor responses are also elicited in the ipsilateral UL, though controversy surrounds the significance of these effects. Evidence suggests that ipsilateral muscle activity is more common following the stimulation of the supplementary motor area (SMA) and dorsal premotor area (PMd), compared to the primary motor cortex (M1), but none of these studies compared effects from all three areas in the same subjects. This has limited our understanding of how these three cortical motor areas influence ipsilateral UL muscle activity. The purpose of this study was to determine the contribution of each of three cortical areas to the production of ipsilateral and contralateral UL. To maximize sensitivity and allow comparison of the effects across cortical areas, we applied the same stimulation parameters (36 pulse stimulus train at 330 Hz) to M1, SMA, and PMd in three adult M. fascicularis and recorded electromyographic (EMG) activity from muscles in the trunk and both ULs. Of all muscle responses identified, 24 % were ipsilateral to the stimulation, mostly in proximal muscles. The highest percentage of ipsilateral responses occurred following SMA stimulation. We also observed that PMd stimulation elicited more suppression responses compared with stimulation of M1 and SMA. The results indicate that ipsilateral motor areas provide a significant contribution to cortical activation of the trunk and proximal UL muscles. These understudied pathways may represent a functional substrate for future strategies to shape UL recovery following injury or stroke.
The original model of G-protein activation by a single G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) is giving way to a new model, wherein two protomers of a GPCR dimer interact with a single G-protein. This article will review the evidence suggesting that 5-HT receptors form dimers/oligomers and will compare the findings with the results obtained from the studies with other biogenic amine receptors. Topics to be covered include the origin or biogenesis of dimer formation, potential dimer interface(s), and oligomer size (dimer vs. tetramer or higher order). The functional significance will be discussed in terms of G-protein activation following ligand binding to one or two protomers in a dimeric structure, the formation of heterodimers, and the development of bivalent ligands.
Scientific interest has increased the influence of temperature in neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, and according to the monoamine hypothesis, depression is a neurochemical disorder arising from hypofunctioning of brain monoamine systems. Here, in vivo flow-oxymetry is applied to verify relationships between cerebral oxygen tension (pO2), blood flow (CBF), that are markers of brain metabolism, and temperature (T), while in vivo voltammetry is concomitantly applied in the medial prefrontal cortex of anaesthetized rats to monitor monoamine levels such as dopamine (DA) and serotonin. An induced mild hypercapnia via increasing exogenous carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration resulted in increased pO2, CBF and T in discrete brain areas. Concomitant in situ voltammetric analysis of extracellular levels of serotonin and DA has revealed significant changes in the latter, only. Parallel treatment with antidepressant bupropion has confirmed its described central thermogenic properties and its positive influence on dopaminergic activity. CBF was also enhanced by such antidepressant. Altogether these data support direct relationships between markers of brain metabolism such as pO2, CBF, T and brain monoamine[s], indicating the coupled in vivo methodology: oxymetry-voltammetry as a rapid in vivo tool for analyses of such indicators in psychiatric disorders.
Some visual information is processed in the retina by -aminobutyric acid (GABA) signaling. Once retinal degeneration and visual impairment caused by diabetic retinopathy (DR) are affecting an increasing number of people worldwide, and the disease is characterized by hyper- and hypoglycemic events, the authors aimed to investigate how retinal GABA cell content is affected by variations in glucose availability. Using the exvivo chick retinas exposed to different glucose concentrations, we observed that amacrine cells from both inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL) as well as their processes in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) released GABA through GABA transporter-1 (GAT-1) after 30min of glucose deprivation. Extending this insult to 60min triggered a permanent loss of GABA-positive amacrine cells, caused swelling of IPL and cell death. High glucose (35mM) for 30min induced an increment in GABA immunolabeling in both outer and inner retina. Further, glucose deprivation effects could not be reverted by basal glucose levels and high glucose did not prevent GABA loss upon a glucose deprivation insult. Therefore, GABA cell content is differently affected by short-term variations in glucose availability. While high glucose modulates outer and inner GABAergic circuits, glucose deprivation affects mainly the inner retina. Also, consecutive alteration in glucose supply was not able to rescue basal GABA content. Therefore, glucose oscillations interfering with GABAergic retinal functioning during early stages of retinopathies should be further investigated.
The adrenal steroid, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), is generally regarded as being a reliable endocrine marker of aging, because in humans and nonhuman primates its circulating concentrations are very high during young adulthood, and the concentrations then decline markedly during aging. Despite promising results from early studies, we were recently surprised to find that caloric restriction (CR) did little to prevent or delay the decline of DHEAS concentrations in old rhesus macaques. Here we summarize the use of circulating DHEAS concentrations as a biomarker of aging in CR studies and suggest reasons for its limited value. Although DHEAS can reliably predict aging in animals maintained on a standard diet, dietary manipulations may affect liver enzymes involved in the metabolism of steroid hormones. Consequently, in CR studies the reliability of using DHEAS as a biomarker of aging may be compromised.
The peripheral nervous system (PNS) comprises of an extensive network of connections that convey information between the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral organs. Long myelinated nerve fibers are particularly susceptible to age-related changes, as maintenance of the insulating glial membrane requires extensive synthesis and processing of many proteins. In rodent models, peripheral demyelination caused by genetic risk factors or by normal aging are attenuated by intermittent fasting (IF) or calorie restriction (CR) supporting a role for dietary intervention in preserving neural function. This review will summarize recent studies examining mechanisms by which life-long CR or extended IF supports peripheral nerve health.
Although nearly 11 million individuals yearly require medical treatment due to burn injuries and develop clinically intractable pain, burn injury-induced pain is poorly understood, with relatively few studies in preclinical models. To elucidate mechanisms of burn injury-induced chronic pain, we utilized a second-degree burn model, which produces a persistent neuropathic pain phenotype. Rats with burn injury exhibited reduced mechanical pain thresholds ipsilateral to the burn injury. Ipsilateral WDR neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn exhibited hyperexcitability in response to a range of stimuli applied to their hindpaw receptive fields. Because dendritic spine morphology is strongly associated with synaptic function and transmission, we profiled dendritic spine shape, density, and distribution of WDR neurons. Dendritic spine dysgenesis was observed on ipsilateral WDR neurons in burn-injured animals exhibiting behavioral and electrophysiological evidence of neuropathic pain. Heat hyperalgesia testing produced variable results, as expected from previous studies of this model of second-degree burn injury in rats. Administration of Rac1-inhibitor, NSC23766, attenuated dendritic spine dysgenesis, decreased mechanical allodynia and electrophysiological signs of burn-induced neuropathic pain. These results support two related implications: that the presence of abnormal dendritic spines contributes to the maintenance of neuropathic pain, and that therapeutic targeting of Rac1 signaling merits further investigation as a novel strategy for pain management after burn injury.
The presynaptic protein -synuclein is central to the pathogenesis of -synucleinopathies. We show that the presence of endogenous mouse -synuclein leads to higher number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of wild-type C57Bl/6J mice compared with C57Bl/6S mice with a spontaneous deletion of the -synuclein gene or C57Bl/6J mice with a targeted deletion of the -synuclein gene. This effect of -synuclein on dopaminergic neuron occurs during development between E10.5 and E13.5 and persists in adult life supporting the involvement of -synuclein in the development of a subset of dopaminergic neurons.
More than 50% of all spinal cord injury (SCI) cases are at the cervical level and usually result in the impaired ability to breathe. This is caused by damage to descending bulbospinal inspiratory tracts and the phrenic motor neurons which innervate the diaphragm. Most investigations have utilized a lateral C2 hemisection model of cervical SCI to study the resulting respiratory motor deficits and potential therapies. However, recent studies have emerged which incorporate experimental contusion injuries at the cervical level of the spinal cord to more closely reflect the type of trauma encountered in humans. Nonetheless, a common deficit observed in these contused animals is the inability to increase diaphragm motor activity in the face of respiratory challenge. In this report we tested the hypothesis that, following cervical contusion, all remaining tracts to the phrenic nucleus are active, including the crossed phrenic pathway (CPP). Additionally, we investigated the potential function these spared tracts might possess after injury. We find that, following a lateral C3/4 contusion injury, not all remaining pathways are actively exciting downstream phrenic motor neurons. However, removing some of these pathways through contralateral hemisection results in a cessation of all activity ipsilateral to the contusion. This suggests an important modulatory role for these pathways. Additionally, we conclude that this dual injury, hemi-contusion and post contra-hemisection, is a more effective and relevant model of cervical SCI as it results in a more direct compromise of diaphragmatic motor activity. This model can thus be used to test potential therapies with greater accuracy and clinical relevance than cervical contusion models currently allow.
Blast-induced traumatic brain injury represents a leading cause of injury in modern warfare with injury pathogenesis poorly understood. Preclinical models of blast injury remain poorly standardized across laboratories and the clinical relevance unclear based upon pulmonary injury scaling laws. Models capable of high peak overpressures and of short duration may better replicate clinical exposure when scaling principles are considered. In this work we demonstrate a tabletop shock tube model capable of high peak overpressures and of short duration. By varying the thickness of the polyester membrane, peak overpressure can be controlled. We used membranes with a thickness of 0.003, 0.005, 0.007, and 0.010 in to generate peak reflected overpressures of 31.47, 50.72, 72.05, and 90.10 PSI, respectively. Blast exposure was shown to decrease total activity and produce neural degeneration as indicated by fluoro-jade B staining. Similarly, blast exposure resulted in increased glial activation as indicated by an increase in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein expressing astrocytes compared to control within the corpus callosum, the region of greatest apparent injury following blast exposure. Similar findings were observed with regard to activated microglia, some of which displayed phagocytic-like morphology within the corpus callosum following blast exposure, particularly with higher peak overpressures. Furthermore, hematoxylin and eosin staining showed the presence of red blood cells within the parenchyma and red, swollen neurons following blast injury. Exposure to blast with 90.10 PSI peak reflected overpressure resulted in immediate mortality associated with extensive intracranial bleeding. This work demonstrates one of the first examples of blast-induced brain injury in the rodent when exposed to a blast wave scaled from human exposure based on scaling principles derived from pulmonary injury lethality curves.


HIV-1 enters the central nervous system early in infection; although HIV-1 does not directly infect neurons, HIV-1 may cause a variety of neurological disorders. Neuronal loss has been found in HIV-1, but synaptodendritic injury is more closely associated with the neurocognitive disorders of HIV-1. The HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein causes direct and indirect damage to neurons. The cysteine rich domain (residues 22-37) of Tat is important for producing neuronal death; however, little is known about the effects of the Tat protein functional domains on the dendritic network. The ability of HIV-1 Tat 1-101 Clades B and C, Tat 1-86 and Tat 1-72 proteins, as well as novel peptides (truncated 47-57, 1-7231-61, and 1-86 with a mutation at Cys22) to produce early synaptodendritic injury (24h), relative to later cell death (48h), was examined using cell culture. Treatment of primary hippocampal neurons with Tat proteins 1-72, 1-86 and 1-101B produced a significant early reduction in F-actin labeled puncta, implicating that these peptides play a role in synaptodendritic injury. Variants with a mutation, deletion, or lack of a cysteine rich region (1-86[Cys22], 1-101C, 1-7231-61, or 47-57) did not cause a significant reduction in F-actin rich puncta. Tat 1-72, 1-86, and 1-101B proteins did not significantly differ from one another, indicating that the second exon (73-86 or 73-101) does not play a significant role in the reduction of F-actin puncta. Conversely, peptides with a mutation, deletion, or lack of the cysteine rich domain (22-37) failed to produce a loss of F-actin puncta, indicating that the cysteine rich domain plays a key role in synaptodendritic injury. Collectively, these results suggest that for Tat proteins, 1) synaptodendritic injury occurs early, relative to cell death, and 2) the cysteine rich domain of the first exon is key for synaptic loss. Preventing such early synaptic loss may attenuate HIV-1 associated neurocognitive disorders.
The serotonin system has recently been demonstrated to have an important role in Parkinson's disease, in particular in response to L-DOPA treatment. It has been shown that central serotonin neurons convert peripherally administered L-DOPA to dopamine. Striatal dopamine release by these serotonin neurons is believed to be a main player in the induction of the troublesome L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, which develops in patients within 5-10 years after the use of the drug. Electrophysiological characterization of midbrain dopamine neurons and dorsal raphe nucleus serotonin neurons has further revealed close interaction between these two cells groups. These data indicate that the loss of dopamine neurons and fibers alone and following L-DOPA treatment might change the electrophysiological properties of the serotonin neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Although in vivo data have indicated changes in firing properties following dopamine depletion by 6-OHDA, the data have been conflicting. We therefore investigated the electrophysiological properties of serotonin neurons following dopamine degeneration and L-DOPA treatment in the 6-OHDA-lesion mouse model of Parkinson's disease using in vitro patch clamp technique in acute slices. We found that 6-OHDA lesions alone significantly increased spontaneous and maximal firing discharges of serotonin neurons, which were accompanied by respective changes in the action potential waveforms. L-DOPA treatment did not reverse this increase in spontaneous frequency, but partially normalized AP properties. Our data demonstrate that the intrinsic excitability of serotonin neurons is altered in response to both dopamine degeneration as well as subsequent L-DOPA treatment. This lesion- and treatment-induced plasticity of the serotonin might contribute to its role in L-DOPA induced dyskinesia.
In the slow channel congenital myasthenic syndrome mutations in genes encoding the muscle acetylcholine receptor give rise to prolonged ion channel activations. The resulting cation overload in the postsynaptic region leads to damage of synaptic structures, impaired neuromuscular transmission and fatigable muscle weakness. Previously we identified and characterised in detail the properties of the slow channel syndrome mutation L221F. Here, using this mutation, we generate a transgenic mouse model for the slow channel syndrome that expresses mutant human -subunits harbouring an EGFP tag within the M3-M4 cytoplasmic region, driven by a ~1500 bp region of the CHRNB promoter. Fluorescent mutant acetylcholine receptors are assembled, cluster at the motor endplates and give rise to a disease model that mirrors the human condition. Mice demonstrate mild fatigable muscle weakness, prolonged endplate and miniature endplate potentials, and variable degeneration of the postsynaptic membrane. We use our model to investigate ephedrine as a potential treatment. Mice were assessed before and after six weeks on oral ephedrine (serum ephedrine concentration 89  3 ng/ml) using an inverted screen test and in vivo electromyography. Treated mice demonstrated modest benefit for screen hang time, and in measures of compound muscle action potentials and mean jitter that did not reach statistical significance. Ephedrine and salbutamol show clear benefit when used in the treatment of DOK7 or COLQ congenital myasthenic syndromes. Our results highlight only a modest potential benefit of these 2-adrenergic receptor agonists for the treatment of the slow channel syndrome.
The basal ganglia may play an important role in the control of motor scaling or effort. Recently local field potential (LFP) recordings from patients with deep brain stimulation electrodes in the basal ganglia have suggested that local increases in the synchronisation of neurons in the gamma frequency band may correlate with force or effort. Whether this feature uniquely codes for effort and whether such a coding mechanism holds true over a range of efforts is unclear. Here we investigated the relationship between frequency-specific oscillatory activities in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and manual grips made with different efforts. The latter were self-rated using the 10 level Borg scale ranging from 0 (no effort) to 10 (maximal effort). STN LFP activities were recorded in patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD) who had undergone functional surgery. Patients were studied while motor performance was improved by dopaminergic medication. In line with previous studies we observed power increase in the theta/alpha band (4-12 Hz), power suppression in the beta band (13-30 Hz) and power increase in the gamma band (55-90 Hz) and high frequency band (101-375 Hz) during voluntary grips. Beta suppression deepened, and then reached a floor level as effort increased. Conversely, gamma and high frequency power increases were enhanced during grips made with greater effort. Multiple regression models incorporating the four different spectral changes confirmed that the modulation of power in the beta band was the only independent predictor of effort during grips made with efforts rated &lt;5. In contrast, increases in gamma band activity were the only independent predictor of effort during grips made with efforts 5. Accordingly, the difference between power changes in the gamma and beta bands correlated with effort across all effort levels. These findings suggest complementary roles for changes in beta and gamma band activities in the STN in motor effort coding. The latter function is thought to be impaired in untreated PD where task-related reactivity in these two bands is deficient.
The implantation of deep brain stimulators in different structures of the basal ganglia to treat neurological and psychiatric diseases has allowed the recording of local field potential activity in these structures. The analysis of these signals has helped our understanding of basal ganglia physiology in health and disease. However, there remain some major challenges and questions for the future. In a recent work, Tan et al. (Tan, H., Pogosyan, A., Anam, A., Foltynie, T., Limousin, P., Zrinzo, L., et al. 2013. Frequency specific activity in subthalamic nucleus correlates with hand bradykinesia in Parkinson's disease. Exp. Neurol. 240,122-129) take profit of these recordings to study the changes in subthalamic oscillatory activity during the hold and release phases of a grasping paradigm, and correlate the changes in different frequency bands with performance parameters. They found that beta activity was related to the release phase, while force maintenance related most to theta and gamma/HFO activity. There was no significant effect of the motor state of the patient on this latter association. These findings suggest that the alterations in the oscillatory activity of the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease are not limited to the beta band, and they involve aspects different from movement preparation and initiation. Additionally, these results highlight the usefulness of the combination of well-designed paradigms with recordings in off and on motor states (in Parkinson's disease), or in different pathologies, in order to understand not only the pathophysiology of the diseases affecting the patients, but also the normal physiology of the basal ganglia.
In this study, we examined modulations in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) protein expression after a lateral C2 hemisection and subsequent intermittent hypoxia (IH) exposure and training, which initiates respiratory motor plasticity and recovery. PTEN and mTOR are significant molecules within a signaling pathway that directly influences dendritic sprouting, axonal plasticity, and regeneration. Expression levels of PTEN, mTOR and downstream effectors within this pathway were investigated, and it was found that following injury and IH exposure the expression of these molecules was significantly altered. This study directly demonstrates the implementation and feasibility of a non-invasive strategy to modulate the expression levels of intrinsic signaling molecules known to influence plasticity and regeneration in the CNS.
Excess iron accumulation within the spinal cord is thought to exacerbate tissue damage and limit functional recovery after traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). An optimal treatment to reverse or prevent damage would be to deliver an iron chelator systemically. Thus, we tested oral delivery of deferasirox (Exjade) in multiple studies using a rat model of mid-thoracic spinal contusion. Female Sprague-Dawley rats received a moderate contusion at vertebral level T8 and were given daily deferasirox for the first 7 or 14 days post-injury. The first two studies showed modest improvements in hindlimb function with limited improvement in tissue sparing. Two subsequent experiments to assess chronic functional changes and test longer-duration treatments failed to produce significant improvements. Testing a 2-fold higher deferasirox dose resulted in toxic side effects. To verify iron chelation treatment was effective, hepatic iron levels were measured which revealed that deferasirox robustly and significantly reduced systemic iron levels. Overall, this study suggests that oral iron chelation with deferasirox may lead to small but significant improvements in locomotor recovery or tissue sparing. However, given the lack of robust beneficial effects combined with potentially detrimental side effects such as exacerbated systemic anemia, oral administration of iron chelators may not be ideal for minimizing intraspinal iron-mediated pathology after SCI.





In developed societies, high-sugar and high-fat (HSHF) diets are now the norm and are increasing the rates of maternal obesity during pregnancy. In pregnant rodents, these diets lead to cardiovascular and metabolic dysfunction in their adult offspring, but the intrauterine mechanisms involved remain unknown. This study shows that, relative to standard chow, HSHF feeding throughout mouse pregnancy increases maternal adiposity (+30%, P&lt;0.05) and reduces fetoplacental growth at d 16 (-10%, P&lt;0.001). At d 19, however, HSHF diet group pup weight had normalized, despite the HSHF diet group placenta remaining small and morphologically compromised. This altered fetal growth trajectory was associated with enhanced placental glucose and amino acid transfer (+35%, P&lt;0.001) and expression of their transporters (+40%, P&lt;0.024). HSHF feeding also up-regulated placental expression of fatty acid transporter protein, metabolic signaling pathways (phosphoinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase), and several growth regulatory imprinted genes (Igf2, Dlk1, Snrpn, Grb10, and H19) independently of changes in DNA methylation. Obesogenic diets during pregnancy, therefore, alter maternal nutrient partitioning, partly through changes in the placental phenotype, which helps to meet fetal nutrient demands for growth near term. However, by altering provision of specific nutrients, dietary-induced placental adaptations have important roles in programming development with health implications for the offspring in later life.
We review research investigating mitochondrial damage during heart and brain ischaemia, focusing on the mechanisms and consequences of ischaemia-induced and/or reperfusion-induced: (a) inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory complex I; (b) release of cytochrome c from mitochondria; (c) changes to mitochondrial phospholipids; and (d) nitric oxide inhibition of mitochondria. Heart ischaemia causes inhibition of cytochrome oxidase and complex I, release of cytochrome c, and induction of permeability transition and hydrolysis and oxidation of mitochondrial phospholipids, but some of the mechanisms are unclear. Brain ischaemia causes inhibition of complexes I and IV, but other effects are less clear.

Infantile-onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is a severe pediatric neurodegenerative disorder produced by mutations in the gene encoding palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (Ppt1). This enzyme is responsible for the removal of a palmitate group from its substrate proteins, which may include presynaptic proteins like SNAP-25, cysteine string protein (CSP), dynamin, and synaptotagmin. The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has been a powerful model system for studying the functions of these proteins and the molecular basis of neurological disorders like the NCLs. Genetic modifier screens and tracer uptake studies in Ppt1 mutant larval garland cells have suggested that Ppt1 plays a role in endocytic trafficking. We have extended this analysis to examine the involvement of Ppt1 in synaptic function at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Mutations in Ppt1 genetically interact with temperature sensitive mutations in the Drosophila dynamin gene shibire, accelerating the paralytic behavior of shibire mutants at 27 C. Electrophysiological work in NMJs of Ppt1-deficient larvae has revealed an increase in miniature excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) and a significant depression of evoked EJPs in response to repetitive (10 hz) stimulation. Endocytosis was further examined in Ppt1-mutant larvae using FM1-43 uptake assays, demonstrating a significant decrease in FM1-43 uptake at the mutant NMJs. Finally, Ppt1-deficient and Ppt1 point mutant larvae display defects in locomotion that are consistent with alterations in synaptic function. Taken together, our genetic, cellular, and electrophysiological analyses suggest a direct role for Ppt1 in synaptic vesicle exo- and endocytosis at motor nerve terminals of the Drosophila NMJ.
Diet-induced changes in the lipid composition of mitochondrial membranes have been shown to influence physiological processes. However, the modulation effect of diet on mitochondrially-active drugs has not yet received the deserved attention. Our hypothesis is that modulation of membrane dynamics by diet impacts drug-effects on liver mitochondrial functioning. In a previous work, we have shown that a diet rich in rapeseed oil altered mitochondrial membrane composition and bioenergetics in Wistar rats. In the present work, we investigated the influence of the modified diet on hepatic mitochondrial activity of two drugs, menadione and nimesulide, and FCCP, a classic protonophore, was used for comparison. The results showed that the effects of menadione and nimesulide were less severe on liver mitochondria for rats fed the modified diet than on rats fed the control diet. A specific effect on complex I seemed to be involved in drug-induced mitochondria dysfunction. Liver mitochondria from the modified diet group were more susceptible to nimesulide effects on MPT induction. The present work demonstrates that diet manipulation aimed at modifying mitochondrial membrane properties alters the toxicity of mitochondria active agents. This work highlights that diet may potentiate mitochondrial pharmacologic effects or increase drug-induced liabilities.
Citrus aurantium extract has been largely used in weight loss and sports performance dietary supplements. However, the safety of C. aurantium-containing products has been questioned mainly due to the association of its use with adverse events in the cardiovascular system. Therefore, this work aimed to assess the potential for herb-drug interactions among a standardized C. aurantium extract (GMP certificate) and amiodarone (narrow therapeutic index drug) in rats. In a first pharmacokinetic study, rats were simultaneously co-administered with a single-dose of C. aurantium (164 mg/kg, p.o.) and amiodarone (50 mg/kg, p.o.); in a second study, rats were pre-treated during 14 days with C. aurantium (164 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and received amiodarone (50 mg/kg, p.o.) on the 15th day. Rats of the control groups received the corresponding volume of vehicle. Overall, after analysis of the pharmacokinetic data, it deserves to be highlighted the significant increase of the peak plasma concentration of amiodarone in rats pre-treated with C. aurantium extract, while the extent of systemic exposure was comparable between both groups. This paper reports, for the first time, data on the potential of herb-drug interaction between C. aurantium extract and amiodarone. However, specific clinical trials should be performed to confirm these results in humans.

A major breakthrough in neuroscience has been the realization in the last decades that the dogmatic view of astroglial cells as being merely fostering and buffering elements of the nervous system is simplistic. A wealth of investigations now shows that astrocytes actually participate in the control of synaptic transmission in an active manner. This was first hinted by the intimate contacts glial processes make with neurons, particularly at the synaptic level, and evidenced using electrophysiological and calcium imaging techniques. Calcium imaging has provided critical evidence demonstrating that astrocytic regulation of synaptic efficacy is not a passive phenomenon. However, given that cellular activation is not only represented by calcium signaling, it is also crucial to assess concomitant mechanisms. We and others have used electrophysiological techniques to simultaneously record neuronal and astrocytic activity, thus enabling the study of multiple ionic currents and in depth investigation of neuro-glial dialogues. In the current review, we focus on the input such approach has provided in the understanding of astrocyte-neuron interactions underlying control of synaptic efficacy.

Males and females of most mammalian species depend on chemosignals to find, attract and evaluate mates and, in most cases, these appetitive sexual behaviors are strongly modulated by activational and organizational effects of sex steroids. The neural circuit underlying chemosensory-mediated pre- and peri-copulatory behavior involves the medial amygdala (MA), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), medial preoptic area (MPOA) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), each area being subdivided into interconnected chemoreceptive and hormone-sensitive zones. For males, MA-BNST connections mediate chemoinvestigation whereas the MA-MPOA pathway regulates copulatory initiation. For females, MA-MPOA/BNST connections also control aspects of precopulatory behavior whereas MA-VMH projections control both precopulatory and copulatory behavior. Significant gaps in understanding remain, including the role of VMH in male behavior and MPOA in female appetitive behavior, the function of cortical amygdala, the underlying chemical architecture of this circuit and sex differences in hormonal and neurochemical regulation of precopulatory behavior.
Women disproportionately suffer from many deep tissue pain conditions. Experimental studies show that women have lower pain thresholds, higher pain ratings and less tolerance to a range of painful stimuli. Most clinical and epidemiological reports suggest female gonadal hormones modulate pain for some, but not all, conditions. Similarly, animal studies support greater nociceptive sensitivity in females in many deep tissue pain models. Gonadal hormones modulate responses in primary afferents, dorsal horn neurons and supraspinal sites, but the direction of modulation is variable. This review will examine sex differences in deep tissue pain in humans and animals focusing on the role of gonadal hormones (mainly estradiol) as an underlying component of the modulation of pain sensitivity.
Our previous studies have established that major changes in central nervous system (CNS) prostaglandin (PG) levels occur during the relapse phase of chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (CR EAE), an animal model of the human demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. PG production is controlled through a series of enzymic pathways that, in EAE, are influenced by neuroantigen-driven autoimmune events. In non-immune-based models of CNS disease, endogenous glucocorticoids have been proposed as instigators of PG synthesis via activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Glucocorticoids have an important regulatory role in the pathogenesis EAE and the NMDA receptor is intimately involved in many of the characteristic neuroinflammatory processes that govern the disease. Therefore, the alterations in prostanoid concentrations during the relapse stage of CR EAE may ultimately be governed by glucocorticoid-induced NMDA receptor activation. The current investigation has examined the proposed glucocorticoid-NMDA receptor link by determining the effects of the receptor antagonist, (+) MK-801, on CNS PGE 2 and PGD 2 levels in Biozzi mice with relapse symptoms of CR EAE. Prostanoid concentrations in the cerebral cortex were not altered by drug administration, and in cerebellar tissues, a vehicle effect negated any drug-induced changes. However, the level of PGD 2 in spinal cords from (+) MK-801-dosed mice was significantly lower, compared to controls, but PGE 2 concentrations remained unchanged. The results suggest that glucocorticoid-NMDA receptor-linked events are not primarily responsible for PG generation in the brain but may influence prostanoid production in discrete areas of the CNS.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of CDPPB (3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamide), a positive allosteric modulator (PAM) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu), on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). In the novel object recognition test, PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits in mice were not improved by a single administration of CDPPB (10 mg/kg/day). However, PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits in mice were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of CDPPB (10 mg/kg/day), but not of CDPPB (1.0 mg/kg/day). This study suggests that PCP-induced cognitive deficits in mice are improved by subsequent subchronic administration of CDPPB. Therefore, mGlu PAMs would be potential therapeutic drugs for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system that is genetically complex. There is evidence supporting a role of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) humoral immunity in MS. We aimed to determine the genetic regulation of anti-MOG antibodies and their involvement in disease, by using MOG-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rat, an animal model that closely mimics human MS. We show polygenic regulation of anti-MOG antibodies in two backcross populations, including a major genetic determinant for antibody expression on chromosome 4, Amig3. We fine-mapped the region to 539 kilobases (kb) consisting of a complex of seven C-type lectin receptor genes (Dcir4, Dcir3, Dcir2, Dcir1, Dcar1, Mcl and Mincle) that was captured in the APLEC congenic strain. We confirmed that Amig3 regulates anti-MOG antibody levels in MOG-EAE, and further showed that immune reactions during initiation of EAE were skewed toward increased numbers of B cells in the EAE-protected APLEC strain, together with higher anti-MOG IgG1 and lower IgG2b levels. Taken together, our data demonstrated complex regulation of the antibody response during EAE and that skewing the antibody response toward Th2 contributed to protection from EAE.
Water movement plays vital roles in both physiological and pathological conditions in the brain. Astrocytes are responsible for regulating this water movement and are the major contributors to brain edema in pathological conditions. Aquaporins (AQPs) in astrocytes play critical roles in the regulation of water movement in the brain. AQP1, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 9 have been reported in the brain. Compared with AQP1, 4, and 9, AQP3, 5, and 8 are less studied. Among the lesser known AQPs, AQP5, which has multiple functions identified outside the central nervous system, is also indicated to be involved in hypoxia injury in astrocytes. In our study, AQP5 expression could be detected both in primary cultures of astrocytes and neurons, and AQP5 expression in astrocytes was confirmed in 1- to 4-week old primary cultures of astrocytes. AQP5 was localized on the cytoplasmic membrane and in the cytoplasm of astrocytes. AQP5 expression was downregulated during ischemia treatment and upregulated after scratch-wound injury, which was also confirmed in a middle cerebral artery occlusion model and a stab-wound injury model in vivo. The AQP5 increased after scratch injury was polarized to the migrating processes and cytoplasmic membrane of astrocytes in the leading edge of the scratch-wound, and AQP5 over-expression facilitated astrocyte process elongation after scratch injury. Taken together, these results indicate that AQP5 might be an important water channel in astrocytes that is differentially expressed during various brain injuries.
Increasing evidence indicates that &quot;functional plasticity&quot; is not solely a neuronal attribute but a hallmark of microglial cells, the main brain resident macrophage population. Far from being a univocal phenomenon, microglial activation can originate a plethora of functional phenotypes, encompassing the classic M1 proinflammatory and the alternative M2 anti-inflammatory phenotypes. This concept overturns the popular view of microglial activation as a synonym of neurotoxicity and neurogenesis failure in brain disorders. The characterization of the alternative programs is a matter of intense investigation, but still scarce information is available on the course of microglial activation, on the reversibility of the different commitments and on the capability of preserving molecular memory of previous priming stimuli. By using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures as a model, we developed paradigms of stimulation aimed at shedding light on some of these aspects. We show that persistent stimulation of TLR4 signaling promotes an anti-inflammatory response and microglial polarization toward M2-like phenotype. Moreover, acute and chronic preconditioning regimens permanently affect the capability to respond to a later challenge, suggesting the onset of mechanisms of molecular memory. Similar phenomena could occur in the intact brain and differently affect the vulnerability of mature and newborn neurons to noxious signals.
Studies of the structural organization and functions of the cell body of a neuron (soma) and its surrounding satellite glial cells (SGCs) in sensory ganglia have led to the realization that SGCs actively participate in the information processing of sensory signals from afferent terminals to the spinal cord. SGCs use a variety ways to communicate with each other and with their enwrapped soma. Changes in this communication under injurious conditions often lead to abnormal pain conditions. &quot;What are the mechanisms underlying the neuronal soma and SGC communication in sensory ganglia?&quot; and &quot;how do tissue or nerve injuries affect the communication?&quot; are the main questions addressed in this review.
MPP3 and CRB1 both interact directly with PALS1/MPP5 and through this scaffold protein may form a large protein complex. To investigate the role of MPP3 in the retina we have analyzed conditional mutant Mpp3 knockout mice. Ultrastructural localization studies revealed that MPP3 is predominantly localized in apical villi of Mller glia cells. Retinas lacking MPP3 developed late onset retinal degeneration, with sporadic foci of rosette formation in the central part of the retina. Retinal degeneration in Mpp3 cKO mice was accelerated by exposure to moderate levels of white light. Electroretinography recordings in aging mice under both scotopic and photopic conditions ranged from normal to mildly subnormal, while the magnitude correlated with the strength and extent of morphological alterations. Loss of MPP3 resulted in significant loss of PALS1 at the subapical region adjacent to adherens junctions, and loss of MPP3 in Pals1 conditional knockdown retinas significantly accelerated the onset of retinal degeneration. These data suggest that MPP3 is required for maintaining proper levels of PALS1 at the subapical region, and indicate that the MPP3 gene is a candidate modulator of the Crumbs complex.
As neuroinflammatory processes are involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), we provide several key data describing the time-course of microglial accumulation in relation with behavioral alterations and neurodegeneration in a murine model of PD induced by intrastriatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Our study argues for a major role of microglia which accumulation is somehow early and transient in spite of the neuronal loss progression. Moreover, we observed less 6-OHDA-induced neurodegeneration associated with less inflammatory reaction in DAP-12 Knock-In mice. The direct cell-to-cell contacts that may support physical interactions between microglia and altered dopaminergic neurons are ill-defined, while it is currently hypothesized that microglia support an immune-mediated amplification of neurodegeneration by establishing a molecular cross talk with neurons. Indeed, we sought to map microglia/neuron appositions in substantia nigra (SN) of 6-OHDA injected C57Bl/6 mice and CX3CR1/(GFP/+) mice. Confocal immunofluorescence analyses followed by 3D reconstitutions reveal close appositions between the soma of TH+ neurons and microglial cell bodies and ramifications. Interestingly, some microglial ramifications penetrated TH(+) somas and about 40% of GFP(+) microglial cells in the injured SN harbored TH(+) intracytoplasmic inclusions. These results suggest a direct cross talk between neurons and microglia that may exert a microphagocytic activity toward TH+ neurons. Altogether, these results obtained in a murine PD model may participate in the understanding of microglial cells' function in neurodegenerative diseases.
Although severe short-lasting headaches are rare, they can be considered disabling conditions with a major impact on the quality of life of patients. These headaches can divided broadly in to those associated with autonomic symptoms, so called trigeminal autonomic cephalgias (TACs), and those with few or no autonomic symptoms. The TACs include cluster headache, paroxysmal hemicranias, hemicrania continua, and short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with cranial autonomic symptoms as well as short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing syndrome. In all of these syndromes, half-sided head pain and ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms such as lacrimation or rhinorrhea are prominent. The paroxysmal hemicranias have, unlike cluster headaches, a very robust response to indomethacin, leading to a notion of indomethacin-sensitive headaches. The diagnosis of TACs is exclusively a clinical task. Because of the fact that cluster headache is strictly half-sided, typically involves the region around the eye and temple and often starts in the upper jaw, most patients first consult a dentist or ophthalmologist. No single instrumental examination has yet been able to define, or ensure, the correct diagnosis, or differentiate idiopathic headache syndromes. It is crucial that a trained neurologist sees these patients early so that management can be optimized and unnecessary procedures can be avoided. Although TACS are, in comparison to migraine, quite rare, they are nevertheless clinically very important for the neurologist to consider as they are easy to diagnose and the treatment is very effective in most patients.
Accurate quantification of cell populations is essential in assessing and evaluating neural survival and degeneration in experimental groups. Estimates obtained through traditional two-dimensional counting methods are heavily biased by the counting parameters in relation to the size and shape of the neurons to be counted, resulting in a large range of inaccurate counts. In contrast, counting every cell in a population can be extremely labor-intensive. The present study hypothesizes that design-based stereology provides estimates of the total number of cochlear spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) in mice that are comparable to those obtained by other accurate cell-counting methods, such as a serial reconstruction, while being a more efficient method. SGNs are indispensable for relaying auditory information from hair cells to the auditory brainstem, and investigating factors affecting their degeneration provides insight into the physiological basis for the progression of hearing dysfunction. Stereological quantification techniques offer the benefits of efficient sampling that is independent of the size and shape of the SGNs. Population estimates of SGNs in cochleae from young C57 mice with normal-hearing and C57 mice with age-related hearing loss were obtained using the optical fractionator probe and traditional two-dimensional counting methods. The average estimated population of SGNs in normal-hearing mice was 7009, whereas the average estimated population in mice with age-related hearing loss was 5096. The estimated population of SGNs in normal-hearing mice fell within the range of values previously reported in the literature. The reduction in the SGN population in animals with age-related hearing loss was statistically significant. Stereological measurements required less time per section compared to two-dimensional methods while optimizing the amount of cochlear tissue analyzed. These findings demonstrate that design-based stereology provides a practical alternative to other counting methods such as the Abercrombie correction method, which has been shown to notably underestimate cell populations, and labor-intensive protocols that account for every cell individually.
The function of the inner ear is dependent on its physical structure and there is therefore a strong correspondence between inner ear morphology and hearing capabilities. In this study, we examine the morphology of the inner ear and use this relationship to predict the hearing range and sensitivities of species within the Order Galliformes (chicken, quail and allies). All galliforms share a similar inner ear morphology, which is characterized by gradients in hair cell morphology that are similar to other birds. Most galliforms did have an area of morphologically similar hair cells at the apical end of the BP, indicative of a low frequency specialization. We suggest that, in general, the galliform inner ear is tuned for detecting low frequencies, with most hair cells and more than half of the BP dedicated to frequencies below 1kHz. Whether this is a specialization or associated with their basal lineage remains to be determined. We also determined that body and brain size are associated with the number of hair cells and basilar papilla length across galliform birds, such that as body size increases, there are correlated increases in BP length and the number of hair cells. Our data therefore corroborate patterns observed across a wide range of bird species and provides significant insight into how species differences in BP morphology evolve and putative relationships with size, vocalizations and life history.
The small-molecule drug lithium (as a monovalent ion) promotes neurite regeneration and functional recovery, is easy to administer, and is approved for human use to treat bipolar disorder. Lithium exerts its neuritogenic effect mainly by inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3, a constitutively-active serine/threonine kinase that is regulated by neurotrophin and &quot;wingless-related MMTV integration site&quot; (Wnt) signaling. In spiral ganglion neurons of the cochlea, the effects of lithium and the function of glycogen synthase kinase 3 have not been investigated. We, therefore, set out to test whether lithium modulates neuritogenesis from adult spiral ganglion neurons. Primary cultures of dissociated spiral ganglion neurons from adult mice were exposed to lithium at concentrations between 0 and 12.5mM. The resulting neurite morphology and growth-cone appearance were measured in detail by using immunofluorescence microscopy and image analysis. We found that lithium altered the morphology of regenerating neurites and their growth cones in a differential, concentration-dependent fashion. Low concentrations of 0.5-2.5mM (around the half-maximal inhibitory concentration for glycogen synthase kinase 3 and the recommended therapeutic serum concentration for bipolar disorder) enhanced neurite sprouting and branching. A high concentration of 12.5mM, in contrast, slowed elongation. As the lithium concentration rose from low to high, the microtubules became increasingly disarranged and the growth cones more arborized. Our results demonstrate that lithium selectively stimulates phases of neuritogenesis that are driven by microtubule reorganization. In contrast, most other drugs that have previously been tested on spiral ganglion neurons are reported to inhibit neurite outgrowth or affect only elongation. Lithium sensitivity is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for the involvement of glycogen synthase kinase 3. Our results are, therefore, consistent with, but do not prove lithium inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3 activity in spiral ganglion neurons. Experiments with additional drugs and molecular-genetic tools will be necessary to test whether glycogen synthase kinase 3 regulates neurite regeneration from spiral ganglion neurons, possibly by integrating neurotrophin and Wnt signals at the growth cone.
Perception of objects in the scene around us is effortless and intuitive, yet entails profound computational challenges. Progress has been made in understanding some mechanisms by which the brain encodes the boundaries and surfaces of visual objects. However, in the auditory domain, these mechanisms are poorly understood. We investigated differences between neural responses to spectrotemporal boundaries in the auditory scene. We used iterated rippled noise to create perceptual boundaries with and without energy transients. In contrast to boundaries marked by energy transients, second-order boundaries were characterized by an absence of early components in the event-related potential. First-order energy boundaries triggered a transient evoked gamma-band response and a well-defined P90 component of the event-related potential, whereas second-order boundaries evoked only the later N1 component. Furthermore, the N1 component was delayed when evoked by second-order boundaries and theta-band electroencephalography activity at this latency exhibited significant phase lag for second-order compared to first-order boundaries. We speculate that boundaries defined by sharp energy transients can be registered by early feed-forward mechanisms. By contrast, boundaries defined only by discontinuities at discrete frequency bands require integration across the tonotopic representation of the frequency spectrum and require time-consuming interaction between auditory areas.
Sound frequency is extracted at the level of the cochlea, and is represented by two neural codes: a spectral (place) code that is maintained by tonotopic maps extending into primary auditory cortex, and a temporal code based on the periodicity of action potentials in auditory nerve fibers. To date, little work has examined infants' ability to perceive pitch when spectral content cannot be resolved by cochlear filters; the present experiments do so using high-pass filtered iterated rippled noise (IRN) stimuli. Using a conditioned head-turn paradigm, most 8-month-old infants showed above-chance discrimination of a change from 167 to 200Hz in the fundamental frequency (F0) of such high-passed filtered IRN stimuli, but only when first exposed to a training target stimulus that emphasized pitch through the addition of a sine wave tone to the IRN stimulus at the F0. However, even after this period of pitch priming, performance was quite poor relative to that found in previous studies using stimuli with resolved spectral content. These results support the idea that 8-month-olds can perceive pitch when only unresolved spectral content is present in the stimulus, but that such processing is not yet robust.
Recently, it has emerged that visual spatial exploration facilitates synaptic plasticity at different synapses within the trisynaptic network. Particularly striking is the finding that visuospatial contexts facilitate hippocampal long-term depression (LTD), raising the possibility that this form of plasticity may be important for memory formation. It is not known whether other sensory modalities elicit similar permissive effects on LTD. Here, we explored if spatial olfactory learning facilitates LTD in the hippocampus region of freely behaving rats. Patterned afferent stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals elicited short-term depression (STD) (&lt;1 h) of evoked responses in the Stratum radiatum of the CA1 region. Coupling of this protocol with novel exploration of a spatial constellation of olfactory cues facilitated short-term depression into LTD that lasted for over 24 h. Facilitation of LTD did not occur when animals were re-exposed 1 week later to the same odors in the same spatial constellation. Evaluation of learning behavior revealed that 1 week after the 1st odor exposure, the animals remembered the odors and their relative positions. These data support that the hippocampus can use nonvisuospatial resources, and specifically can use spatial olfactory information, to facilitate LTD and to generate spatial representations. The data also support that a tight relationship exists between the processing of spatial contextual information and the expression of LTD in the hippocampus.
Iron deficiency (ID) during early life causes long-lasting detrimental cognitive sequelae, many of which are linked to alterations in hippocampus function, dopamine synthesis, and the modulation of dopaminergic circuitry by the hippocampus. These same features have been implicated in the origins of schizophrenia, a neuropsychiatric disorder with significant cognitive impairments. Deficits in sensorimotor gating represent a reliable endophenotype of schizophrenia that can be measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex. Using two rodent model systems, we investigated the influence of early-life ID on PPI in adulthood. To isolate the role of hippocampal iron in PPI, our mouse model utilized a timed (embryonic day 18.5), hippocampus-specific knockout of Slc11a2, a gene coding an important regulator of cellular iron uptake, the divalent metal transport type 1 protein (DMT-1). Our second model used a classic rat dietary-based global ID during gestation, a condition that closely mimics human gestational ID anemia (IDA). Both models exhibited impaired PPI in adulthood. Furthermore, our DMT-1 knockout model displayed reduced long-term potentiation (LTP) and elevated paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), electrophysiological results consistent with previous findings in the IDA rat model. These results, in combination with previous findings demonstrating impaired hippocampus functioning and altered dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission, suggest that iron availability within the hippocampus is critical for the neurodevelopmental processes underlying sensorimotor gating. Ultimately, evidence of reduced PPI in both of our models may offer insights into the roles of fetal ID and the hippocampus in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Motivated by the synaptic tagging and capture (STC) hypothesis, it was recently shown that a weak learning, only able to produce short-term memory (STM), can succeed in establishing long-term memory (LTM) with a concomitant, stronger experience. This is consistent with the capture, by the first-tagged event, of the so-called plasticity-related proteins (PRPs) provided by the second one. Here, we describe how a concomitant session of reactivation/reconsolidation of a stronger, contextual fear conditioning (CFC) memory, allowed LTM to result from a weak spatial object recognition (wSOR) training. Consistent with an STC process, the effect was observed only during a critical time window and was dependent on the CFC reconsolidation-related protein synthesis. Retrieval by itself (without reconsolidation) did not have the same promoting effect. We also found that the inactivation of the NMDA receptor by AP5 prevented wSOR training to receive this support of CFC reconsolidation (supposedly through the production of PRPs), which may be the equivalent of blocking the setting of a learning tag in the dorsal CA1 region for that task. Furthermore, either a Water Maze reconsolidation, or a CFC extinction session, allowed the formation of wSOR-LTM. These results suggest for the first time that a reconsolidation session can promote the consolidation of a concomitant weak learning through a probable STC mechanism. These findings allow new insights concerning the influence of reconsolidation in the acquisition of memories of otherwise unrelated events during daily life situations.
Homer1a (H1a) is an immediate early gene involved in multiple forms of synaptic plasticity. It exhibits a postnatal increase in the rat forebrain (Brakeman et al. (1997) Nature 386:284-288) and reduces the density and size of dendritic spines in hippocampal neurons (Sala et al. (2003) J Neurosci 23:6327-6337). We evaluated hippocampal H1a expression at different postnatal ages (P3, P5, P7, P9, P15, P19, P23, P35, and adult) using Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) and qRT-PCR. Maximal electroconvulsive shock (MECS) was used to induce maximal expression relative to home cage (HC) controls. Large scale images and confocal z-stacks from dorsal subiculum (DS), CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (DG) were analyzed by both manual and automated methods. In DS, CA1, and CA3 a significant proportion of cells (40%) expressed small but detectable levels of H1a from P3; however, MECS did not up-regulate H1a during the first postnatal week. MECS induced H1a positive cells during the second postnatal week and induction reached adult levels at P9. H1a-Intra Nuclear Foci (INF) size and intensity varied with age, increasing at P19-23 in CA1 and CA3 and from P9 to P23 in DS. In DG, H1a expression exhibited a lamination pattern and an H1a-INF size and intensity gradient across the granule cell layer, consistent with the outside-in maturation of DG granule cells. The developmental progression of H1a corresponds to the synaptic refinement period supporting the conclusion that H1a could play an important role in this process.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is accompanied by increased spine density and dimensions triggered by signaling cascades involving activation of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and cytoskeleton remodeling. Chemically-induced long-term potentiation (c-LTP) is a widely used cellular model of plasticity, whose effects on spines have been poorly investigated. We induced c-LTP by bath-application of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) coagonist glycine or by the K(+) channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA) chloride in cultured hippocampal neurons and compared the changes in dendritic spines induced by the two models of c-LTP and determined if they depend on BDNF/TrkB signaling. We found that both TEA and glycine induced a significant increase in stubby spine density in primary and secondary apical dendrites, whereas a specific increase in mushroom spine density was observed upon TEA application only in primary dendrites. Both TEA and glycine increased BDNF levels and the blockade of tropomyosin-receptor-kinase receptors (TrkRs) by the nonselective tyrosine kinase inhibitor K-252a or the selective allosteric TrkB receptor (TrkBR) inhibitor ANA-12, abolished the c-LTP-induced increase in spine density. Surprisingly, a blockade of TrkBRs did not change basal spontaneous glutamatergic transmission but completely changed the synaptic plasticity induced by c-LTP, provoking a shift from a long-term increase to a long-term depression (LTD) in miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) frequency. In conclusion, these results suggest that BDNF/TrkB signaling is necessary for c-LTP-induced plasticity in hippocampal neurons and its blockade leads to a switch of c-LTP into chemical-LTD (c-LTD).
The umbilical cord (UC) is an essential part of the placenta, contributing to foetal development by ensuring the blood flow between mother and foetus. The UC is formed within the first weeks of gestation by the enclosure of the vessels (one vein and two arteries) into a bulk of mucous connective tissue, named Wharton's jelly (WJ) and lined by the umbilical epithelium. Since their first identification, cells populating WJ were described as unusual fibroblasts (or myofibroblasts). Recent literature data further highlighted the functional interconnection between UC and the resident cells. The UC represents a reservoir of progenitor populations which are collectively grouped into MSCs (mesenchymal stem cells). Such cells have been sourced from each component of the cord, namely the sub-amnion layer, the WJ, the perivascular region, and the vessels. These cells mainly show adherence to the phenotype of adult MSCs (as bone marrow-derived ones) and can differentiate towards mature cell types belonging to all the three germ layers. In addition, cells from human UC are derived from an immunoprivileged organ, namely the placenta: in fact, its development and function depend on the elusion of the maternal immune response towards the semi-allogeneic embryo. This is reflected in the expression of immunomodulatory molecules by UC-derived MSCs. The present paper describes UC structural features and the cell types which can be derived, with a focus on their phenotype and the novel results which boosted the use of UC-derived cells for regenerative medicine applications.
The thalamus is one of the most important brain structures, with strong connections between subcortical and cortical areas of the brain. Most of the incoming information to the cortex passes through the thalamus. Accurate identification of substructures of the thalamus is therefore of great importance for the understanding of human brain connectivity. Direct visualization of thalamic substructures, however, is not easily achieved with currently available magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), including ultra-high field MRI such as 7.0T, mainly due to the limited contrast between the relevant structures. Recently, improvements in ultra-high field 7.0T MRI have opened the possibility of observing thalamic substructures by well-adjusted high-resolution T1 -weighted imaging. Moreover, the recently developed super-resolution track-density imaging (TDI) technique, based on results from whole-brain fiber-tracking, produces images with sub-millimeter resolution. These two methods enable us to show markedly improved anatomical detail of the substructures of the thalamus, including their detailed locations and directionality. In this study, we demonstrate the role of TDI for the visualization of the substructures of the thalamic nuclei, and relate these images to T1-weighted imaging at 7.0T MRI.
Intracortical evoked potentials to nonnoxious A (electrical) and noxious A (laser) stimuli within the human primary somatosensory (S1) and motor (M1) areas were recorded from 71 electrode sites in 9 epileptic patients. All cortical sites responding to specific noxious inputs also responded to nonnoxious stimuli, while the reverse was not always true. Evoked responses in S1 area 3b were systematic for nonnoxious inputs, but seen in only half of cases after nociceptive stimulation. Nociceptive responses were systematically recorded when electrode tracks reached the crown of the postcentral gyrus, consistent with an origin in somatosensory areas 1-2. Sites in the precentral cortex also exhibited noxious and nonnoxious responses with phase reversals indicating a local origin in area 4 (M1). We conclude that a representation of thermal nociceptive information does exist in human S1, although to a much lesser extent than the nonnociceptive one. Notably, area 3b, which responds massively to nonnoxious A activation was less involved in the processing of noxious heat. S1 and M1 responses to noxious heat occurred at latencies comparable to those observed in the supra-sylvian opercular region of the same patients, suggesting a parallel, rather than hierarchical, processing of noxious inputs in S1, M1 and opercular cortex. This study provides the first direct evidence for a spinothalamic related input to the motor cortex in humans.
As a complex mental process, creativity requires the coordination of multiple brain regions. Previous pathological research on figural creativity has indicated that there is a mechanism by which the left side of the brain inhibits the activities of the right side of the brain during figural creative thinking, but this mechanism has not been directly demonstrated. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to demonstrate the existence of this inhibitory mechanism in young adults (15 women, 11 men, mean age: 22 years) that were not artists. By making comparisons between brain activity during creative and uncreative tasks, we found increased activity in the left middle and inferior frontal lobe and strong decreases in activity in the right middle frontal lobe and the left inferior parietal lobe. As such, these data suggest that the left frontal lobe may inhibit the right hemisphere during figural creative thinking in normal people. Moreover, removal of this inhibition by practicing artistry or through specific damage to the left frontal lobe may facilitate the emergence of artistic creativity.
Although autism is usually characterized with respect to sociocommunicative impairments, visual search is known as a domain of relative performance strength in this disorder. This study used functional MRI during visual search in children with autism spectrum disorder (n = 19; mean age = 13;10) and matched typically developing children (n = 19; mean age = 14;0). We selected regions of interest within two attentional networks known to play a crucial role in visual search processes, such as goal-directed selective attention, filtering of irrelevant distractors, and detection of behaviorally-relevant information, and examined activation and connectivity within and between these attentional networks. Additionally, based on prior research suggesting links between visual search abilities and autism symptomatology, we tested for correlations between sociocommunicative impairments and behavioral and neural indices of search. Contrary to many previous functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging studies of autism that reported functional underconnectivity for task domains of weakness, we found atypically increased connectivity within and between attentional networks in autism. Additionally, we found increased functional connectivity for occipital regions, both locally and for long-distance connections with frontal regions. Both behavioral and neural indices of search were correlated with sociocommunicative impairment in children with autism. This association suggests that strengths in nonsocial visuospatial processing may be related to the development of core autistic sociocommunicative impairments.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is commonly used for studies of the human brain due to its inherent sensitivity to the microstructural architecture of white matter. To increase sampling diversity, it is often desirable to perform multicenter studies. However, it is likely that the variability of acquired data will be greater in multicenter studies than in single-center studies due to the added confound of differences between sites. Therefore, careful characterization of the contributions to variance in a multicenter study is extremely important for meaningful pooling of data from multiple sites. We propose a two-step analysis framework for first identifying outlier datasets, followed by a parametric variance analysis for identification of intersite and intrasite contributions to total variance. This framework is then applied to phantom data from the NIH MRI study of normal brain development (PedsMRI). Our results suggest that initial outlier identification is extremely important for accurate assessment of intersite and intrasite variability, as well as for early identification of problems with data acquisition. We recommend the use of the presented framework at frequent intervals during the data acquisition phase of multicenter DTI studies, which will allow investigators to identify and solve problems as they occur.

Although elevated serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) is related to atherosclerosis, brain infarction, and cognitive decline, it has not been clarified whether increased hsCRP is associated with the decline in brain gray matter volume. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between hsCRP levels and brain regional gray matter volume using brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data from 109 community-dwelling healthy elderly subjects. Brain MRIs were processed with voxel-based morphometry using a custom template by applying diffeomorphic anatomical registration using the exponentiated lie algebra (DARTEL) procedure. We found a significant negative correlation between regional gray matter volume of the posterior and lateral aspects of the left temporal cortex and hsCRP level after adjusting for age, gender, and intracranial volume. Our results suggest that subjects who have mild inflammation related to arteriosclerosis have decreased regional gray matter volume in the posterior and lateral aspects of the left temporal cortex. Thus, preventing the progression of arteriosclerosis may be important for preventing a decrease in gray matter volume in healthy elderly subjects.
Visually presented biological motion stimuli activate regions in the brain that are also related to musculo-skeletal pain. We therefore hypothesized that chronic pain impairs the perception of visually presented actions that involve body parts that hurt. In the first experiment, chronic back pain (CLBP) patients and healthy controls judged the lifted weight from point-light biological motion displays. An actor either lifted an invisible container (5, 10, or 15 kg) from the floor, or lifted and manipulated it from the right to the left. The latter involved twisting of the lower back and would be very painful for CLBP patients. All participants recognized the displayed actions, but CLBP patients were impaired in judging the difference in handled weights, especially for the trunk rotation. The second experiment involved discrimination between forward and backward walking. Here the patients were just as good as the controls, showing that the main result of the first experiment was indeed specific to the sensory aspects of the task, and not to general impairments or attentional deficits. The results thus indicate that the judgment of sensorimotor aspects of a visually displayed movement is specifically affected by chronic low back pain.
Model-based calculations indicate that reflex delay and reflex gain are both important for spinal stability. Experimental results demonstrate that chronic low back pain is associated with delayed muscle reflex responses of trunk muscles. The aim of the present study was to analyze the influence of such time-delayed reflexes on the stability using a simple biomechanical model. Additionally, we compared the model-based predictions with experimental data from chronic low back pain patients and healthy controls using surface-electromyography. Linear stability methods were applied to the musculoskeletal model, which was extended with a time-delayed reflex model. Lateral external perturbations were simulated around equilibrium to investigate the effects of reflex delay and gain on the stability of the human lumbar spine. The model simulations predicted that increased reflex delays require a reduction of the reflex gain to avoid spinal instability. The experimental data support this dependence for the investigated abdominal muscles in chronic low back pain patients and healthy control subjects. Reflex time-delay and gain dependence showed that a delayed reflex latency could have relevant influence on spinal stability, if subjects do not adapt their reflex amplitudes. Based on the model and the experimental results, the relationship between muscle reflex response latency and the maximum of the reflex amplitude should be considered for evaluation of (patho) physiological data. We recommend that training procedures should focus on speeding up the delayed reflex response as well as on increasing the amplitude of these reflexes.
This paper reports the results of a model-based analysis of movements gathered in a 44 experimental design of speed/accuracy tradeoffs with variable target distances and width. Our study was performed on a large (120 participants) and varied sample (both genders, wide age range, various health conditions). The delta-lognormal equation was used for data modeling to investigate the interaction between the output of the agonist and the antagonist neuromuscular systems. Empirical observations show that the subjects must correlate more tightly the impulse commands sent to both neuromuscular systems in order to achieve good performances as the difficulty of the task increases whereas the correlation in the timing of the neuromuscular action co-varies with the size of the geometrical properties of the task. These new phenomena are discussed under the paradigm provided by the Kinematic Theory and new research hypotheses are proposed for further investigation of the speed/accuracy tradeoffs.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A (LGMD2A) is the most frequent autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy. It is caused by mutations in the calpain-3 (CAPN3) gene. The majority of the mutations described to date are located in the coding sequence of the gene. However, it is estimated that 25% of the mutations are present at exon-intron boundaries and modify the pre-mRNA splicing of the CAPN3 transcript. We have previously described the first deep intronic mutation in the CAPN3 gene: c.1782+1072G&gt;C mutation. This mutation causes the pseudoexonization of an intronic sequence of the CAPN3 gene in the mature mRNA. In the present work, we show that the point mutation generates the inclusion of the pseudoexon in the mRNA using a minigene assay. In search of a treatment that restores normal splicing, splicing modulation was induced by RNA-based strategies, which included antisense oligonucleotides and modified small-nuclear RNAs. The best effect was observed with antisense sequences, which induced pseudoexon skipping in both HeLa cells cotransfected with mutant minigene and in fibroblasts from patients. Finally, transfection of antisense sequences and siRNA downregulation of serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1) indicate that binding of this factor to splicing enhancer sequences is involved in pseudoexon activation.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a tool for noninvasive stimulation of neuronal tissue used for research in cognitive neuroscience and to treat neurological disorders. Many TMS applications call for large electric fields to be sharply focused on regions that often lie deep inside the brain. Unfortunately, the fields generated by present-day TMS coils diffuse and decay rapidly as they penetrate into the head. As a result, they tend to stimulate relatively large regions of tissue near the brain surface. Earlier studies suggested that a focused TMS excitation can be attained using multiple nonuniformly fed coils in a multichannel array. We propose a systematic, genetic algorithm-based technique for synthesizing multichannel arrays that minimize the volume of the excited region required to achieve a prescribed penetration depth and maintain realistic values for the input driving currents. Because multichannel arrays are costly to build, we also propose a method to convert the multichannel arrays into single-channel ones while minimally materially deteriorating performance. Numerical results show that the new multi- and single-channel arrays stimulate tissue 2.4cm into the head while exciting 3.0 and 2.6times less volume than conventional Figure-8 coils, respectively.
Autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis is a potentially curative treatment, which can give rise to long-term disease remission. However, the mode of action is not yet fully understood. The aim of the study was to evaluate similarities and differences of the CD4(+) T-cell populations between HSCT-treated patients (n=12) and healthy controls (n=9). Phenotyping of memory T cells, regulatory T (Treg) cells and T helper type 1 (Th1) and type 17 (Th17) cells was performed. Further, T-cell reactivity to a tentative antigen, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, was investigated in these patient populations. Patients treated with natalizumab (n=15) were included as a comparative group. White blood cells were analysed with flow cytometry and T-cell culture supernatants were analysed with magnetic bead panel immunoassays. HSCT-treated patients had similar levels of Treg cells and of Th1 and Th17 cells as healthy subjects, whereas natalizumab-treated patients had lower frequencies of Treg cells, and higher frequencies of Th1 and Th17 cells. Cells from HSCT-treated patients cultured with overlapping peptides from myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein produced more transforming growth factor-1 than natalizumab-treated patients, which suggests a suppressive response. Conversely, T cells from natalizumab-treated patients cultured with those peptides produced more interleukin-17 (IL-17), IL-1 and IL-10, indicating a Th17 response. In conclusion, we demonstrate circumstantial evidence for the removal of autoreactive T-cell clones as well as development of tolerance after HSCT. These results parallel the long-term disease remission seen after HSCT.
Activation of the immune system during pregnancy is believed to lead to psychiatric and neurological disorders in the offspring, but the molecular changes responsible are unknown. Polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) is a viral-mimetic double-stranded RNA complex which activates Toll-Like-Receptor-3 and can activate the metabolism of tryptophan through the oxidative kynurenine pathway to compounds that modulate activity of glutamate receptors. The aim was to determine whether prenatal administration of poly(I:C) affects the expression of neurodevelopmental proteins in the offspring and whether such effects were mediated via the kynurenine pathway. Pregnant rats were treated with poly(I:C) during late gestation and the offspring were allowed to develop to postnatal day 21 (P21). Immunoblotting of the brains at P21 showed decreased expression of sonic hedgehog, a key protein in dopaminergic neuronal maturation. Expression of -synuclein was decreased, while tyrosine hydroxylase was increased. Disrupted in Schizophrenia-1 (DISC-1) and 5-HT2C receptor levels were unaffected, as were the dependence receptors Unc5H1, Unc5H3 and Deleted in Colorectal Cancer (DCC), the inflammation-related transcription factor NFkB and the inducible oxidative enzyme cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2). An examination of embryo brains 5h after maternal poly(I:C) showed increased expression of GluN2B, with reduced doublecortin and DCC but no change in NFkB. Despite altered protein expression, there were no changes in the kynurenine pathway. The results show that maternal exposure to poly(I:C) alters the expression of proteins in the embryos and offspring which may affect the development of dopaminergic function. The oxidation of tryptophan along the kynurenine pathway is not involved in these effects.
Anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) neuropathy is a primary demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy that can be very debilitating and is known to be resistant to treatment. There are only a few conflicting reports on the effect of Rituximab in anti-MAG neuropathy. We present three patients who improved remarkably with Rituximab infusions. Until the safety and efficacy of this drug are determined in larger controlled studies, use of Rituximab should be limited to patients with significant neurologic deficits.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disease, and corresponds to the most common cause of dementia worldwide. Although not fully understood, the pathophysiology of AD is largely represented by the neurotoxic events triggered by the beta-amyloid cascade and by cytoskeletal abnormalities subsequent to the hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated Tau protein in neurons. These processes lead respectively to the formation of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, which are the pathological hallmarks of the disease. Clinical benefits of the available pharmacological treatment for AD with antidementia drugs (namely cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine) are unquestionable, although limited to a temporary, symptomatic support to cognitive and related functions. Over the past decade, substantial funding and research have been dedicated to the search and development of new pharmaceutical compounds with disease-modifying properties. The rationale of such approach is that by tackling key pathological processes in AD it may be possible to attenuate or even change its natural history. In the present review, we summarize the available evidence on the new therapeutic approaches that target amyloid and Tau pathology in AD, focusing on pharmaceutical compounds undergoing phase 2 and phase 3 randomized controlled trials.
F-18 Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) Positron emission tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) has come to play an increasingly important role for the pre-surgical evaluation of drug resistant epilepsy and complements Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in the evaluation of grey matter heterotopias. This case illustrates the characteristic pattern of metabolic abnormality in diffuse band heterotopia (DBH) which is otherwise called double cortex syndrome. The presence of metabolic activity in the heterotopic inner cortical band and in the overlying true cortex gives rise to the 'double cortex' sign on FDG-PET, concurrent CT provides a good anato-metabolic coregistration.
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) is the most common glomerular disorder of childhood and a leading cause of pediatric renal failure; however the etiology of NS remains largely unknown. Recent reports demonstrating that an anti-CD20 antibody can induce remission of NS strongly suggest a potentially novel role for B cells in NS pathogenesis. In this report, the authors investigated B cell cytokine profiles following in vitro stimulation in a monozygotic twin pair discordant for NS. The results revealed that clear differences in the cytokine profiles of B cells exist between the patient and the unaffected twin. This is the first report of altered B lymphocyte responses among a monozygotic twin pair that is discordant for NS. Future studies are needed to identify cytokine differences that track with NS relapse and/or NS response to therapy.

