Recent reports demonstrate that somatic mouse cells can be directly converted to other mature cell types by using combined expression of defined factors. Here we show that the same strategy can be applied to human embryonic and postnatal fibroblasts. By overexpression of the transcription factors Ascl1, Brn2, and Myt1l, human fibroblasts were efficiently converted to functional neurons. We also demonstrate that the converted neurons can be directed toward distinct functional neurotransmitter phenotypes when the appropriate transcriptional cues are provided together with the three conversion factors. By combining expression of the three conversion factors with expression of two genes involved in dopamine neuron generation, Lmx1a and FoxA2, we could direct the phenotype of the converted cells toward dopaminergic neurons. Such subtype-specific induced neurons derived from human somatic cells could be valuable for disease modeling and cell replacement therapy.
Tropomyosin (Tm) is a two-chained, -helical coiled-coil protein that associates end-to-end to form a continuous strand along actin filaments and regulates the functions and stability of actin in eukaryotic muscle and nonmuscle cells. Mutations in Tm cause skeletal and cardiac myopathies. We applied a neoteric molecular evolution approach to gain insight into the fundamental unresolved question of what makes the Tm coiled coil an actin binding protein. We carried out a phylogenetic analysis of 70 coding sequences of Tm genes from 26 animal species, from cnidarians to chordates, and evaluated the substitution rates () at individual codons to identify conserved sites. The most conserved residues at surface b, c, f heptad repeat positions were mutated in rat striated muscle Tm and expressed in Escherichia coli. Each mutant had 3-4 sites mutated to Ala within the first half or the second half of periods 2-6. Actin affinity and thermodynamic stability were determined in vitro. Mutations in the first half of periods 2, 4, and 5 resulted in the largest reduction in actin affinity (&gt;4-fold), indicating these mutations include residues in actin-binding sites. Mutations in the second half of the periods had a 2-fold effect on affinity indicating these residues may be involved in other conserved regulatory functions. The structural relevance of these results was assessed by constructing molecular models for the actin-Tm filament. Molecular evolution analysis is a general approach that may be used to identify potential binding sites of a protein for a conserved protein.
Members of the DISABLED (DAB) family of proteins are known to play a conserved role in endocytic trafficking of cell surface receptors by functioning as monomeric CLATHRIN-associated sorting proteins that recruit cargo proteins into endocytic vesicles. Here, we report a Drosophila disabled mutant revealing a novel role for DAB proteins in chemical synaptic transmission. This mutant exhibits impaired synaptic function, including a rapid activity-dependent reduction in neurotransmitter release and disruption of synaptic vesicle endocytosis. In presynaptic boutons, Drosophila DAB and CLATHRIN were highly colocalized within two distinct classes of puncta, including relatively dim puncta that were located at active zones and may reflect endocytic mechanisms operating at neurotransmitter release sites. Finally, broader analysis of endocytic proteins, including DYNAMIN, supported a general role for CLATHRIN-mediated endocytic mechanisms in rapid clearance of neurotransmitter release sites for subsequent vesicle priming and refilling of the release-ready vesicle pool.
How fast are visual stimuli categorized as faces by the human brain? Because of their high temporal resolution and the possibility to record simultaneously from the whole brain, electromagnetic scalp measurements should be the ideal method to clarify this issue. However, this question remains debated, with studies reporting face-sensitive responses varying from 50 ms to 200 ms following stimulus onset. Here we disentangle the contribution of the information associated with the phenomenological experience of a face (phase) from low-level visual cues (amplitude spectrum, color) in accounting for early face-sensitivity in the human brain. Pictures of faces and of a category of familiar objects (cars), as well as their phase-scrambled versions, were presented to fifteen human participants tested with high-density (128 channels) EEG. We replicated an early face-sensitivity - larger response to pictures of faces than cars - at the level of the occipital event-related potential (ERP) P1 (80- ). However, a similar larger P1 to phase-scrambled faces than phase-scrambled cars was also found. In contrast, the occipito-temporal N170 was much larger in amplitude for pictures of intact faces than cars, especially in the right hemisphere, while the small N170 elicited by phase-scrambled stimuli did not differ for faces and cars. These findings show that sensitivity to faces on the visual evoked potentials P1 and N1 (N170) is functionally dissociated: the P1 face-sensitivity is driven by low-level visual cues while the N1 (or N170) face-sensitivity reflects the perception of a face. Altogether, these observations indicate that the earliest access to a high-level face representation, that is, a face percept, does not precede the N170 onset in the human brain. Furthermore, they allow resolving apparent discrepancies between the timing of rapid human saccades towards faces and the early activation of high-level facial representations as shown by electrophysiological studies in the primate brain. More generally, they put strong constraints on the interpretation of early (before 100 ms) face-sensitive effects in the human brain.
Bubbles is a classification image technique that randomly samples visual information from input stimuli to derive the diagnostic features that observers use in visual categorization tasks. To reach statistical significance, Bubbles performs an exhaustive and repetitive search in the stimulus space. To reduce the search trials, we developed an adaptive method that uses reinforcement learning techniques to optimize sampling by exploiting the observer's history of categorization. We compared the performance of the original and the adaptive Bubbles algorithms in a model observer and eight human adults who all resolved the same visual categorization task (i.e., five facial expressions of emotion). We demonstrate the feasibility of a substantial reduction (by a factor of 2) in the number of search trials required to locate the same diagnostic features with the adaptive method, but only when the observer reaches a performance threshold of 50% correct for each expression category. When this threshold is not reached, both the original and adaptive algorithms converge in the same number of trials.
The comprehensive and stress-free assessment of various aspects of learning and memory is a prerequisite to evaluate mouse models for neuropsychiatric disorders such as Alzheimer's disease or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). COGITAT is an automated holeboard system allowing simultaneous assessment of spatial working and reference-memory performance which we have adapted in this study to enable its usage with mice. The holeboard apparatus consists of an open-field chamber with a 25-hole floor insert, each hole being monitored by infrared light beams, located on three different levels, allowing the distinction between visits of holes, i.e. the animal reaches the bottom of the hole, or inspections, which means only superficial exploration of the hole. Across trials, animals learn a pattern of five baited holes. Here, we show that C57BL/6 mice readily acquire this task within 5 days when submitted to six trials per day. A number of individual parameters - overall exploratory activity, number of visits into or inspections of holes, number of baited, unbaited, or previously baited holes visited or inspected, reinspections of or revisits into any holes, number of pellets eaten, time to find pellets, and reference and working memory errors-are obtained simultaneously and results are immediately available after the end of each experiment. The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine impaired task performance, while the cognitive enhancer metrifonate (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) reduced error rates. Overall, our data indicate that this spatial learning task will be useful to characterize spatial memory in various genetic or pharmacological mouse models.
Experimental evidence indicates that chemical stimulation of lateral hypothalamus (LH) by carbachol can produce conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. Several lines of evidence have shown that cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and c-fos have pivotal role in CPP induced by drugs of abuse, such as morphine, cocaine, nicotine, and alcohol. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the changes in phosphorylated-CREB (p-CREB) and -ERK (p-ERK), and c-fos induction within ventral tegmental area (VTA), hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) after the acquisition of CPP induced by intra-LH administration of carbachol. Animals were unilaterally implanted by cannula into LH. For chemical stimulation of LH, carbachol (250 nmol/0.5 l saline) was microinjected once each day, during 3-day conditioning phase (acquisition period) of CPP paradigm. After the acquisition period, the brains were removed, and p-CREB and p-ERK, and c-fos induction in the ipsilateral VTA, hippocampus and PFC were measured by Western blot analysis. The results indicated a significant increase in level of phosphorylated CREB (P&lt;0.01) in VTA, and PFC (P&lt;0.05), during LH stimulation-induced CPP, while its level decreased in hippocampus (P&lt;0.05). Also, in aforementioned regions, an increase in c-fos level was observed, but this enhancement in PFC was not significant. Moreover, p-ERK changed in these areas, but not significantly. Our findings suggest that studying the intracellular signals and their changes, such as phosphorylated-CREB, can elucidate a functional relationship between LH and other brain structures involved in reward processing in rats.
The endocannabinoid system is critically involved in the modulation of affect, motivation, and emotion. Here, we investigated the hypothesis that changes in the content of endocannabinoid levels might underlie adaptation to positive social conditions during adolescence. To this aim, separate pairs of adolescent (postnatal days 32-35) male Wistar rats were allowed to interact in a neutral cage under two different testing conditions, i.e. familiar (FAM) and non-familiar (NFAM) social partners. We found that adolescent rats that encountered a NFAM partner spent significantly more time Sniffing and Following the companion than subjects exposed to a FAM partner, whereas no changes in levels of rough-and-tumble play were observed. Notably, the NFAM social encounter significantly increased striatal anandamide (AEA) levels compared to both non-social controls and animals that encountered a FAM partner. Changes in AEA levels appeared to be region-specific, since no changes were observed in the other brain regions analysed, neither were they observed in the activity of the AEA-hydrolase (FAAH) nor in the content of the other major endocannabinoid 2-arachidonylglycerol. In addition, animals that encountered a NFAM partner tended to explore less extensively the illuminated compartment of the light-dark box when compared to animals that had previously encountered a FAM companion. In conclusion, striatal AEA levels seem to participate in the emotional arousal resulting from a NFAM social encounter in adolescent rats, and to be particularly important for coping response to novel social contexts.
The present study was conducted to investigate the effect of working memory (WM) load on body processing mechanisms by using event-related potentials (ERPs). It is well known that WM load modulates the P3b (amplitude decreases as WM load increases). Additionally, WM load for faces modulates earlier ERPs like the N170. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of WM load for bodies on the P3b which is associated with WM. Additionally, we explored the effect of WM load on the N170, which is thought to be associated with configural processing, and P1, which has been observed in body as well as in face processing. Effects were analyzed during the encoding and retrieval phases. WM load was modulated by presenting one to four unfamiliar bodies simultaneously for memory encoding. The present study showed that early encoding processes (reflected by the P1 and N170) might not be modulated by WM load, whereas during the retrieval phase, early processes associated with structural encoding (N170) were affected by WM load. A possible explanation of the encoding/retrieval differences might be that subjects used distinct processing strategies in both phases. Parallel encoding of the simultaneously presented bodies might play an important role during the encoding phase where one to four bodies have to be stored, whereas serial matching might be used to compare the probe with the stored pictures during the retrieval phase. Additionally, WM load modulations were observed in later processing steps, which might be associated with stimulus identification and matching processes (reflected by the early P3b) during the encoding but not during the retrieval phase. The current findings further showed for both the encoding and the retrieval phase that the late P3b amplitude decreased as WM load for body images increased indicating that the late P3b is involved in WM processes which do not appear to be category-specific.
The high comorbidity of anxiety and depression suggests a potential degree of commonality in their etiologies. The chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) model effectively replicates depressive-like phenotypes; however, the ability of CUS to produce anxiety-like behaviors has not been adequately addressed. Using the CUS paradigm (2 stressors per day for 10 days) in adult Sprague-Dawley rats we identified behavioral, hormonal, and neurochemical changes one day after the cessation of treatment. Stress attenuated weight gain throughout the study and increased locomotor activity one day after treatment, but had no effect on anxiety-behavior as measured by the elevated plus maze. In addition, plasma corticosterone levels were positively correlated with hypothalamic serotonin (5-HT) activity one day after stress treatment as determined by the ratio of the metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) to the parent compound (5-HIAA/5-HT ratio). These data suggest behavioral phenotypes associated with depression, but not comorbid anxiety, emerge in the immediate period after cessation of stress and that stress related physiology is related to 5-HT activity in the hypothalamus.
Low expression of the human serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene presumably interacts with stressful life events enhancing susceptibility for affective disorders. 5-Htt knockout (KO) mice display an anxious phenotype, and behavioural differences compared to wild-type (WT) mice are exacerbated after repeated loser experience in a resident-intruder stress paradigm. To assess whether genotype-dependent and stress-induced behavioural differences are reflected in alterations of neuronal morphology in limbic areas, we studied dendritic length and complexity of pyramidal neurons in the anterior cingulate and infralimbic cortices (CG, IL), hippocampus CA1 region, and of pyramidal neurons and interneurons in the lateral (La) and basolateral (BL) amygdaloid nuclei in Golgi-Cox-stained brains of male WT and 5-Htt KO control and loser mice. Spine density was analysed for IL apical and amygdaloid apical and basal pyramidal neuron dendrites. While group differences were absent for parameters analysed in CG, CA1 and amygdaloid interneurons, pyramidal neurons in the IL displayed tendencies to shorter and less spinous distal apical dendrites in 5-Htt KO controls, and to extended proximal dendrites in WT losers compared to WT controls. In contrast, spine density of several dendritic compartments of amygdaloid pyramids was significantly higher in 5-Htt KO mice compared to WT controls. While a tendency to increased spine density was observed in the same dendritic compartments in WT after stress, changes were lacking in stressed compared to control 5-Htt KO mice. Our findings indicate that disturbed 5-HT homeostasis results in alterations of limbic neuronal morphology, especially in higher spinogenesis in amygdaloid pyramidal neurons. Social stress leads to similar but less pronounced changes in the WT, and neuroplasticity upon stress is reduced in 5-Htt KO mice.
Although typically assumed to degrade performance, random fluctuations, or noise, can sometimes improve information processing in non-linear systems. One such form of 'stochastic facilitation', stochastic resonance, has been observed to enhance processing both in theoretical models of neural systems and in experimental neuroscience. However, the two approaches have yet to be fully reconciled. Understanding the diverse roles of noise in neural computation will require the design of experiments based on new theory and models, into which biologically appropriate experimental detail feeds back at various levels of abstraction.
We present a new method allowing the reconstruction of 3D time-domain diffuse optical tomography images, based on the time-dependent diffusion equation and an iterative algorithm (ART) using specific points on the temporal profiles. The first advantage of our method versus the full time-resolved scheme consists in considerably reducing the inverse problem resolution time. Secondly, in the presence of scattering heterogeneities, our method provides images of better quality comparatively to classical methods using full-time data or the first moments of the profiles.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) is known to be activated by homodimerization in the presence of both the FGF agonist ligand and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan. FGFR1 homodimers in turn trigger a variety of downstream signaling cascades via autophosphorylation of tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic domain of FGFR1. By means of Bioluminescence Energy Resonance Transfer (BRET) as a sign of FGFR1 homodimerization, we evaluated in HEK293T cells the effects of all known FGF agonist ligands on homodimer formation. A significant correlation between BRET(2) signaling and ERK1/2 phosphorylation was observed, leading to a further characterization of the binding and signaling properties of the FGF subfamilies. FGF agonist ligand-FGFR1 binding interactions appear as the main mechanism for the control of FGFR1 homodimerization and MAPK signaling which demonstrated a high correlation. The bioinformatic analysis demonstrates the interface of the two pro-triplets SSS (Ser-Ser-Ser) and YGS (Tyr-Gly-Ser) located in the extracellular and intracellular domain of the FGFR1. These pro-triplets are postulated participate in the FGFR1 homodimerization interface interaction. The findings also reveal that FGF agonist ligands within the same subfamily of the FGF gene family produced similar increases in FGFR1 homodimer formation and MAPK signaling. Thus, the evolutionary relationship within this gene family appears to have a distinct functional relevance.
Niemann-Pick Type C Disease (NPCD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by accumulation of free cholesterol, sphingomyelin, glycosphingolipids (GSLs) and sphingosine in lysosomes, mainly due to a mutation in the NPC1 gene. One of the main symptoms in NPCD patients is hyperexcitability leading to epileptic activity, however, the pathophysiological basis of this neural disorder is not yet well understood. Here we studied the excitatory neurotransmission in the hippocampus of BALB/c NPC1NIH (NPC1-/-) mice, a well-described animal model of the disease. We report that hippocampal field potential population spike (fPS), as well as paired pulse ratio, is enhanced in NPC1-/- with respect to Wild Type (WT). To evaluate the contribution of glutamate receptor activity in the enhanced fPS observed in mutant mice, we recorded slices treated with glutamate receptor agonists alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) and Kainate (KA). We found that a prolonged application of KA and AMPA in NPC1-/- mice do not induce the dramatic decrease of synaptic transmission observed in WT hippocampal slices suggesting a functional impairment of presynaptic KA receptors and an imbalance of AMPA receptor exo/endocytosis. In line with electrophysiological data, we also found notable differences in calcium influx during KA and AMPA bath application in NPC1-/- hippocampal culture as compared with WT. Nevertheless in synaptosomal membranes, Western Blot analysis didn't reveal any modification in protein expression levels of KA and AMPA receptor subunits. All together these data indicate that in mutant mice the hyperexcitability, that is at the basis of the insurgence of seizures, might be due to the enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission caused by an altered KA and AMPA receptor functioning.
Whether or not multisensory interactions can improve detection thresholds, and thus widen the range of perceptible events is a long-standing debate. Here we revisit this question, by testing the influence of auditory stimuli on visual detection threshold, in subjects exhibiting a wide range of visual-only performance. Above the perceptual threshold, crossmodal interactions have indeed been reported to depend on the subject's performance when the modalities are presented in isolation. We thus tested normal-seeing subjects and short-sighted subjects wearing their usual glasses. We used a paradigm limiting potential shortcomings of previous studies: we chose a criterion-free threshold measurement procedure and precluded exogenous cueing effects by systematically presenting a visual cue whenever a visual target (a faint Gabor patch) might occur. Using this carefully controlled procedure, we found that concurrent sounds only improved visual detection thresholds in the sub-group of subjects exhibiting the poorest performance in the visual-only conditions. In these subjects, for oblique orientations of the visual stimuli (but not for vertical or horizontal targets), the auditory improvement was still present when visual detection was already helped with flanking visual stimuli generating a collinear facilitation effect. These findings highlight that crossmodal interactions are most efficient to improve perceptual performance when an isolated modality is deficient.
Scientific styles vary tremendously. For me, research is largely about the unfettered pursuit of novel ideas and experiments that can test multiple ideas in a day, not a year, an approach that I learned from my mentor Julius &quot;Julie&quot; Axelrod. This focus on creative conceptualizations has been my mtier since working in the summers during medical school at the National Institutes of Health, during my two years in the Axelrod laboratory, and throughout my forty-five years at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Equally important has been the &quot;high&quot; that emerges from brainstorming with my students. Nothing can compare with the eureka moments when, together, we sense new insights and, better yet, when high-risk, high-payoff experiments succeed. Although I have studied many different questions over the years, a common theme emerges: simple biochemical approaches to understanding molecular messengers, usually small molecules. Equally important has been identifying, purifying, and cloning the messengers' relevant biosynthetic, degradative, or target proteins, at all times seeking potential therapeutic relevance in the form of drugs. In the interests of brevity, this Reflections article is highly selective, and, with a few exceptions, literature citations are only of findings of our laboratory that illustrate notable themes.
Recently, both clinical and animal studies demonstrated neuronal and glial plasticity to be important for the therapeutic action of antidepressants. Antidepressants increase glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) production through monoamine-independent protein-tyrosine kinase, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and cAMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) activation in glial cells (Hisaoka, K., Takebayashi, M., Tsuchioka, M., Maeda, N., Nakata, Y., and Yamawaki, S. (2007) J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 321, 148-157; Hisaoka, K., Maeda, N., Tsuchioka, M., and Takebayashi, M. (2008) Brain Res. 1196, 53-58). This study clarifies the type of tyrosine kinase and mechanism of antidepressant-induced GDNF production in C6 glioma cells and normal human astrocytes. The amitriptyline (a tricyclic antidepressant)-induced ERK activation was specifically and completely inhibited by fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors and siRNA for FGFR1 and -2. Treatment with amitriptyline or several different classes of antidepressants, but not non-antidepressants, acutely increased the phosphorylation of FGFRs and FGFR substrate 2 (FRS2). Amitriptyline-induced CREB phosphorylation and GDNF production were blocked by FGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Therefore, antidepressants activate the FGFR/FRS2/ERK/CREB signaling cascade, thus resulting in GDNF production. Furthermore, we attempted to elucidate how antidepressants activate FGFR signaling. The effect of amitriptyline was inhibited by heparin, non-permeant FGF-2 neutralizing antibodies, and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors. Serotonin (5-HT) also increased GDNF production through FGFR2 (Tsuchioka, M., Takebayashi, M., Hisaoka, K., Maeda, N., and Nakata, Y. (2008) J. Neurochem. 106, 244-257); however, the effect of 5-HT was not inhibited by heparin and MMP inhibitors. These results suggest that amitriptyline-induced FGFR activation might occur through an extracellular pathway, in contrast to that of 5-HT. The current data show that amitriptyline-induced FGFR activation might occur by the MMP-dependent shedding of FGFR ligands, such as FGF-2, thus resulting in GDNF production.
To understand the relationship between mitochondrial transport and neuronal function, it is critical to observe mitochondrial behavior in live cultured neurons for extended durations(1-3). This is now possible through the use of vital dyes and fluorescent proteins with which cytoskeletal components, organelles, and other structures in living cells can be labeled and then visualized via dynamic fluorescence microscopy. For example, in embryonic chicken sympathetic neurons, mitochondrial movement was characterized using the vital dye rhodamine 123(4). In another study, mitochondria were visualized in rat forebrain neurons by transfection of mitochondrially targeted eYFP(5). However, imaging of primary neurons over minutes, hours, or even days presents a number of issues. Foremost among these are: 1) maintenance of culture conditions such as temperature, humidity, and pH during long imaging sessions; 2) a strong, stable fluorescent signal to assure both the quality of acquired images and accurate measurement of signal intensity during image analysis; and 3) limiting exposure times during image acquisition to minimize photobleaching and avoid phototoxicity. Here, we describe a protocol that permits the observation, visualization, and analysis of mitochondrial movement in cultured hippocampal neurons with high temporal resolution and under optimal life support conditions. We have constructed an affordable stage-top incubator that provides good temperature regulation and atmospheric gas flow, and also limits the degree of media evaporation, assuring stable pH and osmolarity. This incubator is connected, via inlet and outlet hoses, to a standard tissue culture incubator, which provides constant humidity levels and an atmosphere of 5-10% CO(2;)/air. This design offers a cost-effective alternative to significantly more expensive microscope incubators that don't necessarily assure the viability of cells over many hours or even days. To visualize mitochondria, we infect cells with a lentivirus encoding a red fluorescent protein that is targeted to the mitochondrion. This assures a strong and persistent signal, which, in conjunction with the use of a stable xenon light source, allows us to limit exposure times during image acquisition and all but precludes photobleaching and phototoxicity. Two injection ports on the top of the stage-top incubator allow the acute administration of neurotransmitters and other reagents intended to modulate mitochondrial movement. In sum, lentivirus-mediated expression of an organelle-targeted red fluorescent protein and the combination of our stage-top incubator, a conventional inverted fluorescence microscope, CCD camera, and xenon light source allow us to acquire time-lapse images of mitochondrial transport in living neurons over longer durations than those possible in studies deploying conventional vital dyes and off-the-shelf life support systems.

Nitric oxide has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. However, it is still unclear whether nitric oxide plays a protective role or is deleterious. We have previously shown that peroxynitrite, a reaction product of nitric oxide and superoxide, is toxic to mature oligodendrocytes (OLs). The toxicity is mediated by intracellular zinc release, phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), activation of 12-lipoxygenase (12-LOX) and the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we found that the donors of nitric oxide, dipropylenetriamine NONOate (DPT NONOate) and diethylenetriamine NONOate (DETA NONOate), protected OLs from peroxynitrite or zinc-induced toxicity. The protective mechanisms appear to be attributable to their inhibition of peroxynitrite- or zinc-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation and 12-LOX activation. In cultures of mature OLs exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) generated nitric oxide and rendered OLs resistant to peroxynitrite-induced toxicity. The protection was eliminated when 1400W, a specific inhibitor of iNOS, was co-applied with LPS. Using MOG35-55-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis, we found that nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, an indicator of peroxynitrite formation, was increased in the spinal cord white matter, which correlated with the loss of mature OLs. Targeted gene deletion of the NADPH oxidase component gp91phox reduced clinical scores, the formation of nitrotyrosine and the loss of mature OLs. These results suggest that blocking the formation specifically of peroxynitrite, rather than nitric oxide, may be a protective strategy against oxidative stress induced toxicity to OLs.
Long projection axons from the Ch4 cell group of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (nbM) provide cholinergic innervation to the neurons of the cerebral cortex. This cortical cholinergic innervation has been implicated in behavioral and cognitive functions, including learning and memory. Recent evidence revealed differences among primate species in the pattern of cholinergic innervation specific to the prefrontal cortex. While macaques displayed denser cholinergic innervation in layers I and II relative to layers V and VI, in chimpanzees and humans, layers V and VI were as heavily innervated as the supragranular layers. Furthermore, clusters of cholinergic axons were observed within the prefrontal cortex of both humans and chimpanzees to the exclusion of macaque monkeys, and were most commonly seen in humans. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the Ch4 cell group was modified during evolution of anthropoid primates as a possible correlate of these changes in cortical cholinergic innervation. We used stereologic methods to estimate the total number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive magnocellular neurons within the nbM of New World monkeys, Old World monkeys, apes, and humans. Linear regression analyses were used to examine the relationship of the Ch4 cell group with neocortical volume and brain mass. Results showed that total nbM neuron numbers hyposcale relative to both neocortical volume and brain mass. Notably, the total number of nbM neurons in humans were included within the 95% confidence intervals for the prediction generated from nonhuman data. In conclusion, while differences in the cholinergic system exist among primate species, such changes appear to involve mostly axon collateral terminations within the neocortex and, with the exception of the relatively small group of cholinergic cells of the subputaminal subdivision of the nbM at the anterointermediate and rostrolateral levels, are not accompanied by a significant extra-allometric increase in the overall number of subcortical neurons that provide that innervation.
Neuroinflammation results in dysregulation of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (doR) and is considered to play an important role in the pathophysiology of depression. The aim of the present study was to induce neuroinflammation in a simple doR brain slice model using lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interferon-gamma (IFN), beta-amyloid or tumor necrosis factor-alpha and to explore the survival of serotonergic neurons and the expression of the tryptophan degrading enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO). Administration of pro-inflammatory stimuli reduced survival of serotonergic neurons in doR slices and increased IDO expression. IFN most potently induced IDO expression, which co-localized with neurons, including serotonergic neurons, but not with microglia or astrocytes. IFN did not induce PI-positive staining in slices, but increased the average nuclei size of IDO-positive cells. The inflammation-induced decline did not return to control levels, when slices were withdrawn from inflammation, pointing to neurodegeneration. The growth factors BDNF or GDNF did not counteract the inflammation-induced decrease in serotonergic neurons, except for LPS-induced neuronal decline. The inflammation-induced effect was not blocked by the NMDA-receptor antagonist MK-801. Further LPS, but not IFN increased inflammatory markers and microglia activity. In conclusion, our data show that a range of inflammatory stimuli decline serotonergic neurons in doR slices and upregulate IDO expression. The data suggest that IDO does not contribute to serotonergic decline, but may serve as a marker of neurodegeneration. Neuroinflammation may contribute to the development of depression.
Amyloid  (A) deposition in the brain is considered the initiating event in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid imaging is widely studied in diagnosing AD and evaluating the disease stage, with considerable advances achieved in recent years. We have developed a novel F-containing curcumin derivative (named FMeC1) as a potential imaging agent. This compound can exist in equilibrium between keto and enol tautomers, with the enol form able to bind A aggregates while the keto form cannot. This study investigated whether FMeC1 is suitable as a F magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) probe to detect A deposition in the Tg2576 mouse, a model of AD. In F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra obtained from the whole head, a delayed decreased rate of F F signal was observed in Tg2576 mice that were peripherally injected with FMeC1 in comparison to wild-type mice. Furthermore, F MRI displayed remarkable levels of F signal in the brain of Tg2576 mice after the injection of FMeC1. Histological analysis of FMeC1-injected mouse brain showed penetration of the compound across the blood-brain barrier and binding to A plaques in peripherally injected Tg2576 mice. Moreover, the distribution of A deposits in Tg2576 mice was in accordance with the region of the brain in which the F signal was imaged. FMeC1 also exhibited an affinity for senile plaques in human brain sections. These findings suggest the usefulness of FMeC1 as a F MRI probe for the detection of amyloid deposition in the brain. Furthermore, the properties of FMeC1 could form the basis for further novel amyloid imaging probes.
The functional significance of newly formed granule neurons in the adult mammalian hippocampus remains a mystery. Recently, it was demonstrated that wheel running increases new neuron survival and c-Fos expression in new and pre-existing granule cells in an activity-dependent manner. It is currently unknown whether other immediate early genes (IEGs) become expressed in granule neurons from running. Further, it is unknown whether locomotor activity in home cages without wheels can influence neurogenesis and IEG expression similar to running. The purpose of this study was three-fold: (1) to determine if Arc and Zif268 expression are also induced from wheel running in both pre-existing and newly formed neurons (2) to determine if neurogenesis and IEG induction is related to horizontal distance traveled in home cages without wheels, and (3) to determine whether IEG induction is related to acute bouts of running or chronic effects. Adult C57BL/6J female mice were placed in cages with or without running wheels for 31 days. The first 10 days, mice received daily injections of 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. On day 1, running and non-running animals were euthanized either 2 h after peak activity, or during a period of relative inactivity. Immunohistochemistry was performed on hippocampal sections with antibodies against BrdU, mature neuron marker NeuN, c-Fos, Arc, and Zif268. Results demonstrate that Arc, Zif268, and c-Fos are induced from wheel running but not movement in cages without wheels. All IEGs were expressed in new neurons from running. Further, IEGs were induced acutely by running, as increased expression did not continue into the light cycle, a period of relative inactivity. The results suggest that robust movements, like running, are necessary to stimulate IEG expression and neurogenesis. Moreover, results suggest new neurons from running may be processing information about running behavior itself.
Acoustic experiences significantly shape the functional organization of the auditory cortex during postnatal &quot;critical periods.&quot; Here, we investigate the effects of a non-traumatic augmented acoustic environment (AAE) on the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) and lower brainstem nuclei in rat during the critical period. Our results show that an AAE during P9-P28 had a persistent effect on the evoked auditory brainstem responses leading to a decreased latency and an increased amplitude of the response at and above the frequency of the stimulus used for the AAE. These findings are correlated with increased numbers of sites in the ICC that responded to the AAE frequency and show higher thresholds. There also were persistent effects in neurons with a best frequency higher than the AAE stimulus. These neurons showed decreased activity at low sound levels in the low frequency tail of the frequency response area. This was at, below and above the AAE stimulus frequency. Less often, increased activity at higher sound levels also was seen. Together, these findings suggest multifaceted interactions between activity-dependent plasticity, homeostasis, and development in the brainstem during the initial stages of hearing. A neonate exposed to an altered auditory environment may experience long-lasting change over the entire network of the auditory system.
Bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7) has neuroprotective effects against ischemia, oxidation stress, and lipopolysaccharide, but its role on amyloid-beta (A)-induced neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we exposed PC12 cells to A25-35 for 26 h to induce neurotoxicity, and added exogenous BMP7 at 2 h to observe the neuroprotective effects. The protective mechanisms involved, mostly related to inhibition of cell apoptosis and oxidation stress, were analyzed. In rat in vivo experiments, we bilaterally injected A1-40 into the basal forebrain to simulate neuropathological processes in AD, performed the Morris water maze test to evaluate the effect of A on spatial learning and memory, and explored the change of endogenous BMP7 expression in the brain. The present study demonstrated that BMP7 prevented neuronal injuries in PC12 cells induced by A25-35, including cell apoptosis and morphological impairment of dendrites as well as oxidation stress. BMP7 treatment significantly protected PC12 cells against A25-35-induced injury and inhibited the increasing content of the Bax gene and the decreasing activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD). A1-40 bilaterally injected into the rat basal forebrain obviously inhibited the rat's spatial learning ability and memory, and significantly induced downregulation of endogenous BMP7 in the basal forebrain while upregulating it in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that BMP7 has neuroprotective effects against A, which may be mediated through inhibition of Bax gene expression during cell apoptosis and elevation of SOD activities during the oxidative stress response. On the other hand, endogenous BMP7 may have a potential self-modulation capacity through negative feedback between the region of the basal forebrain and the hippocampus as a protective cytokine.
An impaired spinal GABAergic inhibitory function is known to be pivotal in neuropathic pain (NPP). At present, data concerning time-dependent alterations within the GABAergic system itself and post-synaptic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory transmission are highly controversial, likely related to the experimental NPP model used. Furthermore, it is unknown whether the severity of NPP is determined by the degree of these GABAergic disturbances. In the present study we therefore examined in one experimental animal model whether anatomical changes within the spinal GABAergic system and its GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory function are gradually aggravated during the development of partial sciatic nerve injury (PSNL)-induced NPP and are related to the severity of PSNL-induced hypersensitivity. Three and 16 days after a unilateral PSNL (early and late NPP, respectively), GABA-immunoreactivity (GABA-IR) and the number of GABA-IR neuronal profiles were determined in Rexed laminae 1-3 of lumbar spinal cord cryosections. Additionally, the efficiency of dorsal horn GABA(A) receptor-induced inhibition was examined by cation chloride cotransporter 2 (KCC2) immunoblotting. NPP-induced hypersensitivity was only observed at the ipsilateral side, both at early and late time points. During early NPP, a decrease in ipsilateral dorsal horn GABA-IR was observed without alterations in the number of GABA-IR neuronal profiles or KCC2 protein levels. In contrast, bilateral increases in spinal GABA-IR accompanied by an unchanged number of GABA-IR interneurons were observed during late NPP. This was furthermore attended with decreased ipsilateral KCC2 levels. Moreover, the degree of hypersensitivity was not related to disturbances within the spinal GABAergic system at all time points examined. In conclusion, our anatomical data suggest that a dysfunctional GABA production is likely to be involved in early NPP whereas late NPP is characterized by a combined dysfunctional GABA release and decreased KCC2 levels, the latter suggesting an impaired GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition.
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are the principal psychoactive and nonpsychoactive components of cannabis. While most THC-induced behavioral effects are thought to depend on endogenous cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors, the molecular targets for CBD remain unclear. Here, we report that CBD and THC inhibited the function of human 5-HT(3A) receptors (h5-HT(3A)Rs) expressed in HEK 293 cells. The magnitude of THC and CBD inhibition was maximal 5 min after a continuous incubation with cannabinoids. The EC values for CBD and THC-induced inhibition were 110 nM and 322 nM, respectively in HEK 293 cells expressing h5-HT(3A)Rs. In these cells, CBD and THC did not stimulate specific [S]-GTP-s binding in membranes, suggesting that the inhibition by cannabinoids is unlikely mediated by a G-protein dependent mechanism. On the other hand, both CBD and THC accelerated receptor desensitization kinetics without significantly changing activation time. The extent of cannabinoid inhibition appeared to depend on receptor desensitization. Reducing receptor desensitization by nocodazole, 5-hydroxyindole and a point-mutation in the large cytoplasmic domain of the receptor significantly decreased CBD-induced inhibition. Similarly, the magnitude of THC and CBD-induced inhibition varied with the apparent desensitization rate of h5-HT(3A)Rs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. For instance, with increasing amount of h5-HT(3A)R cRNA injected into the oocytes, the receptor desensitization rate at steady state decreased. THC and CBD-induced inhibition was correlated with the change in the receptor desensitization rate. Thus, CBD and THC inhibit h5-HT(3A) receptors through a mechanism that is dependent on receptor desensitization.
Both environmental stress and anxiety may represent important risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Previous studies demonstrate that restraint stress is associated with increased amyloid beta (A) and decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in the brain. A deposition, synaptic loss, and neurodegeneration define major hallmarks of AD, and BDNF is responsible for the maintenance of neurons. In contrast to restraint stress, repeated injections of sub-anxiogenic doses of the corticotrophin releasing factor receptor agonist urocortin1 (Ucn1) administered in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of rats elicits persistent anxiety-like responses. We hypothesized that both restraint stress and Ucn1-induced anxiety would contribute to a neurobiological abnormality that would change the levels of A precursor protein (APP) and A as well as BDNF and pre-synaptic markers. In the first experiment, adult male Wister rats (n=5) were subjected to 3-h restraint, as compared to unstressed controls. In the second experiment, adult male Wistar rats (n=6) were subjected to sub-anxiogenic doses of Ucn1 (6 fmol/100 nl) administered in the BLA for 5 consecutive days, as compared to controls. Following each respective treatment, the social interaction (SI) test was performed to measure anxiety-like behavior. Protein studies were then conducted to quantify levels of APP, A, BDNF and presynaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). In both experiments, we detected differences in either corticosterone levels or the SI test associated with a stress response. Furthermore, our findings indicate that both restraint stress and Ucn1 administration in the BLA lead to increased APP and A deposition. However, restraint-induced stress leads to reductions in the levels of BDNF and presynaptic markers, while Ucn1-induced anxiety is associated with increases in the levels of each respective protein. This demonstrates a convergent role for stress response and Ucn1-induced anxiety in the regulation of APP and A, but opposing roles for each respective treatment in the regulation of BDNF and presynaptic markers.
In addition to the known preventive effects of environmental enrichment (EE) on drug addiction, we have recently shown that EE can also have &quot;curative&quot; effects and eliminate addiction-related behaviors in mice and rats. In the present study, using Fos immunohistochemistry, we investigated brain regions involved in the elimination of cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) produced by a 30-day exposure to EE. A first group of mice was conditioned to cocaine in the CPP apparatus, a second group that served as control received cocaine in a cage different from the CPP apparatus and a third control group received only saline injections. At the end of conditioning, we kept mice abstinent in the animal facility, housing them in standard environments (SE) or EE for 30 days and then we tested them for expression of CPP. SE, but not EE mice, conditioned to cocaine showed long-lasting preferences for the cocaine-paired compartment. Expression of CPP was paralleled by significant increases in the expression of Fos in the anterior cingulate cortex, the lateral caudate putamen, the shell of the nucleus accumbens, the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, the basolateral and central nuclei of amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the ventral tegmental area. In contrast, EE mice showed levels of expression of FOS similar to control groups. These results demonstrate that EE can eliminate context-induced cocaine seeking and that this effect appears associated with a general reduction in the activation of several brain regions implicated in relapse.
Previous data demonstrate that traumatic brain injury (TBI) activates autophagy, and increases microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) immunostaining mainly in neurons. However, the role of autophagy in traumatic brain damage remains elusive. The aim of the present study was to investigate the autophagic mechanisms participating in traumatic brain injury. The autophagy inhibitors 3-methyladenine (3-MA) and bafliomycin A1 (BFA) were administered with a single i.c.v. injection before TBI. We first examined the protein levels of Beclin-1 and LC3 II, which have been found to promote autophagy previously. Immunoblotting analysis showed that 3-MA pretreatment reduced post-TBI Beclin-1 and LC3-II levels, and maintained p62/SQSTM1 (p62) levels. In addition, double immunolabeling showed that the increased punctate LC3-II dots colocalizing with Propidium Iodide (PI)-stained nuclei at 24 h after injury, were partially inhibited by 3-MA pretreatment. Furthermore, inhibition of autophagy could reduce TBI-induced cell injury assessed with i.p. injection of PI and lesion volume, and attenuate behavioral outcome evaluated by motor test and Morris water maze. The neuroprotective effects were associated with an inhibition on TBI-induced up-regulation of LC3, Beclin-1, cathepsin B, caspase-3 and the Beclin-1/Bcl-2 ratio. Taken together, these data imply that the autophagy pathway is involved in the pathophysiologic responses after TBI, and inhibition of this pathway may help attenuate traumatic damage and functional outcome deficits.
Methamphetamine (MA) is an abused stimulant which can result in cognitive deficits and monoamine depletions. Animal models of neurotoxic MA exposure show reductions in dopamine, serotonin, and their associated transporters. MA abuse can result in long-term attention, working memory, and executive function deficits in humans and deficits in route-based egocentric learning, novel object recognition, and novel odor preference in rodents. MA has also been shown to affect brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in humans and rodents. This experiment examined the effects of a MA binge dosing regimen (10 mg/kg x 4 at 2 h intervals, s.c.) in Sprague-Dawley rats on BDNF, tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB), and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression, and plasma corticosterone. Tissues were collected 1, 7, and 24 h following the last MA dose. Expression of BDNF and TrkB mRNA was analyzed using in situ hybridization with cRNA probes. Frontal, parietal, and entorhinal cortical BDNF mRNA expression were increased by MA exposure at all time-points. Increases in BDNF mRNA were also seen in the hippocampal CA1, prefrontal cortex (PFC), piriform cortex, and locus coeruleus but only at specific times. TrkB mRNA expression was modified in several subregions of the hippocampus as well as in PFC and striatum. TH mRNA was increased at the 1 h time-point in the substantia nigra pars compacta with no differences noted at the other times. Corticosterone levels were increased at all three time-points. The findings suggest that BDNF and its receptor may be upregulated as a compensatory mechanism after MA exposure.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) exert its biological functions by interacting with membrane bound receptors. However, functions of BMPs are also regulated in the extracellular space by secreted antagonistic regulators. Noggin is an extracellular BMP antagonist that binds BMP-2/4 with high affinity and thus interferes with binding to BMP receptors. Although noggin expression has been well described in the early development of the CNS, little information is available on its expression in the adult CNS. We, thus, investigated noggin expression in the adult rat CNS using immunohistochemistry. Noggin was intensely expressed in most neurons, and their axons. In addition, strong noggin expression was also observed in the neuropil of the gray matters where high plasticity is reported, such as the molecular layer of the cerebellum and the superficial layer of the superior colliculus. Furthermore, we found that astrocytes and ependymal cells also express noggin protein. These data indicate that noggin is more widely expressed throughout the adult CNS than previously reported, and its continued abundant expression in the adult brain strongly supports the idea that noggin plays pivotal roles also in the adult brain.
Psychological stress elicits increases in sympathetic activity accompanied by a marked cardiovascular response. Revealing the relevant central mechanisms involved in this phenomenon could contribute significantly to our understanding of the pathogenesis of stress-related cardiovascular diseases, and the key to this understanding is the identification of the nuclei, pathways and neurotransmitters involved in the organization of the cardiovascular response to stress. The present review will focus specifically on the dorsomedial hypothalamus, a brain region now known to play a primary role in the synaptic integration underlying the cardiovascular response to emotional stress.
In humans, high levels of anxiety are associated with poor performance in the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). The IGT measures decision-making under conditions of uncertainty. In this study, we investigated the association between anxiety and decision-making in rats. Rats were screened for anxiety on the elevated plus maze (EPM) and subsequently tested in a rat analogue of the IGT (r-IGT). We explored the role of frontostriatal areas related to r-IGT performance using c-fos immunohistochemistry following the last training-session. High levels of anxiety were associated with poor r-IGT performance: high anxious rats made fewer choices for the advantageous option and collected fewer sucrose pellets in the r-IGT than low anxious rats. Analysis of win-stay/lose-shift behaviour of choices for the advantageous option revealed that good performing-low anxious subjects showed an increase in win-stays and a decrease in lose-shifts across trial blocks while poor performing-high anxious subjects did not. Furthermore, decision-making performance and, indirectly, anxiety levels were related to neural activity in parts of the medial prefrontal cortex, that is prelimbic and infralimbic cortex, and in parts of the striatum, that is nucleus accumbens shell and core. These data suggest a similar frontostriatal circuitry underlying affective decision-making in humans and rats.
It is strongly suggested that estrogen plays a key role in pain modulation. Estrogen's effects are mediated mainly by two receptors, ER and ER. However, the specific role of these receptors is still not clear. In this study, the involvement of both receptors on nociceptive responses was measured in ER and ER knockout (KO) C57BL/6j mice and their respective wild type (WT) littermate (male and female). It was also measured in four groups of ovariectomized mice injected for 7 days with either (1) vehicle, (2) 17-estradiol, (3) ER-selective agonist propylpyrazoletriol (PPT) or (4) ER-selective agonist diarylpropionitril (DPN). As previously described, ER KO females showed lower nociceptive responses compared to WT female mice during the interphase and early tonic phase 2 of the formalin test. The observed pronociceptive nature of ER was confirmed using ER-selective agonist DPN injections in ovariectomized mice. Moreover, we found that ER KO male and female mice presented a small increase in nociceptive behaviors during phase 1 of the formalin test, suggesting an anti-nociceptive effect of ER. These results were confirmed by the injection of ER-selective agonist PPT in ovariectomized mice. Interestingly, both ER agonists reduced nociceptive responses during late phase 2, suggesting an anti-inflammatory action of estrogen. Results were supported by spinal c-Fos immunohistochemistry. In conclusion, both ER and ER appear to be involved in pain transmission and modulation but may be acting at distinct levels of the pain pathways.
ELND006 is a novel -secretase inhibitor by Elan Corporation that was in the clinic as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The clinical trial for ELND006 was halted in October 2010 due to liver side effects that are thought to be unrelated to the mechanism of action. However, this represents another small molecule -secretase inhibitor that has failed in clinical trials (semagacestat) (http://newsroom.lilly.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=499794) which raises serious questions regarding this mechanism for the treatment of AD.
During the last two decades, functional neuroimaging technology, especially functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), has improved tremendously, with new attention towards resting-state functional connectivity of the brain. This development has allowed scientists to study changes in brain structure and function, and probe these two properties under conditions of evoked stimulation, disease and drug administration. In the domain of functional imaging, the identification and characterization of central nervous system (CNS) functional networks have emerged as potential biomarkers for CNS disorders in humans. Recent attempts to translate clinical neuroimaging methodology to preclinical studies have also been carried out, which offer new opportunities in translational neuroscience research. In this paper, we review recent developments in structural and functional MRI and their use to probe functional connectivity in various CNS disorders such as schizophrenia, mood disorders, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and pain.
Real-time monitoring of actin polymerization in living cells is beneficial for characterizing cellular activities such as migration, proliferation, and death. We developed new bioluminescence-based probe proteins that enable the monitoring of actin polymerization in living cells. Unlike other ordinary split luciferase probes, our probes were incorporated in endogenous actin filament that enabled it to measure the actin polymerization quantitatively. The probe proteins exhibited a dose-responsive decrease in photon emission intensity in response to the filamentous (F)-actin-disrupting agent latrunculin A. This technique has a high sensitivity with a high signal-to-noise ratio and is nontoxic compared with other methods of monitoring actin polymerization in living cells. Using this technique, we succeeded in monitoring the F-actin level in living cells during apoptosis progression induced by UV irradiation continuously for 12 h. F-actin was transiently upregulated after UV irradiation. Since UV-induced cell death was enhanced by treatment with latrunculin A during the period which F-actin is increased, transient upregulation of F-actin after UV is likely a protective reaction against UV-induced cell death. Our novel technique is an effective tool for investigating actin polymerization in living cells.
Functional neuroimaging studies have identified multiple nodes of dysfunction in frontostriatal and mesocorticolimbic networks in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Yet relatively few studies have examined how structural and functional connectivity between nodes in these networks might relate to the behavioral symptoms of ADHD. Moreover, it is unknown whether abnormalities in connectivity are a primary cause of symptoms or arise secondary to common etiologic mechanisms. We review the most recent diffusion tensor imaging and functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of connectivity in ADHD to characterize associations between frontostriatal connectivity abnormalities and the behavioral symptoms of inattention and impulsivity in ADHD. Furthermore, we examine how structural and functional connectivity measures relate to environmental and genetic pathways to ADHD. Diffusion tensor imaging studies indicate that ADHD is associated with significant irregularities in white matter microstructure, especially in frontostriatal and select corticocortical tracts. Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging studies implicate altered connectivity within a default mode network of structures active during introspective, task-free processes and disrupted interactions between this network and frontostriatal attentional systems. Deficits in functional connectivity within frontostriatal and mesocorticolimbic networks might give rise, in part, to ADHD symptoms. Conversely, structural connectivity deficits and ADHD symptoms might arise incidentally from a common etiologic mechanism, involving altered modulation of synaptic potentiation and pruning by dopamine and other factors during development. Collectively, these studies suggest that the core symptoms of ADHD might derive from dysregulated modulation of cortical plasticity in the developing brain, resulting in altered patterns of corticocortical connectivity that might persist into adulthood.
Building on animal and human lesion evidence, neuroimaging studies are increasingly identifying abnormalities in corticolimbic circuits mediating aggressive behavior. This review focuses on three neural systems involved in impulsive/reactive aggression: 1) subcortical neural systems that support the production of aggressive impulses; 2) decision-making circuits and social-emotional information processing circuits that evaluate the consequences of aggressing or not aggressing; and 3) frontoparietal regions that are involved in regulating emotions and impulsive motivational urges. We review psychiatric disorders, including borderline personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder, characterized by elevated reactive aggression, focusing on abnormalities in these three neural systems.
The last three decades has seen a steady growth of neuroscience research aimed at understanding the functions and sources of top-down attentional modulation in the brain. This correlates with recognition that attention may be a necessary component of sensory systems to support natural behaviors in natural environments. Complexity and clutter are two of the most recognizable hallmarks of natural environments, which can simultaneously contain vitally important and completely irrelevant stimuli. Attention serves as an adaptive filter providing each sensory modality preferential processing routes for important stimuli while suppressing responses to distracters, thus optimizing use of limited neural resources. In other words, attention is the family of mechanisms by which organisms are able to effectively and selectively allocate limited neural resources to achieve specific behavioral goals. This review provides some historical context for considering attentional frameworks and modern neurophysiological attention research, focusing on visual attention. A taxonomy of common attentional effects and neural mechanisms is provided, along with consideration of the specific relationship between attention and saccade planning. We examine the validity of premotor theories of attention, which posit that attention and saccade planning are one and the same. While there is strong evidence that attention and oculomotor planning are similar, with shared neural substrates, there is also evidence that these two functions are not synonymous. Finally, we examine neurophysiological explanations for dysfunction in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and the hypothesis that social impairment in autism spectrum disorders is partially attributable to perturbations of attentional control circuitry.
Functional and structural neuroimaging have identified abnormalities of the brain that are likely to contribute to the neuropathophysiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In particular, hypofunction of the brain regions comprising the cingulo-frontal-parietal cognitive-attention network have been consistently observed across studies. These are major components of neural systems that are relevant to ADHD, including cognitive/attention networks, motor systems, and reward/feedback-based processing systems. Moreover, these areas interact with other brain circuits that have been implicated in ADHD, such as the &quot;default mode&quot; resting state network. The ADHD imaging data related to cingulo-frontal-parietal network dysfunction will be selectively highlighted here to help facilitate its integration with the other information presented in this special issue. Together, these reviews will help shed light on the neurobiology of ADHD.
Executive control processes, such as sustained attention, response inhibition, and error monitoring, allow humans to guide behavior in appropriate, flexible, and adaptive ways. The consequences of executive dysfunction for humans can be dramatic, as exemplified by the large range of both neurologic and neuropsychiatric disorders in which such deficits negatively affect outcome and quality of life. Much evidence suggests that many clinical disorders marked by executive deficits are highly heritable and that individual differences in quantitative measures of executive function are strongly driven by genetic differences. Accordingly, intense research effort has recently been directed toward mapping the genetic architecture of executive control processes in both clinical (e.g., attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) and nonclinical populations. Here we review the extant literature on the molecular genetic correlates of three exemplar but dissociable executive functions: sustained attention, response inhibition, and error processing. Our review focuses on monoaminergic gene variants given the strong body of evidence from cognitive neuroscience and pharmacology implicating dopamine, noradrenaline, and serotonin as neuromodulators of executive function. Associations between DNA variants of the dopamine beta hydroxylase gene and measures of sustained attention accord well with cognitive-neuroanatomical models of sustained attention. Equally, functional variants of the dopamine D2 receptor gene are reliably associated with performance monitoring, error processing, and reinforcement learning. Emerging evidence suggests that variants of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) and dopamine D4 receptor gene (DRD4) show promise for explaining significant variance in individual differences in both behavioral and neural measures of inhibitory control.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) receives a dense serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) innervation from the dorsal raphe nucleus, with a smaller contribution from the median raphe nucleus. The reciprocal innervation from the OFC enables the OFC to regulate not only its own 5-HT input but the 5-HT input to the rest of the forebrain. This article reviews the evidence from studies in rodents and primates that implicate 5-HT in the OFC in the ability of animals to adapt their responding to changes in reward contingencies in the environment. A consensus is emerging that reductions in orbitofrontal 5-HT, whether the result of localized infusions of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), peripheral treatment with parachloroamphetamine (PCA) or para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), or chronic cold stress impairs this ability. Genetic variation in the 5-HT transporter can also affect this ability. An explanation regarding insensitivity to reward loss is ruled out by the finding that marmosets with 5-HT reductions in the OFC display a decline of responding as rapid as that of control animals when reward is withheld during extinction of a two-pattern discrimination task. The failure of these same animals to explore alternative stimuli during extinction, along with the recent electrophysiological evidence that dorsal raphe nucleus neurons encode future motivational outcomes, implicates orbitofrontal 5-HT in the process by which animals either exploit current resources or explore alternative resources based on current reward expectations.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent condition associated with cognitive dysfunction. The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery is a computerized set of tests that has been widely used in ADHD and in translation/back-translation. Following a survey of translational research relevant to ADHD in experimental animals, a comprehensive literature review was conducted of studies that had used core Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery tests 1) to evaluate cognitive dysfunction in ADHD and 2) to evaluate effects of salient drugs in patients and in volunteers. Meta-analysis was conducted where four or more independent datasets were available. Meta-analysis revealed medium-large decrements in ADHD for response inhibition (d = .790, p &lt; .001), working memory (d = .883, p &lt; .001), executive planning (d = .491, p &lt; .001), and a small decrement in attentional set shifting (d = .160, p = .040). Qualitative review of the literature showed some consistent patterns. In ADHD, methylphenidate improved working memory, modafinil improved planning, and methylphenidate, modafinil, and atomoxetine improved inhibition. Meta-analysis of modafinil healthy volunteer studies showed no effects on sustained attention or set shifting. Results were paralleled by findings in experimental animals on comparable tests, enabling further analysis of drug mechanisms. Substantial cognitive deficits are present in ADHD, which can be remediated somewhat with current medications and which can readily be modeled in experimental animals using back-translational methodology. The findings suggest overlapping but also distinct early cognitive effects of ADHD medications and have important implications for understanding the pathophysiology of ADHD and for future trials.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has long been conceptualized as a neurobiological disorder of the prefrontal cortex and its connections. Circuits with the prefrontal cortex relevant to ADHD include dorsal frontostriatal, orbitofronto-striatal, and fronto-cerebellar circuits. Dorsal frontostriatal circuitry has been linked to cognitive control, whereas orbitofronto-striatal loops have been related to reward processing. Fronto-cerebellar circuits have been implicated in timing. Neurobiological dysfunction in any of these circuits could lead to symptoms of ADHD, as behavioral control could be disturbed by: 1) deficits in the prefrontal cortex itself; or 2) problems in the circuits relaying information to the prefrontal cortex, leading to reduced signaling for control. This article suggests a model for differentiating between interlinked reciprocal circuits with the prefrontal cortex in ADHD. If such a differentiation can be achieved, it might permit a neurobiological subtyping of ADHD, perhaps by defining &quot;dorsal fronto-striatal,&quot; &quot;orbitofronto-striatal,&quot; or &quot;fronto-cerebellar&quot; subtypes of ADHD. This could be useful as a template for investigating the neurobiology of ADHD and, ultimately, clinically.
A better understanding of the neural systems underlying impulse control is important for psychiatry. Although most impulses are motivational or emotional rather than motoric per se, it is research into the neural architecture of motor response control that has made the greatest strides. This article reviews recent developments in the cognitive neuroscience of stopping responses. Most research of this kind has focused on reactive control-that is, how subjects stop a response outright when instructed by a signal. It is argued that reactive paradigms are limited as models of control relevant to psychiatry. Instead, a set of paradigms is advocated that begins to model proactive inhibitory control-that is, how a subject prepares to stop an upcoming response tendency. Proactive inhibitory control is generated according to the goals of the subject rather than by an external signal, and it can be selectively targeted at a particular response tendency. This may have wider validity than reactive control as an experimental model for stopping inappropriate responses.
Impulsivity refers to a set of heterogeneous behaviors that are tuned suboptimally along certain temporal dimensions. Impulsive intertemporal choice refers to the tendency to forego a large but delayed reward and to seek an inferior but more immediate reward, whereas impulsive motor responses also result when the subjects fail to suppress inappropriate automatic behaviors. In addition, impulsive actions can be produced when too much emphasis is placed on speed rather than accuracy in a wide range of behaviors, including perceptual decision making. Despite this heterogeneous nature, the prefrontal cortex and its connected areas, such as the basal ganglia, play an important role in gating impulsive actions in a variety of behavioral tasks. Here, we describe key features of computations necessary for optimal decision making and how their failures can lead to impulsive behaviors. We also review the recent findings from neuroimaging and single-neuron recording studies on the neural mechanisms related to impulsive behaviors. Converging approaches in economics, psychology, and neuroscience provide a unique vista for better understanding the nature of behavioral impairments associated with impulsivity.
Herein we report the discovery of a novel series of vasopressin 1b (V1b) receptor antagonists, starting from potent but metabolically labile oxindole SSR149415. Masking the proline N,N-dimethyl amide moiety as an oxazole and attaching a benzylic amine moiety to the northern phenyl ring resulted in potent and selective V1b receptor antagonists with improved metabolic stability and improved pharmacokinetic properties in rat. Compound 18c was found to be efficacious in a rat model of anti-depressant activity.
Poly(ethylene glycol) diglycidyl ether (PEGDE) is widely used as an additive for cross-linking polymers bearing amine, hydroxyl, or carboxyl groups. However, the idea of using PEGDE alone for immobilizing proteins on biosensors has never been thoroughly explored. We report the successful fabrication of microelectrode biosensors based on glucose oxidase, d-amino acid oxidase, and glutamate oxidase immobilized using PEGDE. We found that biosensors made with PEGDE exhibited high sensitivity and a response time on the order of seconds, which is sufficient for observing biological processes in vivo. The enzymatic activity on these biosensors was highly stable over several months when they were stored at 4 C, and over at least 3d at 37 C. Glucose microelectrode biosensors implanted in the central nervous system of anesthetized rats reliably monitored changes in brain glucose levels induced by sequential administration of insulin and glucose. PEGDE provides a simple, low cost, non-toxic alternative for the preparation of in vivo microelectrode biosensors.
The accurate perception of sound frequency by vertebrates relies upon the tuning of hair cells, which are arranged along auditory organs according to frequency. This arrangement, which is termed a tonotopic gradient, results from the coordination of many cellular and extracellular features. Seeking the mechanisms that orchestrate those features and govern the tonotopic gradient, we used expression microarrays to identify genes differentially expressed between the high- and low-frequency cochlear regions of the chick (Gallus gallus). Of the three signaling systems that were represented extensively in the results, we focused on the notch pathway and particularly on DNER, a putative notch ligand, and PTP, a receptor phosphatase that controls DNER trafficking. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that both proteins are expressed more strongly in hair cells at the cochlear apex than in those at the base. At the apical surface of each hair cell, the proteins display polarized, mutually exclusive localization patterns. Using morpholinos to decrease the expression of DNER or PTP as well as a retroviral vector to overexpress DNER, we observed disturbances of hair-bundle morphology and orientation. Our results suggest a role for DNER and PTP in hair-cell development and possibly in the specification of tonotopy.
Several genes predisposing to autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) with or without epilepsy have been identified, many of which are implicated in synaptic function. Here we report a Q555X mutation in synapsin 1 (SYN1), an X-linked gene encoding for a neuron-specific phosphoprotein implicated in the regulation of neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis. This nonsense mutation was found in all affected individuals from a large French-Canadian family segregating epilepsy and ASDs. Additional mutations in SYN1 (A51G, A550T and T567A) were found in 1.0 and 3.5% of French-Canadian individuals with autism and epilepsy, respectively. The majority of these SYN1 mutations were clustered in the proline-rich D-domain which is substrate of multiple protein kinases. When expressed in synapsin I (SynI) knockout (KO) neurons, all the D-domain mutants failed in rescuing the impairment in the size and trafficking of synaptic vesicle pools, whereas the wild-type human SynI fully reverted the KO phenotype. Moreover, the nonsense Q555X mutation had a dramatic impact on phosphorylation by MAPK/Erk and neurite outgrowth, whereas the missense A550T and T567A mutants displayed impaired targeting to nerve terminals. These results demonstrate that SYN1 is a novel predisposing gene to ASDs, in addition to epilepsy, and strengthen the hypothesis that a disturbance of synaptic homeostasis underlies the pathogenesis of both diseases.
The role(s) of the newly discovered stargazin-like -subunit proteins remains unclear; although they are now widely accepted to be transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs), rather than Ca channel subunits, it is possible that they have more general roles in trafficking within neurons. We previously found that  subunit is associated with vesicles when it is expressed in neurons and other cells. Here, we show that  is present mainly in retrogradely transported organelles in sympathetic neurons, where it colocalises with TrkA-YFP, and with the early endosome marker EEA1, suggesting that  localises to signalling endosomes. It was not found to colocalise with markers of the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, lysosomes or late endosomes. Furthermore, knockdown of endogenous  by short hairpin RNA transfection into sympathetic neurons reduced neurite outgrowth. The same was true in the PC12 neuronal cell line, where neurite outgrowth was restored by overexpression of human . These findings open the possibility that  has an essential trafficking role in relation to neurite outgrowth as a component of endosomes involved in neurite extension and growth cone remodelling.
Serotonin 5-HT(6) receptors have been implicated in the regulation of cognition, locomotion, and mood, but the elucidation of their functions is complicated by conflicting data using various animal models. Here, a systematic evaluation showed that autoradiographic binding with the selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist [(125) I]SB-258585 was similar in marmosets and rats. In both species, [(125) I]SB-258585 binding was enriched in the caudate-putamen. Various recently developed agonists and antagonists toward 5-HT(6) receptors exhibited similarities in their abilities to displace [(125) I]SB-258585 binding in marmosets and rats. The rank order of pEC50 values were as follows: (+)EMDT-CR = EMD386088&gt;MS-245 = 5-HT&gt;EMDT&gt;(-)EMDT-CR; and (+)EMDT-CR = EMD386088&gt;5-HT = MS-245 = EMDT&gt;(-)EMDT-CR, in marmosets and rats, respectively. Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning of dopaminergic axons caused a significant decrease of [(125) I]SB-258585 binding in the caudate-putamen of both marmosets and rats. Nonetheless, acute administration of the 5-HT(6) receptor agonist EMDT to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, caused an induction of egr-1, homer, and enkephalin mRNAs in the dopamine-depleted hemisphere, indicating a supersensitization of 5-HT(6) receptors following dopamine depletion. In conclusion, this study provides evidence for significant similarities in the distribution, level, pharmacology, and regulation of 5-HT(6) receptors between rats and marmosets.
The cerebellum (Cb) of mammals and birds consists of an evolutionarily conserved map defined by Purkinje cell (PC) protein expression. In mice, ZebrinII/aldolaseC is expressed in a striking array of stripes in lobules I-V (anterior zone; AZ) and VIII-anterior IX (posterior zone; PZ), whereas the small heat shock protein 25 (HSP25) is expressed in stripes in lobules VI-VII (central zone, CZ) and posterior IX-X (nodular zone, NZ). Little is known about whether molecularly defined afferent subsets terminate within specific PC stripes or whether their topography is conserved across species. Using immunohistochemistry, we demonstrate in adult mice and rats that cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) expression can be used to partition sensory-motor projections into complex topographic maps. We found that in mice CART was expressed in climbing fiber bands that generally corresponded to the pattern of HSP25-expressing PCs in the CZ/NZ. In contrast, CART was expressed in climbing fiber bands in all four transverse zones of the rat Cb. Within the rat AZ/PZ, climbing fibers terminated selectively within the dendrites of ZebrinII-immunoreactive PCs. In additional experiments, we observed CART expression in loose clusters of spinocerebellar mossy fibers in the mouse AZ/PZ, whereas in rat CART immunoreactive mossy fibers terminated predominantly in the CZ/NZ. We conclude that, although the overall topography of CART-expressing afferents is restricted within a conserved map of PC stripes and transverse zones, their termination patterns also reflect species-specific compartmental features.
In many parts of the world, climate change is increasing the frequency and severity of heat waves. How do heat waves impact short-lived poikilotherms such as insects? In the cricket, Gryllus texensis, 6 days of elevated temperatures (i.e. 7C above the average field temperature and 5C above their preferred temperature) resulted in increased egg laying, faster egg development and greater mass gain. The increased temperature also increased activity of phenoloxidase and lysozyme-like enzymes, two immune-related enzymes, and enhanced resistance to the Gram-negative bacterium Serratia marcescens. When given a sublethal S. marcescens infection, G. texensis maintained increased reproductive output at the elevated temperature (33C). These data suggest that heat waves could result in more numerous, disease resistant, crickets. However, resistance to the Gram-positive bacterium, Bacillus cereus was lower at temperatures above or below the average field temperature (26C). A sublethal infection with B. cereus reduced egg laying at all temperatures and suppressed the increase in egg laying induced by higher temperatures. These results suggest that for some species-pathogen interactions, increased temperatures can induce trade-offs between reproduction and disease resistance. This result may partly explain why G. texensis prefers temperatures lower than those that produce maximal reproductive output and enhanced immune function.
The advent and wide introduction of antiretroviral therapy has greatly improved the survival and longevity of HIV-infected patients. Unfortunately, despite antiretroviral therapy treatment, these patients are still afflicted with many complications including cognitive dysfunction. There is a growing body of reports indicating accelerated deposition of amyloid plaques, which are composed of amyloid- peptide (A), in HIV-infected brains, though how HIV viral infection precipitates A accumulation is poorly understood. It is suggested that viral infection leads to increased production and impaired degradation of A. Mononuclear phagocytes (macrophages and microglia) that are productively infected by HIV in brains play a pivotal role in A degradation through the expression and execution of two endopeptidases, neprilysin (NEP) and insulin-degrading enzyme. In this study, we report that NEP has the dominant endopeptidase activity toward A in macrophages. Further, we demonstrate that monomeric A degradation by primary cultured macrophages and microglia was significantly impaired by HIV infection. This was accompanied with great reduction of NEP endopeptidase activity, which might be due to the diminished transport of NEP to the cell surface and intracellular accumulation at the endoplasmic reticulum and lysosomes. Therefore, these data suggest that malfunction of NEP in infected macrophages may contribute to acceleration of  amyloidosis in HIV-inflicted brains, and modulation of macrophages may be a potential preventative target of A-related cognitive disorders in HIV-affected patients.

We describe a fatal case of proven enterovirus 71 meningoencephalitis complicating monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody therapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. B-cell depletion, an effective treatment strategy in an expanding spectrum of hematological and inflammatory disorders, impairs neutralising antibody-mediated clearance of enterovirus. The global threat of emerging neurotropic viruses such as enterovirus 71 is heightened by an increasing pool of susceptible individuals in non-endemic regions.
Behavioral studies in humans and electrophysiological recordings in nonhuman primates have suggested the existence of a specific representation of the space immediately surrounding the body. In macaques, neurons that have visual receptive fields limited to a region of space close around a body part have been found in premotor and parietal areas. These cells are hypothesized to encode the location of external objects in coordinate systems that are centered on individual body parts. In the present study, we used an fMRI adaptation paradigm on healthy participants to reveal areas in the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus, the inferior parietal lobe (supramarginal gyrus), and the dorsal and ventral portions of the premotor cortex that exhibit selective BOLD adaptation to an object moving near the right hand. Crucially, these areas did not manifest adaptation if the stimulus was presented in far space (100 cm) or when the hand was retracted from the object. This hand-centered selectivity could not be detected when a traditional fMRI analysis approach was used. These findings are important as they provide the most conclusive neuroimaging evidence to date for a representation of near-personal space in the human brain. They also demonstrate a selective mechanism implemented by human perihand neurons in the premotor and posterior parietal areas and add to earlier findings from humans and nonhuman primates.
Cognitive decline precedes motor symptoms in Huntington disease (HD). A transgenic rat model for HD carrying only 51 CAG repeats recapitulates the late-onset HD phenotype. Here, we assessed prefrontostriatal function in this model through both behavioral and electrophysiological assays. Behavioral examination consisted in a temporal bisection task within a supra-second range (2 vs.8 s), which is thought to involve prefrontostriatal networks. In two independent experiments, the behavioral analysis revealed poorer temporal sensitivity as early as 4 months of age, well before detection of overt motor deficits. At a later symptomatic age, animals were impaired in their temporal discriminative behavior. In vivo recording of field potentials in the dorsomedial striatum evoked by stimulation of the prelimbic cortex were studied in 4- to 5-month-old rats. Input/output curves, paired-pulse function, and plasticity induced by theta-burst stimulation (TBS) were assessed. Results showed an altered plasticity, with higher paired-pulse facilitation, enhanced short-term depression, as well as stronger long-term potentiation after TBS in homozygous transgenic rats. Results from the heterozygous animals mostly fell between wild-type and homozygous transgenic rats. Our results suggest that normal plasticity in prefrontostriatal circuits may be necessary for reliable and precise timing behavior. Furthermore, the present study provides the first behavioral and electrophysiological evidence of a presymptomatic alteration of prefrontostriatal processing in an animal model for Huntington disease and suggests that supra-second timing may be the earliest cognitive dysfunction in HD.
Several studies have suggested that, in higher primates, nociceptive somatosensory information is processed in parallel in the primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortices, whereas non-nociceptive somatosensory input is processed serially from S1 to S2. However, evidence suggesting that both nociceptive and non-nociceptive somatosensory inputs are processed in parallel in S1 and S2 also exists. Here, we aimed to clarify whether or not the hierarchical organization of nociceptive and non-nociceptive somatosensory processing in S1 and S2 differs in humans. To address this question, we applied dynamic causal modeling and Bayesian model selection to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data collected during the selective stimulation of nociceptive and non-nociceptive somatosensory afferents in humans. This novel approach allowed us to explore how nociceptive and non-nociceptive somatosensory information flows within the somatosensory system. We found that the neural activities elicited by both nociceptive and non-nociceptive somatosensory stimuli are best explained by models in which the fMRI responses in both S1 and S2 depend on direct thalamocortical projections. These observations indicate that, in humans, both nociceptive and non-nociceptive information are processed in parallel in S1 and S2.
In neurons of the medial superior olive (MSO), voltage-gated ion channels control the submillisecond time resolution of binaural coincidence detection, but little is known about their interplay during trains of synaptic activity that would be experienced during auditory stimuli. Here, using modeling and patch-clamp recordings from MSO principal neurons in gerbil brainstem slices, we examined interactions between two major currents controlling subthreshold synaptic integration: a low-voltage-activated potassium current (I(K-LVA)) and a hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)). Both I(h) and I(K-LVA) contributed strongly to the resting membrane conductance and, during trains of simulated EPSPs, exhibited cumulative deactivation and inactivation, respectively. In current-clamp recordings, regular and irregular trains of simulated EPSCs increased input resistance up to 60%, effects that accumulated and decayed (after train) over hundreds of milliseconds. Surprisingly, the mean voltage and peaks of EPSPs increased by only a few millivolts during trains. Using a model of an MSO cell, we demonstrated that the nearly uniform response during modest depolarizing stimuli relied on changes in I(h) and I(K-LVA), such that their sum remained nearly constant over time. Experiments and modeling showed that, for simplified binaural stimuli (EPSC pairs in a noisy background), spike probability gradually increased in parallel with the increasing input resistance. Nevertheless, the interplay between I(h) and I(K-LVA) helps to maintain a nearly uniform shape of individual synaptic responses, and we show that the time resolution of synaptic coincidence detection can be maintained during trains if EPSC size gradually decreases (as in synaptic depression), counteracting slow increases in excitability.
Chronic exposure to drugs of abuse alters brain reward circuits and produces functional changes in the dopamine (DA) system. However, it is not known whether these changes are directly related to drug-driven behaviors or whether they simply are adaptive responses to long-term drug exposure. Here, we combined the rat model of cocaine self-administration with brain slice electrophysiology to identify drug-use related alterations in the neuromodulatory effects of DA in the oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (ovBST), a robust DA terminal field. Long-Evans rats self-administered cocaine intravenously (0.75 mg/kg/injection) for an average of 15 d, on reward-lean or -rich schedules of reinforcement. Brain slice recordings conducted 20 h after the last self-administration session revealed a reversal of the neuromodulatory effect of DA on GABA(A)-IPSCs. Specifically, the effect of DA switched from a D2-mediated decrease in drug-naive rats to a D1-receptor-mediated increase in GABA(A)-IPSC in cocaine self-administering rats. Furthermore, the switch in DA modulation of GABA(A)-IPSC remained after a 30 d withdrawal period. In contrast, this switch was not observed after the acquisition phase of cocaine self-administration, when rats received cocaine passively, or in rats maintaining sucrose self-administration. Therefore, our study reveals a reversal in the effects of DA on inhibitory transmission, from reduction to enhancement, in the ovBST of cocaine self-administering rats. This change was unique to voluntary intake of cocaine and maintained after a withdrawal period, suggesting a mechanism underlying the maintenance of cocaine self-administration and perhaps craving during drug-free periods.
Astrocytes show a complex structural and physiological interplay with neurons and respond to neuronal activation in vitro and in vivo with intracellular calcium elevations. These calcium changes enable astrocytes to modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity through various mechanisms. However, the response pattern of astrocytes to single neuronal depolarization events still remains unresolved. This information is critical for fully understanding the coordinated network of neuron-glial signaling in the brain. To address this, we developed a system to map astrocyte calcium responses along apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices using single-neuron stimulation with channelrhodopsin-2. This technique allowed selective neuronal depolarization without invasive manipulations known to alter calcium levels in astrocytes. Light-evoked neuronal depolarization was elicited and calcium events in surrounding astrocytes were monitored using the calcium-sensitive dye Calcium Orange. Stimulation of single neurons caused calcium responses in populations of astrocytes along the apical axis of CA1 cell dendrites. Calcium responses included single events that were synchronized with neuronal stimulation and poststimulus changes in calcium event frequency, both of which were modulated by glutamatergic and purinergic signaling. Individual astrocytes near CA1 cells showed low ability to respond to repeated neuronal depolarization events. However, the response of the surrounding astrocyte population was remarkably accurate. Interestingly, the reliability of responses was graded with respect to astrocyte location along the CA1 cell dendrite, with astrocytes residing in the primary dendrite subregion being most responsive. This study provides a new perspective on the dynamic response property of astrocyte ensembles to neuronal activity.
Epileptic seizures are characterized by periods of recurrent, highly synchronized activity that spontaneously terminates, followed by postictal state when neuronal activity is generally depressed. The mechanisms for spontaneous seizure termination and postictal depression remain poorly understood. Using a realistic computational model, we demonstrate that termination of seizure and postictal depression state may be mediated by dynamics of the intracellular and extracellular ion concentrations. Spontaneous termination was linked to progressive increase of intracellular sodium concentration mediated by activation of sodium channels during highly active epileptic state. In contrast, an increase of intracellular chloride concentration extended seizure duration making possible long-lasting epileptic activity characterized by multiple transitions between tonic and clonic states. After seizure termination, the extracellular potassium was reduced below baseline, resulting in postictal depression. Our study suggests that the coupled dynamics of sodium, potassium, and chloride ions play a critical role in the development and termination of seizures. Findings from this study could help identify novel therapeutics for seizure disorder.
Most memories are strengthened by additional stimuli, but it is unclear how additional stimulation or training reinforces long-term memory. To address this we examined whether long-term facilitation (LTF) of Aplysia sensorimotor synapses in cell culture-a cellular correlate of long-term sensitization of defensive withdrawal reflexes in Aplysia californica-can be prolonged by additional stimulation. We found that 1 d treatment with serotonin (5-HT; five brief applications at 20 min intervals) produced LTF lasting 3 d, whereas 2 d of such 5-HT treatments induced a persistent LTF lasting &gt;7 d. Incubation with the protein synthesis inhibitor rapamycin during the second set of 5-HT treatments abolished all facilitation, and synapse strength returned prematurely to baseline. Persistent LTF required more persistent elevation in the expression of the neurotrophin-like peptide sensorin and its secretion. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) during the second day of 5-HT treatments, not required for LTF or changes in sensorin expression during the first set of 5-HT treatments, is critical for persistent LTF and replaces phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) activity in mediating the increase in sensorin expression. In contrast, activations of PKC during the first day of 5-HT treatments and PI3K during the second day of 5-HT treatments are unnecessary for persistent LTF or the increases in sensorin expression. Thus, additional stimuli make preexisting plasticity labile as they recruit a new signaling cascade to regulate the synthesis of a neurotrophin-like peptide required for persistent alterations in synaptic efficacy.
Spontaneous rhythmic activity is a ubiquitous feature of developing neural structures that has been shown to be essential for the establishment of functional CNS connectivity. However, the primordial origin of these rhythms remains unknown. Here, we describe two types of rhythmic activity in distinct parts of the developing CNS isolated ex vivo on microelectrode arrays, the expression of which was found to be strictly dependent upon the movement of the artificial CSF (aCSF) flowing over the inner wall of the ventricles or over the outer surface of the CNS. First, whole embryonic mouse hindbrain-spinal cord preparations (stages E12.5-E15.5) rhythmically expressed waves of activity originating in the hindbrain and propagating in the spinal cord. Interestingly enough, the frequency of this rhythm was completely determined by the speed of the aCSF flow. In particular, at all stages considered, hindbrain activity was abolished when the perfusion was stopped. Immature rhythmic activity was also recorded in the isolated newborn (P0-P8) mouse cortex under normal aCSF perfusion. Again, this rhythm was abolished when the perfusion flow was stopped. In both structures, this phenomenon was not due to changes in temperature, oxygen level, or pH of the bath, but to the movement itself of the aCSF. These observations challenge the so-called &quot;spontaneous&quot; nature of rhythmic activity in immature neural networks and suggest that the movement of CSF in the ventricles and around the brain in vivo may mechanically drive rhythmogenesis in the developing CNS.
In decision under risk, people choose between lotteries that contain a list of potential outcomes paired with their probabilities of occurrence. We previously developed a method for translating such lotteries to mathematically equivalent &quot;motor lotteries.&quot; The probability of each outcome in a motor lottery is determined by the subject's noise in executing a movement. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to compare the neural correlates of monetary outcome and probability in classical lottery tasks in which information about probability was explicitly communicated to the subjects and in mathematically equivalent motor lottery tasks in which probability was implicit in the subjects' own motor noise. We found that activity in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the posterior cingulate cortex quantitatively represent the subjective utility of monetary outcome in both tasks. For probability, we found that the mPFC significantly tracked the distortion of such information in both tasks. Specifically, activity in mPFC represents probability information but not the physical properties of the stimuli correlated with this information. Together, the results demonstrate that mPFC represents probability from two distinct forms of decision under risk.
Recent stimulation studies in monkeys and humans have shown strong interactions between ventral premotor cortex (area F5) and the hand area of primary motor cortex (M1). These short-latency interactions usually involve facilitation from F5 of M1 outputs to hand muscles, although suppression has also been reported. This study, performed in three awake macaque monkeys, sought evidence that these interactions could be mediated by short-latency excitatory and inhibitory responses of single M1 neurons active during grasping tasks. We recorded responses of these M1 neurons to single low-threshold (40 A) intracortical microstimuli delivered to F5 sites at which grasp-related neurons were recorded. In 29 sessions, we tested 232 M1 neurons with stimuli delivered to between one and four sites in F5. Of the 415 responses recorded, 142 (34%) showed significant effects. The most common type of response was pure excitation (53% of responses), with short latency (1.8-3.0 ms) and brief duration (1 ms); purely inhibitory responses had slightly longer latencies (2-5 ms) and were of small amplitude and longer duration (5-7 ms). They accounted for 13% of responses, whereas mixed excitation then inhibition was seen in 34%. Remarkably, a rather similar set of findings applied to 280 responses of 138 F5 neurons to M1 stimulation; 109 (34%) responses showed significant effects. Thus, with low-intensity stimuli, the dominant interaction between these two cortical areas is one of short-latency, brief excitation, most likely mediated by reciprocal F5-M1 connections. Some neurons were tested with stimuli at both 20 and 40 A; inhibition tended to dominate at the higher intensity.
Approximately one-third of epilepsy patients are pharmacoresistant. Overexpression of P-glycoprotein and other multidrug transporters at the blood-brain barrier is thought to play an important role in drug-refractory epilepsy. Thus, quantification of regionally different P-glycoprotein activity in the brain in vivo is essential to identify P-glycoprotein overactivity as the relevant mechanism for drug resistance in an individual patient. Using the radiolabeled P-glycoprotein substrate (R)-[(11)C]verapamil and different doses of coadministered tariquidar, which is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein, we evaluated whether small-animal positron emission tomography can quantify regional changes in transporter function in the rat brain at baseline and 48 h after a pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. P-glycoprotein expression was additionally quantified by immunohistochemistry. To reveal putative seizure-induced changes in blood-brain barrier integrity, we performed gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance scans on a 7.0 tesla small-animal scanner. Before P-glycoprotein modulation, brain uptake of (R)-[(11)C]verapamil was low in all regions investigated in control and post-status epilepticus rats. After administration of 3 mg/kg tariquidar, which inhibits P-glycoprotein only partially, we observed increased regional differentiation in brain activity uptake in post-status epilepticus versus control rats, which diminished after maximal P-glycoprotein inhibition. Regional increases in the efflux rate constant k(2), but not in distribution volume V(T) or influx rate constant K(1), correlated significantly with increases in P-glycoprotein expression measured by immunohistochemistry. This imaging protocol proves to be suitable to detect seizure-induced regional changes in P-glycoprotein activity and is readily applicable to humans, with the aim to detect relevant mechanisms of pharmacoresistance in epilepsy in vivo.

Probability discounting is used to study risky decision-making in humans and rodents. In these paradigms, the subject chooses between a small reward that is always delivered and a large reward that is delivered with varying probabilities. Risk-taking is defined as a preference for the large, uncertain reward. The aversive consequence associated with this task involves choosing the large reward and not obtaining it. To study this form of impulsivity in rodents, food reinforcement is commonly used. Using this reinforcer, and the need to food-deprive rodents to enhance task performance, may be problematic in rodent models that exhibit eating disorders, in pharmacological assessments that alter feeding, and for assessments of the neurocircuitry that is engaged by both feeding and risk-taking. We reveal here that electrical intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) can be used as the positive reinforcer in risk assessments (i.e., probability discounting). ICSS was selected as it is rapidly acquired, the operant procedures are retained for months, and no tolerance or satiety develops to the reinforcer; thus, ICSS can be used in multiple test sessions in a repeated measures design. We developed an efficient, standardized, six phase ICSS-mediated protocol that allowed for the assessments of risk-taking in a probability discounting task. We demonstrated that the discounting behavior remained stable for several weeks. The value of this protocol is discussed in terms of practical as well as theoretical advantages of using ICSS-mediated reinforcement.
Vigilance could be a crucial aspect of attention that may modulate the functioning of the attentional system. Some behavioural tests, such as the Attention Network Test (ANT), have been developed to obtain an individual index of the three attentional networks (alertness, orientation, and executive control). However, alerting network measures are usually inferred using a phasic alertness task, and some indirect indexes of tonic alertness or vigilance have been proposed but not properly evaluated. The general aim for the present study is to provide the ANT with a direct measure of vigilance and then to analyse the relationship between this measure and other alternative indirect indexes. The obtained results suggest that the proposed new test (ANTI-Vigilance or ANTI-V) is useful to achieve a direct measure of vigilance and could be considered as a new tool available in cognitive, clinical or behavioural neurosciences for analysing vigilance in addition to the usual ANT scores. Other alternative indexes (such as global reaction time and global accuracy averaged across conditions) are only moderately correlated to a direct vigilance measure. As a consequence, although they may be to some extent related to the participants' vigilance level, they could not be used isolatedly as appropriate indexes of vigilance. Also, the role played by these global measures in the ANT task, which have been previously associated with some performance measures in applied areas (such as driving performance), is discussed.
Axonal structure and integrity are vital to overall neuronal maintenance and action potential propagation. Neurofilaments (NFs) are one of the main cytoskeletal components of axons and phosphorylation of NF subunits regulates speed of NF transport through axons and determines optimal axonal calibre required for signal propagation. Many previous studies of neuroprotective agents have focussed on neuronal viability in models of neurodegenerative disease, without specifically considering axon function as an indicator of neuronal damage. In this study, we have focused on developing novel assays for determining axon viability by measuring levels of neurofilament phosphorylation in cultured cortical neurons. The nitric oxide donor DETANONOate (NO) was used as an inflammatory insult and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were tested as potential axonal protective agents. Using 'dot blot' methodologies, we show a decrease in NF phosphorylation in cortical neurons exposed to NO-mediated cell toxicity and an attenuation of NO-mediated changes in NF phosphorylation associated with GDNF and SOD treatment. These results correlated well with immunocytochemical counts. We propose therefore that the dot blot assay is a novel method for assessing axonal integrity in vitro and may play a useful role in the future for testing the effects of agents on axonal viability, providing a reliable and reproducible screening method for potential therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases.
The sense of body ownership, knowledge that parts of our body belong to us, is presumably developed using sensory information. Cutaneous signals seem ideal for this and can modify the sense of ownership. For example, an illusion of ownership over an artificial rubber hand can be induced by synchronously stroking both the subjects hidden hand and a visible artificial hand. Like cutaneous signals, proprioceptive signals (e.g. frommuscle receptors) exclusively signal events occurring in the body, but the influence of proprioceptors on the sense of body ownership is not known. We developed a technique to generate an illusion of ownership over an artificial plastic finger, using movement at the proximal interphalangeal joint as the stimulus. We then examined this illusion in 20 subjects when their index finger was intact and when the cutaneous and joint afferents from the finger had been blocked by local anaesthesia of the digital nerves. Subjects still experienced an illusion of ownership, induced by movement, over the plastic finger when the digital nerves were blocked. This shows that local cutaneous signals are not essential for the illusion and that inputs arising proximally, presumably from receptors in muscles which move the finger, can influence the sense of body ownership. Contrary to other studies, we found no evidence that voluntary movements induce stronger illusions of body ownership than those induced by passive movement. It seems that the congruence of sensory stimuli ismore important to establish body ownership than the presence of multiple sensory signals.
The striatum of the lamprey, the first vertebrate group to appear in evolution, shows striking similarities to that of mammals with respect to histochemical markers, afferent and efferent projections and the effect of dopamine depletion, which leads to hypokinetic motor symptoms. The cellular properties of lamprey striatal neurons were studied here using patch-clamp recordings in acute striatal slices. Sixty-five per cent of recorded neurons were characterised by a prominent inward rectification due to a K+ conductance of the Kir type. They had a ramping response with a long delay to the first action potential due to activation of a low-voltage-activated A-type K+ current. Many such inwardly rectifying neurons (IRNs) had a hyperpolarised resting membrane potential and some had spiny dendrites. The remaining 35% of the neurons (non-IRNs) represent a heterogeneous group, including some with characteristics similar to the fast-spiking interneuron of the mammalian striatum. They showed short-lasting, large after hyperpolarisations (AHPs) and discharged action potentials at high frequency. None of the recorded neurons were spontaneously active but they received GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic input. The fact that most lamprey striatal neurons display inward rectification indicates that this is a conserved characteristic of striatal neurons throughout vertebrate phylogeny. This is a cellular property of critical importance for the operations of the striatum in mammals.
This first test of the role of REM (rapid eye movement) sleep in reversal spatial learning is also the first attempt to replicate a much cited pair of papers reporting that REM sleep deprivation impairs the consolidation of initial spatial learning in the Morris water maze. We hypothesized that REM sleep deprivation following training would impair both hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and learning a new target location within a familiar environment: reversal learning. A 6-d protocol was divided into the initial spatial learning phase (3.5 d) immediately followed by the reversal phase (2.5 d). During the 6 h following four or 12 training trials/day of initial or reversal learning phases, REM sleep was eliminated and non-REM sleep left intact using the multiple inverted flowerpot method. Contrary to our hypotheses, REM sleep deprivation during four or 12 trials/day of initial spatial or reversal learning did not affect training performance. However, some probe trial measures indicated REM sleep-deprivation-associated impairment in initial spatial learning with four trials/day and enhancement of subsequent reversal learning. In naive animals, REM sleep deprivation during normal initial spatial learning was followed by a lack of preference for the subsequent reversal platform location during the probe. Our findings contradict reports that REM sleep is essential for spatial learning in the Morris water maze and newly reveal that short periods of REM sleep deprivation do not impair concurrent reversal learning. Effects on subsequent reversal learning are consistent with the idea that REM sleep serves the consolidation of incompletely learned items.
Research on the neuronal underpinnings of speaker identity recognition has identified voice-selective areas in the human brain with evolutionary homologues in non-human primates who have comparable areas for processing species-specific calls. Most studies have focused on estimating the extent and location of these areas. In contrast, relatively few experiments have investigated the time-course of speaker identity, and in particular, dialect processing and identification by electro- or neuromagnetic means. We show here that dialect extraction occurs speaker-independently, pre-attentively and categorically. We used Standard American English and African-American English exemplars of 'Hello' in a magnetoencephalographic (MEG) Mismatch Negativity (MMN) experiment. The MMN as an automatic change detection response of the brain reflected dialect differences that were not entirely reducible to acoustic differences between the pronunciations of 'Hello'. Source analyses of the M100, an auditory evoked response to the vowels suggested additional processing in voice-selective areas whenever a dialect change was detected. These findings are not only relevant for the cognitive neuroscience of language, but also for the social sciences concerned with dialect and race perception.
A major determinant of multisensory integration, derived from single-neuron studies in animals, is the principle of inverse effectiveness (IE), which describes the phenomenon whereby maximal multisensory response enhancements occur when the constituent unisensory stimuli are minimally effective in evoking responses. Human behavioral studies, which have shown that multisensory interactions are strongest when stimuli are low in intensity are in agreement with the IE principle, but the neurophysiologic basis for this finding is unknown. In this high-density electroencephalography (EEG) study, we examined effects of stimulus intensity on multisensory audiovisual processing in event-related potentials (ERPs) and response time (RT) facilitation in the bisensory redundant target effect (RTE). The RTE describes that RTs are faster for bisensory redundant targets than for the respective unisensory targets. Participants were presented with semantically meaningless unisensory auditory, unisensory visual and bisensory audiovisual stimuli of low, middle and high intensity, while they were instructed to make a speeded button response when a stimulus in either modality was presented. Behavioral data showed that the RTE exceeded predictions on the basis of probability summations of unisensory RTs, indicative of integrative multisensory processing, but only for low intensity stimuli. Paralleling this finding, multisensory interactions in short latency (40-60ms) ERPs with a left posterior and right anterior topography were found particularly for stimuli with low intensity. Our findings demonstrate that the IE principle is applicable to early multisensory processing in humans.
High-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to precisely identify blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) activation of small structures within the brainstem not accessible with standard fMRI. A previous study identified a region within the pons exhibiting sustained neuromodulation due to electrical tongue stimulation, but was unable to precisely identify the neuronal structure involved. For this study, high-resolution images of neural activity induced by optic flow were acquired in nine healthy controls and nine individuals with balance dysfunction before and after information-free tongue stimulation. Subjects viewed optic flow videos to activate the structures of interest. Sub-millimeter in-plane voxels of structures within the posterior fossa were acquired using a restricted field of view. Whole-brain functional imaging verified that global activation patterns due to optic flow were consistent with previous studies. Optic flow activated the visual association cortices, the vestibular nuclei, and the superior colliculus, as well as multiple regions within the cerebellum. The anterior cingulate cortex showed decreased activity after stimulation, while a region within the pons had increased post-stimulation activity. These observations suggest the pontine region is the trigeminal nucleus and that tongue stimulation interfaces with the balance-processing network within the pons. This high-resolution imaging allows detection of activity within individual brainstem nuclei not possible using standard resolution imaging.
Brain tumors are the leading cause of death and disability from childhood disease in developed countries. Pediatric posterior fossa tumors are often effectively controlled with a combination of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, depending on tumor type. White matter injury following resection of tumor and radiation treatment is associated with cognitive declines, including working memory deficits. We investigated how brain injury following treatment for posterior fossa tumors results in deficits in working memory. We used diffusion tensor imaging and probabilistic tractography to examine the structural integrity of cerebello-thalamo-cerebral tracts in patients and healthy children. We also compared working memory outcome in patients versus controls, and related this function to integrity of cerebello-thalamo-cerebral tracts. Bilateral cerebello-thalamo-cerebral tracts were delineated in all participants. Patients treated with a combination of surgery and radiation had lower mean anisotropy and higher mean radial diffusivity within the cerebellar regions of the cerebello-thalamo-cerebral tract compared to patients treated with surgery only and healthy controls. Poorer working memory scores were observed for the cranial radiation group relative to controls. Reduced anisotropy and higher radial diffusivity within the entire cerebello-thalamo-cerebral pathway predicted lower working memory. Our finding that working memory function is related to the integrity of cerebello-thalamo-cerebral connections is a novel contribution to the understanding of cerebral-cerebellar communication. Identifying differences in the structural integrity of white matter for specific pathways is an essential step in attempting to localize the effects of posterior fossa tumors and their treatment methods.
Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images has been widely used to identify regional atrophy in neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In theory, however, T2-weighting should be more sensitive to tissue pathology, though until recently, volumetric T2-weighted images were unavailable. We tested the hypothesis that T2-VBM would be more sensitive to grey matter pathology in AD than T1-VBM using the recently-developed SPACE acquisition, which provides true-3D, high-resolution T2-weighted images. This was contrasted to conventional T1-weighted MPRAGE images acquired at the same session and resolution. All of the atrophic regions identified with T1-VBM were also identified with T2-VBM. Additional abnormalities were, however, identified with T2-VBM and the distribution of these bore a striking resemblance to the distribution of amyloid plaque deposition in AD, suggesting that T2-VBM detects signal changes due to histopathology over and above those attributable to atrophy. In keeping with this hypothesis, the relevant statistical tests demonstrated that the difference in sensitivity was caused by an apparent change in T2-weighted signal intensity that was not present in T1-weighted images. These results suggest that T2-VBM has the potential to advance VBM beyond atrophy detection to more expansive applications in tissue pathology mapping.
The executive control of voluntary action involves not only choosing from a range of possible actions but also the inhibition of responses as circumstances demand. Recent studies have demonstrated that many clinical populations, such as people with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, exhibit difficulties in inhibitory control. One prefrontal area that has been particularly associated with inhibitory control is the pre-supplementary motor area (Pre-SMA). Here we applied non-invasive transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over Pre-SMA to test its role in this behavior. tDCS allows for current to be applied in two directions to selectively excite or suppress the neural activity of Pre-SMA. Our results showed that anodal tDCS improved efficiency of inhibitory control. Conversely, cathodal tDCS showed a tendency towards impaired inhibitory control. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of non-invasive intervention tDCS altering subjects' inhibitory control. These results further our understanding of the neural bases of inhibitory control and suggest a possible therapeutic intervention method for clinical populations.
Drug-related stimuli, through conditioning, are thought to acquire incentive motivational properties that code possible reward availability and elicit an attentional bias, possibly through increased &quot;bottom-up&quot; neural processing. The processes underlying this attentional bias are considered important in the maintenance of addiction, and crucially, in relapse among substance users attempting to remain abstinent. Equally, impaired &quot;top-down&quot; cognitive control may impair the ability to restrain &quot;bottom-up&quot; pre-potent behaviours, such as drug use, following exposure to drug-related stimuli. Two experiments sought to identify the neural loci of bottom-up/top-down processing during fMRI. Experiment 1 utilised an attentional bias paradigm to examine the behavioural and neural responses to neutral, emotionally evocative and smoking-related cues in control (n=13), ex-smoking (n=10 - abstinent &gt;12months) and smoking (n=13 - mean &gt;6.5years of use) groups. Experiment 2 used a go/no-go paradigm to examine the neural correlates of motor response inhibition and error monitoring in the same sample. The results of Experiment 1 demonstrated that, across conditions, current smokers had significantly less neural activity in cortical but significantly more activity in subcortical areas compared to both controls and ex-smokers. Ex-smokers exhibited more neural activity than both control and smoker groups in prefrontal cortical regions. Similarly, Experiment 2 revealed that smokers had reduced neural activity in prefrontal cortical regions during motor response inhibition compared to controls while ex-smokers demonstrated greater neural activity in prefrontal cortical regions compared to both controls and smokers during error monitoring. The results reveal cortical and subcortical differences between current smokers and controls and a general pattern of increased prefrontal cortical activity in ex-smokers. These findings may suggest that elevated topdown control might be an important characteristic of successful abstinence in individuals formerly dependent on nicotine.
Taking the perspective of somebody else (Theory of Mind; ToM) is an essential human ability depending on a large cerebral network comprising prefrontal and temporo-parietal regions. Recently, ToM was suggested to consist of two processes: (1) self-perspective inhibition and (2) belief reasoning. Moreover, it has been hypothesized that self-perspective inhibition may build upon basic motor response inhibition. This study tested both hypotheses for the first time using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), through administering both a ToM and a stop-signal paradigm in the same subjects. Both self-perspective and motor response inhibition yielded bilateral inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) activation, suggesting a common inhibitory mechanism, while belief reasoning was mediated by the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). Thus, we provide neurobiological evidence for a subdivision of ToM into self-perspective inhibition and belief reasoning. Furthermore, evidence for partially shared neural mechanisms for inhibition in complex social situations and basic motor response inhibition was found.
The current study examined the neural correlates associated with local and global inhibitory processes used by bilinguals to resolve interference between competing responses. Two groups of participants completed both blocked and mixed picture naming tasks while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). One group first named a set of pictures in L1, and then named the same pictures in L2. The other group first named pictures in L2, and then in L1. After the blocked naming tasks, both groups performed a mixed language naming task (i.e., naming pictures in either language according to a cue). The comparison between the blocked and mixed naming tasks, collapsed across groups, was defined as the local switching effect, while the comparison between blocked naming in each language was defined as the global switching effect. Distinct patterns of neural activation were found for local inhibition as compared to global inhibition in bilingual word production. Specifically, the results suggest that the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the supplementary motor area (SMA) play important roles in local inhibition, while the dorsal left frontal gyrus and parietal cortex are important for global inhibition.
Recent animal studies have suggested that cortical areas may play a greater role in the modulation of abnormal oscillatory activity in Parkinson's disease (PD) than previously recognized. We investigated task and medication-dependent, EEG-based directional cortical connectivity in the  (4-7Hz),  (8-12Hz),  (13-30Hz) and low  (31-50Hz) frequency bands in 10 PD subjects and 10 age-matched controls. All subjects performed a visually guided task previously shown to modulate abnormal oscillatory activity in PD subjects. We examined the connectivity in the simultaneously-recorded EEG between 5 electrode regions of interest (fronto-central, left and right sensorimotor, central and occipital) using a sparse, multivariate, autoregressive-based partial directed coherence method. For comparison, we utilized traditional Fourier analysis to evaluate task-dependent frequency spectra modulation in these same regions. While the spectral analysis revealed some overall differences between PD and control subjects, it demonstrated relatively modest changes between regions. In contrast, the partial directed coherence-based analysis revealed multifaceted, regionally and directionally-dependent alterations of connectivity in PD subjects during both movement preparation and execution. Connectivity was particularly altered posteriorly, suggesting abnormalities in visual and visuo-motor processing in PD. Moreover, connectivity measures in the ,  and low  frequency ranges correlated with motor Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scores in PD subjects withdrawn from medication. Levodopa administration only partially restored connectivity, and in some cases resulted in further exacerbation of abnormalities. Our results support the notion that PD is associated with significant alterations in connectivity between brain regions, and that these changes can be non-invasively detected in the EEG using partial directed coherence methods. Thus, the role of EEG to monitor PD may need to be further expanded.
This study investigates the effects of sample phase and delay length on discrimination performance in the spontaneous place recognition (SPR) test in rats. Rats were allowed to explore an arena where two identical objects were presented for 5-20 min (sample phase). After a delay interval, rats were placed again in the same arena but one of the two objects was moved to a novel place (test phase). Results showed that when the sample phase was as long as 20 min, rats preferentially explored the moved object during the test phase even after a 6-24h delay was interposed. Further sequential and cumulative analyses of the test phase revealed that the preference for the object in a novel place was evident in the first and 2nd min of the test phase in rats with a longer sample phase duration. Correlation analysis showed that locomotor activity and object exploration in the sample phase were not decisive factors in spatial memory performance. The present results demonstrate the importance of the sample phase exposure time and the test phase length.
Organophosphate (OP) neurotoxins cause acute cholinergic toxicity and seizures resulting in delayed brain damage and persistent neurological symptoms. Testing novel strategies for protecting against delayed effects of acute OP intoxication has been hampered by the lack of appropriate animal models. In this study, we characterize the spatiotemporal pattern of cellular injury after acute intoxication with the OP diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received pyridostigmine (0.1 mg/kg, im) and atropine methylnitrate (20mg/kg, im) prior to DFP (9 mg/kg, ip) administration. All DFP-treated animals exhibited moderate to severe seizures within minutes after DFP injection but survived up to 72 h. AChE activity was significantly depressed in the cortex, hippocampus, subcortical brain tissue and cerebellum at 1h post-DFP injection and this inhibition persisted for up to 72 h. Analysis of neuronal injury by Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) labeling revealed delayed neuronal cell death in the hippocampus, cortex, amygdala and thalamus, but not the cerebellum, starting at 4h and persisting until 72 h after DFP treatment, although temporal profiles varied between brain regions. At 24h post-DFP injection, the pattern of FJB labeling corresponded to TUNEL staining in most brain regions, and FJB-positive cells displayed reduced NeuN immunoreactivity but were not immunopositive for astrocytic (GFAP), oligodendroglial (O4) or macrophage/microglial (ED1) markers, demonstrating that DFP causes a region-specific delayed neuronal injury mediated in part by apoptosis. These findings indicate the feasibility of this model for testing neuroprotective strategies, and provide insight regarding therapeutic windows for effective pharmacological intervention following acute OP intoxication.


Neuron cells uptake of biodegradable and synthetic polymeric microcapsules functionalized with aggregates of gold nanoparticles incorporated into their shells is demonstrated in situ. In addition to traditionally used optical microscopy, electron microscopy is used both for higher-resolution imaging and for confirming the uptake by focused ion beam cross-sectioning of specific cells in situ. Subsequently, physical methods of release are compared to chemical methods wherein laser-induced intracellular release of dextran molecules into the cytosol of hippocampal neuron cells is studied in comparison to biodegradation. Implications of this work for neuroscience, bio-medicine and single cell studies are discussed.
Unveiling the neural codes for intricate behaviours is a major challenge in neuroscience. The neural circuit for the temperature-seeking behaviour of Caenorhabditis elegans is an ideal system to dissect how neurons encode sensory information for the execution of behavioural output. Here we show that the temperature-sensing neuron AFD transmits both stimulatory and inhibitory neural signals to a single interneuron AIY. In this circuit, a calcium concentration threshold in AFD acts as a switch for opposing neural signals that direct the opposite behaviours. Remote control of AFD activity, using a light-driven ion pump and channel, reveals that diverse reduction levels of AFD activity can generate warm- or cold-seeking behaviour. Calcium imaging shows that AFD uses either stimulatory or inhibitory neuronal signalling onto AIY, depending on the calcium concentration threshold in AFD. Thus, dual neural regulation in opposite directions is directly coupled to behavioural inversion in the simple neural circuit.
Around 15 years have now elapsed since thrombolysis was first shown to be effective for treating acute ischemic stroke, but therapeutic uptake has been modest. As outlined in this Review, research efforts are being directed towards rectifying this situation in a number of ways. First, strategies to enhance thrombolytic efficacy are being tested; these include intravenous and intra-arterial bridging protocols, sonothrombolysis, and the use of alternative thrombolytic agents. Second, means of extending the 4.5-h therapeutic time window up to 6 h, or even up to 9 h in patients selected on the basis of imaging, are being investigated in clinical trials. Prolongation of the time window using neuroprotection to 'freeze' penumbral tissue is also being attempted. Third, attempts are underway to reduce the risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (currently affecting about 7% of cases) by refining imaging selection criteria, and through the use of alternative thrombolytic agents, lower doses of tissue plasminogen activator, blood-based biomarkers, and neuroprotectants. Last, in an effort to include more people within the currently accepted therapeutic time window, improvements in prehospital management strategies are being introduced. Elimination of prehospital and in-hospital delays is an urgent priority.




Tumor necrosis factor--converting enzyme (TACE; also known as ADAM17) is a proteolytic sheddase that is responsible for the cleavage of several membrane-bound molecules. We report that TACE cleaves neuregulin-1 (NRG1) type III in the epidermal growth factor domain, probably inactivating it (as assessed by deficient activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase pathway), and thereby negatively regulating peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelination. Lentivirus-mediated knockdown of TACE in vitro in dorsal root ganglia neurons accelerates the onset of myelination and results in hypermyelination. In agreement, motor neurons of conditional knockout mice lacking TACE specifically in these cells are significantly hypermyelinated, and small-caliber fibers are aberrantly myelinated. Further, reduced TACE activity rescues hypomyelination in NRG1 type III haploinsufficient mice in vivo. We also show that the inhibitory effect of TACE is neuron-autonomous, as Schwann cells lacking TACE elaborate myelin of normal thickness. Thus, TACE is a modulator of NRG1 type III activity and is a negative regulator of myelination in the PNS.
The ability to recognize faces is an important socio-cognitive skill that is associated with a number of cognitive specializations in humans. While numerous studies have examined the presence of these specializations in non-human primates, species where face recognition would confer distinct advantages in social situations, results have been mixed. The majority of studies in chimpanzees support homologous face-processing mechanisms with humans, but results from monkey studies appear largely dependent on the type of testing methods used. Studies that employ passive viewing paradigms, like the visual paired comparison task, report evidence of similarities between monkeys and humans, but tasks that use more stringent, operant response tasks, like the matching-to-sample task, often report species differences. Moreover, the data suggest that monkeys may be less sensitive than chimpanzees and humans to the precise spacing of facial features, in addition to the surface-based cues reflected in those features, information that is critical for the representation of individual identity. The aim of this paper is to provide a comprehensive review of the available data from face-processing tasks in non-human primates with the goal of understanding the evolution of this complex cognitive skill.
Research describing the cellular coding of faces in non-human primates often provides the underlying physiological framework for our understanding of face processing in humans. Models of face perception, explanations of perceptual after-effects from viewing particular types of faces, and interpretation of human neuroimaging data rely on monkey neurophysiological data and the assumption that neurophysiological responses of humans are comparable to those recorded in the non-human primate. Here, we review studies that describe cells that preferentially respond to faces, and assess the link between the physiological characteristics of single cells and social perception. Principally, we describe cells recorded from the non-human primate, although a limited number of cells have been recorded in humans, and are included in order to appraise the validity of non-human physiological data for our understanding of human face and social perception.
Cognitive research has long been aware of the relationship between individual differences in personality and performance on behavioural tasks. However, within the field of cognitive neuroscience, the way in which such differences manifest at a neural level has received relatively little attention. We review recent research addressing the relationship between personality traits and the neural response to viewing facial signals of emotion. In one section, we discuss work demonstrating the relationship between anxiety and the amygdala response to facial signals of threat. A second section considers research showing that individual differences in reward drive (behavioural activation system), a trait linked to aggression, influence the neural responsivity and connectivity between brain regions implicated in aggression when viewing facial signals of anger. Finally, we address recent criticisms of the correlational approach to fMRI analyses and conclude that when used appropriately, analyses examining the relationship between personality and brain activity provide a useful tool for understanding the neural basis of facial expression processing and emotion processing in general.
Cognitive neuroscience research on facial expression recognition and face evaluation has proliferated over the past 15 years. Nevertheless, large questions remain unanswered. In this overview, we discuss the current understanding in the field, and describe what is known and what remains unknown. In 2, we describe three types of behavioural evidence that the perception of traits in neutral faces is related to the perception of facial expressions, and may rely on the same mechanisms. In 3, we discuss cortical systems for the perception of facial expressions, and argue for a partial segregation of function in the superior temporal sulcus and the fusiform gyrus. In 4, we describe the current understanding of how the brain responds to emotionally neutral faces. To resolve some of the inconsistencies in the literature, we perform a large group analysis across three different studies, and argue that one parsimonious explanation of prior findings is that faces are coded in terms of their typicality. In 5, we discuss how these two lines of research--perception of emotional expressions and face evaluation--could be integrated into a common, cognitive neuroscience framework.
The alarming increase in the incidence of obesity and obesity-associated disorders makes the etiology of obesity a widely studied topic today. As opposed to 'homeostatic feeding', where food intake is restricted to satisfy one's biological needs, the term 'non-homeostatic' feeding refers to eating for pleasure or the trend to over-consume (palatable) food. Overconsumption is considered a crucial factor in the development of obesity. Exaggerated consumption of (palatable) food, coupled to a loss of control over food intake despite awareness of its negative consequences, suggests that overeating may be a form of addiction. At a molecular level, insulin and leptin resistance are hallmarks of obesity. In this review, we specifically address the question how leptin resistance contributes to enhanced craving for (palatable) food. Since dopamine is a key player in the motivation for food, the interconnection between dopamine, leptin and neuropeptides related to feeding will be discussed. Understanding the mechanisms by which these neuropeptidergic systems hijack the homeostatic feeding mechanisms, thus leading to overeating and obesity is the primary aim of this review. The melanocortin system, one of the crucial neuropeptidergic systems modulating feeding behavior will be extensively discussed. The inter-relationship between neuronal populations in the arcuate nucleus and other areas regulating energy homeostasis (lateral hypothalamus, paraventricular nucleus, ventromedial hypothalamus etc.) and reward circuitry (the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens) will be evaluated and scrutinized.
Both reduction of melanocortin signaling and increase in neuropeptide Y signaling in the brain result in obesity. However, where in the brain reduced melanocortin or increased neuropeptide Y signaling mediate these effects is poorly understood. In separate experiments we have injected recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors that overexpressed agouti-related peptide or neuropeptide Y in specific brain regions namely the paraventricular nucleus and the lateral hypothalamus. In this review we compare the results from these studies and discuss these data with previous data from intracerebroventricular or local brain injections. This review shows that the effects of agouti-related peptide clearly differ from those of neuropeptide Y. In addition, these data suggests complementary roles for these neuropeptides in energy balance.
The central melanocortin system, consisting of melanocortin peptides, agouti gene related peptide and their receptors plays a critical role in the homeostatic control of energy balance. Loss of function mutations in the genes encoding proopiomelanocortin or melanocortin MC(4) receptors cause profound obesity and hyperphagia. However, little is known about the functional relationship of melanocortin neurocircuits to the temporal organization of meal-taking behavior. We used an operant paradigm that combined lever pressing for food pellet deliveries with free water intake monitored by lickometers to quantify meal patterns in mutant mice that selectively lack proopiomelanocortin expression in hypothalamic neurons (nPOMCKO). Compared to wildtype siblings, nPOMCKO mice consumed 50% more food and water daily and exhibited a more stereotyped feeding pattern characterized by reduced inter-meal and inter-mouse variations. Average meals were larger in size but shorter in duration, with no change in meal number. Consequently, intermeal intervals were prolonged in nPOMCKO mice. Similar patterns were observed in pre-obese juvenile and frankly obese adult mice suggesting that neither age nor degree of obesity was responsible for the altered phenotypes. Spontaneous locomotion and wheel running were decreased in nPOMCKO mice, but circadian variations in locomotor and feeding activity were conserved. These data show that hyperphagia in male nPOMCKO mice is due to increased meal size but not meal number, and this pattern is established by age of 5weeks. The combination of larger, more rapidly consumed meals and prolonged intermeal intervals suggests that proopiomelanocortin peptides are necessary for normal meal termination, but not the maintenance of satiety.
There are conflicting theories about the evolution of melanocortin MC receptors while only few studies have addressed the evolution of agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and agouti signalling peptide (ASIP), which are antagonists at the melanocortin receptors (MCRs), or the melanocortin MC(2) receptor accessory proteins (MRAP1 and MRAP2). Previously we have cloned melanocortin MC receptors (MC(a) and MC(b)) genes in river lamprey and here we identify orthologues to these melanocortin MC receptor sequences in the sea lamprey. We investigate the putative presence of the melanocortin MC receptor genes in lancelet (amphioxus; Branchiostoma floridae) but we find it unlikely that such gene exists, due to a sharp drop in sequence similarity beyond sequence clusters of known receptors. We show the presence of AgRP and ASIP in elephant shark, a cartilaginous fish belonging to the subclass of Elasmobranchii. However, we do not find any of these genes in lamprey or lancelet after detailed analysis of both targeted and whole proteome regular expression scans. We found MRAP2, but not MRAP1, to be present in elephant shark and sea lamprey while Fugu (T. rubripes) has both genes. This study shows that the most ancient presence of these melanocortin-related sequences is found in elephant shark and lampreys considering the current available sequence data.

One of the major limitations in studying the mechanisms of blast-induced traumatic brain injury (bTBI) or screening therapeutics for protection is the lack of suitable laboratory model systems that can closely mimic the complex blast exposure. Although animal models of bTBI that use shock tubes to mimic blast exposure are available, no high throughput shock tube-based in-vitro models have been reported. Here, we report an in-vitro bTBI model using a compressed air-driven shock tube and mouse neuroblastoma/rat glioblastoma hybrid cells (NG108-15) or SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells in tissue culture plates. Our data showed significant neurobiological effects with decreased adenosine triphosphate levels, increased cellular injury, lactate dehydrogenase release, and reactive oxygen species formation after blast exposure.
Congenital muscular dystrophy is a heterogeneous group of inherited muscle diseases characterized clinically by muscle weakness and hypotonia in early infancy. A number of genes harboring causative mutations have been identified, but several cases of congenital muscular dystrophy remain molecularly unresolved. We examined 15 individuals with a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by early-onset muscle wasting, mental retardation, and peculiar enlarged mitochondria that are prevalent toward the periphery of the fibers but are sparse in the center on muscle biopsy, and we have identified homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the gene encoding choline kinase beta (CHKB). This is the first enzymatic step in a biosynthetic pathway for phosphatidylcholine, the most abundant phospholipid in eukaryotes. In muscle of three affected individuals with nonsense mutations, choline kinase activities were undetectable, and phosphatidylcholine levels were decreased. We identified the human disease caused by disruption of a phospholipid de novo biosynthetic pathway, demonstrating the pivotal role of phosphatidylcholine in muscle and brain.
Mitochondria are highly dynamic organelles that can be actively transported within the cell to satisfy local requirements. They are vital for providing cellular energy, but are also an important endogenous source of reactive oxygen species. The distribution of mitochondria is particularly important for neurons because of the morphological complexity of these cells, and because neural processing is metabolically expensive. Defects in mitochondrial distribution, observed in several neurodegenerative diseases, can result in synaptic dysfunction. We have generated transgenic mice expressing an enzyme in forebrain neurons that causes mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage in the form of abasic-sites, creating mtDNA toxicity. Here, we report that mitochondrial distribution is disturbed in hippocampal neurons of these mice. Moreover, mtDNA copy number and mitochondrial transcription are reduced, and oxidative stress is increased. There is also a loss of receptors at excitatory glutamatergic synapses in the dentate gyrus, and the size of the postsynaptic density in this region is abnormal. We speculate that the loss of synaptic mitochondria caused by accumulation in the neuronal cell body contributes to the observed synaptic abnormalities, as well as the overall loss of mtDNA and diminished mitochondrial transcription. Collectively, these changes lead to mitochondria with reduced function and increased oxidative stress.
The SLC38 family of transporters has in total 11 members in humans and they encode amino acid transporters called sodium-coupled amino acid transporters (SNAT). To date, five SNATs have been characterized and functionally subdivided into systems A (SLC38A1, SLC38A2, and SLC38A4) and N (SLC38A3 and SLC38A5) showing the highest transport for glutamine and alanine. Here we present identification of a novel glutamine transporter encoded by the Slc38a7 gene, which we propose should be named SNAT7. This transporter has L-glutamine as the preferred substrate but also transports other amino acids with polar side chains, as well as L-histidine and L-alanine. The expression pattern and substrate profile for SLC38A7 shows highest similarity to the known system N transporters. Therefore, we propose that SLC38A7 is a novel member of this system. We used in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry with a custom-made antibody to show that SLC38A7 is expressed in all neurons, but not in astrocytes, in the mouse brain. SLC38A7 is unique in being the first system N transporter expressed in GABAergic and also other neurons. The preferred substrate and axonal localization of SLC38A7 close to the synaptic cleft indicates that SLC38A7 could have an important function for the reuptake and recycling of glutamate.
Ion channel trafficking and gating are often influenced by interactions with auxiliary subunits. Tetratricopeptide repeat-containing Rab8b-interacting protein (TRIP8b) is an auxiliary subunit for neuronal hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels. TRIP8b interacts directly with two distinct sites of HCN channel pore-forming subunits to control channel trafficking and gating. Here we use mutagenesis combined with electrophysiological studies to define and distinguish the functional importance of the HCN/TRIP8b interaction sites. Interaction with the last three amino acids of the HCN1 C terminus governed the effect of TRIP8b on channel trafficking, whereas TRIP8b interaction with the HCN1 cyclic nucleotide binding domain (CNBD) affected trafficking and gating. Biochemical studies revealed that direct interaction between TRIP8b and the HCN1 CNBD was disrupted by cAMP and that TRIP8b binding to the CNBD required an arginine residue also necessary for cAMP binding. In accord, increasing cAMP levels in cells antagonized the up-regulation of HCN1 channels mediated by a TRIP8b construct binding the CNBD exclusively. These data illustrate the distinct roles of the two TRIP8b-HCN interaction domains and suggest that TRIP8b and cAMP may directly compete for binding the HCN CNBD to control HCN channel gating, kinetics, and trafficking.
The norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET) regulates NE signaling by rapidly clearing synaptic NE. Cocaine binds NET and modulates NE transport. These actions contribute to rewarding effects and abuse liability of cocaine. Activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades is implicated in cocaine-induced neuroadaptations. However, the role of MAPK and the mechanisms involved in cocaine modulation of NET are not clear. Acute intra-peritoneal injections of cocaine (20 mg/kg body weight) to rats resulted in increased NE uptake by prefrontal cortex (PFC) synaptosomes with a parallel increase in the surface expression of endogenous NET. Cocaine also enhanced the immunoreactivity of phospho-p38 MAPK in the PFC synaptosomes without affecting the total p38 MAPK. In vitro cocaine (30-50 M) treatment of rat PFC synaptosomes increased native NET function, surface expression, and phosphorylation in a manner sensitive to p38 MAPK inhibition by PD169316. We next examined cocaine-elicited effects on wild-type human NET (hNET) expressed heterologously in human placental trophoblast cells to gain more insights into the mechanisms involved. Cocaine treatment of hNET expressing human placental trophoblast cells up-regulated the function, surface expression, and phosphorylation of hNET in a PD169316-sensitive manner. In addition, cocaine inhibited constitutive endocytosis of hNET. Mutational analysis of serine and threonine residues revealed that substitution of threonine 30, located at the amino terminus of hNET with alanine (T30A-hNET), abolished cocaine-induced up-regulation of NET function, surface expression, and phosphorylation. Furthermore, cocaine did not alter T30A-hNET endocytosis. These studies identify a novel molecular mechanism that cocaine-activated p38 MAPK-mediated phosphorylation of NET-T30 dictates surface NET availability, and hence, NE transport.
A variety of genetic and biochemical evidence suggests that amyloid  (A) oligomers promote downstream errors in Tau action, in turn inducing neuronal dysfunction and cell death in Alzheimer and related dementias. To better understand molecular mechanisms involved in A-mediated neuronal cell death, we have treated primary rat hippocampal cultures with A oligomers and examined the resulting cellular changes occurring before and during the induction of cell death with a focus on altered Tau biochemistry. The most rapid neuronal responses upon A administration are activation of caspase 3/7 and calpain proteases. A also appears to reduce Akt and Erk1/2 kinase activities while increasing GSK3 and Cdk5 activities. Shortly thereafter, substantial Tau degradation begins, generating relatively stable Tau fragments. Only a very small fraction of full-length Tau remains intact after 4 h of A treatment. In conflict with expectations based on suggested increases of GSK3 and Cdk5 activities, A does not cause any major increases in phosphorylation of full-length Tau as assayed by immunoblotting one-dimensional gels with 11 independent site- and phospho-specific anti-Tau antibodies as well as by immunoblotting two-dimensional gels probed with a pan-Tau antibody. There are, however, subtle and transient increases in Tau phosphorylation at 3-4 specific sites before its degradation. Taken together, these data are consistent with the notion that A-mediated neuronal cell death involves the loss of full-length Tau and/or the generation of toxic fragments but does not involve or require hyperphosphorylation of full-length Tau.
Excitotoxicity mediated by overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) has been implicated in a variety of neuropathological conditions in the central nervous system (CNS). It has been suggested that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) neurotoxicity is developmentally regulated, but the definite pattern of the regulation has been controversial, and the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. Here, we show that NMDA treatment leads to significant cell death in mature (9 and 12 days in vitro) hippocampal neurons or hippocampi of young postnatal day 12 and adult rats but not in immature (3 and 6 days in vitro) neurons or embryonic day 18 and neonatal rat hippocampi. In contrast, NMDA promotes survival of immature neurons against tropic deprivation. Interestingly, it is found that NMDA preferentially activates p38 MAPK in mature neuron and adult rat hippocampus, but it favors ERK1/2 activation in immature neuron and postnatal day 0 rat hippocampus. Moreover, it is shown that NMDA neurotoxicity in mature neuron is mediated via p38 MAPK activation, and neuroprotection in immature neuron is mediated via ERK1/2 activation, whereas all these effects are NR2B-containing NMDAR-dependent, as well as Ca(2+)-dependent. We also revealed that mature and immature neurons showed no difference in the amplitude of NMDA-induced intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) increase. However, the basal level of [Ca(2+)](i) is shown to elevate with the maturation of neuron, and this elevation is attributable to the changes in NMDA neurotoxicity but not to the switch of the NMDAR signaling pathway. Taken together, our results suggest that a switch of NMDA receptor-favorite intracellular signal pathways from ERK1/2 to p38 MAPK and the elevated basal level of [Ca(2+)](i) with age might be critical for the developmental changes in NMDA neurotoxicity in the hippocampal neuron.
Based on the conformationally constrained D-Trp-Phe-D-Trp (wFw) core of the prototype inverse agonist [D-Arg(1),D-Phe(5),D-Trp(7,9),Leu(11)]substance P, a series of novel, small, peptide-mimetic agonists for the ghrelin receptor were generated. By using various simple, ring-constrained spacers connecting the D-Trp-Phe-D-Trp motif with the important C-terminal carboxyamide group, 40 nm agonism potency was obtained and also in one case (wFw-Isn-NH(2), where Isn is isonipecotic acid) ~80% efficacy. However, in contrast to all previously reported ghrelin receptor agonists, the piperidine-constrained wFw-Isn-NH(2) was found to be a functionally biased agonist. Thus, wFw-Isn-NH(2) mediated potent and efficacious signaling through the G(q) and ERK1/2 signaling pathways, but in contrast to all previous ghrelin receptor agonists it did not signal through the serum response element, conceivably the G(12/13) pathway. The recognition pattern of wFw-Isn-NH(2) with the ghrelin receptor also differed significantly from that of all previously characterized unbiased agonists. Most importantly, wFw-Isn-NH(2) was not dependent on GluIII:09 (Glu3.33), which otherwise is an obligatory TM III anchor point residue for ghrelin agonists. Molecular modeling and docking experiments indicated that wFw-Isn-NH(2) binds in the classical agonist binding site between the extracellular segments of TMs III, VI, and VII, interacting closely with the aromatic cluster between TMs VI and VII, but that it does so in an opposite orientation as compared with, for example, the wFw peptide agonists. It is concluded that the novel peptide-mimetic ligand wFw-Isn-NH(2) is a biased ghrelin receptor agonist and that the selective signaling pattern presumably is due to its unique receptor recognition pattern lacking interaction with key residues especially in TM III.
We have created a novel enzyme reactor using electric field-mediated orientation and immobilization of proteolytic enzymes (trypsin/chymotrypsin) on biocompatible PVDF membranes in a continuous flow-through chamber. Using less than 5min, this reactor in various enzyme combinations can produce enhanced rapid digestion for standardized prototypic proteins, hydrophilic proteins and hydrophobic transmembrane proteins when compared to in-solution techniques. With improved digestive efficiency, our reactor improved the overall functional analysis of lipid raft proteomes by identifying more closely functionally linked proteins and elucidated a richer set of biological processes and pathways linked to the proteins than traditional in-solution methods.
Vision begins with photoisomerization of visual pigments. Thermal energy can complement photon energy to drive photoisomerization, but it also triggers spontaneous pigment activation as noise that interferes with light detection. For half a century, the mechanism underlying this dark noise has remained controversial. We report here a quantitative relation between a pigment's photoactivation energy and its peak-absorption wavelength, (max). Using this relation and assuming that pigment activations by light and heat go through the same ground-state isomerization energy barrier, we can predict the relative noise of diverse pigments with multi-vibrational-mode thermal statistics. The agreement between predictions and our measurements strongly suggests that pigment noise arises from canonical isomerization. The predicted high noise for pigments with (max) in the infrared presumably explains why they apparently do not exist in nature.

CT of the brain is often negative in acute stroke. The absence of changes suggestive of infarction on MRI of the brain in the setting of a recent stroke is unusual. An otherwise fit and well 69-year-old Caucasian man presented to the hospital with a 26-h history of acute mild right hemiparesis. CT brain on arrival showed no abnormality. MRI brain was also normal 3 weeks post stroke with abnormality seen only at 11 weeks. Stroke remains a clinical diagnosis. The time of the stroke must be taken into consideration when interpreting MRI brain images. Infarct may be 'invisible' on MRI in the subacute phase of ischaemic stroke.
In adult mammalian brains, neurogenesis persists in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles (SVZ) and the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. Although evidence suggest that adult neurogenesis in these two regions is subjected to differential regulation, the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein FXR2 specifically regulates DG neurogenesis by reducing the stability of Noggin mRNA. FXR2 deficiency leads to increased Noggin expression and subsequently reduced BMP signaling, which results in increased proliferation and altered fate specification of neural stem/progenitor cells in DG. In contrast, Noggin is not regulated by FXR2 in the SVZ, because Noggin expression is restricted to the ependymal cells of the lateral ventricles, where FXR2 is not expressed. Differential regulation of SVZ and DG stem cells by FXR2 may be a key component of the mechanism that governs the different neurogenic processes in these two adult germinal zones.
Despite being the most abundant synaptic vesicle membrane protein, the function of synaptophysin remains enigmatic. For example, synaptic transmission was reported to be completely normal in synaptophysin knockout mice; however, direct experiments to monitor the synaptic vesicle cycle have not been carried out. Here, using optical imaging and electrophysiological experiments, we demonstrate that synaptophysin is required for kinetically efficient endocytosis of synaptic vesicles in cultured hippocampal neurons. Truncation analysis revealed that distinct structural elements of synaptophysin differentially regulate vesicle retrieval during and after stimulation. Thus, synaptophysin regulates at least two phases of endocytosis to ensure vesicle availability during and after sustained neuronal activity.
Learning to contend with threats in the environment is essential to survival, but dysregulation of memories for traumatic events can lead to disabling psychopathology. Recent years have witnessed an impressive growth in our understanding of the neural systems and synaptic mechanisms underlying emotional memory formation. As a consequence, interest has emerged in developing strategies for suppressing, if not eliminating, fear memories. Here, I review recent work employing sophisticated behavioral, pharmacological, and molecular tools to target fear memories, placing these memories firmly behind the crosshairs of neurobiologically informed interventions.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family members are best known for their powerful mitotic and angiogenic activities toward endothelial cells. Two independent studies in this issue of Neuron now provide compelling evidence that VEGF-A secreted at the CNS midline functions as an attractant for developing axons of spinal commissural neurons and contralaterally projecting retinal ganglion cells.
Regeneration is a strategy to maintain form and function throughout life. Studies carried out on animal models throughout the phylogenetic tree have flourished in the last decades in search of mechanisms underlying the regenerative processes. The development of such studies is strictly linked with stem cell research and both are viewed as one of the most promising outcomes for regenerative medicine; yet, regeneration, stem cells, and tissue repair do not seem to follow a logical path through the different animal species and tissues. As a result, some mammalian organs, e.g., kidney and brain, have lost most of their regenerative capacity. The human nervous system, although harboring neural stem cells, is placed at the extreme of &quot;perennial&quot; tissues. In addition, it is affected by neurodegenerative diseases, whose heavy burden is heightened by enhanced life spans. This review, starting from the basic principles of tissue regeneration viewed in a comparative context, tries to answer this question: To which extent can regenerative medicine be figured out in a mammalian brain equipped with many anatomical/evolutionary constraints?
Since 2004, the anatomical distribution of vitamins in the monkey brain, studied using immunohistochemical techniques and new tools (specific antisera that discriminate different vitamins reasonably well), has been an ongoing research field. The visualization of immunoreactive structures containing vitamins (folic acid, riboflavin, thiamine, pyridoxal, and vitamin C) has recently been reported in the monkey brain (Macaca fascicularis), all these vitamins showing a restricted or very restricted distribution. Folic acid, thiamine, and riboflavin have only been observed in immunoreactive fibers, vitamin C has only been found in cell bodies (located in the primary somatosensory cortex), and pyridoxal has been found in both fibers and cell bodies. Perikarya containing pyridoxal have been observed in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, the periventricular hypothalamic region, and in the supraoptic nucleus. The fibers containing vitamins are thick, smooth (without varicosities), and are of medium length or long, whereas immunoreactive cell bodies containing vitamins are round or triangular. At present, there are insufficient data to elucidate the roles played by vitamins in the brain, but the anatomical distribution of these compounds in the monkey brain provides a general idea (although imprecise and requiring much more study) about the possible functional implications of these molecules. In this sense, here the possible functional roles played by vitamins are discussed.
Acoustic stimulation gates mechanically sensitive ion channels in cochlear sensory hair cells. Even in the absence of sound, a fraction of these channels remains open, forming a conductance between hair cells and the adjacent fluid space, scala media. Restoring the lost endogenous polarization of scala media in an in vitro preparation of the whole cochlea depolarizes the hair cell soma. Using both digital laser interferometry and time-resolved confocal imaging, we show that this causes a structural refinement within the organ of Corti that is dependent on the somatic electromotility of the outer hair cells (OHCs). Specifically, the inner part of the reticular lamina up to the second row of OHCs is pulled toward the basilar membrane, whereas the outer part (third row of OHCs and the Hensen's cells) unexpectedly moves in the opposite direction. A similar differentiated response pattern is observed for sound-evoked vibrations: restoration of the endogenous polarization decreases vibrations of the inner part of the reticular lamina and results in up to a 10-fold increase of vibrations of the outer part. We conclude that the endogenous polarization of scala media affects the function of the hearing organ by altering its geometry, mechanical and electrical properties.
Rapid regulation of oxidative phosphorylation is crucial for mitochondrial adaptation to swift changes in fuels availability and energy demands. An intramitochondrial signaling pathway regulates cytochrome oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain, through reversible phosphorylation. We find that PKA-mediated phosphorylation of a COX subunit dictates mammalian mitochondrial energy fluxes and identify the specific residue (S58) of COX subunit IV-1 (COXIV-1) that is involved in this mechanism of metabolic regulation. Using protein mutagenesis, molecular dynamics simulations, and induced fit docking, we show that mitochondrial energy metabolism regulation by phosphorylation of COXIV-1 is coupled with prevention of COX allosteric inhibition by ATP. This regulatory mechanism is essential for efficient oxidative metabolism and cell survival. We propose that S58 COXIV-1 phosphorylation has evolved as a metabolic switch that allows mammalian mitochondria to rapidly toggle between energy utilization and energy storage.
Circadian rhythms are regulated by a synchronized system of central and peripheral clocks. Here, we show that a clock in the Drosophila fat body drives rhythmic expression of genes involved in metabolism, detoxification, the immune response, and steroid hormone regulation. Some of these genes cycle even when the fat body clock is disrupted, indicating that they are regulated by exogenous factors. Food is an important stimulus, as limiting food availability to a 6hr interval each day drives rhythmic expression of genes in the fat body. Restricting food to a time of day when consumption is typically low desynchronizes internal rhythms because it alters the phase of rhythmic gene expression in the fat body without affecting the brain clock. Flies maintained on this paradigm produce fewer eggs than those restricted to food at the normal time. These data suggest that desynchrony of endogenous rhythms, caused by aberrant feeding patterns, affects reproductive fitness.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) play a crucial role in regulation of phasic inhibition within the visual thalamus. Here we demonstrate that mGluR-dependent modulation of interneuron GABA release results in dynamic changes in extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor (eGABA(A)R)-dependent tonic inhibition in thalamocortical (TC) neurons of the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). Application of the group I selective mGluR agonist dihydroxyphenylglycine produces a concentration-dependent enhancement of both IPSC frequency and tonic GABA(A) current (I(GABA)tonic) that is due to activation of both mGluR1a and mGluR5 subtypes. In contrast, group II/III mGluR activation decreases both IPSC frequency and I(GABA)tonic amplitude. Using knock-out mice, we show that the mGluR-dependent modulation of I(GABA)tonic is dependent upon expression of -subunit containing eGABA(A)Rs. Furthermore, unlike the dLGN, no mGluR-dependent modulation of I(GABA)tonic is present in TC neurons of the somatosensory ventrobasal thalamus, which lacks GABAergic interneurons. In the dLGN, enhancement of IPSC frequency and I(GABA)tonic by group I mGluRs is not action potential dependent, being insensitive to TTX, but is abolished by the L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nimodipine. These results indicate selective mGluR-dependent modulation of dendrodendritic GABA release from F2-type terminals on interneuron dendrites and demonstrate for the first time the presence of eGABA(A)Rs on TC neuron dendritic elements that participate in &quot;triadic&quot; circuitry within the dLGN. These findings present a plausible novel mechanism for visual contrast gain at the thalamic level and shed new light upon the potential role of glial ensheathment of synaptic triads within the dLGN.
The cognitive control of action requires both the suppression of automatic responses to sudden stimuli and the generation of behavior specified by abstract instructions. Though patient, functional imaging and neurophysiological studies have implicated the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) in these abilities, the mechanism by which the dlPFC exerts this control remains unknown. Here we examined the functional interaction of the dlPFC with the saccade circuitry by deactivating area 46 of the dlPFC and measuring its effects on the activity of single superior colliculus neurons in monkeys performing a cognitive saccade task. Deactivation of the dlPFC reduced preparatory activity and increased stimulus-related activity in these neurons. These changes in neural activity were accompanied by marked decreases in task performance as evidenced by longer reaction times and more task errors. The results suggest that the dlPFC participates in the cognitive control of gaze by suppressing stimulus-evoked automatic saccade programs.
Task-based neuroimaging studies face the challenge of developing tasks capable of equivalently probing reading networks across different age groups. Resting-state fMRI, which requires no specific task, circumvents these difficulties. Here, in 25 children (8-14 years) and 25 adults (21-46 years), we examined the extent to which individual differences in reading competence can be related to resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) of regions implicated in reading. In both age groups, reading standard scores correlated positively with RSFC between the left precentral gyrus and other motor regions, and between Broca's and Wernicke's areas. This suggests that, regardless of age group, stronger coupling among motor regions, as well as between language/speech regions, subserves better reading, presumably reflecting automatized articulation. We also observed divergent RSFC-behavior relationships in children and adults, particularly those anchored in the left fusiform gyrus (FFG) (the visual word form area). In adults, but not children, better reading performance was associated with stronger positive correlations between FFG and phonology-related regions (Broca's area and the left inferior parietal lobule), and with stronger negative relationships between FFG and regions of the &quot;task-negative&quot; default network. These results suggest that both positive RSFC (functional coupling) between reading regions and negative RSFC (functional segregation) between a reading region and default network regions are important for automatized reading, characteristic of adult readers. Together, our task-independent RSFC findings highlight the importance of appreciating developmental changes in the neural correlates of reading competence, and suggest that RSFC may serve to facilitate the identification of reading disorders in different age groups.
Hippocampal sharp waves (SPWs) and associated fast (&quot;ripple&quot;) oscillations (SPW-Rs) in the CA1 region are among the most synchronous physiological patterns in the mammalian brain. Using two-dimensional arrays of electrodes for recording local field potentials and unit discharges in freely moving rats, we studied the emergence of ripple oscillations (140-220 Hz) and compared their origin and cellular-synaptic mechanisms with fast gamma oscillations (90-140 Hz). We show that (1) hippocampal SPW-Rs and fast gamma oscillations are quantitatively distinct patterns but involve the same networks and share similar mechanisms; (2) both the frequency and magnitude of fast oscillations are positively correlated with the magnitude of SPWs; (3) during both ripples and fast gamma oscillations the frequency of network oscillation is higher in CA1 than in CA3; and (4) the emergence of CA3 population bursts, a prerequisite for SPW-Rs, is biased by activity patterns in the dentate gyrus and entorhinal cortex, with the highest probability of ripples associated with an &quot;optimum&quot; level of dentate gamma power. We hypothesize that each hippocampal subnetwork possesses distinct resonant properties, tuned by the magnitude of the excitatory drive.
In sensory systems, neurons are generally characterized by their receptive field, namely the sensitivity to activity patterns at the input of the circuit. To assess the role of the neuron in the system, one must also know its projective field, namely the spatiotemporal effects the neuron exerts on all of the outputs of the circuit. We studied both the receptive and projective fields of an amacrine interneuron in the salamander retina. This amacrine type has a sustained OFF response with a small receptive field, but its output projects over a much larger region. Unlike other amacrine cells, this type is remarkably promiscuous and affects nearly every ganglion cell within reach of its dendrites. Its activity modulates the sensitivity of visual responses in ganglion cells but leaves their kinetics unchanged. The projective field displays a center-surround structure: depolarizing a single amacrine suppresses the visual sensitivity of ganglion cells nearby and enhances it at greater distances. This change in sign is seen even within the receptive field of one ganglion cell; thus, the modulation occurs presynaptically on bipolar cell terminals, most likely via GABA(B) receptors. Such an antagonistic projective field could contribute to the mechanisms of the retina for predictive coding.
NMDA receptors are important for synaptic plasticity, including long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). To help investigate the precise location of the NMDA receptors that are required for different types of synaptic plasticity, we synthesized a caged form of the use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonist MK801, which we loaded into individual neurons in vitro, followed by compartment-specific uncaging. We used this method to investigate timing-dependent plasticity at layer 4-layer 2/3 synapses of mouse barrel cortex. Somatodendritic photorelease of MK801 in the postsynaptic neuron produced a use-dependent block of synaptic NMDA receptor-mediated currents and prevented the induction of LTP. Compartment-specific photorelease of MK801 in the presynaptic neuron showed that axonal, but not somatodendritic, presynaptic NMDA receptors are required for induction of LTD. The rate of use-dependent block of postsynaptic NMDA receptor current was slower following induction of LTD, consistent with a presynaptic locus of expression. Thus, this new caged compound has demonstrated the axonal location of NMDA receptors required for induction and the presynaptic locus of expression of LTD at layer 4-layer 2/3 synapses.
Rodents use their whiskers to sense their surroundings. As most of the information available to the somatosensory system originates in whiskers' primary afferents, it is essential to understand the transformation of whisker motion into neuronal activity. Here, we combined in vivo recordings in anesthetized rats with mathematical modeling to ascertain the mechanical and electrical characteristics of mechanotransduction. We found that only two synergistic processes, which reflect the dynamic interactions between (1) receptor and whisker and (2) receptor and surrounding tissue, are needed to describe mechanotransduction during passive whiskers deflection. Interactions between these processes may account for stimulus-dependent changes in the magnitude and temporal pattern of tactile responses on multiple scales. Thus, we are able to explain complex electromechanical processes underlying sensory transduction using a simple model, which captures the responses of a wide range of mechanoreceptor types to diverse sensory stimuli. This compact and precise model allows for a ubiquitous description of how mechanoreceptors encode tactile stimulus.
Recent neurophysiological and imaging studies have investigated how neural representations underlying working memory (WM) are dynamically updated for objects presented sequentially. Although such studies implicate information encoded in oscillatory activity across distributed brain networks, interpretation of findings depends crucially on the underlying conceptual model of how memory resources are distributed. Here, we quantify the fidelity of human memory for sequences of colored stimuli of different orientation. The precision with which each orientation was recalled declined with increases in total memory load, but also depended on when in the sequence it appeared. When one item was prioritized, its recall was enhanced, but with corresponding decrements in precision for other objects. Comparison with the same number of items presented simultaneously revealed an additional performance cost for sequential display that could not be explained by temporal decay. Memory precision was lower for sequential compared with simultaneous presentation, even when each item in the sequence was presented at a different location. Importantly, stochastic modeling established this cost for sequential display was due to misbinding object features (color and orientation). These results support the view that WM resources can be dynamically and flexibly updated as new items have to be stored, but redistribution of resources with the addition of new items is associated with misbinding object features, providing important constraints and a framework for interpreting neural data.
Midbrain raphe nuclei provide strong serotonergic projections to the hippocampus, in which serotonin (5-HT) exerts differential effects mediated by multiple 5-HT receptor subtypes. The functional relevance of this diversity of information processing is poorly understood. Here we show that serotonin via 5-HT(1B) heteroreceptors substantially reduces synaptic excitation of cholecystokinin-expressing interneurons in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus, in contrast to parvalbumin-expressing basket cells. The reduction is input specific, affecting only glutamatergic synaptic transmission originating from CA1 pyramidal cells. As a result, serotonin selectively decreases feedback inhibition via 5-HT(1B) receptor activation and subsequently increases the integration time window for spike generation in CA1 pyramidal cells. Our data imply an important role for serotonergic modulation of GABAergic action in subcortical control of hippocampal output.
Learning-related presynaptic remodeling has been documented in only a few systems, and its molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here we describe a role for the bidirectional EphB/ephrin-B signaling system in structural plasticity of presynaptic nerve terminals using an in vitro model of classical conditioning. Conditioning or BDNF application induced significant growth of auditory nerve presynaptic boutons that convey the conditioned stimulus to abducens motor neurons. Interestingly, bouton enlargement occurred only for those synapses apposed to motor neuron dendrites rather than to somata. Phosphorylation of ephrin-B1, but not EphB2, was induced by both conditioning and BDNF application and was inhibited by postsynaptic injections of ephrin-B antibody. Finally, suppression of postsynaptic ephrin-B function inhibited presynaptic bouton enlargement that was rescued by activation of EphB2 by ephrin-B1-Fc. These data provide evidence for ephrin-B-induced EphB2 forward signaling in presynaptic structural plasticity during classical conditioning. They also reveal a functional interaction between BDNF/TrkB and the Eph/ephrin signaling systems in the coordination of presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications during conditioning.
Motor behavior is generated by specific neural circuits. Those producing locomotion are located in the spinal cord, and their activation depends on descending inputs from the brain or on sensory inputs. In this study, we have used an in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation from adult zebrafish to localize a region where stimulation of descending inputs can induce sustained locomotor activity. We show that a brief stimulation of descending inputs at the junction between the brainstem and spinal cord induces long-lasting swimming activity. The swimming frequencies induced are remarkably similar to those observed in freely moving adult fish, arguing that the induced locomotor episode is highly physiological. The motor pattern is mediated by activation of ionotropic glutamate and glycine receptors in the spinal cord and is not the result of synaptic interactions between neurons at the site of the stimulation in the brainstem. We also compared the activity of motoneurons during locomotor activity induced by electrical stimulation of descending inputs and by exogenously applied NMDA. Prolonged NMDA application changes the shape of the synaptic drive and action potentials in motoneurons. When escape activity occurs, the swimming activity in the intact zebrafish was interrupted and some of the motoneurons involved became inhibited in vitro. Thus, the descending inputs seem to act as a switch to turn on the activity of the spinal locomotor network in the caudal spinal cord. We propose that recurrent synaptic activity within the spinal locomotor circuits can transform a brief input into a well coordinated and long-lasting swimming pattern.
Head motion-related sensory signals are transformed by second-order vestibular neurons (2VNs) into appropriate commands for retinal image stabilization during body motion. In frogs, these 2VNs form two distinct subpopulations that have either tonic or highly phasic intrinsic properties, essentially compatible with low-pass and bandpass filter characteristics, respectively. In the present study, physiological data on cellular properties of 2VNs of the grass frog (Rana temporaria) have been used to construct conductance-based spiking cellular models that were fine-tuned by fitting to recorded spike-frequency data. The results of this approach suggest that low-threshold, voltage-dependent potassium channels in phasic and spike-dependent potassium channels in tonic 2VNs are important contributors to the differential, yet complementary response characteristics of the two vestibular subtypes. Extension of the cellular model with conductance-based synapses allowed simulation of afferent excitation and evaluation of the emerging properties of local feedforward inhibitory circuits. This approach revealed the relative contributions of intrinsic and synaptic factors on afferent signal processing in phasic 2VNs. Additional extension of the single-cell model to a population model allowed testing under more natural conditions including asynchronous afferent labyrinthine input and synaptic noise. This latter approach indicated that the feedforward inhibition from the local inhibitory network acts as a high-pass filter, which reinforces the impact of the intrinsic membrane properties of phasic 2VNs on peak response amplitude and timing. Thus, the combination of cellular and network properties enables phasic 2VNs to work as a noise-resistant detector, suitable for central processing of short-duration vestibular signals.


Taurine is critical for proper brain functioning. Increase in plasma taurine concentration has already been shown in many diseases [1,2,5,10,12,14,17,22,25,47]. The plasma concentrations of taurine in 60 patients, suffering from stroke, were compared with that of 54 healthy volunteers. The plasma samples of the patients were obtained three times in the first five days of hospitalization. A Student's t-test showed a significant difference (P&lt;0.0001) between the plasma concentrations of taurine of the patients group (136.58.2mmol/L) and the control group (41.92.5mmol/L). In addition, a one-way repeated measures ANOVA test showed that the mean plasma concentration of taurine in the patients during the first five days of hospitalization declined significantly from 136.98.2mmol/L in the first day of hospitalization to 120.15.9mmol/L on the third day and 110.27.0mmol/L by the fifth day (P&gt;0.05). The plasma concentration of taurine was increased in the patients with stroke probably because of brain tissue damage. Although, according to the result of the study, mean plasma taurine concentration in stroke patients declined during five days of hospitalization. Further studies are needed to introduce taurine as a biomarker of recovery in stroke.
Accumulation of the -amyloid (A) peptides is one of the major pathologic hallmarks in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. A is generated by sequential proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) catalyzed by - and -secretases. Inhibition of A production by -secretase inhibitors (GSIs) is thus being pursued as a target for treatment of AD. In addition to processing APP, -secretase also catalyzes proteolytic cleavage of other transmembrane substrates, with the best characterized one being the cell surface receptor Notch. GSIs reduce A production in animals and humans but also cause significant side effects because of the inhibition of Notch processing. The development of GSIs that reduce A production and have less Notch-mediated side effect liability is therefore an important goal. -Secretase is a large membrane protein complex with four components, two of which have multiple isoforms: presenilin (PS1 or PS2), aph-1 (aph-1a or aph-1b), nicastrin, and pen-2. Here we describe the reconstitution of four -secretase complexes in Sf9 cells containing PS1--aph-1a, PS1--aph-1b, PS2--aph-1a, and PS2--aph-1b complexes. While PS1--aph-1a, PS1--aph-1b, and PS2--aph-1a complexes displayed robust -secretase activity, the reconstituted PS2--aph-1b complex was devoid of detectable -secretase activity. -Secretase complexes containing PS1 produced a higher proportion of the toxic species A42 than -secretase complexes containing PS2. Using the reconstitution system, we identified MRK-560 and SCH 1500022 as highly selective inhibitors of PS1 -secretase activity. These findings may provide important insights into developing a new generation of -secretase inhibitors with improved side effect profiles.


Accumulation of dysfunctional Mitochondria has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), which encodes a putative mitochondrial serine/threonine kinase, have been identified in early-onset forms of PD. Recent data showed that the loss of PINK1 function led to oxidative stress, mitochondrial damage and autophagic elimination of damaged mitochondria. But the precise mechanism of autophagy induced by loss of PINK1 is unclear. In this study, we found that in mouse dopaminergic MN9D cells, down-regulation of PINK1 by RNA interference resulted in induction of mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy), abnormal mitochondrial morphology, partial loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mitophagy in these cells was associated with the up-regulation of autophagy activator Beclin 1 and opening of mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore. These findings suggest that PINK1 may regulate mitophagy through controlling MPT pore opening and general autophagy regulators.
High-resolution tracing of projections from the olfactory bulb to its cortical targets revealed coarse topography and stereotopy in some areas but highly distributed, combinatorial connectivity in others. These results provide a basis for understanding innate and associative olfactory processing and perception.
Parahippocampal and retrosplenial cortices respond strongly to visual scenes. A new study shows that these regions also activate when scenes are perceived haptically - even in the blind.
The mouse neocortex is now the focus of research using twenty-first century techniques of circuit analyses, which are revealing different wiring strategies for excitatory and inhibitory connections and providing important insights into the possible computations of cortical circuits.

During development, all cells make the decision to live or die. Although the molecular mechanisms that execute the apoptotic program are well defined, less is known about how cells decide whether to live or die. In C.elegans, this decision is linked to how cells divide asymmetrically [1, 2]. Several classes of molecules are known to regulate asymmetric cell divisions in metazoans, yet these molecules do not appear to control C.elegans divisions that produce apoptotic cells [3]. We identified CNT-2, an Arf GTPase-activating protein (GAP) of the AGAP family, as a novel regulator of this type of neuroblast division. Loss of CNT-2 alters daughter cell size and causes the apoptotic cell to adopt the fate of its sister cell, resulting in extra neurons. CNT-2's Arf GAP activity is essential for its function in these divisions. The N terminus of CNT-2, which containsa GTPase-like domain that defines the AGAP class of Arf GAPs, negatively regulates CNT-2's function. We provide evidence that CNT-2 regulates receptor-mediated endocytosis and consider the implications of its role in asymmetric cell divisions.
It is generally agreed that considerable amounts of low-level sensory processing of visual stimuli can occur without conscious awareness. On the other hand, the degree of higher level visual processing that occurs in the absence of awareness is as yet unclear. Here, event-related potential (ERP) measures of brain activity were recorded during a sandwich-masking paradigm, a commonly used approach for attenuating conscious awareness of visual stimulus content. In particular, the present study used a combination of ERP activation contrasts to track both early sensory-processing ERP components and face-specific N170 ERP activations, in trials with versus without awareness. The electrophysiological measures revealed that the sandwich masking abolished the early face-specific N170 neural response (peaking at ~170 ms post-stimulus), an effect that paralleled the abolition of awareness of face versus non-face image content. Furthermore, however, the masking appeared to render a strong attenuation of earlier feedforward visual sensory-processing signals. This early attenuation presumably resulted in insufficient information being fed into the higher level visual system pathways specific to object category processing, thus leading to unawareness of the visual object content. These results support a coupling of visual awareness and neural indices of face processing, while also demonstrating an early low-level mechanism of interference in sandwich masking.
Up to 50% of long-term HIV infected patients, including those with systemically well-controlled infection, commonly experience memory problems and slowness, difficulties in concentration, planning, and multitasking. Deposition of A plaques is also a common pathological feature of HIV infection. However, it is not clear whether this accumulation is due to AD-like processes, HIV-associated immunosuppression, Tat protein-induced A elevations, and/or the effects of single highly active antiretroviral therapy (ART). Here we evaluated the effects of several ART medications (Zidovudine, Lamivudine, Indinavir, and Abacavir) alone and in combination on: 1) A1-40, 42 generation in murine N2a cells transfected with the human &quot;Swedish&quot; mutant form of APP; 2) microglial phagocytosis of FITC-A1-42 peptides in cultured murine N9 microglia. We report for the first time that these antiretroviral compounds (10 M) generally increase A generation (~50-200%) in SweAPP N2a cells and markedly inhibit microglial phagocytosis of FITC-A1-42 peptides in murine microglia. The most significant amyloidogenic effects were observed with combined ART (p &lt; 0.05); suggesting certain ART medications may have additive amyloidogenic effects when combined. As these antiretroviral compounds are capable of penetrating the blood brain barrier and reaching the concentrations employed in the in vitro studies, these findings raise the possibility that ART may play a casual role in the elevated A found in the brains of those infected with HIV. Therefore these compounds may consequently contribute to cognitive decline observed in HIV associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND).

There is growing evidence that the reproductive schedules of female mammals can be affected by conditions experienced during early development, with low parental investment leading to accelerated life-history strategies in the offspring. In humans, the relationships between early-life conditions and timing of puberty are well studied, but much less attention has been paid to reproductive behaviour. Here, we investigate associations between early-life conditions and age at first pregnancy (AFP) in a large, longitudinally studied cohort of British women (n = 4553). Low birthweight for gestational age, short duration of breastfeeding, separation from mother in childhood, frequent family residential moves and lack of paternal involvement are all independently associated with earlier first pregnancy. Apart from that of birthweight, the effects are robust to adjustment for family socioeconomic position (SEP) and the cohort member's mother's age at her birth. The association between childhood SEP and AFP is partially mediated by early-life conditions, and the association between early-life conditions and AFP is partially mediated by emotional and behavioural problems in childhood. The overall relationship between early-life adversities and AFP appears to be approximately additive.
During early development, midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neuronal progenitors (NPs) arise from the ventral mesencephalic area by the combined actions of secreted factors and their downstream transcription factors. These mDA NPs proliferate, migrate to their final destinations, and develop into mature mDA neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. Here, we show that such authentic mDA NPs can be efficiently isolated from differentiated ES cells (ESCs) using a FACS method combining two markers, Otx2 and Corin. Purified Otx2(+)Corin(+) cells coexpressed other mDA NP markers, including FoxA2, Lmx1b, and Glast. Using optimized culture conditions, these mDA NPs continuously proliferated up to 4 wk with almost 1,000-fold expansion without significant changes in their phenotype. Furthermore, upon differentiation, Otx2(+)Corin(+) cells efficiently generated mDA neurons, as evidenced by coexpression of mDA neuronal markers (e.g., TH, Pitx3, Nurr1, and Lmx1b) and physiological functions (e.g., efficient DA secretion and uptake). Notably, these mDA NPs differentiated into a relatively homogenous DA population with few serotonergic neurons. When transplanted into PD model animals, aphakia mice, and 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, mDA NPs differentiated into mDA neurons in vivo and generated well-integrated DA grafts, resulting in significant improvement in motor dysfunctions without tumor formation. Furthermore, grafted Otx2(+)Corin(+) cells exhibited significant migratory function in the host striatum, reaching &gt;3.3 mm length in the entire striatum. We propose that functional and expandable mDA NPs can be efficiently isolated by this unique strategy and will serve as useful tools in regenerative medicine, bioassay, and drug screening.
Extrinsic factors and the interactions of neurons with surrounding tissues are essential for almost every aspect of neuronal development. Here we describe a strategy of gene expression with an independent enhancer-driven cellular marker (GEEM) for studying roles of cell-cell interactions and extrinsic factors in the development of the Drosophila nervous system. Key to this strategy is robust expression of enhancer-driven transgenic markers in specific neurons. To this end, we have created vectors to achieve bright and even labeling of neuronal processes, easy cloning of enhancer elements, and efficient and flexible generation of transgenic animals. We provide examples of enhancer-driven membrane markers for specific neurons in both the peripheral and central nervous systems and their applications in the study of neuronal projections and connections in the Drosophila brain. We further applied GEEM to examine the wrapping of sensory neuron somas by glia during embryonic and larval stages, and neuron-glia interaction during dendrite pruning in live animals, leading to the discovery that glia play critical roles in the severing and degradation of proximal dendrites. The GEEM paradigm should be applicable to the studies of both cell-autonomous and nonautonomous regulations of any cell type.
Although protein glycosylation systems are becoming widely recognized in bacteria, little is known about the mechanisms and evolutionary forces shaping glycan composition. Species within the genus Neisseria display remarkable glycoform variability associated with their O-linked protein glycosylation (pgl) systems and provide a well developed model system to study these phenomena. By examining the potential influence of two ORFs linked to the core pgl gene locus, we discovered that one of these, previously designated as pglH, encodes a glucosyltransferase that generates unique disaccharide products by using polyprenyl diphosphate-linked monosaccharide substrates. By defining the function of PglH in the glycosylation pathway, we identified a metabolic conflict related to competition for a shared substrate between the opposing glycosyltransferases PglA and PglH. Accordingly, we propose that the presence of a stereotypic, conserved deletion mutation inactivating pglH in strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Neisseria meningitidis, and related commensals, reflects a resolution of this conflict with the consequence of reduced glycan diversity. This model of genetic dtente is supported by the characterization of pglH &quot;missense&quot; alleles encoding proteins devoid of activity or reduced in activity such that they cannot exert their effect in the presence of PglA. Thus, glucose-containing glycans appear to be a trait undergoing regression at the genus level. Together, these findings document a role for intrinsic genetic interactions in shaping glycan evolution in protein glycosylation systems.
Neuronal populations display conspicuous variability in their size among individuals, but the genetic sources of this variation are largely undefined. We demonstrate a large and highly heritable variation in neuron number within the mouse retina, affecting a critical population of interneurons, the horizontal cells. Variation in the size of this population maps to the distal end of chromosome (Chr) 13, a region homologous to human Chr 5q11.1-11.2. This region contains two genes known to modulate retinal cell number. Using conditional knock-out mice, we demonstrate that one of these genes, the LIM homeodomain gene Islet-1 (Isl1), plays a role in regulating horizontal cell number. Genetic differences in Isl1 expression are high during the period of horizontal cell production, and cis-regulation of Isl1 expression within the retina is demonstrated directly. We identify a single nucleotide polymorphism in the 5' UTR of Isl1 that creates an E-box sequence as a candidate causal variant contributing to this variation in horizontal cell number.
Agonist stimulation readily internalizes neuropeptide Y receptor Y1 while there are contradictory results for the Y2 receptor. In order to explore putative functional differences between the Y1 and Y2 receptors we generated reciprocal chimeras by swapping the third intracellular loop, the carboxy terminus or both between human Y1 and Y2. Internalization was studied in a quantitative radioligand binding assay with removal of surface-bound ligand in an acidic-wash procedure. The internalization assay revealed a lower degree of internalization as well as slower kinetics for the Y2 receptor. Generally, reciprocal exchange of receptor segments did not convey properties of the donor receptor but tended to enhance internalization. Surprisingly, insertion of the Y2 carboxy terminus into Y1 gave almost complete internalization (92%), rather than reduced internalization, while the insertion of both segments resulted in internalization equal to the native Y1 receptor. These findings were confirmed by fluorescence microscopy of immuno-stained receptors tagged with a C-terminal FLAG epitope. However, after exposure to high agonist concentrations (100 nM) Y2 was internalized. Studies of Y2 and the closely related Y7 receptor confirmed low internalization for Y2 from chicken and teleost fishes as well as Y7 from two teleosts. The conservation across species of low internalization at physiological concentrations suggests that this is an ancient feature and of vital importance for Y2 function. We propose that amino acid motifs in the third intracellular loop as well as the C terminus of both Y1 and Y2 are able to drive agonist-promoted internalization and that there may be constraining motifs in the Y2 receptor.
This study is the first to report on vascular effect of the chromogranin A derived Vasostatin-I (CgA(1-76)) in vivo. Cardiovascular parameters were recorded in 29 rabbits with sympathetically decentralized right carotid vascular bed. The recombinant human STA CgA(1-78) (VS-1) was infused at 480 g/kg over 25 min. Group I was kept awake while groups II-V were anesthetized with Ketamine-xylazine. VS-1 was given alone in groups I-II while in presence of either phentolamine, phentolamine plus propranolol or hexamethonium in groups III-V. Serum VS-1 peaked at 2 g/ml (200 nM) before onset of vascular effects and declined rapidly to ~200 ng/ml within 30 min. In all groups but III and IV VS-1 induced a brief vasoconstriction, being larger in intact than in sympathetically decentralized beds. The VS-1 induced vasoconstriction was not altered by hexamethonium but was abolished by phentolamine. In presence of the -adrenergic blocker a long lasting vasodilatation, unaffected by propranolol, was apparent on both innervated and decentralized sides. In conclusion, VS-1 induced an -adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction presumably brought about by noradrenaline release from sympathetic nerves when infused at a dose giving an initial serum concentration of ~200 nM. This initial vasoconstriction masked a persistent adrenoceptor-independent vasodilatation, consistent with previous reports from in vitro models.
Exposure therapy for anxiety disorders relies on the principle of confronting a patient with the triggers of his fears, allowing him to make the unexpected safety experience that his fears are unfounded and resulting in the extinction of fear responses. In the laboratory, fear extinction is modeled by repeatedly presenting a fear-conditioned stimulus (CS) in the absence of the aversive unconditioned stimulus (UCS) to which it had previously been associated. Classical associative learning theory considers extinction to be driven by an aversive prediction error signal that expresses the expectation violation when not receiving an expected UCS and establishes a prediction of CS non-occurrence. Insufficiencies of this account in explaining various extinction-related phenomena could be resolved by assuming that extinction is an opponent appetitive-like learning process that would be mediated by the mesostriatal dopamine (DA) system. In accordance with this idea, we find that a functional polymorphism in the DA transporter gene, DAT1, which is predominantly expressed in the striatum, significantly affects extinction learning rates. Carriers of the 9-repeat (9R) allele, thought to confer enhanced phasic DA release, had higher learning rates. Further, functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed stronger hemodynamic appetitive prediction error signals in the ventral striatum in 9R carriers. Our results provide a first hint that extinction learning might indeed be conceptualized as an appetitive-like learning process and suggest DA as a new candidate neurotransmitter for human fear extinction. They open up perspectives for neurobiological therapy augmentation.
We report the experience of a case of acute stroke in a patient affected by Rendu Osler syndrome and atrial fibrillation. The combination of dynamic computerized tomography perfusion scans and the use of a high-compliance balloon allowed increasing the treatment window for intra-arterial recanalization over 6 h after stroke onset in a patient with middle cerebral artery occlusion.


The use of N-type voltage-gated calcium channel (CaV2.2) blockers to treat pain is limited by many physiological side effects. Here we report that inflammatory and neuropathic hypersensitivity can be suppressed by inhibiting the binding of collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2) to CaV2.2 and thereby reducing channel function. A peptide of CRMP-2 fused to the HIV transactivator of transcription (TAT) protein (TAT-CBD3) decreased neuropeptide release from sensory neurons and excitatory synaptic transmission in dorsal horn neurons, reduced meningeal blood flow, reduced nocifensive behavior induced by formalin injection or corneal capsaicin application and reversed neuropathic hypersensitivity produced by an antiretroviral drug. TAT-CBD3 was mildly anxiolytic without affecting memory retrieval, sensorimotor function or depression. At doses tenfold higher than that required to reduce hypersensitivity in vivo, TAT-CBD3 caused a transient episode of tail kinking and body contortion. By preventing CRMP-2-mediated enhancement of CaV2.2 function, TAT-CBD3 alleviated inflammatory and neuropathic hypersensitivity, an approach that may prove useful in managing chronic pain.
Waves of correlated activity sweeping across the early postnatal mouse retina promote the segregation and refinement of retinofugal projections. This process has been thought to be spontaneous and unaffected by visual experience. We found, however, that light prolongs spiking during the waves and enhances the segregation of retinogeniculate afferents, and that it did so by activating melanopsin-expressing, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells.
Deciding when to leave a depleting resource to exploit another is a fundamental problem for all decision makers. The neuronal mechanisms mediating patch-leaving decisions remain unknown. We found that neurons in primate (Macaca mulatta) dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, an area that is linked to reward monitoring and executive control, encode a decision variable signaling the relative value of leaving a depleting resource for a new one. Neurons fired during each sequential decision to stay in a patch and, for each travel time, these responses reached a fixed threshold for patch-leaving. Longer travel times reduced the gain of neural responses for choosing to stay in a patch and increased the firing rate threshold mandating patch-leaving. These modulations more closely matched behavioral decisions than any single task variable. These findings portend an understanding of the neural basis of foraging decisions and endorse the unification of theoretical and experimental work in ecology and neuroscience.
Synaptotagmin-1 is a Ca(2+) sensor that triggers synchronous neurotransmitter release. The first documented biochemical property of synaptotagmin-1 was its ability to aggregate membranes in response to Ca(2+). However, the mechanism and function of this process were poorly understood. Here we show that synaptotagmin-1-mediated vesicle aggregation is driven by trans interactions between synaptotagmin-1 molecules bound to different membranes. We found a strong correlation between the ability of Ca(2+)-bound synaptotagmin-1 to aggregate vesicles and to stimulate SNARE-mediated membrane fusion. Moreover, artificial aggregation of membranes-using non-synaptotagmin proteins-also efficiently promoted fusion of SNARE-bearing liposomes. Finally, using a modified fusion assay, we observed that synaptotagmin-1 drove the assembly of otherwise non-fusogenic individual t-SNARE proteins into fusion-competent heterodimers, independently of aggregation. Thus, membrane aggregation and t-SNARE assembly appear to be two key aspects of fusion reactions that are regulated by Ca(2+)-bound synaptotagmin-1 and catalyzed by SNAREs.

We have previously shown that the cell death-promoting protein Bcl-2-interacting mediator of cell death (Bim) is ubiquitinated and degraded following a neuroprotection-conferring episode of brief ischemia (preconditioning). Here, we identify the E3 ligase that ubiquitinates Bim in this model, using a proteomics approach. Using phosphorylated GST-Bim as bait, we precipitated and identified by mass spectrometry tripartite motif protein 2 (TRIM2), a RING (really interesting new gene) domain-containing protein. The reaction between TRIM2 and Bim was confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation followed by immunoblotting. We show that TRIM2 binds to Bim when it is phosphorylated by p42/p44 MAPK but does not interact with a nonphosphorylatable Bim mutant (3ABim). 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate activation of p42/p44 MAPK drives Bim ubiquitination in mouse embryonic fibroblast cells and is associated with an increased interaction between TRIM2 and Bim. One hour following preconditioning ischemia, the binding of Bim to TRIM2 increased, consistent with the time window of enhanced Bim degradation. Blocking p42/p44 MAPK activation following preconditioning ischemia with U0126 or using the nonphosphorylatable 3ABim reduced the binding between Bim and TRIM2. Immunodepletion of TRIM2 from cell lysates prepared from preconditioned cells reduced Bim ubiquitination. Finally, suppression of TRIM2 expression, using lentivirus transduction of shRNAmir, stabilized Bim protein levels and blocked neuroprotection observed in rapid ischemic tolerance. Taken together, these data support a role for TRIM2 in mediating the p42/p44 MAPK-dependent ubiquitination of Bim in rapid ischemic tolerance.
Dynamic interactions between human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and the macrophage govern the tempo of viral dissemination and replication in its human host. HIV-1 affects macrophage phenotype, and the macrophage, in turn, can modulate the viral life cycle. While these processes are linked to host-cell function and survival, the precise intracellular pathways involved are incompletely understood. To elucidate such dynamic virus-cell events, we employed pulsed stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture. Alterations in de novo protein synthesis of HIV-1 infected human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) were examined after 3, 5, and 7 days of viral infection. Synthesis rates of cellular metabolic, regulatory, and DNA packaging activities were decreased, whereas, those affecting antigen presentation (major histocompatibility complex I and II) and interferon-induced antiviral activities were increased. Interestingly, enrichment of proteins linked to chromatin assembly or disassembly, DNA packaging, and nucleosome assembly were identified that paralleled virus-induced cytopathology and replication. We conclude that HIV-1 regulates a range of host MDM proteins that affect its survival and abilities to contain infection.
Kalirin-7 (Kal7), a multifunctional Rho GDP/GTP exchange factor (GEF) for Rac1 and RhoG, is embedded in the postsynaptic density at excitatory synapses, where it participates in the formation and maintenance of dendritic spines. Kal7 has been implicated in long-term potentiation, fear memories, and addiction-like behaviors. Using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectroscopy, we identified sites phosphorylated by six PSD-localized kinases implicated in synaptic plasticity and behavior, sites phosphorylated when myc-Kal7 was expressed in non-neuronal cells and sites phosphorylated in mouse brain Kal7. A site in the Sec14p domain phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II, protein kinase A and protein kinase C, was phosphorylated in mouse brain but not in non-neuronal cells. Phosphorylation in the spectrin-like repeat region was more extensive in mouse brain than in non-neuronal cells, with a total of 20 sites identified. Sites in the pleckstrin homology domain and in the linker region connecting the GEF domain to the PDZ binding motif were heavily phosphorylated in both non-neuronal cells and in mouse brain and affected GEF activity. We postulate that the kinase convergence and divergence observed in Kal7 identify it as a key player in integration of the multiple inputs that regulate synaptic structure and function.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is pathologically characterised by the age-dependent deposition of -amyloid (A) in senile plaques, intraneuronal accumulation of tau as neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic dysfunction and neuronal death. Neuroinflammation, typified by the accumulation of activated microglia and reactive astrocytes, is believed to modulate the development and/or progression of AD. We have used primary rat neuronal, astrocytic and mixed cortical cultures to investigate the contribution of astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses during A-induced neuronal loss. We report that the presence of small numbers of astrocytes exacerbate A-induced neuronal death, caspase-3 activation and the production of caspase-3-cleaved tau. Furthermore, we show that astrocytes are essential for the A-induced tau phosphorylation observed in primary neurons. The release of soluble inflammatory factor(s) from astrocytes accompanies these events, and inhibition of astrocyte activation with the anti-inflammatory agent, minocycline, reduces astrocytic inflammatory responses and the associated neuronal loss. A-induced increases in caspase-3 activation and the production of caspase-3-truncated tau species in neurons were reduced when the astrocytic response was attenuated with minocycline. Taken together, these results show that astrocytes are important mediators of the neurotoxic events downstream of elevated A in models of AD, and suggest that mechanisms underlying pro-inflammatory cytokine release might be an important target for therapy.
The subjective effects of intravenous cocaine are felt almost immediately, and this immediacy plays an important part in the drug's rewarding impact. The primary rewarding effect of cocaine involves blockade of dopamine reuptake; however, the onset of this action is too late to account for the drug's initial effects. Recent studies suggest that cocaine-predictive cues--including peripheral interoceptive cues generated by cocaine itself--come to cause more direct and earlier reward signalling by activating excitatory inputs to the dopamine system. The conditioned activation of the dopamine system by cocaine-predictive cues offers a new target for potential addiction therapies.
Alcohol-related violence is a serious and common social problem. Moreover, violent behaviour is much more common in alcohol-dependent individuals. Animal experiments and human studies have provided insights into the acute effect of alcohol on aggressive behaviour and into common factors underlying acute and chronic alcohol intake and aggression. These studies have shown that environmental factors, such as early-life stress, interact with genetic variations in serotonin-related genes that affect serotonergic and GABAergic neurotransmission. This leads to increased amygdala activity and impaired prefrontal function that, together, predispose to both increased alcohol intake and impulsive aggression. In addition, acute and chronic alcohol intake can further impair executive control and thereby facilitate aggressive behaviour.
The protective effects of the flavonoid polyphenols, myricetin and quercetin, were investigated on key features of ischemic injury in cultures including cell swelling and the reduction in glutamate uptake. C6 glial cells were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) for 5 h and cell swelling was determined 90 min after the end of OGD. OGD-induced swelling was significantly blocked by both quercetin and myricetin although higher concentrations were required for quercetin. OGD-induced free radical production, a contributing factor in cell swelling, was significantly reduced by both myricetin and quercetin. However, depolarization of the inner mitochondrial membrane potential ((m)), the blockade of which generally reduces swelling, was significantly diminished by myricetin, but not quercetin. This indicated that quercetin could reduce swelling despite its inability to prevent depolarization of (m) possibly through other signaling pathways. Increased intracellular calcium ([Ca+](i)) is an important characteristic of ischemic injury and is implicated in swelling. Both myricetin and quercetin attenuated the increase in [Ca+](i). Further, a reduction in [Ca+](i), through the use of nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil, dantrolene, or BAPTA-AM, significantly reduced OGD-induced cell swelling indicating that one possible mechanism by which such flavonoids attenuate cell swelling may be through regulating [Ca+](i). OGD-induced decrease in glutamate uptake was attenuated by myricetin, but not quercetin. Cyclosporin A, a blocker of the mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) pore, but not FK506 (that does not block the mPT), attenuated the decline in glutamate uptake after OGD, indicating the involvement of the mPT in glutamate uptake. Our results indicated that while blockade of (m) may be sufficient to reduce swelling, it may not be a necessary factor, and that flavonoids reduce cell swelling by regulating [Ca+](i). The differential effects of myricetin and quercetin on OGD-induced reduction on glutamate uptake may be due to their differential effects on mitochondria.
In this study, we explored the capacity of the naturally occurring compound solasodine to promote neurogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Mouse embryonic teratocarcinoma P19 cells exposed to solasodine for 2 days followed by a 5-day washout differentiated into cholinergic neurons that expressed specific neuronal markers and displayed important axonal formation that continued growing even 30 days after treatment. In vivo, a 2-week infusion of solasodine into the left ventricle of the rat brain followed by a 3-week washout resulted in a significant increase in bromodeoxyuridine uptake by cells of the ependymal layer, subventricular zone, and cortex that co-localized with doublecortin immunostaining, demonstrating the proliferative and differentiating properties of solasodine on neuronal progenitors. In addition, these data demonstrate that under our experimental conditions adult ependymal cells retrieved their proliferative and differentiating abilities. The GAP-43/HuD pathway was activated both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting a role in the differentiating process triggered by solasodine. Solasodine treatment in rats resulted in a dramatic increase in expression of the cholesterol- and drug-binding translocator protein in ependymal cells, suggesting a possible role played by neurosteroid production in solasodine-induced neurogenesis. In GAD65-GFP mice that express the green fluorescent protein under the control of the glutamic acid decarboxylase 65-kDa promoter, solasodine treatment increased the number of GABAergic progenitors and neuroblasts generated in the subventricular zone and present in the olfactory migratory tract. Taken together, these results suggest that solasodine offers an interesting approach to stimulate in situ neurogenesis from resident neuronal progenitors as part of neuron replacement therapy.
The aim of this study is to investigate the neuroprotective effects of the anticonvulsant topiramate in a new model of traumatic brain injury in rats. A new model of traumatic brain injury, based on the weight-drop technique, was developed for the purpose of this study. Seventy-five male Wistar rats weighing 320-470 g were studied. All rats were anesthetized, subsequently submitted to a round craniectomy in the left parietal region and a weight of 50 g was used for the production of a cortical contusion. In study I, 44 rats were randomized in three groups to receive either topiramate 40 mg/kg (n=13), topiramate 60 mg/kg (n=14), or water for injection (n=17) i.p. 30 min after the injury and every 12 h thereafter for 3 days. The rats were tested clinically 24 h, 72 h, 10 days and 20 days after the injury. On day 21 the animals were sacrificed and the brains were removed and prepared for histopathological analysis. In study II, 19 rats were randomized to receive either topiramate 60 mg/kg (n=10) or water for injection (n=9) i.p. 30 min after the injury and every 12 h (four doses in total). 48 h after the injury the animals were sacrificed and the brains were rapidly removed and analyzed for water content with the dry-wet weight technique. The animals that received topiramate performed significantly better in neurological tests compared to the animals that received vehicle ten (P&lt;0.05) and 20 (P&lt;0.001) days after the injury. There was no difference between the high and the low dose of the drug. Topiramate had no effect on the anatomic volume of the lesion. The animals that received topiramate had a tendency to present with less cerebral edema formation, but the difference was not statistically significant (P&gt;0.05). These findings suggest that topiramate promotes neurological recovery in rats after traumatic brain injury without affecting the final size of the traumatic lesion and that it might play a role in the reduction of post-traumatic cerebral edema.
Previous studies have demonstrated that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can be proficiently used to modulate attentional and cognitive functions. For instance, in the language domain there is evidence that tDCS can fasten picture naming in both healthy individuals and aphasic patients, or improve grammar learning. In this study, we investigated whether tDCS can be used to increase healthy subjects' performance in phonemic and semantic fluency tasks, that are typically used in clinical assessment of language. Ten healthy individuals performed a semantic and a phonemic fluency task following anodal tDCS applied over Broca's region. Each participant underwent a real and a sham tDCS session. Participants were found to produce more words following real anodal tDCS both in the phonemic and in the semantic fluency. Control experiments ascertained that this finding did not depend upon unspecific effects of tDCS over levels of general arousal or attention or upon participants' expectations. These data confirm the efficacy of tDCS in transiently improving language functions by showing that anodal stimulation of Broca's region can enhance verbal fluency. Implications of these results for the treatment of language functions in aphasia are considered.
It has been hypothesized that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and its related neuropeptide urocortin 1 (Ucn1) play different roles in the initiation and adaptive phases of the stress response, which implies different temporal dynamics of these neuropeptides in response to stressors. We have tested the hypothesis that acute pain stress (APS) differentially changes the dynamics of CRF expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), oval subdivision of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTov) and central amygdala (CeA), and the dynamics of Ucn1 expression in the midbrain non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW). Thirty minutes after APS, induced by a formalin injection into the left hind paw, PVN, BSTov, CeA and npEW all showed a peak in cFos mRNA expression that was followed by a robust increase in cFos protein-immunoreactivity, indicating a rapid increase in (immediate early) gene expression in all four brain nuclei. CRF-dynamics, however, were affected by APS in a brain nucleus-specific way: in the PVN, CRF-immunoreactivity was minimal at 60 min after APS and concomitant with a marked increase in plasma corticosterone, whereas in the BSTov not CRF peptide but CRF mRNA peaked at 60 min, and in the CeA a surge of CRF peptide occurred as late as 240 min. The npEW differed from the other centers, as Ucn1 mRNA and Ucn1 peptide peaked at 120 min. These results support our hypothesis that each of the four brain centers responds to APS with CRF/Ucn1 dynamics that are specific as to nature and timing. In particular, we propose that CRF in the PVN plays a major role in the initiation phase, whereas Ucn1 in the npEW may act in the later, termination phase of the adaptation response to APS.
Memory impairment is considered to be one of the most prominent consequences of aging. Deterioration of memory begins in advance of old age in animals, including humans. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and/or free radicals-induced oxidative stress which is the major age-related changes, can lead to hippocampus damage and increase vulnerability to impaired learning and memory. Ginsenoside, the effective ingredient of ginseng, has been reported to have a neuron beneficial effect. In the present study, C57BL/6J mice aged 12 months were chronically treated with ginsenoside (three dose groups were given ginsenoside in drinking water for 8 months, the concentration of ginsenoside in drinking water was 0.028%, 0.056%, and 0.112% (w/v), respectively). Placebo-treated aged mice and young ones (4 months old) were used as controls. The efficacious effect of ginsenoside was manifested in the amelioration of memory impairment in aged mice by Morris water maze and step-down tests. Total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) have been used as the biomarkers of oxidative stress. In ginsenoside treated groups, the activities of T-SOD and GSH-Px markedly increased, and the levels of TBARS and the content of protein carbonyl decreased significantly in serum and in hippocampus. The activation of lipofuscin formation, disruption or loss of cristae in mitochondria, the irregular nucleus and condensed chromatin laid against the nuclear membrane in pyramidal cells of hippocampal CA1 region, which are all related to oxidative stress, were also reduced after ginsenoside treatment. Processes of memory formation and functional plasticity are associated with postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95), protein kinase C subunit (PKC) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In the present study, we found that long-term ginsenoside treatment prevented age-related reductions of PSD-95, PKC, and BDNF in the hippocampus. These results demonstrated that long-term ginsenoside administration may prevent memory loss in aged C57BL/6J mice by modulating the redox status and up-regulating the plasticity-related proteins in hippocampus.
Collagen VI, one of the extracellular matrix proteins, has been implicated in regulating cell proliferation and reducing apoptosis in several different systems. However, the role of collagen VI in the central nervous system remains unclear. In this manuscript, we demonstrated that upon ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, mouse primary hippocampal neurons specifically up-regulate the expression of Col6a1, Col6a2, and Col6a3 mRNA and secreted collagen VI protein. Augmentation of collagen VI mRNA and protein after UV irradiation may have a neuroprotective role as suggested by the fact that extracellular supplying soluble collagen VI protein, but not other collagen proteins, reduced UV induced DNA damage, mitochondria dysfunction, and neurite shrinkage. We also tried to determine the signaling molecules that mediate the protective effect of collagen VI via Western blot and inhibitor analysis. After collagen VI treatment, UV irradiated neurons increased phosphorylation of Akt and decreased phosphorylation of JNK. Inhibiting Akt/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3K) pathway diminished the protective effect of collagen VI. Our study suggested a potential protective mechanism by which neurons up-regulate collagen VI production under stress conditions to activate Akt/PI3K anti-apoptotic signaling pathway.
Over the past few years, significant progress has been made in cancer therapy. Indeed, the lifespan of cancer patients has significantly increased. Although patients live longer, cancer-related pain remains a daily problem affecting their quality of life, especially when metastases reach the bone. In patients coping with cancer-induced bone pain, morphine and NSAIDs, often used in combination with other medications, are the most commonly used drugs to alleviate pain. However, these drugs have dose-limiting side effects. Morphine and other routinely used opioids are mu opioid receptor (MOPR) agonists. The MOPR is responsible for most opioid-related adverse effects. In the present study, we revealed potent analgesic effects of an intrathecally-administered selective delta opioid receptor (DOPR) agonist, deltorphin II, in a recently developed rat bone cancer model. Indeed, we found that deltorphin II dose-dependently reversed mechanical allodynia 14 days post-surgery in this cancer pain model, which is based on the implantation of mammary MRMT-1 cells in the femur. This effect was DOPR-mediated as it was completely blocked by naltrindole, a selective DOPR antagonist. Using the complete Freund's adjuvant model of inflammatory pain, we further demonstrated that deltorphin II was equipotent at alleviating inflammatory and cancer pain (i.e. similar ED50 values). Altogether, the present results show, for the first time, that activation of spinal DOPRs causes significant analgesia at doses sufficient to reduce inflammatory pain in a rat bone cancer pain model. Our results further suggest that DOPR represents a potential target for the development of novel analgesic therapies to be used in the treatment of cancer-related pain.
Anxiety disorders are the most prevalent central nervous system diseases imposing a high social burden to our society. Emotional processing is particularly controlled by GABA-ergic transmission in the amygdala. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry we now investigated changes in the expression of GABA synthesizing enzymes (GAD65 and GAD67), GABA(A) (1-5, 1-3, 1-2) and GABA(B) receptor subunits (GBBR1, GBBR2) in amygdaloid nuclei of high anxiety-related behavior (HAB) mice in comparison to mice selected for normal anxiety-related behavior (NAB). Levels of GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs and protein, as well as those of GABA were increased in the amygdala of HAB mice. Relative to NAB controls, mRNA expression of the GABA(A) receptor subunits 1, 2 and 2 was specifically increased in the basolateral amygdala of HAB mice while transcription of 5 and 1 subunits was reduced in the central and medial amygdala. On the protein level, increases in 2 and 2 subunit immunoreactivities were evident in the basolateral amygdala of HAB mice. No change in GABA(B) receptor expression was observed. These findings point towards an imbalanced GABA-ergic neurotransmission in the amygdala of HAB mice. On the other hand, FosB, a marker for neuronal activity, was increased in principal neurons of the basolateral amygdala in HAB mice, reflecting activation of excitatory neurons, possibly as a consequence of reduced GABA-ergic tonic inhibition through 5 and 1 containing receptors. Ultimately these mechanisms may lead to the compensatory activation of GABA transmission, as indicated by the increased expression of GAD65/67 in HAB mice.
Visceral sensory afferents during disease or following injury often produce vague, diffuse body sensations, and pain referred to somatic targets. Alternatively, injury due to trauma or disease of somatic nerve targets can also lead to referred pain in visceral targets via a somatovisceral reflex. Both phenomenons are thought to be due to convergence of visceral and somatic afferents within the spinal cord. To investigate a potential peripheral influence for referred pain in visceral targets following somatic nerve injury, we examined whether a sciatic nerve injury known to produce hindpaw tactile hyperalgesia alters the frequency of micturition and the sensitivity of bladder-associated sensory neurons to pro-nociceptive chemokines. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats received injections of cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to 555 into urinary bladder wall to retrogradely label visceral primary afferent neurons. After 7 days, the right sciatic nerve of these animals was subjected to a lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC)-induced focal demyelination injury. Pre- and post-injury tactile sensitivity in the hind paw and micturition frequency were assayed. Animals were allowed to survive for 14-28 days. Lumbosacral and lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) ipsilateral to the nerve injury were acutely dissociated from sham and nerve injured animals. Bladder wall-associated sensory neurons identified via the retrograde marker were assayed for fluxes in intracellular calcium following administration of pro-nociceptive chemokines. The assayed chemokines included monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP1/CCL2) and stromal cell derived factor-1 alpha (SDF1/CXCL12). LPC nerve injured animals exhibited tactile hyperalgesia and increased micturition frequency for at least 28 days. Focal demyelination of the sciatic nerve also increased the number of injured LL and non-injured L-S bladder-associated sensory neurons that responded to MCP1 and SDF1 when compared with sensory neurons derived from uninjured nave and sham-injured control animals. Taken together, these data suggest that some visceral hypersensitivity states may have a somatic origin. More importantly, nociceptive somatovisceral sensation may be mediated by upregulation of chemokine signaling in visceral sensory neurons.
The hippocampus is a dynamic brain structure involved with learning and memory. Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a neuronal model of learning and memory and, in adult rodents, is enhanced by voluntary exercise (VEx). The current study sought to elucidate whether synaptic plasticity in the male and female adolescent hippocampus is augmented by VEx. Consistent with previous studies, VEx significantly enhanced LTP in adolescent males following weak and strong theta-burst stimulation. Despite running the same amount as males, however, VEx did not enhance LTP in females above non-runner females. Surprisingly, the exercise-induced enhancement to LTP in males was seen in the absence of a change in brain derived neurotrophic factor in the dentate gyrus (DG). These findings indicate that adolescent males and females are differentially sensitive to the potentiating effect of exercise on hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
This study examined CD200 expression in different peripheral nerves and ganglia. Intense CD200 immunoreactivity was consistently localized in unmyelinated nerve fibers as opposed to a faint immunostaining in the myelinated nerve fibers. By light microscopy, structures resembling the node of Ranvier and Schmidt-Lanterman incisures in the myelinated nerve fibers displayed CD200 immunoreactivity. Ultrastructural study revealed CD200 expression on the neurilemma of Schwann cells whose microvilli and paranodal loops at the node of Ranvier were immunoreactive. The CD200 immunoexpression was also localized in the satellite glial cells of sensory and autonomic ganglia and in the enteric glial cells. Double labeling of CD200 with specific antigens of satellite glia or Schwann cells in the primary cultures of dorsal root ganglia had shown a differential expression of CD200 in the peripheral glial cells. The existence of CD200 in glial cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) was corroborated by the expression of CD200 mRNA and protein in a rat Schwann cell line RSC96. Using the model of crush or transected sciatic nerve, it was found that CD200 expression was attenuated or diminished at the site of lesion. A remarkable feature, however, was an increase in incidence of CD200-labelled Schmidt-Lanterman incisures proximal to the injured site at 7 days postlesion. Because CD200 has been reported to impart immunosuppressive signal, we suggest that its localization in PNS glial cells may play a novel inhibitory role in immune homeostasis in both normal and pathological conditions.
We compared the response to repeated social defeat in rats selected as high (HR) and low (LR) responders to novelty. In experiment 1, we investigated the behavioral and neuroendocrine effects of repeated social defeat in HR-LR rats. By the last defeat session, HR rats exhibited less passive-submissive behaviors than LR rats, and exhibited higher corticosterone secretion when recovering from defeat. Furthermore, in the forced swim test, while HR defeated rats spent more time immobile than their undefeated controls, LR rats' immobility was unaffected by defeat. In experiment 2, we compared the effects of repeated social defeat on body, adrenal, thymus, and spleen weights in HR-LR rats; moreover, we compared the effects of repeated social defeat on stress related molecules gene expression in these two groups of rats. Our results show that HR rats exhibited a decrease in thymus weight after repeated social defeat that was not present in LRs. Analyses of in situ hybridization results found HR-LR differences in 5-HT(2a) mRNA levels in the parietal cortex and 5-HT(1a) mRNA levels in the dorsal raphe. Moreover, LR rats had higher glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA expression than HR rats in the dentate gyrus, and repeated social defeat decreased this expression in LR rats to HR levels. Finally, hippocampal mineralcorticoid receptor (MR)/GR ratio was reduced in HR rats only. Taken together, our results show a differential response to social defeat in HR-LR rats, and support the HR-LR model as a useful tool to investigate inter-individual differences in response to social stressors.
Osthole, a bioactive simple coumarin derivative extracted from many medicinal plants such as Cnidium monnieri (L.) Cusson, exerts a broad spectrum of pharmacological activities and is considered to have potential therapeutic applications. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential neuroprotective role of osthole against ischemic injury in vitro, as well as the potential mechanism. Cultured cortical neurons were exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) for 4 h followed by a 24 h reperfusion. Osthole exhibited remarkable neuroprotection in a dose-dependent manner and the effect required presence of osthole during both OGD and reperfusion phases. Western blot was used to examine the activation of three members of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs): extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 kinase (p38). We found that osthole prolonged activation of ERK1/2 and prevented activation of JNK. Furthermore, we investigated the effects of MAPKs inhibitors on osthole-induced protection. The results demonstrated that the protection of osthole was partly reversed by PD98059, a selective inhibitor of ERK1/2, but further enhanced by the JNK inhibitor SP600125. In addition, osthole-induced reduction of neuronal apoptosis was abrogated by the ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059, whereas the total neuronal death was further decreased by the JNK inhibitor SP600125. In summary, these data suggested that osthole had neuroprotective effect against ischemic injury in vitro, and the protection possibly was associated with prolonged activation of ERK1/2 and suppression of JNK activity.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and CRF-related neuropeptides are involved in the regulation of stress-related physiology and behavior. Members of the CRF family of neuropeptides bind to two known receptors, the CRF type 1 (CRF) receptor, and the CRF type 2 (CRF) receptor. Although the distribution of CRF receptor mRNA expression has been extensively studied, the distribution of CRF receptor protein has not been characterized. An area of the brain known to contain high levels of CRF receptor mRNA expression and CRF receptor binding is the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). In the present study we investigated in detail the distribution of CRF receptor immunoreactivity throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the DR. CRF receptor-immunoreactive perikarya were observed throughout the DR, with the highest number and density in the mid-rostrocaudal DR. Dual immunofluorescence revealed that CRF receptor immunoreactivity was frequently co-localized with tryptophan hydroxylase, a marker of serotonergic neurons. This study provides evidence that CRF receptor protein is expressed in the DR, and that CRF receptors are expressed in topographically organized subpopulations of cells in the DR, including serotonergic neurons. Furthermore, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that CRF receptors play an important role in the regulation of stress-related physiology and behavior through actions on serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons within the DR.
The role of the rare soluble splice variant of acetylcholinesterase (AChE-R) in anxiety behavior was assayed using the elevated plus maze (EPM). The effects of pretreatment with restraint stress and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) were tested, as these treatments are known to enhance the expression of AChE-R in several brain regions. Mice from the CD-1 outbred and C57BL/6 inbred strains were randomly assigned to seven treatment groups: homecage control, elevated plus maze without pretreatment, 3 days restraint stress or 3 days pretreatment with saline or one of three doses of DFP, for a total of 14 groups. All mice, except homecage controls, were tested twice on the elevated plus maze. AChE-R transcript expression was increased following elevated plus maze stress in hippocampus and amygdala, but not in the prefrontal cortex of CD-1 and not in C57BL/6 mice. Saline-injected C57BL/6 mice had reduced expression of AChE-R transcripts compared to untreated C57 BL/6 mice. DFP pretreatment reversed the stress-induced changes, increased AChE-R transcripts in CD-1 mice. AChE-R expression in the striatum and amygdala were positively correlated with anxiety in the EPM.
Circadian rhythms, generated in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), are synchronized to the ambient light/dark (LD) cycle. Long-term disruptions in circadian rhythms are associated with many health problems. However, the underlying mechanisms for such pathologies are not well understood. In the present study, we utilized a chronic jet lag paradigm consisting of weekly 6 h phase shifts in the LD cycle to investigate the circadian responses in behavior and in the functioning of the SCN following long-term circadian perturbation, and to explore the duration and direction dependent changes of the SCN using rats subjected to weekly phase advances or delays. Wheel-running activity was monitored over four weekly phase advances. The nocturnal activity pattern was re-established by the end of each shift, and the rate for recovering the nocturnality appeared to accelerate following multiple shifts. SCN function was assessed by the expressions of the protein product of clock gene PER1 and of two putative SCN output signals, arginine vasopressin (AVP) and prokineticin2 (Pk2). At the end of the 4th weekly advance, the amplitude of the PER1 rhythm in the SCN decreased, and this reduction was more prominent in the dorsomedial SCN than in the ventrolateral SCN. The levels of AVP and Pk2 expression were also attenuated in the SCN and in targets of its efferent projections. Comparing rats subjected to four or eight shifts of either delay or advance, the results revealed that the responses of the SCN depended on both duration and direction of the shifts, such that the level of PER1 expression further decreased at the end of the 8th compared to the 4th phase advance, but did not change significantly following phase delays. Taken together, the results suggest that rhythm perturbation could compromise the time-keeping function of the SCN, which could contribute to the associated health issues.
Adult zebrafish, by virtue of exhibiting spontaneous recovery after spinal lesion, have evolved into a paradigmatic vertebrate model system to identify novel genes vital for successful regeneration after spinal cord injury. Due to a remarkable level of conservation between zebrafish and human genomes, such genes, once identified, could point to possibilities for addressing the multiple issues on how to deal with functional recovery after spinal cord injury in humans. In the current study, the extracellular matrix glycoprotein tenascin-C was studied in the zebrafish spinal cord injury model to assess the often disparate functions of this multidomain molecule under in vivo conditions. This in vivo study was deemed necessary since in vitro studies had shown discrepant functional effects on neurite outgrowth: tenascin-C inhibits neurite outgrowth when presented as a molecular barrier adjacent to a conducive substrate, but enhances neurite outgrowth when presented as a uniform substrate. Thus, our current study addresses the question as to which of these features prevails in vivo: whether tenascin-C reduces or enhances axonal regrowth after injury in a well accepted vertebrate model of spinal cord injury. We show upregulation of tenascin-C expression in regenerating neurons of the nucleus of median longitudinal fascicle (NMLF) in the brainstem and spinal motoneurons. Inhibition of tenascin-C expression by antisense oligonucleotide (morpholino) resulted in impaired locomotor recovery, reduced regrowth of axons from brainstem neurons and reduced synapse formation by the regrowing brainstem axons on spinal motoneurons, all vital indicators of regeneration. Our results thus point to an advantageous role of tenascin-C in promoting spinal cord regeneration, by promoting axonal regrowth and synapse formation in the spinal cord caudal to the lesion site after injury.
Dopaminergic compounds often affect the unlearned behaviors of preweanling and adult rats differently, although the brain regions underlying these age-dependent behavioral effects have not been specified. A candidate brain region is the dorsal caudate-putamen (CPu); thus, a goal of the present study was to determine whether D1 and D2 receptors in the dorsal CPu are capable of modulating the unlearned behaviors of preweanling rats. In Experiments 1 and 2, selective and nonselective dopamine agonists were bilaterally microinjected into the dorsal CPu on postnatal day (PD) 18 and both locomotor activity and stereotypy were measured. In Experiment 3, the functional coupling of D1 and D2 receptors was assessed by microinjecting the D1 agonist SKF-82958 and the D/D agonist quinpirole either alone or in combination. In Experiments 4 and 5, quinpirole and the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390, or SKF-82958 and the D2 receptor antagonist raclopride, were co-administered into the dorsal CPu to further assess whether a functional D1 or D2 receptor system is necessary for the expression of quinpirole- or SKF-82958-induced behaviors. Results showed that selective stimulation of D1 or D2 receptors in the dorsal CPu increased both the locomotor activity and stereotypy of preweanling rats. Receptor coupling was evident on PD 18 because co-administration of a subthreshold dose of SKF-82958 and quinpirole produced more locomotor activity than either agonist alone. Lastly, the dopamine antagonist experiments showed that both D1 and D2 receptor systems must be functional for SKF-82958- or quinpirole-induced locomotor activity to be fully manifested. When the present data are compared to results from non-ontogenetic studies, it appears that pharmacological manipulation of D1 and D2 receptors in the dorsal CPu affects the behavior of preweanling and adult rats in a generally similar manner, although some important age-dependent differences are apparent. For example, D1 and/or D2 agonists preferentially induce locomotor activity, and not intense stereotypy, in younger animals.
Chronic stress causes neuronal adaptation and maladaptation in the widespread brain regions including the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and limbic structures, resulting in cognitive and affective dysfunctions. In this study, we examined the impacts of chronic stress on functional interaction between the medial PFC and limbic structures in rats. In vivo electrophysiological recordings in rats exposed to chronic stress unveiled disturbance of correlated local field potential activity between the PFC and limbic structures as well as impairment of synaptic plasticity induction in the limbic-PFC pathways. However, these stress-induced alterations in limbic-PFC interaction were distinct along with the dorsal-ventral axis within the PFC, with greater stress vulnerability in the dorsal than the ventral PFC, such that alterations in the dorsal PFC became evident with much shorter duration of repeated stress exposure than those occurring in the ventral PFC. In agreement with the stress-induced alterations in limbic-PFC interaction, spike firing patterns of neurons in the dorsal and ventral PFC were also differently modulated by chronic stress. These results suggest that chronic stress produces heterogeneous cellular and neural network adaptation and maladaptation within the PFC that affect limbic information integration mechanisms.
Orexins (hypocretins) are peptide neurotransmitters produced by a small group of neurons located exclusively in the lateral hypothalamus (LH). Orexins modulate arousal, and as a result, have profound effects on feeding behavior and the sleep-wake cycle. Loss of orexin producing neurons leads to a narcoleptic phenotype, characterized by sudden transitions from vigilance to rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (direct transition to REM, DREM) observed in electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) recordings. In this study, we demonstrate that mice lacking the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor O/E3 (also known as ebf2) have a decrease in orexin-producing cells in the LH, in addition to a severely impaired orexinergic innervation of the pons. These changes in the orexinergic circuit of O/E3-null animals induce a narcoleptic phenotype, similar to the one arising in orexin-deficient and orexin-ataxin-3 mice. Taken together, our results suggest that O/E3 plays a central role during the establishment of a functional orexinergic circuit by controlling the expression of essential hypothalamic neurotransmitter and the correct development of the nerve fibers arising from the hypothalamus. This is the first report regarding the narcolepsy-cataplexy syndrome in O/E3-null mice, which adds the importance of transcription factors in the regulation of neural subpopulations that control the sleep-wake cycle.
Recent studies indicate that the basolateral amygdala, like the neocortex and hippocampus, receives GABAergic inputs from the basal forebrain in addition to the well-established cholinergic inputs. Since the neuronal targets of these inputs have yet to be determined, it is difficult to predict the functional significance of this innervation. The present study addressed this question in the rat by employing anterograde tract tracing combined with immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscopic levels of analysis. Amygdalopetal axons from the basal forebrain mainly targeted the basolateral nucleus (BL) of the amygdala. The morphology of these axons was heterogeneous and included GABAergic axons that contained vesicular GABA transporter protein (VGAT). These axons, designated type 1, exhibited distinctive large axonal varicosities that were typically clustered along the length of the axon. Type 1 axons formed multiple contacts with the cell bodies and dendrites of parvalbumin-containing (PV+) interneurons, but relatively few contacts with calretinin-containing and somatostatin-containing interneurons. At the ultrastructural level of analysis, the large terminals of type 1 axons exhibited numerous mitochondria and were densely packed with synaptic vesicles. Individual terminals formed broad symmetrical synapses with BL PV+ interneurons, and often formed additional symmetrical synapses with BL pyramidal cells. Some solitary type 1 terminals formed symmetrical synapses solely with BL pyramidal cells. These results suggest that GABAergic neurons of the basal forebrain provide indirect disinhibition, as well as direct inhibition, of BL pyramidal neurons. The possible involvement of these circuits in rhythmic oscillations related to emotional learning, attention, and arousal is discussed.
Guanine derivatives (GD) have been implicated in many relevant brain extracellular roles, such as modulation of glutamate transmission and neuronal protection against excitotoxic damage. GD are spontaneously released to the extracellular space from cultured astrocytes and during oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD). The aim of this study has been to evaluate the potassium channels and phosphatidilinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) pathway involvement in the mechanisms related to the neuroprotective role of guanosine in rat hippocampal slices subjected to OGD. The addition of guanosine (100 M) to hippocampal slices subjected to 15 min of OGD and followed by 2 h of re-oxygenation is neuroprotective. The presence of K+ channel blockers, glibenclamide (20 M) or apamin (300 nM), revealed that neuroprotective effect of guanosine was not dependent on ATP-sensitive K+ channels or small conductance Ca+-activated K+ channels. The presence of charybdotoxin (100 nM), a large conductance Ca+-activated K+ channel (BK) blocker, inhibited the neuroprotective effect of guanosine. Hippocampal slices subjected to OGD and re-oxygenation showed a significant reduction of glutamate uptake. Addition of guanosine in the re-oxygenation period has blocked the reduction of glutamate uptake. This guanosine effect was inhibited when hippocampal slices were pre-incubated with charybdotoxin or wortmanin (a PI3K inhibitor, 1 M) in the re-oxygenation period. Guanosine promoted an increase in Akt protein phosphorylation. However, the presence of charybdotoxin blocked such effect. In conclusion, the neuroprotective effect of guanosine involves augmentation of glutamate uptake, which is modulated by BK channels and the activation of PI3K pathway. Moreover, neuroprotection caused by guanosine depends on the increased expression of phospho-Akt protein.
Exogenous neurotrophins reduce neuronal atrophy and promote regeneration following spinal cord injury but little is known about the endogenous expression of neurotrophins and their tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) receptors in the injured spinal cord. For this purpose, we used the larval lamprey because it recovers from complete spinal transection and axons regenerate selectively in their correct paths. We cloned lamprey neurotrophin (NT) and its two Trk receptors and assessed their mRNA expression by in situ hybridization and QRT-PCR in control animals and after spinal cord transection. Control lampreys showed a longitudinal array of NT-expressing neurons along length of the spinal cord. At 2 weeks post-transection, NT expression was downregulated in neurons close to the transection, but was little affected remote from the lesion. By 4 weeks, NT expression returned to control levels in spinal cord neurons rostral and caudal to the lesion, although it was upregulated in reactive microglia at 14 and 30 days post-transection. Double-label in situ hybridization for Trk1 and Trk2 showed that Trk transcripts were expressed in several giant reticulospinal neurons, including the Mauthner neurons. After spinal cord transection, Trk1 mRNA expression was downregulated, but Trk2 mRNA expression was not changed or was increased. Thus, our data suggest that spinal cord injury in larval lampreys modulate expression of endogenous neurotrophin and induces proliferation of macrophage/microglial cells that express neurotrophin.
GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors are present in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN), a pontine area involved with inhibitory mechanisms related to the control of sodium appetite. Activation of GABA(A) receptors in the LPBN induces strong ingestion of 0.3 M sodium chloride (NaCl) in normonatremic and euhydrated rats. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen, injected alone or combined with GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor antagonists into the LPBN on 0.3 M NaCl, water, 0.06 M sucrose and food intake in normonatremic and euhydrated rats. Male Holtzman rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally in the LPBN were used. In normonatremic and euhydrated rats, bilateral injections of baclofen (0.5 nmol/0.2 l) into the LPBN induced 0.3 M NaCl (24.03.1 vs. saline: 2.00.8 ml/240 min) and water intake (10.61.4 vs. saline: 3.50.7 ml/240 min) in a two-bottle test. Injections of GABA(B) receptor antagonists CGP 35348 (50 nmol/0.2 l) or 2-hydroxysaclofen (5 nmol/0.2 l) or GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (1.6 nmol/0.2 l) into the LPBN reduced 0.3 M NaCl (14.14.7 ml/240 min; 9.972.5 ml/210 min; 8.85.9 ml/240 min, respectively) and water intake induced by baclofen injected into the LPBN. Baclofen (0.5 nmol/0.2 l) injected into the LPBN also induced 0.06 M sucrose intake (21.85.9 vs. saline: 5.02.6 ml/180 min). Urinary volume and sodium excretion had a tendency to decrease after baclofen injection into the LPBN, whereas arterial pressure and food intake were not affected. The results show that baclofen injected into the LPBN, in normonatremic and euhydrated rats, produces a natriorexigenic effect dependent on GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor activation. The natriorexigenic effect is not secondary to alterations in blood pressure or sodium urinary excretion. In addition, baclofen injected into the LPBN also induces 0.06 M sucrose intake.
Mesoangioblasts are a class of adult stem cells of mesoderm origin, potentially useful for the treatment of primitive myopathies of different etiology. Extensive in vitro and in vivo studies in animal models of muscular dystrophy have demonstrated the ability of mesoangioblast to repair skeletal muscle when injected intra-arterially. In a previous work we demonstrated that mesoangioblasts obtained from diagnostic muscle biopsies of IBM patients display a defective differentiation down skeletal muscle and this block can be corrected in vitro by transient MyoD transfection. We are currently investigating different pathways involved in mesoangioblasts skeletal muscle differentiation and exploring alternative stimulatory approaches not requiring extensive cell manipulation. This will allow to obtain safe, easy and efficient molecular or pharmacological modulation of pro-myogenic pathways in IBM mesoangioblasts. It is of crucial importance to identify factors (ie. cytokines, growth factors) produced by muscle or inflammatory cells and released in the surrounding milieu that are able to regulate the differentiation ability of IBM mesoangioblasts. To promote myogenic differentiation of endogenous mesoangioblasts in IBM muscle, the modulation of such target molecules selectively dysregulated would be a more handy approach to enhance muscle regeneration compared to transplantation techniques. Studies on the biological characteristics of IBM mesoangioblasts with their aberrant differentiation behavior, the signaling pathways possibly involved in their differentiation block and the possible strategies to overcome it in vivo, might provide new insights to better understand the etiopathogenesis of this crippling disorder and to identify molecular targets susceptible of therapeutic modulation.
Muscle degeneration in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is exacerbated by increased oxidative stress and the endogenous inflammatory response, with a key role played by nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) and other related factors such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6. However the time course of expression of these molecules and the relation with the amount of necrosis and regeneration have never been investigated. The expression of NF-kappaB, the cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-6 and the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase (GPx) was studied in muscle samples from 14 patients with DMD aged between 2 and 9 years. Moreover a quantitative morphological evaluation was performed to evaluate necrotic and regenerative areas. The highest percentage of necrosis was revealed within 4 years of age, with a significant negative correlation with age (p &lt; 0.003), which paralleled to a significant decrement of regenerating area (p &lt; 0.0004). We reported the novel observation that the number of NF-kappaB positive fibers and the NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity, revealed by EMSA, are high at two years of life and significantly decline with age (p &lt; 0.0005 and p &lt; 0.0001). The expression of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and GPx was upregulated in DMD muscles compared to controls and significantly increased with age on real-time PCR analysis (p &lt; 0.0002; p &lt; 0.0005; p &lt; 0.03 respectively) and ELISA (p &lt; 0.002; p &lt; 0.02; p &lt; 0.0001 respectively). Since anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant drugs are nowadays being translated to clinical studies in DMD, the reported insights on these therapeutic targets appear relevant. Further studies on the interactions among these pathways in different DMD phases and on the response of these cascades to treatments currently under investigation are needed to better elucidate their relevance as therapeutic targets.
Mitochondrial Respiratory Chain Disorders (MRCD) are a heterogeneous group of disorders that share the involvement of the cellular bioenergetic machinery due to molecular defects affecting the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation system (OXPHOS). Clinically, they usually involve multiple tissues although they tend to mainly affect nervous system and skeletal muscle. Cardiological manifestations are frequent and include hypertrophic or dilated cardiomyopathies and heart conduction defects, being part of adult or infantile multisystemic mitochondrial disorders or, less frequently, presenting as isolated clinical condition. The aim of this review is to update the cardiological manifestations in both adult and infantile mitochondrial disorders going briefly over mitochondrial genetics. Cardiac involvement is a common feature associated with early and late onset forms of MRCD. In particular cases, these conditions should be considered into the diagnostic algorithm of idiopathic cardiomyopathies. Physicians strictly related with this disorders need to be aware of heart complications and therefore periodical cardiological examinations should be performed in such patients. Finally, therapeutic strategies are suggested to treat cardiac disorders in MRCD

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become an established tool to diagnose multiple sclerosis (MS) and to monitor its evolution. In patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes suggestive of MS, MRI criteria for MS diagnosis have been proposed and are updated on a regular basis. In addition, MRI &quot;red flags&quot; useful for the differential diagnosis from other neurological conditions which can mimic MS have been identified. In patients with established MS, the ability of MR measures in explaining patients' clinical status and progression of disability is still suboptimal. This has prompted the extensive application of modern MR-based technologies to estimate the overall disease burden in patients at different stages of the disease. The use of these techniques has allowed to grade in vivo the heterogeneity of MS pathology not only in focal lesions, but also in the normal-appearing white matter and grey matter. Combined with the use of functional MRI, this is ameliorating progressively our understanding of the factors associated to MS evolution. This review summarizes how MRI has improved our ability to diagnose MS and to predict its course, as well as how it is changing our understanding of the factors associated with the accumulation of irreversible disability in this condition.

Lewy bodies are made from insoluble, phosphorylated -synuclein, but the earliest changes that precipitate such pathology still remain conjecture. In this study, we quantify and identify relationships between the levels of the main pathologic form of phosphorylated -synuclein over the course of Parkinson's disease in regions affected early through to end-stage disease. Brain tissue samples from 33 cases at different disease stages and 13 controls were collected through the Australian Network of Brain Banks. 500 mg of frozen putamen (affected preclinically) and frontal cortex (affected late) was homogenized, fractionated and -synuclein levels evaluated using specific antibodies (syn-1, BD Transduction Laboratories; S129P phospho--synuclein, Elan Pharmaceuticals) and quantitative western blotting. Statistical analyses assessed the relationship between the different forms of -synuclein, compared levels between groups, and determined any changes over the disease course. Soluble S129P was detected in controls with higher levels in putamen compared with frontal cortex. In contrast, insoluble -synuclein occurred in Parkinson's disease with a significant increase in soluble and lipid-associated S129P, and a decrease in soluble frontal -synuclein over the disease course. Increasing soluble S129P in the putamen correlated with increasing S129P in other fractions and regions. These data show that soluble non-phosphorylated -synuclein decreases over the course of Parkinson's disease, becoming increasingly phosphorylated and insoluble. The finding that S129P -synuclein normally occurs in vulnerable brain regions, and in Parkinson's disease has the strongest relationships to the pathogenic forms of -synuclein in other brain regions, suggests a propagating role for putamenal phospho--synuclein in disease pathogenesis.
Recently, it has been shown that patients with visual extinction can show enhanced awareness of contralesional stimuli that match the contents of working memory [Soto, D., &amp; Humphreys, G.W. (2006). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, 103, 4789-4792]. Here we investigate whether these effects extend to cases where the working memory cue is verbal rather than visual (Study 1), and we show that non-spatial cues can overcome problems in spatial disengagement in patients, and this can affect the first eye movement made in search (Study 2). We discuss the implications of the data for understanding the relations between the cueing of attention from visual and conceptual information held in working memory and the cueing of spatial attention, and for understanding the relations between non-spatial and spatial biases in selection.
Researchers often conduct visual world studies to investigate how listeners integrate linguistic information with prior context. Such studies are likely to generate anticipatory baseline effects (ABEs), differences in listeners' expectations about what a speaker might mention that exist before a critical speech stimulus is presented. ABEs show that listeners have attended to and accessed prior contextual information in time to influence the processing of the critical speech stimulus. However, further evidence is required to show that the information actually did influence subsequent processing. ABEs can compromise the validity of inferences about information integration if they are not appropriately controlled. We discuss four solutions: statistical estimation, experimental control, elimination of &quot;on-target&quot; trials, and neutral gaze. An experiment compares the performance of these solutions, and suggests that the elimination of on-target trials introduces bias in the direction of ABEs, due to the statistical phenomenon of regression toward the mean. We conclude that statistical estimation, possibly coupled with experimental control, offers the most valid and least biased solution.
Theories of visual attention suggest that working memory representations automatically guide attention toward memory-matching objects. Some empirical tests of this prediction have produced results consistent with working memory automatically guiding attention. However, others have shown that individuals can strategically control whether working memory representations guide visual attention. Previous studies have not independently measured automatic and strategic contributions to the interactions between working memory and attention. In this study, we used a classic manipulation of the probability of valid, neutral, and invalid cues to tease apart the nature of such interactions. This framework utilizes measures of reaction time (RT) to quantify the costs and benefits of attending to memory-matching items and infer the relative magnitudes of automatic and strategic effects. We found both costs and benefits even when the memory-matching item was no more likely to be the target than other items, indicating an automatic component of attentional guidance. However, the costs and benefits essentially doubled as the probability of a trial with a valid cue increased from 20% to 80%, demonstrating a potent strategic effect. We also show that the instructions given to participants led to a significant change in guidance distinct from the actual probability of events during the experiment. Together, these findings demonstrate that the influence of working memory representations on attention is driven by both automatic and strategic interactions.
Recently, the zebrafish (Danio rerio) has been established as a key animal model in neuroscience. Behavioral, genetic, and immunohistochemical techniques have been used to describe the connectivity of diverse neural circuits. However, few studies have used zebrafish to understand the function of cerebral structures or to study neural circuits. Information about the techniques used to obtain a workable preparation is not readily available. Here, we describe a complete protocol for obtaining in vitro and in vivo zebrafish brain preparations. In addition, we performed extracellular recordings in the whole brain, brain slices, and immobilized nonanesthetized larval zebrafish to evaluate the viability of the tissue. Each type of preparation can be used to detect spontaneous activity, to determine patterns of activity in specific brain areas with unknown functions, or to assess the functional roles of different neuronal groups during brain development in zebrafish. The technique described offers a guide that will provide innovative and broad opportunities to beginner students and researchers who are interested in the functional analysis of neuronal activity, plasticity, and neural development in the zebrafish brain.
This study aimed to investigate the association of biomarkers among circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines with all-cause mortality in elderly community dwellings of the MEMO study, Germany. All-cause mortality (cancer, cardiovascular diseases (CVD), and other causes of death) was assessed in a general population sample (N = 385) of the elderly (age 65-83 years) 9 years after baseline assessment in 1998. As markers of inflammation, a variety of cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-4sR, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-alpha) were assessed in serum. Cox proportional Hazard model was used to estimate the association of cytokines with all-cause mortality over 9 years. In total, 110 deaths had occurred during follow-up (cancer N=36; CVD N=56; other=18). Deaths were more frequent in male (N = 76, 37.4%) as compared to females (N = 40, 21.9%; p =0.001). Among individual cytokines, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and TNF-alpha were associated with all-cause mortality, of which IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 remained significant after adjusting for confounders. When the upper tertiles of these cytokines were compared to the lower tertiles, only IL-6 was consistently related to all-cause mortality independently of the level of adjustment and showing a dose-response relationship between IL-6 tertiles and risk of death. This effect originated in the male population. The study shows that IL-6 is a powerful predictor of all-cause mortality in male elderly community dwellings. Higher levels of IL-6 may reflect a chronic low-level systemic inflammation prospectively increasing the risk of death in the elderly.
Astrocytes secrete growth factors that are both neuroprotective and supportive for the local environment. Identified by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, astrocytes exhibit heterogeneity in morphology and in the expression of phenotypic markers and growth factors throughout different adult brain regions. In adult neurogenic niches, astrocytes secrete vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) within the neurogenic niche and are also a source of special GFAP-positive multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs). Normal aging is accompanied by a decline in CNS function and reduced neurogenesis. We asked whether a decreased availability of astrocyte-derived factors may contribute to the age-related decline in neurogenesis. Determining alterations of astrocytic activity in the aging brain is crucial for understanding CNS homeostasis in aging and for assessing appropriate therapeutic targets for an aging population. We found region-specific alterations in the gene expression of GFAP, VEGF, and FGF-2 and their receptors in the aged brain corresponding to changes in astrocytic reactivity, supporting astrocytic heterogeneity and demonstrating a differential aging effect. We found that GFAP-positive NSCs uniquely coexpress both VEGF and its key mitotic receptor Flk-1 in both young and aged hippocampus, indicating a possible autocrine/paracrine signaling mechanism. VEGF expression is lost once NSCs commit to a neuronal fate, but Flk-1-mediated sensitivity to VEGF signaling is maintained. We propose that age-related astrocytic changes result in reduced VEGF and FGF-2 signaling, which in turn limits NSC and progenitor cell maintenance and contributes to decreased neurogenesis.
A positive history of fractures in older patients with hip fracture is common. We determined the risk factors associated with a positive history of fractures and the profile of care in hip fracture patients. In the Break Study, we enrolled 1249 women aged 60 years, seeking care for a hip fracture. Baseline information included age, body mass index, lifestyle (smoking habit, alcohol consumption), patient's history of fracture after the age of 50 years, family history of fragility fracture and health status (presence of comorbidity, use of specific drugs, pre-fracture walking ability, type of fracture, time to surgery, type of surgery, osteoporosis treatment). In the multivariable model age, smoking, family history, treatment with antiplatelet, anticoagulants and anticonvulsants, were significant predictors of a positive history of fracture. More than 70% of patients underwent surgery more than 48 hours after admission. About 50% were discharged with a treatment for osteoporosis, but more than 30% only with calcium and vitamin D. In conclusion, factors associated with a positive history of fracture are the traditional risk factors, suggesting that they continue to have a negative impact on health even at older ages. Selected drugs, such as antiplatelet and anticoagulants, deserve further consideration as significant factors associated with fractures. Given that delay in surgery is a major cause of mortality and disability, while treatment for osteoporosis decreases significantly the risk of recurrent fractures and disability, interventions to modify these patterns of care are urgently needed.


N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels activated by the neurotransmitter glutamate. These channels are highly expressed by brain neurons and are critically involved in excitatory synaptic transmission. Results from previous studies show that both native and recombinant NMDA receptors are inhibited by ethanol at concentrations associated with signs of behavioral impairment and intoxication. Given the important role that NMDA receptors play in synaptic transmission and brain function, it is important to understand the factors that regulate the ethanol inhibition of these receptors. One dynamic mechanism for regulating ethanol action may be via phosphorylation of NMDA subunits by serine-threonine and tyrosine kinases. Both NR1 and NR2 subunits contain multiple sites of phosphorylation; and in the NR1 subunit, most of these are contained within the C1 domain, a carboxy-terminal cassette that is subject to alternative splicing. Although results from our previous studies suggest that single phosphorylation sites do not greatly affect ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors, it is likely that in vivo, these subunits are phosphorylated at multiple sites by different kinases. In the present study, we constructed a series of NMDA receptor mutants at serine (S) or threonine (T) residues proposed to be sites of phosphorylation by protein kinase A and various isoforms of protein kinase C. Ethanol (100mM) inhibited currents from wild-type NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells by approximately 25 and 30%, respectively. This inhibition was not different in single-site mutants expressing alanine (A) or aspartate/glutamate (D/E) at positions T879, S896, or T900. The mutant NR1(S890D) showed greater ethanol inhibition than NR1(890A) containing receptors, although this was only observed when it was combined with the NR2A subunit. Ethanol inhibition was not altered by aspartate substitution at four serines (positions 889, 890, 896, and 897) or when T879D was added to the four serine-substituted mutant. Ethanol inhibition was increased when T900E was added to the five serine-/threonine-substituted mutants, but again this was selective for NR2A containing receptors. Together with previously published data, these findings suggest that modification of putative phosphorylation sites could contribute to the overall acute ethanol sensitivity of recombinant NMDA receptors. Supported by R37AA009986.
Ghrelin, the first endogenous ligand for the type 1A growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R1A), plays a role in energy balance, feeding behavior, and reward. Previously, we showed that pharmacologic and genetic suppression of the GHS-R1A attenuates the alcohol-induced stimulation, accumbal dopamine release, and conditioned place preference as well as alcohol consumption in mice, implying that the GHS-R1A is required for alcohol reward. The present study further elucidates the role of ghrelin for alcohol-induced dopamine release in nucleus accumbens and locomotor stimulation by means of ghrelin knockout mice. We found that the ability of alcohol to increase accumbal dopamine release in wild-type mice is not observed in ghrelin knockout mice. Furthermore, alcohol induced a locomotor stimulation in the wild-type mice and ghrelin knockout mice; however, the locomotor stimulation in homozygote mice was significantly lower than in the wild-type mice. The present series of experiments suggest that endogenous ghrelin may be required for the ability of alcohol to activate the mesolimbic dopamine system.


The study of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and other clinical neurophysiology (CNP) measurement tools has evolved over the last 70 years. In this evolutionary process, Ellen Grass and many professional technologists along the way have been instrumental in the translation of new developments in CNP technology to clinical utility. Technological developments in long-term EEG/video intensive care unit (ICU) monitoring, intraoperative monitoring, high frequency oscillation (HFO) recordings, automated signal analysis tools, seizure prediction devices, and the study of implanted intracranial recording and stimulation devices will improve our understanding of how the nervous system works. Improved understanding and translation of this evolving technology for improved patient care and outcomes remains the ultimate goal of such endeavors. Professional organizations such as the American Board of Registration of Electroencephalographic and Evoked Potential Technologists (ABRET) and the American Society of Electroneurodiagnostic Technologists (ASET) must continue to serve the CNP community and society to guide the application of this technology with an emphasis on providing information, guidelines on its use, and setting standards of professionalism. Any prior prediction of the demise of CNP technology has been greatly exaggerated. Quite the opposite has occurred, considering that the humble origins of vacuum tube powered Grass EEG machines will eventually yield to intracranial implanted microchip based recording and stimulation devices; the future appears bright for our profession.

A series of conceptual reconsiderations and therapeutic advances in recent years has resulted in meaningful changes in the classification, diagnosis, and treatment of epilepsy. The first step in evaluation of the person with epilepsy is determining whether the seizures are partial or generalized in onset; this determination will guide further evaluation and is mandatory in choosing an antiepileptic drug (AED). With 12 new AEDs and 1 device approved for use in epilepsy by the US Food and Drug Administration since 1993, the choice of AED has become more complex and it is impossible to predict whether a patient will respond favorably to a drug based on clinical features or clinical laboratory results. AEDs have many different mechanisms of action, but there does not seem to be a strong base of evidence to demonstrate that AED choice should be based on mechanism of action. Yet, a new secondary analysis of data from clinical trials of the new AED lacosamide suggests that combining this AED with another AED that has minimal or no activity at the sodium channel may lead to better tolerability and efficacy. The new AEDs have been tested in randomized controlled trials and compared with placebo; however, there are few head-to-head trials assessing the efficacy of various AEDs, and none of them provide evidence of a clear first choice drug or first add-on drug. Adverse effect profiles of the new generation of AEDs generally show better overall tolerability, but the choice of AED must be individualized (often based on comorbidities) because the adverse effect profiles of the newer AEDs differ widely. One area where the new AEDs consistently outperform the older AEDs is pharmacokinetic profile. Three new AEDs have no hepatic metabolism or protein binding, and others have minimal drug-drug interactions. Ultimately, selection of an appropriate agent involves matching a patient to a medication, or combination of medications, with the best record of efficacy while avoiding issues of tolerability and unwanted drug interactions (specifically tied to the needs of a given patient). Despite major advances in AED development, approximately one-third of people with epilepsy will have incomplete control of seizures no matter which AED is used alone or in combination, emphasizing the need for more effective AEDs. Patients with medication-resistant epilepsy may be candidates for epilepsy surgery, a highly effective treatment that is underutilized in this population.

Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is produced endogenously by L-cysteine metabolism. H(2)S modulates several ion channels with an unclear mechanism of action. A possible mechanism is through reduction-oxidation reactions attributable to the redox potential of the sulfur moiety. The aims of this study were to determine the effects of the H(2)S donor NaHS on Na(V)1.5, a voltage-dependent sodium channel expressed in the gastrointestinal tract in human jejunum smooth muscle cells and interstitial cells of Cajal, and to elucidate whether H(2)S acts on Na(V)1.5 by redox reactions. Whole cell Na(+) currents were recorded in freshly dissociated human jejunum circular myocytes and Na(V)1.5-transfected human embryonic kidney-293 cells. RT-PCR amplified mRNA for H(2)S enzymes cystathionine -synthase and cystathionine -lyase from the human jejunum. NaHS increased native Na(+) peak currents and shifted the half-point (V(1/2)) of steady-state activation and inactivation by +21  2 mV and +15  3 mV, respectively. Similar effects were seen on the heterologously expressed Na(V)1.5  subunit with EC(50)s in the 10(-4) to 10(-3) M range. The reducing agent dithiothreitol (DTT) mimicked in part the effects of NaHS by increasing peak current and positively shifting steady-state activation. DTT together with NaHS had an additive effect on steady-state activation but not on peak current, suggesting that the latter may be altered via reduction. Pretreatment with the Hg(2+)-conjugated oxidizer thimerosal or the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide inhibited or decreased NaHS induction of Na(V)1.5 peak current. These studies show that H(2)S activates the gastrointestinal Na(+) channel, and the mechanism of action of H(2)S is partially redox independent.
The processes that trigger severe muscle atrophy and loss of myosin in critical illness myopathy (CIM) are poorly understood. It has been reported that muscle disuse alters Ca(2+) handling by the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Since inactivity is an important contributor to CIM, this finding raises the possibility that elevated levels of the proteins involved in Ca(2+) handling might contribute to development of CIM. CIM was induced in 3- to 5-mo-old rats by sciatic nerve lesion and infusion of dexamethasone for 1 wk. Western blot analysis revealed increased levels of ryanodine receptor (RYR) isoforms-1 and -2 as well as the dihydropyridine receptor/voltage-gated calcium channel type 1.1 (DHPR/Ca(V) 1.1). Immunostaining revealed a subset of fibers with elevation of RYR1 and Ca(V) 1.1 that had severe atrophy and disorganization of sarcomeres. These findings suggest increased Ca(2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum may be an important contributor to development of CIM. To assess the endogenous functional effects of increased intracellular Ca(2+) in CIM, proteolysis of -fodrin, a well-known target substrate of Ca(2+)-activated proteases, was measured and found to be 50% greater in CIM. There was also selective degradation of myosin heavy chain relative to actin in CIM muscle. Taken together, our findings suggest that increased Ca(2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum may contribute to pathology in CIM.

Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S), which is a well-known toxic gas, has been recognized as a signal molecule as well as a cytoprotectant. It is produced by three enzymes, cystathionine -synthase, cystathionine -lyase and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase along with cysteine aminotransferase. In addition to an immediate release of H(2)S from producing enzymes, it can be stored as bound sulfane sulfur, which may release H(2)S in response to physiological stimuli. As a signal molecule, it modulates neuronal transmission, relaxes smooth muscle, regulates release of insulin and is involved in inflammation. Because of its reputation as a toxic gas, the function as a cytoprotectant has been overlooked: the nervous system and cardiovascular system are protected from oxidative stress. In this review, enzymatic production, release mechanism and functions of H(2)S are focused on.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) plays important roles in the development and plasticity of the brain, and has also been reported to exhibit potent neuroprotective properties. Although ErbB4, a key NRG1 receptor, is expressed in multiple regions in the adult animal brain, little is known about its role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is characterized by progressive impairment of cognition and behavioral disturbance that strongly correlate with degeneration and death of neurons in the cerebral cortex and limbic brain areas, such as the hippocampus and the amygdala. Here, we show that the ErbB4 and phospho-ErbB4 immunoreactivities were higher intensity in the neurons of the CA1-2 transitional field of AD brains as compared to age-matched controls. Also, ErbB4 expression was increased in the neurons of the cortico medial nucleus amygdala, human basal forebrain and superior frontal gyrus of AD brains. In cerebral cortex and hippocampus of amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 double transgenic mice, ErbB4 immunoreactivity significantly increased in comparison to age-matched wild type control. These results suggest that up-regulating of ErbB4 immunoreactivity may involve in the progression of pathology of AD.








Oxidative stress is commonly implicated in aging and neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in DJ-1 are associated with autosomal recessive early-onset PD. We investigated whether DJ-1 can be degraded in oxidative-stressed dopaminergic neuronal cells, leading to loss of its protective role against oxidative stress. We have shown previously and herein that the active form of matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) was accumulated in dopamine-producing CATH.a cells in the presence of MPP(+). We show that catalytically active MMP3 cleaved DJ-1, and impaired its antioxidant function. In CATH.a cells, both monomeric and dimeric forms of DJ-1 were diminished in the presence of MPP(+), and this was reversed by MMP3 knockdown or inhibition. While DJ-1 expression was decreased in the substantia nigra of mice administered with MPTP, its degradation was largely attenuated in MMP3 knockout mice. The AKT-signaling pathway, thought to mediate the effect of DJ-1 on cell survival, was also altered. MPP(+) caused decrease in both phospho-Thr308 and phospho-Ser473 forms of AKT, and this was restored by NNGH. Our data suggest that DJ-1 is fragmented by the intracellular MMP3 in response to cell stress, abolishing the protective role of DJ-1 against oxidative damage, and this contributes to the pathogenesis of PD.
The present study examined whether a high tax on high calorie dense foods effectively reduces the purchased calories of high energy dense foods in a web based supermarket, and whether this effect is moderated by budget and weight status. 306 participants purchased groceries in a web based supermarket, with an individualized budget based on what they normally spend. Results showed that relative to the no tax condition, the participants in the tax condition bought less calories. The main reduction was found in high energy dense products and in calories from carbohydrates, but not in calories from fat. BMI and budget did not influence the effectiveness of the tax. The reduction in calories occurred regardless of budget or BMI implying that a food tax may be a beneficial tool, along with other measures, in promoting a diet with fewer calories.
Although several studies have shown that dual-tasking ability is impaired in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the stage at which this deficit manifests remains unclear. This study investigated if a new paper-and-pencil assessment of dual-tasking ability could distinguish between AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and normal ageing in a sample of 50 people with AD, 49 people with MCI, and 50 healthy age-matched controls. The AD group demonstrated a significant impairment in dual-task ability. There was no effect of either MCI or healthy ageing on dual-task performance, indicating that the dual-task impairment is specific to AD.
Hypoxic-ischemic injuries (HII) of the brain, optic pathways, and skin are frequently associated with poor neurological and clinical outcome. Unfortunately, no new therapeutic approaches have been proposed for these conditions. Recently, experimental and clinical studies showed that nerve growth factor (NGF) can improve neurological deficits, visual loss and skin damage after HII. Based on these studies, we report the effects of NGF administration in different lesions of the brain, optic pathways and skin. 2.5S NGF purified and lyophilized from male mouse submaxillary glands was utilized for the treatment. NGF administration was started in absence of recovery after conventional and standardized treatment. One mg NGF was administered via the external catheter into the brain, by drop administration in the eye, and by subcutaneous administration in the skin. We treated 4 patients: 2 children with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage, an adult patient with an optic glioma-induced visual loss and a child with a severe crush syndrome of the lower left limb. After NGF treatment, we observed an amelioration of both neurological and electrophysiological function of the brain, a subjective and objective improvement of visual function, and a gradual improvement of ischemic skin lesion. No side effects were related to NGF treatment in all patients studied. Our observation shows that NGF administration may be an effective and safe adjunct therapy in patients with severe HII. The beneficial and prolonged effect on nerve function suggests a neuroprotective mechanism exerted by NGF on the residual viable neurological pathways of these patients.
The intraneuronal accumulation of the microtubule associated protein tau in a hyperphosphorylated state and the extracellular deposit of amyloid protein constitute the defining neuropathological signature of Alzheimer's disease, the most common type of dementia in ageing Homo sapiens.There is accumulating evidence suggesting that transplantation of embryonic and adult derived neuronal precursor cells (NPCs) has a major role for cell based repair strategies in models of acute and chronic injury. In order to determine whether NPCs could rescue tau related neuronal cell death NPCs were transplanted into the transgenic mouse cortex of transgenic mice expressing human P301S tau protein at 2 month of age and the effect followed 2 and 3 months after transplantation. The results demonstrated that following transplantation mouse NPCs differentiated into astrocytes and exerted a neuroprotective effect. In particular, the expression of ciliary neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor and glial cell derived neurotrophic factor was increased near the transplanted cells. A nonsignificant increase of brain derived neurotrophic factor expression was instead found in the area of the cortex where neuronal death was rescued.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) is a signaling protein, discovered by Rita Levi-Montalcini in the early 1950's for its effect on growth and differentiation of specific populations of neurons of the peripheral nervous system. Originally identified as neurite outgrowth-stimulating factor, later studies revealed that the purified molecule has a number of target cells in the central nervous system and on nonneuronal cells. Moreover, recent studies showed the potential therapeutic properties of NGF in neuropathies of the central and peripheral nervous system and diseases of the eye and skin. Here I briefly describe the discovery of NGF, the early studies of Rita LeviMontalcini, a pioneer in modern neuroscience, and my scientific and human experience working in her laboratory for over 40 years.

We provide an update on the state of translational research in movement disorders, using examples of Huntington disease, Parkinson disease, and dystonia. While substantial progress in our understanding of these disorders has been achieved, development of neuroprotective treatments remains an unrealized goal. Here we highlight some of the emerging research areas that show the most promise for translational research in Huntington disease, Parkinson disease, and dystonia. Aetiology and pathogenesis, biomarker directions, and causal treatment opportunities are discussed for each disease, followed by a brief discussion drawing attention to important translational initiatives.

Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and its more severe form, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, affect up to 18% of women. Both are commonly associated with other mood-related disorders such as major depression, and cause significant life impairment, but their relationship with personality disorders is less clear. After completing the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV-TR disorders, 33 women with severe PMS and 26 asymptomatic women, counterbalanced for menstrual cycle phase, were administered the Structured Interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorders, a diagnostic interview with low transparency, strong inter-rater reliability, and good diagnostic clarity. Women with severe PMS had a higher prevalence of personality disorders (p=0.003) than asymptomatic women (27% versus 0%), and were more likely to have odd-eccentric, dramatic-erratic, and anxious-fearful personality disorder traits (p&lt;0.05). Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) was the most common character pathology in the PMS group (n=6, 18%). OCPD, although not necessarily associated with greater severity of premenstrual symptoms, was related to poorer life functioning in women with PMS. The comorbidity of a personality disorder and severe PMS places an additive burden on general life functioning and may have implications for psychiatric treatment or medication given to those with severe premenstrual symptoms.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by chorea, behavioral disturbances and dementia, caused by a pathological expansion of the CAG trinucleotide in the HTT gene. Several patients have been recognized with the typical HD phenotype without the expected mutation. The objective of this study was to assess the occurrence of diseases such as Huntington's disease-like 2 (HDL2), spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, SCA2, SCA3, SCA7, dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) and chorea-acanthocytosis (ChAc) among 29 Brazilian patients with a HD-like phenotype. In the group analyzed, we found 3 patients with HDL2 and 2 patients with ChAc. The diagnosis was not reached in 79.3% of the patients. HDL2 was the main cause of the HD-like phenotype in the group analyzed, and is attributable to the African ancestry of this population. However, the etiology of the disease remains undetermined in the majority of the HD negative patients with HD-like phenotype.
Positive association has been seen between stress and smoking behavior. This relationship has not been explored in relation to one's coping behavior and desire to quit smoking. The present study examined stress, coping and readiness to change among smokers. 50 smokers were selected using a cross sectional design. Assessment Proforma, Fagerstrom test for Nicotine Dependency, General Health Questionnaire, Perceived Stress Scale, Coping Checklist and Readiness to Change Questionnaire were administered on them. Stress was related to smoking behavior as well as initiation and maintenance of smoking. Individuals in the early adulthood stage were using maladaptive coping strategies. Perceived stress was higher among the middle age group. Stress and maladaptive coping behaviors were found to be associated with initiation and maintenance of smoking. It has implications for psychosocial interventions in tobacco cessation.



Here we describe a novel functional screening assay based on bioluminescence monitoring of the naturally secreted Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) in the conditioned medium of cultured cells. Using this assay, we identified small-molecule drugs that sensitized brain tumor cells to the tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-induced cell death. Human glioblastoma multiforme cells were engineered by gene transfer to express Gluc as a reporter for cell viability, which can be monitored over time by bioluminescence measurements using a plate luminometer. We have optimized the Gluc assay for screening and validated it using the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) custom collection II library consisting of 1,040 drugs and bioactive compounds, most of which are Food and Drug Administration-approved and are able to cross the blood-brain barrier. We found that the cardiac glycosides family sensitized glioblastoma multiforme cells to the tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-induced apoptosis. In conclusion, the Gluc secretion assay is a robust tool for functional drug screening and can be applied to many different fields including cancer.
Investigations to date have demonstrated that the underlying etiology, causes and burden of stroke may be different for women and men. However, data regarding sex differences among young cerebral ischemic stroke patients remains scarce. We conducted this study in 669 young Chinese adults with acute ischemic stroke as determined by the modified Rankin Scale at discharge. Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis confirmed that NIHSS score (OR 1.277; 95% CI 1.179-1.383, p=0.000), diabetes mellitus (OR 0.121; 95% CI 0.0209-0.718, p=0.020) and serum glucose levels on admission (OR 1.135; 95% CI 0.997-1.293, p=0.046) independently predict short-term outcomes at discharge in young female patients with acute stroke, but the significant variables related to male patients appeared to be Apo A1 (OR 0.165; 95% CI 0.035-0.776, p=0.023) and NIHSS score on admission (OR 1.458; 95% CI 1.325-1.605, p=0.000). In our series, our data suggest that there are several sex differences for risk of cerebral infarction in young patients, which have important implications for the diagnosis, management and prognosis of stroke in young adults.
BACKGROUND Risk assessment of patients in general practice is a challenging area of clinical practice. Competing interests of managing patient wishes, consideration of duty to warn others and invoking the Mental Health Act while practising in a medicolegally accountable manner can be difficult. OBJECTIVE This article summarises the risk assessment of patients with possible mental disorders and provides suggestions regarding measures that may be undertaken to manage risk in psychiatric emergencies. DISCUSSION The evidence of effectiveness for risk assessment interventions in acute settings is limited. While it is not possible for general practitioners to predict the future, and particularly to predict fatal outcomes, they can be expected to meet a standard of care that identifies those at risk and provide an acceptable clinical response.
In rodents, exposure to acute inescapable, but not escapable, stress potentiates morphine conditioned place preference (CPP), an effect that is dependent upon hyperactivation of serotonin (5-HT) neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Six weeks of voluntary wheel running constrains activation of DRN 5-HT neurons during exposure to inescapable stress. Six weeks of voluntary wheel running before inescapable stress blocked stress-induced potentiation of morphine CPP.
We show that in nave mice, tonic currents mediated by  subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors in fast spiking interneurons are larger in females than in males while in regular spiking neurons such a difference was not observed. Moreover, in fast spiking interneurons, associative learning induced a larger reduction of these currents in females than in males. In contrast, in regular spiking neurons, learning similarly enhanced tonic currents in both sexes.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and opioid receptors have been suggested to play a role in attributing incentive motivational properties to drug-related cues. We examined whether blockade of ACC opioid receptors would reduce cue-induced ethanol-seeking behavior in mice. We show that intra-ACC opioid receptor blockade disrupted expression of an ethanol-induced conditioned place preference, suggesting that endogenous opioid modulation in the ACC may be critical for maintaining the cue's conditioned rewarding effects.
Previous studies have shown that the prior administration of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (MGluR5) receptor antagonists inhibit responding for nicotine in an intravenous self-administration experiment. However, recent studies in this laboratory have shown that an mGluR5 receptor antagonist, MPEP (2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine), also attenuates contextually-conditioned responding evoked by cues associated with the delivery or availability of nicotine. Thus, the results to date do not provide unequivocal evidence that the effects of mGluR5 receptor antagonists on responding for nicotine reflect a direct functional interaction between the antagonists and nicotine per se. This study employed in vivo microdialysis to test the hypothesis that the prior administration of the mGluR5 receptor antagonist, MPEP, inhibits a neural response to nicotine, increased dopamine (DA) overflow in the nucleus accumbens, implicated in directly in nicotine reinforcement. The results confirmed that prior administration of MPEP (2.5 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg IP) dose-dependently reduced responding for nicotine in a self-administration experiment. The higher dose caused complete inhibition of responding in a majority of the animals tested. MPEP injections, over the same dose range, also inhibited the effects of nicotine on DA overflow in the shell and core subdivisions of the rat nucleus accumbens. It is concluded that the data support the hypothesis that, in addition to their putative role in contextually-conditioned responding for nicotine, mGluR5 receptors are also implicated the primary reinforcing properties of the drug which depend upon increased DA overflow in the nucleus accumbens.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) are important neural regions in responding adaptively to changes in the incentive value of reward. Recent evidence suggests these structures may be differentially engaged in effort and cue-guided choice behavior. In 2 T-maze experiments, we examined the effects of bilateral lesions of either BLA or OFC on (1) effortful choices in which rats could climb a barrier for a high reward or select a low reward with no effort and (2) effortful choices when a visual cue signaled changes in reward magnitude. In both experiments, BLA rats displayed transient work aversion, choosing the effortless low reward option. OFC rats were work averse only in the no cue conditions, displaying a pattern of attenuated recovery from the cue conditions signaling reward unavailability in the effortful arm. Control measures rule out an inability to discriminate the cue in either lesion group.
Impaired functioning of the prefrontal cortex is particularly prominent in many forms of psychopathology and in degenerative brain diseases. Because it is challenging to draw causal links between specific brain abnormalities and impaired cognition in these conditions, research using nonhuman animals has a key role to play in elucidating the neurobiological mechanisms of prefrontal cortex function and aiding the search for treatments. This role is clearly illustrated in the review articles and original research reports in this special section. Taken together, these papers demonstrate the insights that have already been gained from research with nonhuman animals as well as the work that still needs to be done to attain the goal of understanding human prefrontal cortical function in both health and disease.
Patients with damage to the prefrontal cortex (PFC)--especially the ventral and medial parts of PFC--often show a marked inability to make choices that meet their needs and goals. These decision-making impairments often reflect both a deficit in learning concerning the consequences of a choice, as well as deficits in the ability to adapt future choices based on experienced value of the current choice. Thus, areas of PFC must support some value computations that are necessary for optimal choice. However, recent frameworks of decision making have highlighted that optimal and adaptive decision making does not simply rest on a single computation, but a number of different value computations may be necessary. Using this framework as a guide, we summarize evidence from both lesion studies and single-neuron physiology for the representation of different value computations across PFC areas.
Rho-kinase (ROCK) is a downstream effector of RhoA, which has been associated with growth cone collapse and retraction in neurons. ROCK inhibition has been shown to protect against ischemic damage, thereby improving short-term collateral flow, inhibiting platelet aggregation, leukocyte adhesion, and preventing neuronal death. However, little is known about the long-term effects of ROCK inhibition on behavior and neuroprotection. The consequence of ROCK inhibition on ischemic rats' learning and spatial memory after 30 days of intracerebroventricular treatment was evaluated. It was found that Y27632 (ROCK inhibitor) reduced neurodegenerative markers, such as Fluoro-Jade, PHF (paired helicoidal filaments) immunoreactivity, and p25 protein levels, in the hippocampus of ischemic animals and improved learning and spatial memory tasks. However, Y27632 alone impaired sham animals' long-term memory. These findings demonstrated the beneficial impact of ROCK inhibition on tauopathy and altered p25 protein levels following global cerebral ischemia.
Fragile X Syndrome is the most prevalent genetic cause of mental retardation. Selective deficits in executive function, including inhibitory control and attention, are core features of the disorder. In humans, Fragile X results from a trinucleotide repeat in the Fmr1 gene that renders it functionally silent and has been modeled in mice by targeted deletion of the Fmr1 gene. Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice recapitulate many features of Fragile X syndrome, but evidence for deficits in executive function is inconsistent. To address this issue, we trained wild-type and Fmr1 KO mice on an experimental paradigm that assesses attentional set-shifting. Mice learned to discriminate between stimuli differing in two of three perceptual dimensions. Successful discrimination required attending only to the relevant dimension, while ignoring irrelevant dimensions. Mice were trained on three discriminations in the same perceptual dimension, each followed by a reversal. This procedure normally results in the formation of an attentional set to the relevant dimension. Mice were then required to shift attention and discriminate based on a previously irrelevant perceptual dimension. Wild-type mice exhibited the increase in trials to criterion expected when shifting attention from one perceptual dimension to another. In contrast, the Fmr1 KO group failed to show the expected increase, suggesting impairment in forming an attentional set. Fmr1 KO mice also exhibited a general impairment in learning discriminations and reversals. This is the first demonstration that Fmr1 KO mice show a deficit in attentional set formation.
Evidence grows that the cerebellum and its associated circuitry are the essential neural substrates for standard delay classical eyeblink conditioning. To further investigate the relative roles of the cerebellar cortex and nuclei in eyeblink conditioning, a novel mouse model with Purkinje cell atrophy was studied. The 78 kDa-glucose regulated protein, a chaperone molecule, was knocked out leading to postnatal Purkinje cell degeneration (Wang et al., 2010), and standard delay eyeblink conditioning was performed in the conditional knockout mice. Learning was impaired, yet not completely prevented. Histological studies showed a reduction in the cell number and the size of the anterior interpositus nucleus. When the anterior interpositus nucleus was lesioned bilaterally, eyeblink conditioning was completely prevented. The important roles of both cerebellar cortex and AIP nucleus in eyeblink conditioning were seen.
In the Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) glutamate activity has been implicated in the modulation of adolescent anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS)-induced aggression. The current study investigated the time course of adolescent AAS-induced neurodevelopmental and withdrawal effects on the glutamatergic system and examined whether these changes paralleled those of adolescent AAS-induced aggression. Glutamate activity in brain areas comprising the aggression circuit in hamsters and aggression levels were examined following 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks of AAS treatment or 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks following the cessation of AAS exposure. In these studies glutamate activity was examined using vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2). The onset of aggression was observed following 2 weeks exposure to AAS and continued to increase showing maximal aggression levels after 4 weeks of AAS treatment. This aggressive phenotype was detected after 2 weeks of withdrawal from AAS. The time-course of AAS-induced changes in latero-anterior hypothalamus (LAH)-VGLUT2 closely paralleled increases in aggression. Increases in LAH-VGLUT2 were first detected in animals exposed to AAS for 2 weeks and were maintained up to 3 weeks following the cessation of AAS treatment. AAS treatment also produced developmental and long-term alterations in VGLUT2 expression within other aggression areas. However, AAS-induced changes in glutamate activity within these regions did not coincide with changes in aggression. Together, these data indicate that adolescent AAS treatment leads to alterations in the glutamatergic system in brain areas implicated in aggression control, yet only alterations in LAH-glutamate parallel the time course of AAS-induced changes in the aggressive phenotype.
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy') is a potent psychedelic drug inducing euphoria and hypersociability in humans, as well as hyperactivity and anxiety in rodents. Adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) have become a widely used species in neurobehavioral research. Here, we explore the effects of a wide range (0.25-120 mg/l) of acute MDMA doses on zebrafish behavior in the novel tank test. Although MDMA was inactive at lower doses (0.25-10 mg/l), higher doses reduced bottom swimming and immobility (40-120 mg/l) and impaired intrasession habituation (10-120 mg/l). MDMA also elevated brain c-fos expression, collectively confirming the usage of zebrafish models for screening of hallucinogenic compounds.
Transitive inference, that is, the ability to infer relationships among stimuli that are only indirectly associated, is impaired in schizophrenic patients and in rats with lesions of the prefrontal cortex. Symptoms of schizophrenia can be pharmacologically modeled by administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, phencyclidine (PCP). Here, a subchronic administration of PCP (2.5 mg/kg for 5 days) to well-trained rats impaired the subsequent transitive inference judgment; the effect was observed 3 days, but not 10 days after the last dose. These results support the findings showing that PCP administration impairs cognitive domains specifically affected in schizophrenia in addition to mimicking the 'positive' and 'negative' symptoms of the disorder.
Acamprosate is used in the treatment of alcoholism; however, there is little information on its effects on nicotine addiction. The objective of this study was to determine whether acamprosate inhibits cue-induced relapse to nicotine self-administration in the rat. Rats were trained to press a lever to obtain intravenous infusions of nicotine (0.03 mg/kg/infusion) that were associated with the illumination of a cue light. After 29 days of nicotine self-administration sessions, extinction sessions were run during which responses on the active lever did not result in the infusion of nicotine or the illumination of the cue light. After 14 days of extinction sessions the rats received twice-daily injections of saline or acamprosate (50, 100, or 200 mg/kg/intraperitoneally). Seven days later the response to the previously conditioned cue was tested, but only saline infusions were delivered. Pretreatment with all doses of acamprosate reduced responding to a cue previously associated with nicotine. The lowest dose of acamprosate (50 mg/kg) reduced responding for the cue previously associated with nicotine infusions, but had no effect on food-rewarded behavior. These results show that acamprosate reduced cue-induced nicotine-seeking behavior and suggest that acamprosate might be efficacious in treating nicotine addiction in humans.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has emerged as a promising model organism for affective or cognitive neuroscience research, and may be useful to study the interplay between memory and anxiety-related states. To assess the effects of acute psychological stress on spatial and cued memory, adult zebrafish were trained in an aquatic plus-maze for 14 days using food bait as a reward. Two ecologically relevant stressors (alarm pheromone or Indian leaf fish exposure) were applied to acutely stress zebrafish immediately prior to the final (testing) trial. Overall, acute single inescapable stress markedly impaired spatial and cued memory in zebrafish plus-maze test, reducing the number of correct arm entries and time spent in the target arm. This observation parallels rodent and clinical literature on memory-impairing effects of acute stress, strongly supporting the utility of zebrafish in neurobehavioral research.
Dysfunctional attitudes may be one phenotype by which genes increase risk for depression. Building on research demonstrating associations between serotonin abnormalities and dysfunctional attitudes, we examined the covariation between dysfunctional attitudes and the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR). In a sample of nondepressed young adults (N=131), people with one or two copies of the low-expressing alleles reported stronger endorsement of dysfunctional attitudes regarding performance evaluation than people who were homozygous for the high-expressing alleles; there was no association between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and dysfunctional attitudes regarding approval by others. These results add to the literature linking the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and cognitive vulnerabilities for depression.
In the neurosciences digital databases more and more are becoming important tools of data rendering and distributing. This development is due to the growing impact of imaging based trial design in cognitive neuroscience, including morphological as much as functional imaging technologies. As the case of the 'Laboratory of Neuro Imaging' (LONI) is showing, databases are attributed a specific epistemological power: Since the 1990s databasing is seen to foster the integration of neuroscientific data, although local regimes of data production, -manipulation and--interpretation are also challenging this development. Databasing in the neurosciences goes along with the introduction of new structures of integrating local data, hence establishing digital spaces of knowledge (epistemic spaces): At this stage, inherent norms of digital databases are affecting regimes of imaging-based trial design, for example clinical research into Alzheimer's disease.
Neuropeptides seem to play an important role when the CNS is challenged. In order to obtain better insights into the central peptidergic effects, it is essential to monitor their concentration in the brain. Quantification of neuropeptides in dialysates is challenging due to their low extracellular concentrations (low pM range), their low microdialysis efficiencies, the need for acceptable temporal resolution, the small sample volumes, the complexity of the matrix and the tendency of peptides to stick to glass and polymeric materials. The quantification of neuropeptides in dialysates therefore necessitates the use of very sensitive nano-LC-MS/MS methods. A number of LC-MS/MS and microdialysis parameters need to be optimized to achieve maximal sensitivity. The optimized and validated methods can be used to investigate the in vivo neuropeptide release during pathological conditions, in this way initiating new and immense challenges for the development of new drugs.
Multichannel data collection in the neurosciences is routine and has necessitated the development of methods to identify the direction of interactions among processes. The most widely used approach for detecting these interactions in such data is based on autoregressive models of stochastic processes, although some work has raised the possibility of serious difficulties with this approach. This article demonstrates that these difficulties are present and that they are intrinsic features of the autoregressive method. Here, we introduce a new method taking into account unobserved processes and based on coherence. Two examples of three-process networks are used to demonstrate that although coherence measures are intrinsically non-directional, a particular network configuration will be associated with a particular set of coherences. These coherences may not specify the network uniquely, but in principle will specify all network configurations consistent with their values and will also specify the relationships among the unobserved processes. Moreover, when new information becomes available, the values of the measures of association already in place do not change, but the relationships among the unobserved processes may become further resolved.





Neuroscience has increasingly explored the neural mechanisms underlying our sense of self. Recent studies have demonstrated the recruitment of regions like the ventral tegmental area, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and the ventral striatum to self-specific stimuli-regions typically associated with reward-related processing. This raises the question of whether there is a relationship between self and reward and, if so, how these different fields can be linked. Three relationship models that aim to explore the relationship between self and reward are discussed here: integration, segregation, and parallel processing. Their pros and cons are reviewed in light of the most recent findings. The conclusion is that both the fields of self and reward may benefit from increased interaction. This interaction may help to fill in some of the missing pieces regarding reward-related processing, as well as illuminate how brain function can bring forward the philosophical concept and psychological reality of self.
Synthesis and biological evaluation of a novel class of substituted N-benzyl-1-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1H-tetrazol-5-amine derivatives resulted in the identification of potent P2X(7) antagonists. These compounds were assayed for activity at both the human and rat P2X(7) receptors. On the benzyl moiety, a variety of functional groups were tolerated, including both electron-withdrawing and electron-donating substituents. Ortho-substitution on the benzyl group provided the greatest potency. The ortho-substituted analogs showed approximately 2.5-fold greater potency at human compared to rat P2X(7) receptors. Compounds 12 and 38 displayed hP2X(7)pIC(50)s&gt;7.8 with less than 2-fold difference in potency at the rP2X(7).
The TBC (Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16) domain was originally identified as a conserved domain among the tre-2 oncogene product and the yeast cell cycle regulators Bub2 and Cdc16, and it is now widely recognized as a conserved protein motif that consists of approx. 200 amino acids in all eukaryotes. Since the TBC domain of yeast Gyps [GAP (GTPase-activating protein) for Ypt proteins] has been shown to function as a GAP domain for small GTPase Ypt/Rab, TBC domain-containing proteins (TBC proteins) in other species are also expected to function as a certain Rab-GAP. More than 40 different TBC proteins are present in humans and mice, and recent accumulating evidence has indicated that certain mammalian TBC proteins actually function as a specific Rab-GAP. Some mammalian TBC proteins {e.g. TBC1D1 [TBC (Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16) domain family, member 1] and TBC1D4/AS160 (Akt substrate of 160 kDa)} play an important role in homoeostasis in mammals, and defects in them are directly associated with mouse and human diseases (e.g. leanness in mice and insulin resistance in humans). The present study reviews the structure and function of mammalian TBC proteins, especially in relation to Rab small GTPases.





Our professional and personal lives depend increasingly on access to information via the Internet. As an open access resource, the Internet is on the whole unbridled by censorship and can facilitate the rapid propagation of ideas and discoveries. At the same time, this liberty in sharing information, being unregulated and often free from external validation, can be oppressive; overloading the user and hindering effective decision-making. It can be difficult, if not impossible, to reliably ascertain the provenance of data and opinion. We must, therefore, discern what is useful, relevant, and above all reliable if we are to harness the Internet's potential to improve training, delivery of care, research, and provision of patient information. This article profiles the resources currently available to neurosurgeons, asks how we can sort the informational wheat from the chaff, and explores where future developments might further influence neurosurgical practice.
Stroke like episodes can occur by cortical compression due to changes in intracranial pressure. We report a patient after left hemicraniectomy who presented transient speech arrest after sleeping on the left side. We propose that mechanical compression of the left inferior or superior frontal gyrus led to this episode similar to a major mass effect due to an unprotected brain surface after hemicraniectomy.
Up to a fifth of Accident and Emergency admissions are head-injury related. Alcohol is involved in a large proportion of adult head injuries and although the incidence of death due to head injury (HI) is relatively low, long-term sequelae including cognitive disturbance are frequent. Contrecoup contusions (CCs) have been observed commonly in closed head injuries and may be an independent factor in long-term neuro-disability. The mechanisms of their formation are still under debate. The aim of this study was to define the relationship between the direction of the blow to the head and the location of brain contusion after HI. The location of scalp injuries was used as a surrogate for the direction of the blow to the head. Between January 2007 and March 2009, 358 cases of HI were treated at the Newcastle Neurosurgery Unit. Of these, 129 had contusions. Of these, 100 scans were available. The site of scalp injury could be identified in 98 cases and these were used for the study. Sixty-six percent of scalp injuries were to the back of the head. Most contusions (77%) were contracoup affecting the frontal and temporal lobes. Sixty percent of the injuries were inflicted by a fall from a standing position striking the back of the head on a paved surface, most commonly in the context of assaults or fighting.
In patients with pituitary adenomas, intra-cranial aneurysms can be an incidental finding, and are usually located outside the pituitary region. The authors describe the multi-modal management of a rare case of an aneurysm of the supraclinoid carotid that encroached into a pituitary macroadenoma.
The most common genetic predisposition to multiple schwannoma growth is mutation of the neurofibromatosis type 2 gene. We describe a patient with multiple schwannomas and mutation in the recently described INI1 gene, which also predisposes to the disease. We explore the implications for prognosis and outcome.
The present study investigates whether excessive fat accumulation and hyperinsulinaemia during catch-up growth on high-fat diets are altered by n-6 and n-3 PUFA derived from oils rich in either linoleic acid (LA), -linolenic acid (ALA), arachidonic acid (AA) or DHA. It has been shown that, compared with food-restricted rats refed a high-fat (lard) diet low in PUFA, those refed isoenergetically on diets enriched in LA or ALA, independently of the n-6:n-3 ratio, show improved insulin sensitivity, lower fat mass and higher lean mass, the magnitude of which is related to the proportion of total PUFA precursors (LA+ALA) consumed. These relationships are best fitted by quadratic regression models (r2&gt;08, P&lt;0001), with threshold values for an impact on body composition corresponding to PUFA precursors contributing 25-30% of energy intake. Isoenergetic refeeding on high-fat diets enriched in AA or DHA also led to improved body composition, with increases in lean mass as predicted by the quadratic model for PUFA precursors, but decreases in fat mass, which are disproportionately greater than predicted values; insulin sensitivity, however, was not improved. These findings pertaining to the impact of dietary intake of PUFA precursors (LA and ALA) and their elongated-desaturated products (AA and DHA), on body composition and insulin sensitivity, provide important insights into the search for diets aimed at counteracting the pathophysiological consequences of catch-up growth. In particular, diets enriched in essential fatty acids (LA and/or ALA) markedly improve insulin sensitivity and composition of weight regained, independently of the n-6:n-3 fatty acid ratio.


It is well recognized that voltage-gated calcium (Ca(2+)) channels modulate the function of peripheral and central pain pathways by influencing fast synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability. In the past, attention focused on the modulation of different subtypes of high-voltage-activated-type Ca(2+) channels; more recently, the function of low-voltage-activated or transient (T)-type Ca(2+) channels (T-channels) in nociception has been well documented. Currently, available pain therapies remain insufficient for certain forms of pain associated with chronic disorders (e.g. neuropathic pain) and often have serious side effects. Hence, the identification of selective and potent inhibitors and modulators of neuronal T-channels may help greatly in the development of safer, more effective pain therapies. Here, we summarize the available information implicating peripheral and central T-channels in nociception. We also discuss possible future developments aimed at selective modulation of function of these channels, which are highly expressed in nociceptors.


Stem cell transplantation promises new hope for the treatment of stroke although significant questions remain about how the grafted cells elicit their effects. One hypothesis is that transplanted stem cells enhance endogenous repair mechanisms activated after cerebral ischaemia. Recognizing that bilateral reorganization of surviving circuits is associated with recovery after stroke, we investigated the ability of transplanted human neural progenitor cells to enhance this structural plasticity. Our results show the first evidence that human neural progenitor cell treatment can significantly increase dendritic plasticity in both the ipsi- and contralesional cortex and this coincides with stem cell-induced functional recovery. Moreover, stem cell-grafted rats demonstrated increased corticocortical, corticostriatal, corticothalamic and corticospinal axonal rewiring from the contralesional side; with the transcallosal and corticospinal axonal sprouting correlating with functional recovery. Furthermore, we demonstrate that axonal transport, which is critical for both proper axonal function and axonal sprouting, is inhibited by stroke and that this is rescued by the stem cell treatment, thus identifying another novel potential mechanism of action of transplanted cells. Finally, we established in vitro co-culture assays in which these stem cells mimicked the effects observed in vivo. Through immunodepletion studies, we identified vascular endothelial growth factor, thrombospondins 1 and 2, and slit as mediators partially responsible for stem cell-induced effects on dendritic sprouting, axonal plasticity and axonal transport in vitro. Thus, we postulate that human neural progenitor cells aid recovery after stroke through secretion of factors that enhance brain repair and plasticity.
There is considerable intersubject variability in early neurological course after anterior circulation stroke, yet the pathophysiology underlying this variability is not fully understood. Here, we hypothesize that, although not predicted by current pathophysiological models, infarction of 'non-core-non-penumbral' (i.e. clinically silent) brain tissue may nevertheless occur, and negatively influence clinical course over and above the established positive impact of penumbral salvage. In order to test this hypothesis, non-core-non-penumbral tissue was identified in two independent prospectively recruited cohorts, using computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance perfusion- and diffusion-weighted imaging, respectively. Follow-up structural magnetic resonance imaging was obtained about 1 month later in all patients to map the final infarct. The volumes of both the acutely silent but eventually infarcted tissue, and the eventually non-infarcted penumbra, were determined by performing voxel-wise analysis of the acute and follow-up image sets, using previously validated perfusion thresholds. Early neurological course was expressed as change in National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale scores between the acute and 1-month assessments, relative to the acute score. The relationship between the acutely silent but eventually infarcted tissue volume and early neurological course was tested using a multivariate regression model that included the volume of non-infarcted penumbra. Thirty-four and 58 patients were recruited in the computed tomography perfusion and magnetic resonance perfusion cohorts, respectively (mean onset-to-imaging time: 136 and 156 min; 27 and 42 patients received intravenous thrombolysis, respectively). Infarction of acutely silent tissue was identified in most patients in both cohorts. Although its volume (median 0.2 and 2 ml, respectively) was much smaller than that of salvaged penumbra (59.3 and 93 ml, respectively), it was substantial in 10% of patients. As expected, salvaged penumbra strongly positively influenced early neurological course. Even after correcting for the latter effect in the multivariate model, infarction of acutely silent tissue independently negatively influenced early neurological course in both cohorts (P=0.018 and 0.031, respectively). This is the first systematic study to document infarction of acutely silent tissue after anterior circulation stroke, and to show that it affects a sizeable fraction of patients and has the predicted negative impact on clinical course. These findings were replicated in two independent cohorts, regardless of the perfusion imaging modality used. Preventing infarction of the tissue not initially at risk should have direct clinical benefit.

One of the most common and serious co-morbidities in patients with epilepsy is cognitive impairment. While early-life seizures are considered a major cause for cognitive impairment, it is not known whether it is the seizures, the underlying neurological substrate or a combination that has the largest impact on eventual learning and memory. Teasing out the effects of seizures from pre-existing neurological disorder is critical in developing therapeutic strategies. We therefore investigated the additional cognitive effects of seizures on rodents with malformations of cortical development induced with methylazoxymethanol acetate. Pregnant rats were injected with saline or methylazoxymethanol acetate at embryonic Day 15 or 17 to induce differing malformation severity. From the day of birth to 9 days of age, half the pups received 50 flurothyl-induced seizures. All rats underwent testing in the Morris water maze to test spatial memory at 25 days of age (immediate post-weaning) or during adolescence at 45 days of age. Post-weaning rats had severe spatial cognitive deficits in the water maze and seizures worsened performance. In contrast, in animals tested during adolescence, there was no longer an additional adverse effect of seizures. We also investigated whether the severity of the structural abnormality and seizures impacted brain weight, cortical thickness, hippocampal area and cell dispersion area. The mean brain weight in control animals was greater than in rats exposed to methylazoxymethanol acetate at embryonic Day 17, which was greater than rats exposed to methylazoxymethanol acetate at embryonic Day 15. Rats exposed to methylazoxymethanol acetate at embryonic Day 15 had a thinner cortical mantle compared with rats exposed at embryonic Day 17 and control animals. The hippocampal area was similar in rats exposed at embryonic Days 15 and 17 but was smaller compared with controls. Methylazoxymethanol at embryonic Day 17 caused dispersion of the CA1-4 cell layers in the hippocampus, whereas methylazoxymethanol at embryonic Day 15 caused focal nodules in or above the CA1 layer, but the CA1-4 layers were intact and similar to control. Early-life seizures did not have a significant impact on any of these parameters. These observations indicate that the major factor responsible for the cognitive impairment in the rats with cortical dysplasia was the underlying brain substrate, not seizures. These findings have significant implications for the understanding of cognitive impairments in childhood epilepsy and suggest that early aggressive therapy of seizures alone may not be an adequate strategy for minimizing cognitive effects.
Based on lesion mapping studies, the inferior parietal lobule and temporoparietal junction are considered the critical parietal regions for spatial-attentional deficits. Lesion evidence for a key role of the intraparietal sulcus, a region featuring prominently in non-human primate studies and human functional imaging studies of the intact brain, is still lacking, probably due to the exceptional nature of isolated intraparietal sulcus lesions. We combined behavioural testing and functional imaging in two patients with a focal intraparietal sulcus lesion sparing the inferior parietal lobule and temporoparietal junction to examine the critical contribution of the intraparietal sulcus to spatial attention. Case H.H. had a focal ischaemic lesion (1.8cm3) that was confined to the posterior segment of the left intraparietal sulcus, whereas Case N.V. had a partially reversible lesion of the middle segment of the right intraparietal sulcus extending into the superior parietal lobule (13.8cm3). The performance of these cases was contrasted with five cases with a classical inferior parietal lesion, as well as with a group of 31 age-matched controls. In the behavioural study, the patients performed an orientation discrimination task on a peripheral target (eccentricity 7.6) that was preceded by a central spatial cue. We manipulated both the cue validity (17% trials with an invalid spatial cue) and the presence of a competing distracter in the visual field contralateral to the target (17% double stimulation trials). The ability of the patients with an intraparietal sulcus lesion to reorient their spatial focus of attention and to select between competing stimuli was impaired for contralesional targets compared with controls, similarly to what we saw in the inferior parietal group. Furthermore, we could observe that the deficit in Case N.V. resolved with regression of the lesion. To further evaluate the correspondence between spatial-attentional deficits and the intraparietal sulcus lesions, we ascertained the functional integrity of the inferior parietal lobule and temporoparietal junction in Case H.H. using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging with the same task as in the behavioural study. The intraparietal sulcus lesion of this patient did not affect the task-related activation of the inferior parietal lobule or temporoparietal junction. Additionally, a resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging study in Case H.H. and 62 controls revealed that the lesion in Case H.H. did not affect the topology of the ventral attention network nor the strength of its main inter- and intrahemispheric connections. Our findings demonstrate that the human superior parietal cortex critically contributes to spatially selective attention.
Neuroplasticity can be defined as the ability of the nervous system to respond to intrinsic or extrinsic stimuli by reorganizing its structure, function and connections. Major advances in the understanding of neuroplasticity have to date yielded few established interventions. To advance the translation of neuroplasticity research towards clinical applications, the National Institutes of Health Blueprint for Neuroscience Research sponsored a workshop in 2009. Basic and clinical researchers in disciplines from central nervous system injury/stroke, mental/addictive disorders, paediatric/developmental disorders and neurodegeneration/ageing identified cardinal examples of neuroplasticity, underlying mechanisms, therapeutic implications and common denominators. Promising therapies that may enhance training-induced cognitive and motor learning, such as brain stimulation and neuropharmacological interventions, were identified, along with questions of how best to use this body of information to reduce human disability. Improved understanding of adaptive mechanisms at every level, from molecules to synapses, to networks, to behaviour, can be gained from iterative collaborations between basic and clinical researchers. Lessons can be gleaned from studying fields related to plasticity, such as development, critical periods, learning and response to disease. Improved means of assessing neuroplasticity in humans, including biomarkers for predicting and monitoring treatment response, are needed. Neuroplasticity occurs with many variations, in many forms, and in many contexts. However, common themes in plasticity that emerge across diverse central nervous system conditions include experience dependence, time sensitivity and the importance of motivation and attention. Integration of information across disciplines should enhance opportunities for the translation of neuroplasticity and circuit retraining research into effective clinical therapies.
The dopamine system has been linked to anhedonia in depression and both the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia, but it remains unclear how dopamine dysfunction could mechanistically relate to observed symptoms. There is considerable evidence that phasic dopamine signals encode prediction error (differences between expected and actual outcomes), with reinforcement learning theories being based on prediction error-mediated learning of associations. It has been hypothesized that abnormal encoding of neural prediction error signals could underlie anhedonia in depression and negative symptoms in schizophrenia by disrupting learning and blunting the salience of rewarding events, and contribute to psychotic symptoms by promoting aberrant perceptions and the formation of delusions. To test this, we used model based functional magnetic resonance imaging and an instrumental reward-learning task to investigate the neural correlates of prediction errors and expected-reward values in patients with depression (n=15), patients with schizophrenia (n=14) and healthy controls (n=17). Both patient groups exhibited abnormalities in neural prediction errors, but the spatial pattern of abnormality differed, with the degree of abnormality correlating with syndrome severity. Specifically, reduced prediction errors in the striatum and midbrain were found in depression, with the extent of signal reduction in the bilateral caudate, nucleus accumbens and midbrain correlating with increased anhedonia severity. In schizophrenia, reduced prediction error signals were observed in the caudate, thalamus, insula and amygdala-hippocampal complex, with a trend for reduced prediction errors in the midbrain, and the degree of blunting in the encoding of prediction errors in the insula, amygdala-hippocampal complex and midbrain correlating with increased severity of psychotic symptoms. Schizophrenia was also associated with disruption in the encoding of expected-reward values in the bilateral amygdala-hippocampal complex and parahippocampal gyrus, with the degree of disruption correlating with psychotic symptom severity. Neural signal abnormalities did not correlate with negative symptom severity in schizophrenia. These findings support the suggestion that a disruption in the encoding of prediction error signals contributes to anhedonia symptoms in depression. In schizophrenia, the findings support the postulate of an abnormality in error-dependent updating of inferences and beliefs driving psychotic symptoms. Phasic dopamine abnormalities in depression and schizophrenia are suggested by our observation of prediction error abnormalities in dopamine-rich brain areas, given the evidence for dopamine encoding prediction errors. The findings are consistent with proposals that psychiatric syndromes reflect different disorders of neural valuation and incentive salience formation, which helps bridge the gap between biological and phenomenological levels of understanding.
Recent evidence suggests that age-related impairments in cognition may be mediated by a specific deficit in the ability to maintain goal-relevant information, a critical component of cognitive control dependent on the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, although the underlying neural mechanism of these deficits remains unclear. To examine white matter hyperintensities as a neurobiological mechanism of these impairments, older individuals with severe white matter hyperintensity burden, older individuals with low white matter hyperintensity burden, and young adults were assessed in an event-related functional imaging scan while performing the 'AX'-continuous performance task. Individuals with severe white matter hyperintensity burden showed a significant reduction in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activity during the high cognitive control cue condition relative to the low white matter hyperintensity group and young individuals. Conversely, those with severe white matter hyperintensity burden showed greater activity in rostral anterior cingulate cortex compared to young individuals. These results are consistent with impaired cognitive control and a possible failure to deactivate default-mode regions in these subjects. Additionally, those with severe white matter hyperintensity burden showed reduced functional connectivity between dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and task-relevant brain regions including middle frontal gyrus, and supramarginal gyrus relative to young subjects and those with minimal white matter hyperintensity burden. These results suggest that age-related goal maintenance impairments and associated dorsolateral prefrontal cortex dysfunction may partly reflect incipient white matter disease of interconnected cognitive networks.

Alcoholism is a disease characterized by continued alcohol consumption despite recurring negative consequences. Thus, medications that reduce the drive to consume alcohol can be beneficial in treating alcoholism. The neurobiological systems that regulate alcohol consumption are complex and not fully understood. Currently, medications are available to treat alcoholism that act either by causing accumulation of a toxic metabolite of ethanol, or by targeting specific transmitter receptors. The purpose of our study was to investigate a new potential therapeutic pathway, neuroimmune interactions, for effects on ethanol consumption. We hypothesized that neuroimmune activity of brain glia may have a role in drinking. We utilized minocycline, a second generation tetracycline antibiotic that has immune modulatory actions, to test our hypothesis because it is known to suppress microglia, and to a lesser extent astroglia, activity following many types of insults to the brain. Treatment with 50mg/kg minocycline significantly reduced ethanol intake in male and female C57Bl/6J mice using a free choice voluntary drinking model. Saline injections did not alter ethanol intake. Minocycline had little effect on water intake or body weight change. The underlying mechanism whereby minocycline reduced ethanol intake requires further study. The results suggest that drugs that alter neuroimmune pathways may represent a new approach to developing additional therapies to treat alcoholism.
Elevated expression of neuroinflammatory factors in the central nervous system (CNS) contributes to the cognitive impairment in CNS disorders such as injury, disease and neurodegenerative disorders. However, information on the role of specific neuroimmune factors in normal and abnormal CNS function is limited. In this study, we investigated the effects of chronic exposure to the chemokine CCL2 on hippocampal synaptic function at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse, a synapse that is known to play an important role in cognitive functions such as memory and learning. Synaptic function was measured in vitro using hippocampal slices obtained from transgenic mice that express elevated levels of CCL2 in the CNS through astrocyte expression and their non-transgenic littermate controls. Extracellular field potential electrophysiological recordings showed a significant reduction in the magnitude of synaptic responses in hippocampal slices from the CCL2 transgenic mice compared with slices from non-transgenic littermate controls. Two forms of short-term synaptic plasticity (post-tetanic potentiation and short-term potentiation) thought to be important cellular mechanisms of short-term memory were enhanced in hippocampal slices from CCL2 transgenic mice compared to non-transgenic hippocampal slices, whereas long-term synaptic plasticity (LTP), which is critical to long-term memory formation, was not altered. Western blot analysis of hippocampus from the CCL2 transgenic mice and non-transgenic mice showed no change in level of neuronal specific enolase, a neuronal specific protein, GFAP, an astrocyte specific protein, and several synaptic proteins compared with non-transgenic littermate controls. These results show that CCL2, which is known to be chronically produced at elevated levels within the CNS in a number of CNS disorders, can significantly alter hippocampal function and implicate a role for CCL2 in the cognitive dysfunction associated with these CNS disorders.
Microvessels, the main components of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are vulnerable to oxidative damage during alcohol-induced stress. Alcohol produces oxidative damage within the vessels and in the brain. Using our animal model of catheter implant into the common carotid artery (CCA), we trace the footprints of alcohol-induced oxidative damage and inflammatory process at the BBB and into the brain. The uniqueness of the finding is that ethanol causes oxidative damage in all neurovascular components by activating NADPH oxidase and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the brain. It is not the oxidants but the ethanol that traverses through the BBB because we found that the highly reactive peroxynitrite does not cross the BBB. Thus, oxidative damage is caused at the site of oxidant production in the microvessels and in the brain. Our data indicate that acetaldehyde (the primary metabolite of ethanol) is the inducer/activator of these enzymes that generate oxidants in brain neurovascular cells. Evidence for alcohol-induced BBB damage is indicated by the alterations of the tight junction protein occludin in intact microvessels. Importantly, we demonstrate that the site of BBB oxidative damage is also the site of immune cells aggregation in the microvessels, which paves the path for inflammatory footprints. These findings reveal the underlying mechanisms that ethanol-elicited BBB oxidative damage initiates the brain vascular inflammatory process, which ultimately leads to neuroinflammation.
Stress and stress-induced glucocorticoids (GCs) sensitize drug abuse behavior as well as the neuroinflammatory response to a subsequent pro-inflammatory challenge. Stress also predisposes or sensitizes individuals to develop substance abuse. There is an emerging evidence that glia and glia-derived neuroinflammatory mediators play key roles in the development of drug abuse. Drugs of abuse such as opioids, psychostimulants, and alcohol induce neuroinflammatory mediators such as pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g. interleukin (IL)-1), which modulate drug reward, dependence, and tolerance as well as analgesic properties. Drugs of abuse may directly activate microglial and astroglial cells via ligation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which mediate the innate immune response to pathogens as well as xenobiotic agents (e.g. drugs of abuse). The present review focuses on understanding the immunologic mechanism(s) whereby stress primes or sensitizes the neuroinflammatory response to drugs of abuse and explores whether stress- and GC-induced sensitization of neuroimmune processes predisposes individuals to drug abuse liability and the role of neuroinflammatory mediators in the development of drug addiction.
Operatic music involves both singing and acting (as well as rich audiovisual background arising from the orchestra and elaborate scenery and costumes) that multiply the mechanisms by which emotions are induced in listeners. The present study investigated the effects of music, plot, and acting performance on emotions induced by opera. There were three experimental conditions: (1) participants listened to a musically complex and dramatically coherent excerpt from Tosca; (2) they read a summary of the plot and listened to the same musical excerpt again; and (3) they re-listened to music while they watched the subtitled film of this acting performance. In addition, a control condition was included, in which an independent sample of participants succesively listened three times to the same musical excerpt. We measured subjective changes using both dimensional, and specific music-induced emotion questionnaires. Cardiovascular, electrodermal, and respiratory responses were also recorded, and the participants kept track of their musical chills. Music listening alone elicited positive emotion and autonomic arousal, seen in faster heart rate, but slower respiration rate and reduced skin conductance. Knowing the (sad) plot while listening to the music a second time reduced positive emotions (peacefulness, joyful activation), and increased negative ones (sadness), while high autonomic arousal was maintained. Watching the acting performance increased emotional arousal and changed its valence again (from less positive/sad to transcendent), in the context of continued high autonomic arousal. The repeated exposure to music did not by itself induce this pattern of modifications. These results indicate that the multiple musical and dramatic means involved in operatic performance specifically contribute to the genesis of music-induced emotions and their physiological correlates.
A high rate of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)-like characteristics has been reported in a wide variety of disorders including syndromes with known genetic causes. In this article, we review the genetic and the neurobiological links between ADHD symptoms and some genetic syndromes such as: Fragile X Syndrome, Neurofibromatosis 1, DiGeorge Syndrome, Tuberous Sclerosis Complex, Turner Syndrome, Williams Syndrome and Klinefelter Syndrome. Although each syndrome may arise from different genetic abnormalities with multiple molecular functions, the effects of these abnormalities may give rise to common effects downstream in the biological pathways or neural circuits, resulting in the presentation of ADHD symptoms. Early diagnosis of ADHD allows for earlier treatment, and has the potential for a better outcome in children with genetic syndromes.

The human temporal lobe is well known to be critical for language comprehension. Previous physiological research has focused mainly on non-invasive neuroimaging and electrophysiological techniques with each approach requiring averaging across many trials and subjects. The results of these studies have implicated extended anatomical regions in peri-sylvian cortex in speech perception. These non-invasive studies typically report a spatially homogenous functional pattern of activity across several centimeters of cortex. We examined the spatiotemporal dynamics of word processing using electrophysiological signals acquired from high-density electrode arrays (4mm spacing) placed directly on the human temporal lobe. Electrocorticographic (ECoG) activity revealed a rich mosaic of language activity, which was functionally distinct at four mm separation. Cortical sites responding specifically to word and not phoneme stimuli were surrounded by sites that responded to both words and phonemes. Other sub-regions of the temporal lobe responded robustly to self-produced speech and minimally to external stimuli while surrounding sites at 4mm distance exhibited an inverse pattern of activation. These data provide evidence for temporal lobe specificity to words as well as self-produced speech. Furthermore, the results provide evidence that cortical processing in the temporal lobe is not spatially homogenous over centimeters of cortex. Rather, language processing is supported by independent and spatially distinct functional sub-regions of cortex at a resolution of at least 4mm.
The blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is a dynamic interface between the endoneurial microenvironment and surrounding extracellular space or blood contents, and is localized the innermost layer of multilayered ensheathing perineurium and endoneurial microvessels. Since the BNB is a key structure controlling the internal milieu of the peripheral nerve parenchyma, adequate understanding of the BNB is crucial for developing treatment strategies for human peripheral nervous system disorders, including Guillain-Barr syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, and diabetic and various metabolic/toxic neuropathies. However, fewer studies have been conducted on the BNB, if we compare against the number of studies on the blood-brain barrier. This is because of the lack of adequate human cell lines originating from the BNB. In our laboratory, human immortal cell lines from the BNB, namely, the endothelial cell line and pericyte cell line, have recently been established and vigorous investigations of their biological and physiological properties are now underway. Pericytes constituting the BNB were found to possess robust ability of controlling BNB integrity via secretion of various cytokines and growth factors including bFGF, VEGF, GDNF, BDNF, and angiopoietin-1. Unknown soluble factors secreted by pericytes also contribute to the upregulation of claudin-5 in endothelial cells in the BNB and thus, strengthen the barrier function of the BNB. In diabetic neuropathy, pericytes were shown to regulate the vascular basement membrane, while AGEs were shown to induce basement membrane hypertrophy and disrupt the BNB by increasing the autocrine secretion of VEGF and TGF-beta from pericytes. In this review article, we discuss the macroscopic and microscopic anatomy of the human BNB as well as the molecular mechanisms of mononuclear cell infiltration across the BNB.
Methamphetamine (MA) use is a large problem across the United States. Effects of MA include hyperactivity and increased anxiety. Using a mouse model system, we examined behavioral performance in the open field and elevated zero maze and shock-startle response of 12-month-old wild-type mice injected with MA once (1 mg/kg) 30 min prior to behavioral testing. MA treatment resulted in behavioral sensitization in the open field, consistent with studies in younger mice. There was an increased activity in the elevated zero maze and an increased shock-startle response 30 and 60 min post-injection. Since histamine mediates some effects of MA in the brain, we assessed whether 12-month-old mice lacking histidine decarboxylase (Hdc/), the enzyme required to synthesize histamine, respond differently to MA than wild-type (Hdc+/+) mice. Compared to saline treatment, acute and repeated MA administration increased activity in the open field and measures of anxiety, though more so in Hdc/ than Hdc+/+ mice. In the elevated zero maze, opposite effects of MA on activity and measures of anxiety were seen in Hdc+/+ mice. In contrast, MA similarly increased the shock-startle response in Hdc/ and Hdc+/+ mice, compared to saline-treated genotype-matched mice. These results are similar to those in younger mice, suggesting that the effects are not age-dependent. Overall, single or repeated MA treatment causes histamine-dependent changes in 12-month-old mice in the open field and elevated zero maze, but not in the shock-startle response.
Induction of the activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein gene (Arc), one of the immediate early genes, in the brain correlates with various sensory processes, natural behaviors, and pathological conditions. Arc is also involved in synaptic plasticity during development. Thus, in vivo monitoring of Arc expression is useful for the analysis of physiological and pathological conditions in the brain. Recently, in vivo imaging of Arc expression using various green fluorescent protein-based probes has been reported; however, these probes can only be applied for the detection of fluorescence signals from superficial layers of the cortex with some autofluorescence noise. Here, we generated a novel transgenic mouse strain to monitor the neuronal-activity-dependent Arc expression using bioluminescence signals in vivo. Because of the very high sensitivity with a high signal-to-noise ratio, we detected neuronal-activity-dependent plastic changes in the bioluminescence signal intensity in the mouse visual cortex after visual deprivation, suggesting structural plasticity after peripheral lesions in adults. We also detected drastic changes in bioluminescence signals after seizure induction with kainic acid. Our novel mouse strain will be valuable for the continuous monitoring of neuronal-activity-dependent Arc expression in the brain under physiological and pathological conditions.
Neuroimaging evidence suggests that dynamic facial expressions elicit greater activity than static face stimuli in brain structures associated with social cognition, interpreted as greater ecological validity. However, a quantitative meta-analysis of brain activity associated with dynamic facial expressions is lacking. The current study investigated, using three fMRI experiments, activity elicited by (a) dynamic and static happy faces, (b) dynamic and static happy and angry faces, and (c) dynamic faces and dynamic flowers. In addition, using activation likelihood estimate (ALE) meta-analysis, we determined areas concordant across published studies that (a) used dynamic faces and (b) specifically compared dynamic and static emotional faces. The middle temporal gyri (Experiment 1) and superior temporal sulci (STS; Experiment 1 and 2) were more active for dynamic than static faces. In contrasts with the baseline the amygdalae were more active for dynamic faces (Experiment 1 and 2) and the fusiform gyri were active for all conditions (all Experiments). The ALE meta-analyses revealed concordant activation in all of these regions as well as in areas associated with cognitive manipulations (inferior frontal gyri). Converging data from the experiments and the meta-analyses suggest that dynamic facial stimuli elicit increased activity in regions associated with interpretation of social signals and emotional processing.

We provide evidence that six glioblastoma cell lines derived and maintained under serum-free conditions secrete VEGF and four also expressed VEGF(R2). Expression of VEGF(R2) was associated with reduced proliferation in response to anti-VEGF antibodies. Spontaneous loss of VEGF(R2) over passage was associated with loss of this anti-proliferative effect. Gain of expression of VEGF(R2) was not associated with the acquisition of responsiveness to anti-VEGF antibodies. Secretion of PDGF was absent in 5/6 of our cell lines and none of the cell lines had reduced proliferation in response to anti-PDGF antibodies suggesting that PDGF autocrine signalling was unlikely to be significant in tumour proliferation. These data are consistent with published clinical trials suggesting that glioblastoma cell lines derived under serum-free conditions have the potential for use in drug screening and individualising patient therapy.
H9c2 cells, derived from the ventricular part of an E13 BDIX rat heart, possess a proliferative and relatively undifferentiated phenotype but can be readily directed to differentiate under reduced serum conditions originating cells presenting muscle features. Skeletal or cardiac phenotypes can be originated depending on whether or not serum reduction is accompanied by a daily treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid. In the present study, we aimed to characterize and compare the metabolic profile of H9c2 cells at various differentiation states, correlating the differences between different populations with muscle-specific development. We determined that H9c2 myoblasts remodel their metabolism upon differentiation, with undifferentiated cells more reliant on glycolysis, as demonstrated by higher lactate production rates. Differentiated cells adopted a more oxidative metabolism with better coupling between the glycolytic and oxidative pathways, which is indicative of a metabolic evolvement toward a higher energetic efficiency state. Our findings emphasize the metabolic differences between differentiated and undifferentiated H9c2 cells and raise caution on how to adequately select the H9c2 differentiation state that will act as the better model for the design of experimental studies.
In vitro studies show that microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, express neurotransmitter and neuropeptide receptors which are linked to Ca(2+) signaling. Here we describe an approach to obtain Ca(2+) recordings from microglia in situ. We injected a retrovirus encoding a calcium sensor into the cortex of mice 2 days after stimulation of microglial proliferation by a stab wound injury. Microglial cells were identified with tomato lectin in acute slices prepared 3, 6, 21 and 42 days after the injury. The membrane current profile and the ameboid morphology indicated that microglial cells were activated at day 6 while at day 42 they resembled resting microglia. We recorded transient Ca(2+) responses to application of ATP, endothelin-1, substance P, histamine and serotonin. The fluorescence amplitude of ATP was increased only at day 6 compared to other time points, while responses to all other ligands did not vary. Only half of the microglial cells that responded to ATP also responded to endothelin-1, serotonin and histamine. Substance P, in contrast, showed a complete overlap with the ATP responding microglial population at day 6, at day 42 this population was reduced to 55%. Cultured cells were less responsive to these ligands. This study shows that in situ microglia consist of heterogeneous populations with respect to their sensitivity to neuropeptides and -transmitters.
To explore the effects of both external and internal pH (pH(o) and pH(i)) on the coupling between Ca(2+) extrusion and H(+) uptake by the PMCA activity in snail neurones H(+) uptake was assessed by measuring surface pH changes (pH(s)) with pH-sensitive microelectrodes while Ba(2+) or Ca(2+) loads were extruded. Ru360 or ruthenium red injection showed that injected Ca(2+) was partly taken up by mitochondria, but Ca(2+) entering through channels was not. External pH was changed using a mixture of three buffers to minimise changes in buffering power. With depolarisation-induced Ca(2+) or Ba(2+) loads the pH(s) were not changed significantly over the pH range 6.5-8.5. With Ca(2+) injections into cells with mitochondrial uptake blocked the pH(s) were significantly smaller at pH 8.5 than at 7.5, but this could be explained in part by the slower rate of activity of the PMCA. Low intracellular pH also changed the pH(s) responses to Ca(2+) injection, but not significantly. Again this may have been due to reduced pump activity at low pH(i). I conclude that in snail neurones the PMCA coupling ratio is either insensitive or much less sensitive to pH than in red blood cells or barnacle muscle.
In vitro stem cell systems traditionally employ oxygen levels that are far removed from the in vivo situation. This study investigates whether an ambient environment containing a physiological oxygen level of 3% (normoxia) enables the generation of neural precursor cells (NPCs) from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and whether the resultant NPCs can undergo regional specification and functional maturation. We report robust and efficient neural conversion at 3% O(2), demonstration of tri-lineage potential of resultant NPCs and the subsequent electrophysiological maturation of neurons. We also show that NPCs derived under 3% O(2) can be differentiated long term in the absence of neurotrophins and can be readily specified into both spinal motor neurons and midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Finally, modelling the oxygen stress that occurs during transplantation, we demonstrate that in vitro transfer of NPCs from a 20 to 3% O(2) environment results in significant cell death, while maintenance in 3% O(2) is protective. Together these findings support 3% O(2) as a physiologically relevant system to study stem cell-derived neuronal differentiation and function as well as to model neuronal injury.
The Src/FAK complex is involved in many signaling pathways and plays crucial roles in cell adhesion/migration. It becomes clear that the subcellular localization of Src and FAK is crucial for their activities and functions. In this article, we first overview the molecular mechanisms and functions of Src and FAK involved in cell adhesion/migration. We then introduce the development of genetically encoded biosensors based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) to visualize the activities of Src and FAK in live cells with high spatiotemporal resolutions. Different kinds of signal peptides targeting subcellular compartments are also discussed. FRET-based biosensors fused with these targeting signals peptides are further introduced to provide an overview on how these targeting signals can facilitate the localization of biosensors to continuously monitor the local activity of Src and FAK at subcellular compartments. In summary, genetically-encoded FRET biosensors integrated with subcellular compartment-targeting signals can provide powerful tools for the visualization of subcellular Src and FAK activities in live cells and advance our in-depth understanding of Src/FAK functions at different subcellular compartments.
During animal development, tissues and organs are partitioned into compartments that do not intermix. This organizing principle is essential for correct tissue morphogenesis. Given that cell sorting defects during compartmentalization in humans are thought to cause malignant invasion and congenital defects such as cranio-fronto-nasal syndrome, identifying the molecular and cellular mechanisms that keep cells apart at boundaries between compartments is important. In both vertebrates and invertebrates, transcription factors and short-range signalling pathways, such as EPH/Ephrin, Hedgehog, or Notch signalling, govern compartmental cell sorting. However, the mechanisms that mediate cell sorting downstream of these factors have remained elusive for decades. Here, we review recent data gathered in Drosophila that suggest that the generation of cortical tensile forces at compartmental boundaries by the actomyosin cytoskeleton could be a general mechanism that inhibits cell mixing between compartments.
Recent studies have shown that neural crest-derived progenitor cells can be found in diverse mammalian tissues including tissues that were not previously shown to contain neural crest derivatives, such as bone marrow. The identification of those &quot;new&quot; neural crest-derived progenitor cells opens new strategies for developing autologous cell replacement therapies in regenerative medicine. However, their potential use is still a challenge as only few neural crest-derived progenitor cells were found in those new accessible locations. In this study, we developed a protocol, based on wnt1 and BMP2 effects, to enrich neural crest-derived cells from adult bone marrow. Those two factors are known to maintain and stimulate the proliferation of embryonic neural crest stem cells, however, their effects have never been characterized on neural crest cells isolated from adult tissues. Using multiple strategies from microarray to 2D-DIGE proteomic analyses, we characterized those recruited neural crest-derived cells, defining their identity and their differentiating abilities.
Our aim was to reveal the relationship between layer IV horizontal connections and the functional architecture of the cat primary visual cortex because these connections play important roles in the first cortical stage of visual signals integration. We investigated bouton distribution of spiny neurons over an orientation preference map using in vivo optical imaging, unit recordings, and single neuron reconstructions. The radial extent of reconstructed axons (14 star pyramidal and 9 spiny stellate cells) was ~1.5 mm. In the vicinity of the parent somata (&lt;400 m), boutons occupied chiefly iso-orientations, however, more distally, 7 cells projected preferentially to non-iso-orientations. Boutons of each cell were partitioned into 1-15 distinct clusters based on the mean-shift algorithm, of which 57 clusters preferred iso-orientations and 43 clusters preferred cross-orientations, each showing sharp orientation preference &quot;tuning.&quot; However, unlike layer III/V pyramidal cells preferring chiefly iso-orientations, layer IV cells were engaged with broad orientations because each bouton cluster from the same cell could show different orientation preference. These results indicate that the circuitry of layer IV spiny cells is organized differently from that of iso-orientation dominant layer III/V cells and probably processes visual signals in a different manner from that of the superficial and deeper layers.
Developing neocortical progenitors express transcription factors in gradients that induce programs of region-specific gene expression. Our previous work identified anteriorly upregulated expression gradients of a number of corticofugal neuron-associated gene probe sets along the anterior-posterior axis of the human neocortex (8-12 postconceptional weeks [PCW]). Here, we demonstrate by real-time polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry that 3 such genes, ROBO1, SRGAP1, and CTIP2 are highly expressed anteriorly between 8-12 PCW, in comparison with other genes (FEZF2, SOX5) expressed by Layer V, VI, and subplate neurons. All 3 were prominently expressed by early postmitotic neurons in the subventricular zone, intermediate zone, and cortical plate (CP) from 8 to 10 PCW. Between 12 and 15 PCW expression patterns for ER81 and SATB2 (Layer V), TBR1 (Layer V/VI) and NURR1 (Layer VI) revealed Layer V forming. By 15 PCW, ROBO1 and SRGAP1 expression was confined to Layer V, whereas CTIP2 was expressed throughout the CP anteriorly. We observed ROBO1 and SRGAP1 immunoreactivity in medullary corticospinal axons from 11 PCW onward. Thus, we propose that the coexpression of these 3 markers in the anterior neocortex may mark the early location of the human motor cortex, including its corticospinal projection neurons, allowing further study of their early differentiation.
The mammalian neocortex contains an intricate processing network of multiple sensory and motor areas that allows the animal to engage in complex behaviors. These anatomically and functionally unique areas and their distinct connections arise during early development, through a process termed arealization. Both intrinsic, activity-independent and extrinsic, activity-dependent mechanisms drive arealization, much of which occurs during the areal patterning period (APP) from late embryogenesis to early postnatal life. How areal boundaries and their connections develop and change from infancy to adulthood is not known. Additionally, the adult patterns of sensory and motor ipsilateral intraneocortical connections (INCs) have not been thoroughly characterized in the mouse. In this report and its companion (I), we present the first lifespan analysis of ipsilateral INCs among multiple sensory and motor regions in mouse. We describe the neocortical expression patterns of several developmentally regulated genes that are of central importance to studies investigating the molecular regulation of arealization, from postnatal day (P) 6 to P50. In this study, we correlate the boundaries of gene expression patterns with developing areal boundaries across a lifespan, in order to better understand the nature of gene-areal relationships from early postnatal life to adulthood.
The visual system constantly utilizes regularities that are embedded in the environment and by doing so reduces the computational burden of processing visual information. Recent findings have demonstrated that probabilistic information can override attentional effects, such as the cost of making an eye movement away from a visual target (antisaccade cost). The neural substrates of such probability effects have been associated with activity in the superior colliculus (SC). Given the immense reciprocal connections to SC, it is plausible that this modulation originates from higher oculomotor regions, such as the frontal eye field (FEF) and the supplementary eye field (SEF). To test this possibility, the present study employed theta burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to selectively interfere with FEF and SEF activity. We found that TMS disrupted the effect of location probability when TMS was applied over FEF. This was not observed in the SEF TMS condition. Together, these 2 experiments suggest that the FEF plays a critical role not only in initiating saccades but also in modulating the effects of location probability on saccade production.
A hallmark of mammalian evolution is the structural and functional complexity of the cerebral cortex. Within the cerebral cortex, the neocortex, or isocortex, is a 6-layered complexly organized structure that is comprised of multiple interconnected sensory and motor areas. These areas and their precise patterns of connections arise during development, through a process termed arealization. Intrinsic, activity-independent and extrinsic, activity-dependent mechanisms are involved in the development of neocortical areas and their connections. The intrinsic molecular mechanisms involved in the establishment of this sophisticated network are not fully understood. In this report (I) and the companion report (II), we present the first lifespan analysis of ipsilateral intraneocortical connections (INCs) among multiple sensory and motor regions, from the embryonic period to adulthood in the mouse. Additionally, we characterize the neocortical expression patterns of several developmentally regulated genes that are of central importance to studies investigating the molecular control of arealization from embryonic day 13.5 to postnatal day (P) 3 (I) and P6 to 50 (II). In this analysis, we utilize novel methods to correlate the boundaries of gene expression with INCs and developing areal boundaries, in order to better understand the nature of gene-areal relationships during development.
Dysfunction of primary motor cortex (M1) is thought to contribute to the pathophysiology of parkinsonism. What specific aspects of M1 function are abnormal remains uncertain, however. Moreover, few models consider the possibility that distinct cortical neuron subtypes may be affected differently. Those questions were addressed by studying the resting activity of intratelencephalic-type corticostriatal neurons (CSNs) and distant-projecting lamina 5b pyramidal-tract type neurons (PTNs) in the macaque M1 before and after the induction of parkinsonism by administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Contrary to previous reports, the general population of M1 neurons (i.e., PTNs, CSNs, and unidentified neurons) showed reduced baseline firing rates following MPTP, attributable largely to a marked decrease in PTN firing rates. CSN firing rates were unmodified. Although burstiness and firing patterns remained constant in M1 neurons as a whole and CSNs in particular, PTNs became more bursty post-MPTP and less likely to fire in a regular-spiking pattern. Rhythmic spiking (found in PTNs predominantly) occurred at beta frequencies (14-32 Hz) more frequently following MPTP. These results indicate that MPTP intoxication induced distinct modifications in the activity of different M1 neuronal subtypes. The particular susceptibility of PTNs suggests that PTN dysfunction may be an important contributor to the pathophysiology of parkinsonian motor signs.
The course to alcohol dependence often starts with a preclinical period of heavy drinking. The present article reports functional magnetic resonance imaging data showing that even this pattern of alcohol consumption is associated with maladaptive neural responses to alcohol and other stimuli. When participants were confronted with visual cues related to alcohol, heavy drinkers showed amplified blood oxygen level-dependent signal responses in specific emotional areas (insular cortex) and in parts of the brain's reward circuitry (ventral striatum). This neuronal amplification was not present in light drinkers. Crucially, at the same time heavy drinkers showed reduced responses in frontal areas to pictures related to higher order life goals and in the cingulate cortex to appetitive food stimuli, suggesting that they have difficulty finding alternative, socially desirable goals. Using discriminant function analysis, we demonstrate that the combination of alcohol-related overactivation and underactivation to alternative goals allows heavy and light drinkers to be differentiated with a high degree of precision. Our findings highlight the diagnostic value of functional brain mapping of cue reactivity. Imaging measures may help to identify addictive dispositions in preclinical stages and to clarify the mechanisms that underlie the development and maintenance of alcohol dependence.
Little is currently known about the postnatal emergence of functional cortical networks supporting complex perceptual and cognitive skills, such as face processing. The present study examined the emergence of the core cortical network underlying face processing in younger and older school-age children as well as young adults. Participants performed 3 functional magnetic resonance imaging target detection tasks where they either had to detect a specific facial identity, expression, or direction of eye gaze in a stream of consecutively presented faces. We compared the connectivity of the face network using dynamic causal modelling and observed that it emerges gradually during childhood. Further, we found that while the relative strength of functional network connections were differentially modulated by task demands in adults, there was no such modulation of this network in either older or younger children. These results were independent of the behavioral performance in the 3 age groups. We suggest that the emergence of the face network is due to continuous specialization and fine-tuning within the regions of this network. The current results have important implications for future studies investigating trajectories of brain development and cortical specialization both in typically and atypically developing populations.
The regulation of emotion is vital for adaptive behavior in a social environment. Different strategies may be adopted to achieve successful emotion regulation, ranging from attentional control (e.g., distraction) to cognitive change (e.g., reappraisal). However, there is only scarce evidence comparing the different regulation strategies with respect to their neural mechanisms and their effects on emotional experience. We, therefore, directly compared reappraisal and distraction in a functional magnetic resonance imaging study with emotional pictures. In the distraction condition participants performed an arithmetic task, while they reinterpreted the emotional situation during reappraisal to downregulate emotional intensity. Both strategies were successful in reducing subjective emotional state ratings and lowered activity in the bilateral amygdala. Direct contrasts, however, showed a stronger decrease in amygdala activity for distraction when compared with reappraisal. While both strategies relied on common control areas in the medial and dorsolateral prefrontal and inferior parietal cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex was selectively activated for reappraisal. In contrast, the dorsal anterior cingulate and large clusters in the parietal cortex were active in the distraction condition. Functional connectivity patterns of the amygdala activation confirmed the roles of these specific activations for the 2 emotion regulation strategies.
Humans reach to and acquire objects by transforming visual targets into action commands. How the brain integrates goals specified in a visual framework to signals into a suitable framework for an action plan requires clarification whether visual input, per se, interacts with gaze position to formulate action plans. To further evaluate brain control of visual-motor integration, we assessed brain activation, using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Humans performed goal-directed movements toward visible or remembered targets while fixating gaze left or right from center. We dissociated movement planning from performance using a delayed-response task and manipulated target visibility by its availability throughout the delay or blanking it 500 ms after onset. We found strong effects of gaze orientation on brain activation during planning and interactive effects of target visibility and gaze orientation on movement-related activation during performance in parietal and premotor cortices (PM), cerebellum, and basal ganglia, with more activation for rightward gaze at a visible target and no gaze modulation for movements directed toward remembered targets. These results demonstrate effects of gaze position on PM and movement-related processes and provide new information how visual signals interact with gaze position in transforming visual inputs into motor goals.
Network modeling based on ensemble averages tacitly assumes that the networks meant to be modeled are typical in the ensemble. Previous research on network eigenvalues, which govern a range of dynamical phenomena, has shown that this is indeed the case for uncorrelated networks with minimum degree  3. Here, we focus on real networks, which generally have both structural correlations and low-degree nodes. We show that: (i) the ensemble distribution of the dynamically most important eigenvalues can be not only broad and far apart from the real eigenvalue but also highly structured, often with a multimodal rather than a bell-shaped form; (ii) these interesting properties are found to be due to low-degree nodes, mainly those with degree  3, and network communities, which is a common form of structural correlation found in real networks. In addition to having implications for ensemble-based approaches, this shows that low-degree nodes may have a stronger influence on collective dynamics than previously anticipated from the study of computer-generated networks.
We study the recently observed phenomena of torus canards. These are a higher-dimensional generalization of the classical canard orbits familiar from planar systems and arise in fast-slow systems of ordinary differential equations in which the fast subsystem contains a saddle-node bifurcation of limit cycles. Torus canards are trajectories that pass near the saddle-node and subsequently spend long times near a repelling branch of slowly varying limit cycles. In this article, we carry out a study of torus canards in an elementary third-order system that consists of a rotated planar system of van der Pol type in which the rotational symmetry is broken by including a phase-dependent term in the slow component of the vector field. In the regime of fast rotation, the torus canards behave much like their planar counterparts. In the regime of slow rotation, the phase dependence creates rich torus canard dynamics and dynamics of mixed mode type. The results of this elementary model provide insight into the torus canards observed in a higher-dimensional neuroscience model.
Evidence in the literature shows that in rodents, some taste-responsive neurons respond to both quinine and acid stimuli. Also, under certain circumstances, rodents display some degree of difficulty in discriminating quinine and acid stimuli. Here, C57BL/6J mice were trained and tested in a 2-response operant discrimination task. Mice had severe difficulty discriminating citric acid from quinine and 6-n-propylthiouracil (PROP) with performance slightly, but significantly, above chance. In contrast, mice were able to competently discriminate sucrose from citric acid, NaCl, quinine, and PROP. In another experiment, mice that were conditioned to avoid quinine by pairings with LiCl injections subsequently suppressed licking responses to quinine and citric acid but not to NaCl or sucrose in a brief-access test, relative to NaCl-injected control animals. However, mice that were conditioned to avoid citric acid did not display cross-generalization to quinine. These mice significantly suppressed licking only to citric acid, and to a much lesser extent NaCl, compared with controls. Collectively, the findings from these experiments suggest that in mice, citric acid and quinine share chemosensory features making discrimination difficult but are not perceptually identical.
The authors examined parentchild interactions among three groups: selectively mute, anxious, and non-anxious children in different contexts. The relation between parental control (granting autonomy and high power remarks), child factors (i.e., age, anxiety, verbal participation), and parent anxiety was investigated. Parental control varied by context but parents of children with SM were more controlling than parents in the comparison groups in all contexts. Regression analyses indicated that child and parent anxiety predicted parental control, with increased anxiety associated with increased control. Older child age predicted less parent control. Group categorization moderated the relation between age and high power remarks, such that age was not a significant predictor for children with SM. Finally child-initiated speaking predicted high power remarks over and above other variables. These results support previous theories that parents take over for their children when they fail to meet performance demands, especially when the child or parent is anxious.
Cardiac arrest often represents the first expression of an underlying cardiac disease. Despite advances in neurocritical care, the neurological assessment of cardiac arrest patients relies on clinical, instrumental and biochemical parameters. The clinical significance of S-100 calcium binding protein B (S-100B) has substantially increased throughout several areas of clinical neuroscience, but reliable evidences attest it can be used as a reliable and early predictor of poor physiological and cognitive neurological outcomes after cardiac arrest.


The depolarising neuromuscular blocking agent suxamethonium chloride, frequently used during endotracheal intubation, is contraindicated in patients with chronic denervation in whom it can cause a life-threatening hyperkalaemic reaction, thought to be mediated through upregulation of nicotinic alpha7 acetylcholine receptors. An underlying neuromuscular disorder should be considered in all patients with acute respiratory insufficiency, and an alternative neuromuscular blocking drug must be used if there is any possibility of widespread denervation.


So far, clinical neurophysiological studies on tension-type headache (TTH) have been conducted with two main purposes: (1) to establish whether some neurophysiological parameters may act as markers of TTH, and (2) to investigate the physiopathology of TTH. With regard to the first point, the present results are disappointing, since some abnormalities found in TTH patients may be frequently observed also in migraineurs. On the other hand, clinical neurophysiology has played an important role in the debate about the pathogenesis of TTH. Studies on the exteroceptive suppression of the temporalis muscle contraction have detected a dysfunction of the brainstem excitability and of its suprasegmental control. A similar conclusion has been reached by using the trigeminocervical reflexes, whose abnormalities in TTH have suggested a reduced inhibitory activity of brainstem interneurons, reflecting abnormal endogenous pain control mechanisms. It is interesting that the neural excitability abnormality in TTH seems to be a generalized phenomenon, not limited to the cranial districts. Defective DNIC-like mechanisms have indeed been evidenced also in somatic districts by nociceptive flexion reflex studies. Unfortunately, most neurophysiological studies on TTH are marred by serious methodological flaws, which should be avoided in future researches, in order to better clarify the TTH mechanisms.





Neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain in a constitutive manner under physiological circumstances within two regions: the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles. In contrast to these two so-called neurogenic areas, other regions of the brain were considered to be primarily non-neurogenic in nature, implying that no new neurons were formed there under normal conditions. Recently, low proliferative activity was reported in the hypothalamus and the cell layers surrounding the third ventricle. This review summarizes recent evidence for adult neurogenesis in the hypothalamus, and points out the potential contributions of these new neurons to neural processing. We also discussed some technical considerations in investigating neurogenesis in the adult hypothalamus. It is believed that the hypothalamus could serve as a new source and target for stem cell transplantation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease, characterized by a selective loss of midbrain Dopaminergic (DA) neurons. To address this problem, various types of stem cells that have potential to differentiate into DA neurons are being investigated as cellular therapies for PD, including cells derived from embryonic or adult donor tissue, and embryonic stem cells. These cell sources, however, have raised certain questions with regard to ethical and rejection issues. Recent progress in adult stems has further proved that the cells derived from adult tissue could be expanded and differentiated into DA precursor cells in vitro, and cell therapy with adult stem cells could produce a clear improvement for PD models. Using adult stem cells for clinic application may not only overcome the ethical problem inherent in using human fetal tissue or embryonic stem cells, but also open the possibility for autologous transplantation. The patient-specific adult stem cell is therefore a potential and prospective candidate for PD treatment.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a severe deliberating neurological disease caused by progressive degenerative death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of midbrain. While cell replacement strategy by transplantation of neural stem cells and inducement of dopaminergic neurons is recommended for the treatment of PD, understanding the differentiation mechanism and controlled proliferation of grafted stem cells remain major concerns in their clinical application. Here we review recent studies on molecular signaling pathways in regulation of dopaminergic differentiation and proliferation of stem cells, particularly Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in stimulating formation of the dopaminergic phenotype, Notch signaling in inhibiting stem cell differentiation, and Sonic hedgehog functioning in neural stem cell proliferation and neuronal cell production. Activation of oncogenes involved in uncontrolled proliferation or tumorigenicity of stem cells is also discussed. It is proposed that a selective molecular manipulation targeting strategy will greatly benefit cell replacement therapy for PD by effectively promoting dopaminergic neuronal cell generation and reducing risk of tumorigenicity of in vivo stem cell applications.
Parkinson's disease (PD), a common degenerative disease in humans, is known to result from loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and is characterized by severe motor symptoms of tremor, rigidity, bradykinsia and postural instability. Although levodopa administration, surgical neural lesion, and deep brain stimulation have been shown to be effective in improving parkinsonian symptoms, cell replacement therapy such as transplantation of dopamine neurons or neural stem cells has shed new light on an alternative treatment strategy for PD. While the difficulty in securing donor dopamine neurons and the immuno-rejection of neural transplants largely hinder application of neural transplants in clinical treatment, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) derived from somatic cells may represent a powerful tool for studying the pathogenesis of PD and provide a source for replacement therapies in this neurodegenerative disease. Yamanaka et al. [2006, 2007] first succeeded in generating iPS cells by reprogramming fibroblasts with four transcription factors, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc in both mouse and human. Animal studies have further shown that iPS cells from fibroblasts could be induced into dopamine neurons and transplantation of these cells within the central nervous system improved motor symptoms in the 6-OHDA model of PD. More interestingly, neural stem cells or fibroblasts from patients can be efficiently reprogrammed and subsequently differentiated into dopamine neurons. Derivation of patient-specific iPS cells and subsequent differentiation into dopamine neurons would provide a disease-specific in vitro model for disease pathology, drug screening and personalized stem cell therapy for PD. This review summarizes current methods and modifications in producing iPS cells from somatic cells as well as safety concerns of reprogramming procedures. Novel reprogramming strategies that deter abnormal permanent genetic and epigenetic alterations are essential for propagating clinically-qualified iPS cells. Future investigations into cell transforming and reprogramming processes are needed to generate the disease-specific iPS cells for personalized regeneration medicine of PD patients by disclosing detailed reprogramming mechanisms.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) controls several biological functions via selective activation of the N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP). [(pF)Phe(4) Aib(7) Arg(14) Lys(15) ]N/OFQ-NH(2) (UFP-112) is an NOP receptor ligand designed using a combination of several chemical modifications in the same peptide sequence that increase NOP receptor affinity/potency and/or reduce susceptibility to enzymatic degradation. In the present review article, we summarize data from the literature and present original findings on the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological features of UFP-112. Moreover, important biological actions and possible therapeutic indications of NOP receptor agonists are discussed based on the results obtained with UFP-112 and compared with other peptide and nonpeptide NOP receptor ligands.
Animal models of psychiatric disorders are important translational tools for exploring new treatment options and gaining more insight into the disease. Thus far, there is no systematically validated animal model for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), a severely impairing and difficult-to-treat disease. In this review, we propose contextual conditioning (CC) as an animal model for GAD. We argue that this model has sufficient face validity (there are several symptom similarities), predictive validity (it responds to clinically effective treatments), and construct validity (the underlying mechanisms are comparable). Although the refinement and validation of an animal model is a never-ending process, we want to give a concise overview of the currently available evidence. We suggest that the CC model might be a valuable preclinical tool to enhance the development of new treatment strategies and our understanding of GAD.
Abstract G&amp;K provide a new and interesting perspective on consciousness, by arguing that consciousness is a product of social perception. Based on the overlap between the neural mechanisms underlying spatial awareness of other people and oneself, out-of-body experiences (OBEs), and social perception the authors argue that consciousness is based on the brain signals that represent other people and their spatial awareness. Although we generally welcome the authors efforts, we (1) would like to emphasize that consciousness has two distinct spatial aspects, namely self-location and first-person perspective, (2) cite evidence about distinct developmental and brain mechanisms concerning first- versus third-person perceptions and cogitations and (3) argue for a primacy of multisensory own body perception over social perception and awareness as a neurobiological foundation of consciousness.
Abstract A consensus emerging from neuroscience is that certain brain regions show activity correlated with stimulus independent (e.g. private) conscious thought and yet are also implicated in public social processes. The fact that systems supporting social processing also exhibit activity with no obvious perceptual referent, can be seen as support for the framework suggested by Graziano and Kerber (this volume) once it is recognized that the property of stimulus independence is also an important feature of consciousness. Understanding the social basis behind private stimulus independent thought, therefore, may provide an important assessment of the validity of the Graziano and Kerber hypothesis.
Abstract Hybrid social cognitive models, based not only on simulation, are desirable, especially in complex scenarios. It is unclear, however, which neural systems support non simulative processes. Furthermore, the proposal that consciousness is a form of representation of attention, while novel, relies on a traditional concept of representation. Recent ndings suggest an ontological priority of representations, where the representation and the thing being represented are not distinct at all.
Abstract This commentary describes an additional line of evidence related to the suggestion that mechanisms of social perception facilitate the development of a perceptual model of one's own mind. Drawing on findings from mirror-touch synaesthesia, we highlight the importance of the insula in distinguishing between the perceptions of one's own experience versus someone else's.
Recently, understanding the sequence of events that precedes an attentional lapse has become an important question in cognitive neuroscience. To examine the processes which lead to such errors, participants performed a simple go/no-go task used for measuring attentional failure. To study the role of internal distraction, the participants' tendency to daydreaming was assessed via a questionnaire. Principal components analysis (PCA) was used to decompose the response time (RT) course into the underlying components. Analysis identified three components that made up 54% of the data collected. One factor indicated the overall magnitude of the RT in a given block. This factor showed a significant negative weighting prior to an error. A second factor indicating that RT shifted from slow to fast was also identified. The parity of this factor was predictive of error for individuals high on daydreaming, indicating that errors in individuals with a rich, imaginative mental life showed a shift from slow to fast responding prior to an attentional lapse. This analysis provides further evidence that attentional lapses can result from events that took place many seconds before the mistake and that the elements of the default mode may be involved in these lapses.
The complex patterns of neuronal wiring in the adult nervous system depend on a series of guidance events during neural development that establish a framework on which functional circuits can be built. In this subject collection, the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie neuronal guidance are considered from several perspectives, ranging from how cytoskeletal dynamics within extending neuronal growth cones steer axons, to how guidance cues influence synaptogenesis. We introduce here some basic topics to frame the more detailed reviews in following articles, including the cellular strategies that define basic themes governing neuronal wiring throughout life, an enumeration of the molecular cues and receptors known to play key guidance roles during neural development, and an overview of the signaling mechanisms that transduce guidance information into growth-cone steering.
There is an increasing interest in the relationship between imagery and emotion (e.g., Holmes &amp; Mathews, 2005). The present research examined whether unconscious emotions affect visual imagery. In particular, participants were invited to perform a mental rotation test following subliminal presentation of happy, sad and neutral expressions. This study revealed an increase in mental rotation abilities after unconscious visual processing of emotional expressions. Altogether, these findings support the hypothesis of a bidirectional relationship between imagery and emotions.
In order to study whether there exist a period of activity in the human early visual cortex that contributes exclusively to visual awareness, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the early visual cortex and measured subjective visual awareness during visual forced-choice symbol or orientation discrimination tasks. TMS produced one dip in awareness 60-120 ms after stimulus onset, while forced-choice orientation discrimination was suppressed between 60 and 90 ms and symbol discrimination between 60 and 120 ms. Thus, a time window specific to visual awareness was found only in the orientation condition at 120 ms. The results imply that both conscious and unconscious perception depend on activity in early visual areas. On the basis of previous estimates of neural processing speed, we suggest that the late part of the activity period most likely involve local extrastriate-striate interactions which provide the contents for visual awareness but are not themselves sufficient for awareness to arise.
A number of differences between the dreams of schizophrenia patients and those of healthy participants have been linked to changes in waking life that schizophrenia may cause. This way, the &quot;continuity hypothesis&quot; has become a standard way to relate dreaming and waking experiences in schizophrenia. Nevertheless, some of the findings in dream literature are not compatible with the continuity hypothesis and suggest some other ways how dream content and waking experiences could interact. Conceptually, the continuity hypothesis could be sharpened into the &quot;waking-to-dreaming&quot; and the &quot;dreaming-to-waking&quot; hypotheses, whereas a less explored type of &quot;discontinuity&quot; could embrace the &quot;compensated waking&quot; and the &quot;compensated dreaming&quot; hypotheses. A careful consideration and empirical testing of each of those hypotheses may reveal a multiplicity of the ways how dreaming and waking life interact in schizophrenia.
This study was aimed at investigating whether the retrieval of episodic information is more likely to be associated with the recognition of personally familiar faces than voices. Hence, the proportions of episodic memories recalled following the recognition of personally known faces and voices was assessed, using a modified version of the Remember/Know paradigm. Present findings showed that episodic information was more often retrieved from familiar faces than from familiar voices. Furthermore, this advantage of faces over voices was significant even when face recognition was rendered similar as that for voices by blurring the faces. The same pattern of results was observed regarding semantic information retrieval (i.e. the target person's occupation). These results and their implications for person recognition models, as well as the potential role of the relative distinctiveness of faces and voices, are discussed.
Research in cognitive neuroscience now considers the state of the brain prior to the task an important aspect of performance. Hypnosis seems to alter the brain state in a way which allows external input to dominate over internal goals. We examine how normal development may illuminate the hypnotic state.
Using the Stroop paradigm, we have previously shown that a specific suggestion can remove or reduce involuntary conflict and alter information processing in highly suggestible individuals (HSIs). In the present study, we carefully matched less suggestible individuals (LSIs) to HSIs on a number of factors. We hypothesized that suggestion would influence HSIs more than LSIs and reduce the Stroop effect in the former group. As well, we conducted secondary post hoc analyses to examine negative priming (NP) - the apparent disruption of the response to a previously-ignored item. Our present findings indicate that suggestion reduces Stroop effects in HSIs. Secondary analyses show that LSIs had an NP effect at baseline (i.e., without suggestion) and that suggestion influenced the NP condition. Thus, at least in this experimental context, suggestion seems to dampen a deeply-engrained and largely automatic process - reading - by wielding a larger influence on HSIs relative to comparable LSIs.


Mitochondria are cytoplasmic organelles responsible for life and death. Extensive evidence from animal models, postmortem brain studies of and clinical studies of aging and neurodegenerative diseases suggests that mitochondrial function is defective in aging and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Several lines of research suggest that mitochondrial abnormalities, including defects in oxidative phosphorylation, increased accumulation of mitochondrial DNA defects, impaired calcium influx, accumulation of mutant proteins in mitochondria, and mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation are important cellular changes in both early and late-onset neurodegenerative diseases. Further, emerging evidence suggests that structural changes in mitochondria, including increased mitochondrial fragmentation and decreased mitochondrial fusion, are critical factors associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death in aging and neurodegenerative diseases. This paper discusses research that elucidates features of mitochondria that are associated with cellular dysfunction in aging and neurodegenerative diseases and discusses mitochondrial structural and functional changes, and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics in neurodegenerative diseases. It also outlines mitochondria-targeted therapeutics in neurodegenerative diseases.
Cognitive reserve explains why those with higher IQ, education, occupational attainment, or participation in leisure activities evidence less severe clinical or cognitive changes in the presence of age-related or Alzheimer's disease pathology. Specifically, the cognitive reserve hypothesis is that individual differences in how tasks are processed provide reserve against brain pathology. Cognitive reserve may allow for more flexible strategy usage, an ability thought to be captured by executive functions tasks. Additionally, cognitive reserve allows individuals greater neural efficiency, greater neural capacity, and the ability for compensation via the recruitment of additional brain regions. Taking cognitive reserve into account may allow for earlier detection and better characterization of age-related cognitive changes and Alzheimer's disease. Importantly, cognitive reserve is not fixed but continues to evolve across the lifespan. Thus, even late-stage interventions hold promise to boost cognitive reserve and thus reduce the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and other age-related problems.
Significant efforts through genomic approaches have been dedicated toward the identification of novel protein-protein interactions as promising therapeutic targets for indications such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and neuropsychiatric disorders. Additionally, the number of biotherapeutic agents entering the Pharmaceutical sector continues to increase and according to EvaluatePharma's &quot;World Preview 2014&quot; report, &quot;the compounded annual growth rate of biologics is expected to be 8.5 percent from 2008-2014, eight to 10 times greater than the growth rate of small molecules&quot;. However, there are limited examples of success in developing biotherapeutic modalities for central nervous system (CNS) diseases in the drug development pipeline. A primary reason for the lack of application of biotherapeutics to neuroscience targets, is that the blood-brain barrier (BBB) isolates and protects CNS structures creating a unique biochemically and immunologically privileged environment, therefore passage of macromolecules across this barrier has additional challenges. An understanding of the anatomical and physiological properties of this barrier with respect to penetration of biotherapeutics is presented in this review document. In this summary, recent advances in biotherapeutic delivery mechanisms across the BBB including transcranial brain drug delivery, focused ultrasound technology, nasal delivery, absorptive endocytosis, and receptor mediated endocytosis are evaluated using an industrial perspective. With acknowledgement that each approach has advantages and disadvantages, this review discusses the opportunities and challenges that are encountered during application of these methods across a variety of therapeutic areas such as, pain, obesity, neuroscience, and oncology. Utilizing an industrial perspective, including consideration of cost of goods and commercial feasibility for these approaches, this review highlights technology features which would enable industry investments toward novel BBB delivery technologies for biologics. Through continued development and improvement of such technology, new therapeutic options to treat and potentially cure central nervous system diseases could eventually evolve.
Metabolic regulation is largely dependent on mitochondria, which play an important role in energy homeostasis. Imbalance between energy intake and expenditure leads to mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by a reduced ratio of energy production (ATP production) to respiration. Due to the role of mitochondrial factors/events in several apoptotic pathways, the possibility of targeting that organelle in the tumor cell, leading to its elimination is very attractive, although the safety issue is problematic. Berberine, a benzyl-tetra isoquinoline alkaloid extracted from plants of the Berberidaceae family, has been extensively used for many centuries, especially in the traditional Chinese and Native American medicine. Several evidences suggest that berberine possesses several therapeutic uses, including anti-tumoral activity. The present review supplies evidence that berberine is a safe anti-cancer agent, exerting several effects on mitochondria, including inhibition of mitochondrial Complex I and interaction with the adenine nucleotide translocator which can explain several of the described effects on tumor cells.
Insulin resistant individuals manifest multiple disturbances in free fatty acids metabolism and have excessive lipid accumulation in insulin-target tissues. A wide range of evidence suggests that defective muscle mitochondrial metabolism, and subsequent impaired ability to oxidize fatty acids, may be a causative factor in the accumulation of intramuscular lipid and the development of insulin resistance. Such mitochondrial dysfunction includes loss of mitochondria, defects in the mitochondrial OXPHOS system and decreased rate of ATP synthesis. Stimulation of mitochondrial biogenesis appears as a strategy for the clinical management of the metabolic syndrome, by enhancing mitochondrial activity and protecting the cell against the increased flux of reduced substrates to the electron transport chain and thus reducing metabolic inflammation.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antibody encephalitis is a recently described immunotherapy-responsive panencephalitis with characteristic features that include a psychiatric onset and a later movement disorder. This entity was first described as a paraneoplastic phenomenon in young women with ovarian teratomata. However, more recently it has become clear that the majority of patients, particularly children, do not harbor a tumor and that males can also be affected. With the development of the NMDAR antibody assay, now available worldwide, a few patients with classical limbic encephalitis and early psychosis and epilepsy have also been found to harbor these antibodies. Early diagnosis followed by immunotherapies and tumor removal, when relevant, expedite recovery from the condition. Antibody levels correlate with the clinical severity of the disease in individual patients, and the antibodies have been shown to substantially reduce NMDA receptors on hippocampal neurons both in vitro and in vivo, supporting the likely direct pathogenicity of the NMDAR antibodies.
Hereditary axonal motor and sensory neuropathies or Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2) are characterized clinically by distal muscle weakness and atrophy, sensory loss, and foot deformities. Conduction velocities are usually in the normal range or mildly slowed. The majority of CMT2 are autosomal-dominant but autosomal-recessive forms have been described. The number of genes associated with CMT2 have significantly increased in the past decade, with the gene causing CMT2C/SPSMA being the last one discovered. More than 10 genes are now associated with different subtypes of CMT2, which are classified from CMT2A to CMT2N. These genes have distinct functions, but some appear to be involved in common biological pathways, therefore, providing important clues for understanding the pathogenic mechanism of these heterogeneous disorders.

The processes by which cortical areas become specialized for high-level cognitive functions may be revealed by the study of familial developmental disorders such as dyslexia, dyscalculia, prosopagnosia, color agnosia and amusia. These disorders are characterised by the inability to integrate information across multiple areas and the consequent failure to develop representations of the knowledge of some category based on its associated attributes. In contrast, synesthesia may be seen as a hyper-associative condition, possibly due to a failure to properly segregate areas into distinct networks. Here, I consider recent advances in our understanding of the genetic and neurobiological bases of these conditions and the developmental mechanisms underlying the specialization of cortical areas and networks.
The meninges have traditionally been viewed as specialized membranes surrounding and protecting the adult brain from injury. However, there is increasing evidence that the fetal meninges play important roles during brain development. Through the release of diffusible factors, the meninges influence the proliferative and migratory behaviors of neural progenitors and neurons in the forebrain and hindbrain. Meningeal cells also secrete and organize the pial basement membrane (BM), a critical anchor point for the radially oriented fibers of neuroepithelial stem cells. With its emerging role in brain development, the potential that defects in meningeal development may underlie certain congenital brain abnormalities in humans should be considered. In this review, we will discuss what is known about assembly of the fetal meninges and review the role of meningeal-derived proteins in mouse and human brain development.

Although the notion that dopaminergic neurons utilize glutamate as a co-transmitter has long been supported by tantalizing molecular, immunocytochemical and electrophysiological evidence it has only been with the recent addition of optogenetic and other approaches that the existence and functional relevance of this mechanism could be unambiguously demonstrated. Here we discuss the possible mechanisms of action of glutamate released from mesoaccumbens dopaminergic neurons based on recently accumulated evidence. Surprisingly, rather then to confirm a role in conventional fast excitatory transmission, the latest evidence suggests that glutamate released from dopaminergic neurons may primarily act through different unconventional presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms.
We discuss very recent experiments with rodents addressing the idea that long-term memories initially depending on the hippocampus, over a prolonged period, become independent of it. No unambiguous recent evidence exists to substantiate that this occurs. Most experiments find that recent and remote memories are equally affected by hippocampus damage. Nearly all experiments that report spared remote memories suffer from two problems: retrieval could be based upon substantial regions of spared hippocampus and recent memory is tested at intervals that are of the same order of magnitude as cellular consolidation. Accordingly, we point the way beyond systems consolidation theories, both the Standard Model of Consolidation and the Multiple Trace Theory, and propose a simpler multiple storage site hypothesis. On this view, with event reiterations, different memory representations are independently established in multiple networks. Many detailed memories always depend on the hippocampus; the others may be established and maintained independently.
Stress has complex effects on memory function that can vary depending on the type of information that is learned and in relation to inter-individual characteristics. Recent work has also shown that stress can switch performance between memory systems, biasing it toward habit in detriment of spatial or goal-directed strategies. In addition, novel synaptic mechanisms have been implicated in the effects of stress in plasticity and memory. Computational modeling is emerging as a useful approach to integrate and to ascertain neural and cognitive computations underlying different effects of stress in memory. Having provided novel explanations for the inverted-U-shaped relationship between stress and cognitive performance, model-based analysis studies can improve our understanding of diverse effects of stress in cognition and psychopathology.
Extensive evidence implicates the ventral striatum in multiple distinct facets of action selection. Early work established a role in modulating ongoing behavior, as engaged by the energizing and directing influences of motivationally relevant cues and the willingness to expend effort in order to obtain reward. More recently, reinforcement learning models have suggested the notion of ventral striatum primarily as an evaluation step during learning, which serves as a critic to update a separate actor. Recent computational and experimental work may provide a resolution to the differences between these two theories through a careful parsing of behavior and the instrinsic heterogeneity that characterizes this complex structure.
How is hippocampal learning, including place learning, translated into behavior? The hippocampus integrates, along its septotemporal axis, substrates of rapid place learning, including entorhinal-hippocampal connectivity, with functional connectivity to subcortical sites and prefrontal cortex, which play central roles in behavioral-control functions, including sensorimotor, emotional, motivational, attentional, and executive functions. I present recent evidence that such integration, for which the intermediate hippocampus is a key neuroanatomical substrate, enables translation of rapid place learning into adaptive behavior. What are the clinical implications of the hippocampal learning-behavior translation? Focusing on hippocampal overactivity, which has emerged as a central feature of schizophrenia pathophysiology, I highlight how, due to functional connectivity enabling the learning-behavior translation, hippocampal dysfunction may cause not only memory deficits, but also neural-network disruptions underlying psychosis and attentional and executive deficits.


Neuronal hyperexcitability produces enhanced pain transmission in the spinal dorsal horn after spinal cord injury (SCI). Spontaneous and evoked neuronal excitability normally are well controlled by neural circuits. However, SCI produces maladaptive synaptic circuits in the spinal dorsal horn that result in neuronal hyperexcitability. After SCI, activated primary afferent neurons produce enhanced release of glutamate, neuropeptides, adenosine triphosphate, and proinflammatory cytokines, which are known to be major components for pain transmission in the spinal dorsal horn. Enhanced neurochemical events contribute to neuronal hyperexcitability, and neuroanatomical changes also contribute to maladaptive synaptic circuits and neuronal hyperexcitability. These neurochemical and neuroanatomical changes produce enhanced cellular signaling cascades that ensure persistently enhanced pain transmission. This review describes altered neurochemical and neuroanatomical contributions on neuronal hyperexcitability in the spinal dorsal horn, which serve as substrates for central neuropathic pain after SCI.
Chiari type I malformation is found in 1 out of 20 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Isolated tonsillar herniation is of limited utility and should be considered within the clinical context because these patients can be asymptomatic. Cine MRI showing compression of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces in the foramen magnum area is a crucial technique for making treatment decisions. Congenital malformation is thought to be due to a volumetric small posterior fossa. The most common symptom in these patients is cough headache. Posterior fossa reconstruction is mandatory in patients with progressive symptoms/signs, hydrocephalus, or syringomyelia, but not in patients who are asymptomatic or those with stable and tolerable symptoms. Acquired tonsillar descent can be secondary to a variety of disorders conditioning disproportion between the volume of the cranial cavity and that of the intracranial contents, or to CSF hypovolemia, which is the most common cause for acquired herniation. CSF hypovolemia can be spontaneous or secondary to CSF removal. Treatment of acquired tonsillar herniation depends on the responsible etiology.
Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) are a bone marrow-derived population present in adult tissues that possess the important property of dividing when called upon and of differentiating into specialized cells. The evidence that MSCs were able to transdifferentiate into specialized cells of tissues different from bone marrow, in particular into nervous cells, opened up the possibility of using MSCs to substitute damaged neurons, that are normally not replaced but lost, in order to repair the Nervous System. The first neuronal differentiation protocols were based on the use of a mixture of toxic drugs which induced MSCs to rapidly acquire a neuronal-like morphology with the expression of specific neuronal markers. However, many subsequent studies demonstrated that the morphological and molecular modifications of MSCs were probably due to a stress response, rather than to a real differentiation into neuronal cells, thus throwing into question the possible use of MSCs to repair the nervous system. Currently, some papers are suggesting again that it may be possible to induce neuronal differentiation of MSCs by using several differentiation protocols, and by accompanying the morphological evidence of differentiation with functional evidence, thus demonstrating that MSC-derived cells not only seem to be neurons, but that they also function like neurons. In this review, we have attempted to shed light on the capacity of MSCs to genuinely differentiate into nervous cells, and to identify the most reliable protocols for obtaining neurons from MSCs for nervous system repair.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder caused by the progressive degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. The resulting loss of dopamine neurotransmission is responsible for the symptoms of the disease. Available treatments are initially successful in treating PD symptoms; however, their long-term use is associated with complications and they cannot stop the neurodegeneration. Current research aims at developing new therapies to halt/reverse the neurodegenerative process, rather than treating symptoms. Neurotrophic factors are proteins critical for maintenance and protection of neurones in the developing and adult brain. Several neurotrophic factors have been investigated for their protective effects on dopaminergic neurones. Here we review some of the most promising factors and provide an update on their status in clinical trials.
During brain development, neurons and glias are generated from neural stem cells and more limited intermediate neural progenitors (INPs). Numerous studies have revealed the mechanisms of development of neural stem cells. However, the signaling pathways that govern the development of INPs are largely unknown. The cerebellum is suitable for examining this issue because cerebellar cortical inhibitory neurons such as basket and stellate cells are derived from small Pax2(+) interneuronal progenitors. Here, we show that Sox2(-)/Pax2(+) and Sox2(+)/Pax2(-) progenitors, 2 types of interneuronal progenitors of basket and stellate cells, exist in the cerebellar white matter (WM) and that the former arise from the latter during the first postnatal week. Moreover, RBP-J promotes the neurogenesis of stellate and basket cells by converting Sox2(+)/Pax2(-) interneuronal progenitors to more mature Sox2(-)/Pax2(+) interneuronal progenitors. This study shows a novel RBP-J function that promotes INP differentiation.
Melanoblasts are derived from neural crest cells (NCCs) and are the only NCCs that migrate through the dorsolateral pathway. However, how melanoblasts evolved to migrate through a pathway different from other NCCs is still unclear, because little is known about common molecular mechanisms of melanoblast migration that are conserved between species. Endothelin receptor B2 (Ednrb2) is required for avian melanoblasts to enter the dorsolateral pathway. Here, we show that Endothelin-3 (ET3)/Ednrb2 signaling is also required for melanoblast migration in Xenopus laevis, although they migrate through the ventral pathway. In Xenopus, Ednrb2 is expressed by melanoblasts from pre-migration stages and ET3 is expressed around their destinations, suggesting that ET3/Ednrb2 signaling may determine melanophore localization. Furthermore, melanoblast migration is interrupted by aberrant ET3/Ednrb2 signaling in vivo and their invasive ability is enhanced by ET3 in vitro. Our results suggest that ET3/Ednrb2 signaling is required for melanoblast migration in Ednrb2 gene-conserved animals.
During the early blastula period of zebrafish embryos, the outermost blastomeres begin to undergo a significant thinning in the apical/basolateral dimension to form the first distinct cellular domain of the embryo, the enveloping layer (EVL). During this shape transformation, only the EVL-precursor cells generate a coincidental series of highly restricted Ca(2+) transients. To investigate the role of these localized Ca(2+) transients in this shape-change process, embryos were treated with a Ca(2+) chelator (5,5'-difluoro BAPTA AM; DFB), or the Ca(2+) ionophore (A23187), to downregulate and upregulate the transients, respectively, while the shape-change of the forming EVL cells was measured. DFB was shown to significantly slow, and A23187 to significantly facilitate the shape change of the forming EVL cells. In addition, to investigate the possible involvement of the phosphoinositide and Wnt/Ca(2+) signaling pathways in the Ca(2+) transient generation and/or shape-change processes, embryos were treated with antagonists (thapsigargin, 2-APB and U73122) or an agonist (Wnt-5A) of these pathways. Wnt-5A upregulated the EVL-restricted Ca(2+) transients and facilitated the change in shape of the EVL cells, while 2-APB downregulated the Ca(2+) transients and significantly slowed the cell shape-change process. Furthermore, thapsigargin and U73122 also both inhibited the EVL cell shape-change. We hypothesize, therefore, that the highly localized and coincidental Ca(2+) transients play a necessary role in initiating the shape-change of the EVL cells.

The vertebrate retina develops rapidly from a proliferative neuroepithelium into a highly ordered laminated structure, with five distinct neuronal cell types. Like all neurons, these cells need to polarize in appropriate orientations order integrate their neuritic connections efficiently into functional networks. Its relative simplicity, amenability to in vivo imaging and experimental manipulation, as well as the opportunity to study varied cell types within a single tissue, make the retina a powerful model to uncover how neurons polarize in vivo. Here we review the progress that has been made thus far in understanding how the different retinal neurons transform from neuroepithelial cells into mature neurons, and how the orientation of polarization may be specified by a combination of pre-established intrinsic cellular polarity set up within neuroepithelial cells, and extrinsic cues acting upon these differentiating neurons.
Wnt ligands comprise a large family of secreted glycoproteins that control a variety of developmental processes including cell polarization in diverse organisms. Through various receptors present on receiving cells, Wnts initiate intracellular signaling cascades resulting in changes in gene transcription or cytoskeleton reorganization. Recently, several lines of evidence have suggested the role of Wnt signaling in establishing axon-dendrite polarity in developing neurons. In this review, we summarize the recent results related with the role of Wnt signaling in neuronal polarization.
The mammalian retina is a tractable model system for analyzing transcriptional networks that guide neural development. Spalt family zinc-finger transcription factors play a crucial role in photoreceptor specification in Drosophila, but their role in mammalian retinal development has not been investigated. In this study, we show that that the spalt homolog Sall3 is prominently expressed in developing cone photoreceptors and horizontal interneurons of the mouse retina and in a subset of cone bipolar cells. We find that Sall3 is both necessary and sufficient to activate the expression of multiple cone-specific genes, and that Sall3 protein is selectively bound to the promoter regions of these genes. Notably, Sall3 shows more prominent expression in short wavelength-sensitive cones than in medium wavelength-sensitive cones, and that Sall3 selectively activates expression of the short but not the medium wavelength-sensitive cone opsin gene. We further observe that Sall3 regulates the differentiation of horizontal interneurons, which form direct synaptic contacts with cone photoreceptors. Loss of function of Sall3 eliminates expression of the horizontal cell-specific transcription factor Lhx1, resulting in a radial displacement of horizontal cells that partially phenocopies the loss of function of Lhx1. These findings not only demonstrate that Spalt family transcription factors play a conserved role in regulating photoreceptor development in insects and mammals, but also identify Sall3 as a factor that regulates terminal differentiation of both cone photoreceptors and their postsynaptic partners.

High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides non-invasive images of retinal anatomy, physiology, and function with depth-resolved laminar resolution. Eye movement and drift, however, could limit high spatial resolution imaging, and anesthetics that minimize eye movement could significantly attenuate retinal function. The aim of this study was to determine the optimal anesthetic preparations to minimize eye movement and maximize visual-evoked retinal response in rats. Eye movements were examined by imaging of the cornea with a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera under isoflurane, urethane, ketamine/xylazine, and propofol anesthesia at typical dosages in rats. Combination of the paralytic pancuronium bromide with isoflurane or ketamine/xylazine anesthesia was also examined for the eye movement studies. Visual-evoked retinal responses were evaluated using full-field electroretinography (ERG) under isoflurane, ketamine/xylazine, urethane, and ketamine/xylazine + pancuronium anesthesia in rats. The degree of eye movement, measured as displacement per unit time, was the smallest under 1% isoflurane + pancuronium anesthesia. The ketamine/xylazine groups showed larger dark-adapted ERG a- and b-waves than other anesthetics tested. The isoflurane group showed the shortest b-wave implicit times. Photopic ERGs in the ketamine/xylazine groups showed the largest b-waves with the isoflurane group showing slightly shorter implicit times at the higher flash intensities. Oscillatory potentials revealed an early peak in the isoflurane group compared with ketamine/xylazine and urethane groups. Pancuronium did not affect the a- and b-wave, but did increase oscillatory potential amplitudes. Compared with the other anesthetics tested here, ketamine/xylazine + pancuronium was the best combination to minimize eye movement and maximize retinal function. These findings should set the stage for further development and application of high-resolution functional imaging techniques, such as MRI, to study retinal anatomy, physiology, and function in anesthetized rats.
KCNN3, encoding the small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel SK3, harbours a polymorphic CAG repeat in the amino-terminal coding region with yet unproven function. Hypothesizing that KCNN3 genotypes do not influence susceptibility to schizophrenia but modify its phenotype, we explored their contribution to specific schizophrenic symptoms. Using the Gttingen Research Association for Schizophrenia (GRAS) data collection of schizophrenic patients (n = 1074), we performed a phenotype-based genetic association study (PGAS) of KCNN3. We show that long CAG repeats in the schizophrenic sample are specifically associated with better performance in higher cognitive tasks, comprising the capacity to discriminate, select and execute (p &lt; 0.0001). Long repeats reduce SK3 channel function, as we demonstrate by patch-clamping of transfected HEK293 cells. In contrast, modelling the opposite in mice, i.e. KCNN3 overexpression/channel hyperfunction, leads to selective deficits in higher brain functions comparable to those influenced by SK3 conductance in humans. To conclude, KCNN3 genotypes modify cognitive performance, shown here in a large sample of schizophrenic patients. Reduction of SK3 function may constitute a pharmacological target to improve cognition in schizophrenia and other conditions with cognitive impairment.


The evolution of the IGF binding protein (IGFBP) gene family has been difficult to resolve. Both chromosomal and serial duplications have been suggested as mechanisms for the expansion of this gene family. We have identified and annotated IGFBP sequences from a wide selection of vertebrate species as well as Branchiostoma floridae and Ciona intestinalis. By combining detailed sequence analysis with sequence-based phylogenies and chromosome information, we arrive at the following scenario: the ancestral chordate IGFBP gene underwent a local gene duplication, resulting in a gene pair adjacent to a HOX cluster. Subsequently, the gene family expanded in the two basal vertebrate tetraploidization (2R) resulting in the six IGFBP types that are presently found in placental mammals. The teleost fish ancestor underwent a third tetraploidization (3R) that further expanded the IGFBP repertoire. The five sequenced teleost fish genomes retain 9-11 of IGFBP genes. This scenario is supported by the phylogenies of three adjacent gene families in the HOX gene regions, namely the epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR) and the Ikaros and distal-less (DLX) transcription factors. Our sequence comparisons show that several important structural components in the IGFBPs are ancestral vertebrate features that have been maintained in all orthologs, for instance the integrin interaction motif Arg-Gly-Asp in IGFBP-2. In contrast, the Arg-Gly-Asp motif in IGFBP-1 has arisen independently in mammals. The large degree of retention of IGFBP genes after the ancient expansion of the gene family strongly suggests that each gene evolved distinct and important functions early in vertebrate evolution.
Female sexual maturation requires erythroblastosis B (erbB)4 signaling in hypothalamic astrocytes; however, the mechanisms by which erbB4 contributes to this process are incompletely understood. Here we show that SynCAM1, a synaptic adhesion molecule with signaling capabilities, is not only expressed highly in neurons, but also in hypothalamic astrocytes and is functionally associated with erbB4 receptor activity. Whereas SynCAM1 expression is diminished in astrocytes with impaired erbB4 signaling, ligand-dependent activation of astroglial erbB4 receptors results in rapid association of erbB4 with SynCAM1 and activation of SynCAM1 gene transcription. To determine whether astrocytic SynCAM1-dependent intracellular signaling is required for normal female reproductive function, we generated transgenic mice that express in an astrocyte-specific manner a dominant-negative form of SynCAM1 lacking the intracellular domain. The mutant protein was correctly targeted to the cell membrane and was functionally viable as shown by its ability to block intracellular calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase redistribution, a major SynCAM1-mediated event. Dominant-negative-SynCAM1 female mice had a delayed onset of puberty, disrupted estrous cyclicity, and reduced fecundity. These deficits were associated with a reduced capacity of neuregulin-dependent erbB4 receptor activation to elicit prostaglandin E2 release from astrocytes and GnRH release from the hypothalamus. We conclude that one of the mechanisms underlying erbB4 receptor-mediated facilitation of glial-neuronal interactions in the neuroendocrine brain involves SynCAM1-dependent signaling and that this interaction is required for normal female reproductive function.
We previously identified synaptic cell adhesion molecule 1 (SynCAM1) as a component of a genetic network involved in the hypothalamic control of female puberty. Although it is well established that SynCAM1 is a synaptic adhesion molecule, its contribution to hypothalamic function is unknown. Here we show that, in addition to the expected neuronal localization illustrated by its presence in GnRH neurons, SynCAM1 is expressed in hypothalamic astrocytes. Cell adhesion assays indicated that SynCAM is recognized by both GnRH neurons and astrocytes as an adhesive partner and promotes cell-cell adhesiveness via homophilic, extracellular domain-mediated interactions. Alternative splicing of the SynCAM1 primary mRNA transcript yields four mRNAs encoding membrane-spanning SynCAM1 isoforms. Variants 1 and 4 are predicted to be both N and O glycosylated. Hypothalamic astrocytes and GnRH-producing GT1-7 cells express mainly isoform 4 mRNA, and sequential N- and O-deglycosylation of proteins extracted from these cells yields progressively smaller SynCAM1 species, indicating that isoform 4 is the predominant SynCAM1 variant expressed in astrocytes and GT1-7 cells. Neither cell type expresses the products of two other SynCAM genes (SynCAM2 and SynCAM3), suggesting that SynCAM-mediated astrocyte-astrocyte and astrocyte-GnRH neuron adhesiveness is mostly mediated by SynCAM1 homophilic interactions. When erbB4 receptor function is disrupted in astrocytes, via transgenic expression of a dominant-negative erbB4 receptor form, SynCAM1-mediated adhesiveness is severely compromised. Conversely, SynCAM1 adhesive behavior is rapidly, but transiently, enhanced in astrocytes by ligand-dependent activation of erbB4 receptors, suggesting that erbB4-mediated events affecting SynCAM1 function contribute to regulate astrocyte adhesive communication.
Fever and anorexia are induced by immune system challenges. Because these responses are adaptive when short lasting but deleterious when prolonged, an understanding of the mediating neural circuitry is important. Prostaglandins (PGE) are a critical signaling element for these immune responses. Despite the widespread distribution of PGE receptors throughout the brain, research focuses on the hypothalamic preoptic area as the mediating site of PGE action. Paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), parabrachial nucleus (PBN), and nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) neurons also express PGE receptors and are activated during systemic pathogen infection. A role for these neurons in PGE-induced fever, tachycardia, and anorexia is unexplored and is the subject of this report. A range of PGE doses was microinjected into third or fourth ventricles (v), or directly into the dorsal PVH, lateral PBN, and medial NTS, and core and brown adipose tissue temperature, heart rate, locomotor activity, and food intake were measured in awake, behaving rats. PGE delivery to multiple brain sites (third or fourth v, PVH, or PBN) induced a short- latency (&lt; 10 min) fever and tachycardia. By contrast, an anorexic effect was observed only in response to third v and PVH stimulation. NTS PGE stimulation was without effect; locomotor activity was not affected for any of the sites. The data are consistent with a view of PGE-induced effects as mediated by anatomically distributed sites rather than a single center. The data also underscore a potential anatomical dissociation of the neural pathways mediating pyrogenic and anorexic effects of PGE.
We previously reported a high concordance of in vitro micronucleus (MNvit) results obtained by flow cytometry to the known cytogenetic activity often commercially available compounds mentioned as validation compounds in an early draft of the OECD MNvit TG487 [Bryce et al., 2010; Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development(OECD), 2007]. The current study investigated this method in Chinese hamster V79 cells with pharmaceutical compounds of unknown genotoxic potential. Twenty-five compounds from several therapeutic areas such as oncology, neuroscience and immunological research were tested in the flow cytometry assay, and for comparison using the cytokinesis-block microscopy assay. Five of these 25 compounds were considered positive for micronucleus induction by the microscopy assessment. In all cases, the results from the flow cytometry assess ment matched the results of the microscopy assay. Thus, flow cytometry is a viable method for assessing the aneugenic/clastogenic potential of pharmaceutical drug candidates. The flow method offered several advantages over traditional microscopy. For instance, the ratio of micronuclei (MN) to 10,000 nuclei was evaluated in less than 2 min vs.15 min to manually assess 600 binucleate cells. Evaluation by flow cytometry can be automated,freeing resources and eliminating scorer fatigue.The assay may also provide for mechanistic understanding of MN formation based on size and the ratio of nuclei with sub-2N DNA content, allowing for discrimination between aneugenic and clastogenic compounds.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a neuroimaging technique with a potential to elucidate white matter integrity. Recently, it has been used in the field of psychiatry to further understand the pathophysiology of major diseases, including bipolar disorder (BD). This review sought to focus on existing DTI findings on white matter organization in BD.
Dynamic chromatin remodeling is at the heart of most biological processes including gene transcription, DNA replication and repair, cell differentiation and apoptosis. Chromatin remodeling as a result of covalent histone modifications, including histone acetylation, methylation or SUMOylation, play important roles in these processes. Similarly, direct chemical modification of DNA, most notably DNA methylation, also plays a key role in controlling gene expression and basic aspects of cell biology. Memory, one of the most fundamental of all brain functions, is a complex process involving diverse cellular signaling cascades and coordinated regulation of entire networks of genes. Synaptic plasticity, which is defined as activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength between neurons, provides the cellular basis of memory. The role for covalent histone modifications in synaptic plasticity and in learning and memory has been now been firmly established. In contrast, much less had been known concerning DNA methylation in memory formation and storage. Emerging evidence now suggests that DNA methylation plays a central role in these processes, likely by directly influencing the expression of genes involved in synaptic plasticity.



The Common Data Element (CDE) Project was initiated in 2006 by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) to develop standards for performing funded neuroscience-related clinical research. CDEs are intended to standardize aspects of data collection; decrease study start-up time; and provide more complete, comprehensive, and equivalent data across studies within a particular disease area. Therefore, CDEs will simplify data sharing and data aggregation across NINDS-funded clinical research, and where appropriate, facilitate the development of evidenced-based guidelines and recommendations. Epilepsy-specific CDEs were established in nine content areas: (1) Antiepileptic Drugs (AEDs) and Other Antiepileptic Therapies (AETs), (2) Comorbidities, (3) Electrophysiology, (4) Imaging, (5) Neurological Exam, (6) Neuropsychology, (7) Quality of Life, (8) Seizures and Syndromes, and (9) Surgery and Pathology. CDEs were developed as a dynamic resource that will accommodate recommendations based on investigator use, new technologies, and research findings documenting emerging critical disease characteristics. The epilepsy-specific CDE initiative can be viewed as part of the larger international movement toward &quot;harmonization&quot; of clinical disease characterization and outcome assessment designed to promote communication and research efforts in epilepsy. It will also provide valuable guidance for CDE improvement during further development, refinement, and implementation. This article describes the NINDS CDE Initiative, the process used in developing Epilepsy CDEs, and the benefits of CDEs for the clinical investigator and NINDS.
Disulfiram and -hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) are used to treat alcohol dependence and may both increase dopamine brain levels and modulate GABAergic transmission. We describe a patient affected by bipolar disorder (on valproate as mood-stabilizing treatment) and alcohol dependence who developed a disulfiram-induced hypomanic episode and in whom the switch from disulfiram to GHB induced recurrent convulsive seizures, not responsive to treatment with diazepam, and psychosis. Seizures and psychiatric symptoms ceased after GHB discontinuation. We outline the deregulation of the neurotransmitter systems (GABAergic and dopaminergic networks) that are involved in these drug-drug interactions and that might be responsible for both psychosis and generalized tonic-clonic seizures resistant to standard treatments.
We analyzed peri-ictal bed leaving (PBL) symptoms in 105 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). All patients were classified as Engel I at the 2-year follow-up visit. Histopathological examination revealed hippocampal sclerosis (TLE-HS) in 64 patients and other lesions in 38 patients (TLE-other); 3 patients had no lesions. We reviewed 412 seizures. PBL was defined as lateralized leaving of the bed occurring during the seizure or up to 3 minutes after the end of the seizure. PBL was observed in 28 of 105 patients (26.7%), and in 45 of 412 seizures (10.9%). PBL occurred more frequently in patients with TLE-HS than in patients with TLE-other (32.8% vs 17.1%, P=0.058). PBL was ipsilateral to the seizure onset in 71.4% of patients and 71.2% of seizures (P=0.012 and P&lt;0.001). In patients with TLE-HS, PBL was ipsilateral to seizure onset in 76.2% of patients and 81.2% of seizures (P=0.008 and P&lt;0.001). In patients with TLE-other, PBL was ipsilateral to seizure onset in 42.8% of patients and 46.1% of seizures. There were no differences in the incidence and lateralizing value between patients with right-sided and those with left-sided TLE. PBL is a relatively frequent peri-ictal sign in patients with TLE. The side of PBL in patients with TLE-HS lateralizes the seizure onset to the ipsilateral temporal lobe.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can result in the development of posttraumatic epilepsy (PTE). Recently, we reported differential alterations in tonic and phasic GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) currents in hippocampal dentate granule cells 90 days after controlled cortical impact (CCI) (Mtchedlishvili et al., 2010). In the present study, we investigated long-term changes in the protein expression of GABA(A)R 1, 4, 2, and  subunits, NMDA (NR2B) and AMPA (GluR1) receptor subunits, and heat shock proteins (HSP70 and HSP90) in the hippocampus of Sprague-Dawley rats evaluated by Western blotting in controls, CCI-injured animals without PTE (CCI group), and CCI-injured animals with PTE (PTE group). No differences were found among all three groups for 1 and 4 subunits. Significant reduction of 2 protein was observed in the PTE group compared to control. CCI caused a 194% and 127% increase of  protein in the CCI group compared to control (p&lt;0.0001), and PTE (p&lt;0.0001) groups, respectively. NR2B protein was increased in CCI and PTE groups compared to control (p=0.0001, and p=0.011, respectively). GluR1 protein was significantly decreased in CCI and PTE groups compared to control (p=0.003, and p=0.001, respectively), and in the PTE group compared to the CCI group (p=0.036). HSP70 was increased in CCI and PTE groups compared to control (p=0.014, and p=0.005, respectively); no changes were found in HSP90 expression. These results provide for the first time evidence of long-term alterations of GABA(A) and glutamate receptor subunits and a HSP following CCI.

This study aimed to describe patterns of substance use in adolescents initiating mental health treatment and analyse factors associated with a high-risk pattern of substance use differentially by gender. Two hundred and thirty-seven 12- to 17-year-old new patients in an urban public mental health service were prospectively recruited and evaluated using semi-structured interviews and standardized questionnaires to obtain socio-demographic, psychopathological, family, school and substance use data. The most prevalent primary diagnoses among males were attention deficit disorder and conduct disorder, while among females they were eating disorders, affective and conduct disorders. Substance use disorder was diagnosed as follows: cannabis in 10.1% of the sample, alcohol in 3.4% and other drugs in 0.4%. A pattern of substance use with high risk of developing problems (at least regular use of alcohol or occasional use of cannabis or other illegal drugs) was found in 48.9% of the sample. After adjusting for age in the multivariate logistic regression, this pattern of risky use of drugs was found to be associated with Youth Self-Report scales of thought problems, delinquent and aggressive behaviour, in both genders. Altered family structure, having had to repeat a school grade and Youth Self-Report attention problems were only significantly associated with risky drug consumption in females. The high prevalence of risky and problematic substance use in adolescents entering mental health treatment warrants early systematic screening and specific preventive and therapeutic interventions, addressing mental health psychoeducation and motivation to avoid drugs, as well as differential associated risk factors for males and females.
The study investigated the effect of varying pole weights on energy expenditure, upper limb muscle activation and on forces transmitted to the poles during Nordic walking (NW). Twelve women [age = 21 (2) years, body mass = 60.8 (6) kg, height = 1.71 (0.06) m] participated in five 7-min walking tests randomly chosen without poles (W), with normal NW poles (NW) or with added masses of 0.5 kg (NW + 0.5) 1.0 kg (NW + 1.0) or 1.5 kg (NW + 1.5) at a speed of 2 m s(-1). Heart rate (HR), relative oxygen uptake ([Formula: see text]), blood lactate (La) and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were registered along with surface EMG (SEMG) from biceps brachii, triceps brachii, trapecius and deltoideus muscles. Inbuilt force transducers measured reaction forces along the long axes of the poles. NW + 0.5 and NW + 1.5 showed significant increases for [Formula: see text] and RPE compared with W (p &lt; 0.05) but with no respective differences within NW. SEMG revealed higher activation of biceps brachii for all NW tests plus added masses compared to W (p &lt; 0.05). Additionally the activation of biceps brachii was higher for NW + 1.5 compared to NW (p &lt; 0.05). The contribution to overall activation duration of triceps brachii became lower but increased for biceps brachii with heavier poles. The increased energy expenditure during NW can be attributed to intensified muscle activation during forward swing of the poles. Heavier poles have no effect on energy expenditure compared to NW with usual poles but enhance muscular activity. Since there are no benefits concerning physiological and biomechanical parameters we do not recommend the use of heavier NW poles.


Microsaccades are small eye movements that occur during gaze fixation. Although taking place only when we attempt to stabilize gaze position, microsaccades can be understood by relating them to the larger voluntary saccades, which abruptly shift gaze position. Starting from this approach to microsaccade analysis, I show how it can lead to significant insight about the generation and functional role of these eye movements. Like larger saccades, microsaccades are now known to be generated by brainstem structures involved not only in compiling motor commands for eye movements, but also in identifying and selecting salient target locations in the visual environment. In addition, these small eye movements both influence and are influenced by sensory and cognitive processes in various areas of the brain, and in a manner that is similar to the interactions between larger saccades and sensory or cognitive processes. By approaching the study of microsaccades from the perspective of what has been learned about their larger counterparts, we are now in a position to make greater strides in our understanding of the function of the smallest possible saccadic eye movements.
We review here both the evidence that the functional visuomotor organization of the optic tectum is conserved in the primate superior colliculus (SC) and the evidence for the linking proposition that SC discriminating activity instantiates saccade target selection. We also present new data in response to questions that arose from recent SC visual search studies. First, we observed that SC discriminating activity predicts saccade initiation when monkeys perform an unconstrained search for a target defined by either a single visual feature or a conjunction of two features. Quantitative differences between the results in these two search tasks suggest, however, that SC discriminating activity does not only reflect saccade programming. This finding concurs with visual search studies conducted in posterior parietal cortex and the idea that, during natural active vision, visual attention is shifted concomitantly with saccade programming. Second, the analysis of a large neuronal sample recorded during feature search revealed that visual neurons in the superficial layers do possess discriminating activity. In addition, the hypotheses that there are distinct types of SC neurons in the deeper layers and that they are differently involved in saccade target selection were not substantiated. Third, we found that the discriminating quality of single-neuron activity substantially surpasses the ability of the monkeys to discriminate the target from distracters, raising the possibility that saccade target selection is a noisy process. We discuss these new findings in light of the visual search literature and the view that the SC is a visual salience map for orienting eye movements.
We review a new computational model developed to understand how evidence about stimulus salience in visual search is translated into a saccade command. The model uses the activity of visually responsive neurons in the frontal eye field as evidence for stimulus salience that is accumulated in a network of stochastic accumulators to produce accurate and timely saccades. We discovered that only when the input to the accumulation process was gated could the model account for the variability in search performance and predict the dynamics of movement neuron discharge rates. This union of cognitive modeling and neurophysiology indicates how the visual-motor transformation can occur, and provides a concrete mapping between neuron function and specific cognitive processes.
Spatial attention bears a remarkable resemblance to saccadic eye movements from both a behavioural and a neurophysiological point of view. In this review, we examine the contributions of two cortical areas, namely the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) and frontal eye field (FEF), to saccades and attention and discuss the possible interactions between these two areas. Based on the results of electrophysiological studies and on inactivation studies performed in the macaque monkey, we propose that LIP is mainly involved in salience representation and an attentional selection mechanism that underlies saccade guidance, at least when two objects or locations are in competition in the visual environment. In contrast, we suggest that FEF is involved in coding and triggering saccadic eye movements, as well as in coding the location of attention or the attentional shifts. However, these two functions subserved by the FEF are dissociable at a neuronal level. Saccade planning and attentional selection are intimately coupled from a behavioural point of view but correspond to distinct functional operations.
Measurement of the stochastic distribution of reaction time or latency has become a popular technique that can potentially provide precise, quantitative information about the underlying neural decision mechanisms. However, this approach typically requires data from large numbers of individual trials, in order to enable reliable distinctions to be made between different models of decision. When data are not plentiful, an approximation to full distributional information can be provided by using a small number of quantiles instead of full distributions - often, just five are used. Although this can often be adequate when the proposed underlying model is a relatively simple one, we show here that, with more complex tasks, and correspondingly extended models, this kind of approximation can often be extremely misleading, and may hide important features of the underlying mechanisms that only full distributional analysis can reveal.

Recent reports have indicated that patients with schizophrenia have a profound hypo-functionality of glutamatergic signaling pathways. Positive allosteric modulation of mGlu(5) receptor has been postulated to augment NMDA function and thereby alleviate the glutamatergic hypo-function observed in schizophrenic patients. Here we report the in vitro and in vivo characterization of CPPZ (1-(4-(2-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)-2-(pyridin-4-ylmethoxy)ethanone), a structurally novel positive allosteric modulator selective for mGlu(5) receptor. In HEK293 cells stably over-expressing human mGlu(5) receptor, CPPZ potentiates the intracellular calcium response elicited by a suboptimal concentration of the endogenous agonist glutamate. CPPZ does not have any intrinsic agonist activity and behaves functionally as a positive allosteric modulator. This is further supported by binding data, which demonstrate that CPPZ is able to displace the negative allosteric modulator MPEP but does not compete with the orthosteric ligand quisqualic acid. Instead, CPPZ enhances the binding of the orthosteric ligand. In native preparations, CPPZ potentiates calcium flux in rat cortical neurons stimulated with the group I agonist dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). In addition, CPPZ modulates long-term potentiation in rat hippocampal slices, a process known to be NMDA dependent. In vivo, CPPZ reverses hyper locomotion triggered by the NMDA open channel blocker MK801 in CD1 mice. CPPZ was also able to reduce rat conditioned avoidance responding to electric shock. Both in vitro and in vivo data demonstrate that this novel compound acts as an mGlu(5) receptor positive allosteric modulator, which modulates NMDA dependent responses and suggests that the enhancement of mGlu(5) receptor activity may prove useful in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Neurokinin-3 receptors (NK(3)-R) are localized in brain regions which have been implicated in processes governing learning and memory as well as emotionality. The effects of acute subcutaneous (s.c.) senktide (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg), a NK(3)-R agonist, were tested in aged (23-25 month old) Wistar rats: (a) in an episodic-like memory test, using an object discrimination task (this is the first study to test for deficits in episodic-like memory in aged rats, since appropriate tests have only recently became available); (b) on parameters of anxiety in an open field test, (c) on indices of depression in the forced swimming test and (d) on the activity of cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, using in vivo microdialysis and HPLC. Neither the saline-, nor senktide-treated aged animals, exhibited episodic-like memory. However, the senktide-, but not the vehicle-treated group, exhibited object memory for spatial displacement, a component of episodic memory. Senktide injection also had anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects. Furthermore, the active doses of senktide on behavior increased ACh levels in the frontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus, suggesting a relationship between its cholinergic and behavioral actions. The results indicate cholinergic modulation by the NK(3)-R in conjunction with a role in the processing of memory and emotional responses in the aged rat.
Humans, in particular, and to a lesser extent also other species of animals, possess the impressive capability of smoothly coordinating their actions with those of others. The great amount of work done in recent years in neuroscience has provided new insights into the processes involved in joint action, intention understanding, and task sharing. In particular, the discovery of mirror neurons, which fire both when animals execute actions and when they observe the same actions done by other individuals, has shed light on the intimate relationship between perception and action elucidating the direct contribution of motor knowledge to action understanding. Up to date, however, a detailed description of the neural processes involved in these phenomena is still mostly lacking. Building upon data from single neuron recordings in monkeys observing the actions of a demonstrator and then executing the same or a complementary action, this paper describes the functioning of a biologically constraint neural network model of the motor and mirror systems during joint action. In this model, motor sequences are encoded as independent neuronal chains that represent concatenations of elementary motor acts leading to a specific goal. Action execution and recognition are achieved through the propagation of activity within specific chains. Due to the dual property of mirror neurons, the same architecture is capable of smoothly integrating and switching between observed and self-generated action sequences, thus allowing to evaluate multiple hypotheses simultaneously, understand actions done by others, and to respond in an appropriate way.
Intentional binding is the perceived shortening of the time between a voluntary action and its consequent effect and has been suggested as an implicit measure of agency. This shortening has been linked to processes underlying action preparation and is also affected by post-movement feedback. Intentional binding has been demonstrated in joint action tasks involving two humans, but it is unknown whether it occurs for tasks involving a human working alongside a non-human partner. This experiment investigated the influence of high-level feedback on the experience of agency and whether binding occurs in human-computer joint action settings. Participants were involved in two versions an action task involving another 'agent'. In one version, two participants (a genuine participant and a confederate) sat side by side, separated by a curtain that prevented vision of the other person. In baseline conditions, both participants were instructed to make a self-paced action and judge the time of the action by reporting the position of a rotating clock-hand on a computer screen. In other baseline conditions, participants judged the time of an auditory tone. In operant conditions, participants made actions and the genuine participant's action was followed 200ms later by a tone on every trial. To examine the effect of post-movement information on binding and explicit agency judgments, a colour cue was presented on each trial informing participants about which person's action caused the tone. In another version of the task, participants were paired with a computer instead of a human co-actor. Post-movement information affected the genuine participant's explicit agency judgments but had no effect on intentional binding, which always occurred. In the human-computer version, participants never showed binding, even when they explicitly judged that their action had caused the tone. We suggest that human-human partnerships result in the formation of a new 'we' agentic identity, but that human-computer partnerships lead to inhibition of the processes that mediate the pre-reflective sense of agency.
We have recently shown that subjects can appropriately modulate their rapid motor responses (traditionally termed reflexes) to move their hand to a spatial target when the target is displayed ~2s before a mechanical perturbation (Pruszynski et al. in J Neurophysiol 100:224-238, 2008). The goal of this study was to investigate how quickly visual information can be used to modulate rapid motor responses to an impending mechanical perturbation. Following a 2s to 10ms target preview delay (PD), a perturbation either displaced the subject's hand into or out of the previewed target. We also included a condition, where the target appeared after perturbation onset (target PD=+90ms). In all cases, subjects were instructed to react as quickly as possible to the perturbation by reaching into the displayed target. Our results indicate that subjects began to incorporate visual information into their rapid motor responses with PDs as small as 70ms. Interestingly, subjects reacted faster when the target was presented ~150ms before the perturbation than when they had 2s to prepare a response. Using receiver operative characteristic (ROC) analysis, we examined modulation of muscle activity as a function of preview delay in three predefined epochs. No modulation was found in the short-latency epoch (R1; 20-45ms). In contrast, both the long-latency (45-105ms) and voluntary (120-180ms) epochs were modulated at essentially the same time, 140ms from visual presentation of the target to the beginning of each respective epoch.
Previous studies have demonstrated a bidirectional relationship between social attitudes and imitation in adults: pro-social attitudes promote imitation, and imitation further increases positive social attitudes. Social attitudes and the social brain are developing throughout the adolescent years. Thus, the aim of this study was to test whether pro-social attitudes promote imitation in an Adolescent Group to the same extent as in an Adult Group. Participants were primed with pro-social or non-social words in a Scrambled Sentence Priming task. They then completed an Imitation task wherein participants were required to perform a lift action with either the index or middle finger, whilst observing either a compatible action (e.g. index finger response and observed index finger lift) or an incompatible action (e.g. index finger response and observed middle finger lift). In an Effector Priming control condition, observed fingers remained stationary but a semi-transparent green mask was added to either the compatible or incompatible finger. The magnitude of the Imitation Effect and Effector Priming Effect was calculated by subtracting reaction times on compatible trials from those on incompatible trials. In the Adult Group, social priming specifically modulated the Imitation Effect: pro-social priming produced a larger Imitation Effect but did not modulate the Effector Priming Effect. In adolescents, however, no effect of social priming was seen on either the Imitation or Effector Priming measures. We consider possible explanations for these results including the immature development of social brain regions and reduced experience of the relationship between social attitudes and imitation in adolescence.
Recent interest in the development of medications for treatment of cannabis-use disorders indicates the need for laboratory models to evaluate potential compounds prior to undertaking clinical trials. To investigate whether a cue-reactivity paradigm could induce marijuana craving in cannabis-dependent adults, 16 (eight female) cannabis-dependent and 16 (eight female) cannabis-nave participants were exposed to neutral and marijuana-related cues, and subsequent changes in mood, self-reported craving, and physiologic function were assessed. Significant Group X cue interactions were found on all three VAS craving indices as well as on the Compulsivity scale of the Marijuana Craving Questionnaire-Brief Form (MCQ-BF). Cannabis-dependent individuals responded to marijuana-related cues with significantly increased reports of marijuana craving compared to neutral cue exposure, although there were no cue-induced changes in any of the physiological measures. There were no significant gender differences on any of the measures. These results indicate that marijuana craving can be induced and assessed in cannabis-dependent, healthy adults within a laboratory setting, and support the need for further research of the cue reactivity paradigm in the development of medications to treat cannabis-use disorders.
Angiocidin, a tumor-associated peptide, has been previously shown to inhibit tumor progression by blocking angiogenesis. We now show that angiocidin has a direct inhibitory effect on tumor cell proliferation. MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells were inhibited from proliferating in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and angiocidin. Angiocidin transfected breast cancer cells also displayed growth inhibition in vitro and failed to develop significant tumors in mice as compared to vector controls. The anti-proliferative effect of angiocidin was reversed by treating the cells with the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor 4557W, a potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Consistent with these results, we found that treatment of breast cancer cells with angiocidin induced a 2.3 fold increase in EGFR tyrosine 845 phosphorylation while no change in phosphorylation was observed in the remaining 16 phosphorylation sites of EGFR and those of its family members as measured by a human EGFR phosphorylation array. Treatment of breast cancer cells with angiocidin also resulted in the activation of nuclear factor B (Nf-B) and the de novo up-regulation of many down-stream genes transcribed by Nf-B, including cytokines, inflammatory mediators and the cell cycle inhibitor p21(waf1). Therefore, angiocidin is a peptide that not only inhibits tumor angiogenesis but also directly induces inhibition of tumor growth progression through the activation of EGFR and down-stream genes transcribed by Nf-B.
In the current investigation, the status of the septo-hippocampal cholinergic pathway and hippocampal mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling was examined in male Wistar rats with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, which showed cognitive deficits based on assessment on a version of the Morris water maze. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion was induced by bilateral common artery occlusion and maintained for 12 weeks until behavioral testing. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion was shown to induce memory impairments and microglial activation in regions of white matter, including the fimbria of hippocampus. Choline acetyltransferase expression of the basal forebrain and expression of hippocampal MAPKs was decreased in rats with BCCAo compared to control rats. The results of this study suggest that cognitive decline induced by chronic cerebral hypoperfusion could be related to dysfunction of the basal forebrain cholinergic system and reduction of hippocampal MAPK activities.
The major defining pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are the accumulations of A in senile plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau in neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads. Recent studies indicate that rather than these insoluble lesions, the soluble A oligomers and hyperphosphorylated tau are the toxic agents of AD pathology. Such pathological protein species are accompanied by cytoskeletal changes, mitochondrial dysfunction, Ca(2+) dysregulation, and oxidative stress. In this review, we discuss how the binding of A to various integrins, defects in downstream focal adhesion signaling, and activation of cofilin can impact mitochondrial dysfunction, cytoskeletal changes, and tau pathology induced by A oligomers. Such pathological consequences can also feedback to further activate cofilin to promote cofilin pathology. We also suggest that the mechanism of A generation by the endocytosis of APP is mechanistically linked with perturbations in integrin-based focal adhesion signaling, as APP, LRP, and -integrins are physically associated with each other.
Macrophage-like cells densely accumulate in stab wound-induced brain lesions in rats. Many of these cells express the macrophage marker Iba1 and the oligodendrocyte progenitor cell marker NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2), and have been termed BINCs (brain Iba1(+)/NG2(+) cells). Results from our previous study showed that BINCs elicit neuroprotective action, and agents inducing BINC activation or proliferation are expected to ameliorate traumatic brain injuries (TBIs). In the present study, TBI was established by inserting a needle into the cerebrum and moving the needle in a longitudinal, fan-like movement. Isolated BINCs from these stab lesions expressed mRNAs encoding receptors for interleukin-3 (IL-3) and granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). When this mixture of cytokines was added to the cultured BINCs, expression of mRNAs encoding insulin-like growth factor-1, hepatocyte growth factor, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen increased. The cytokine mixture induced enhanced wound healing in BINCs-brain cell co-cultures in vitro. Stab wounds in the rats resulted in significant brain tissue loss at 2 months post-lesion. However, tissue loss was reduced by 40% when the combination of IL-3 and GM-CSF was subcutaneously injected 7 times (once per day) beginning at 2 or 3 days post-lesion (dpl). BINCs are highly proliferative and an intraperitoneal injection of 5-fluorouracil (5FU) at 2 dpl eliminated the BINCs, resulting in death of the rats. The cytokine mixture injection significantly reduced mortality of the 5FU-treated rats. These results suggest that the combination of IL-3 and GM-CSF serves as a promising agent to ameliorate TBI via action on BINCs.
Adaptive responses in glutamate and opioid receptor systems in limbic circuits are emerging as a critical component of the neural plasticity induced by chronic use of abused substances. The present commentary reviews findings from neuroanatomical studies, with superior spatial resolution, that support a cellular basis for prominent interactions of glutamate and opioid receptor systems in preclinical models of drug addiction. The review begins by highlighting the advantages of high-resolution electron microscopic immunohistochemistry for unraveling receptor interactions at the synapse. With an emphasis on a recent publication describing the anatomical relationship between the -opioid receptor (MOR) and the AMPA-GluR2 subunit (Beckerman, M. A., and Glass, M. J., 2011. Ultrastructural relationship between the AMPA-GluR2 receptor subunit and the mu-opioid receptor in the mouse central nucleus of the amygdala. Exp Neurol), we review the anatomical evidence for opioid-induced neural plasticity of glutamate receptors in selected brain circuits that are key integrative substrates in the brain's motivational system. The findings stress the importance of glutamate-opioid interactions as important neural mediators of adaptations to chronic use of abused drugs, particularly within the amygdaloid complex.
Visualization of neuroinflammation is still a major task in neuroscience and neurology since inflammatory processes play a central pathophysiological role in many disorders of the nervous system but are not yet covered by conventional imaging techniques. Recently, (19)F magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was introduced as a new cellular imaging technology. In the present study, we established (19)F high field MRI for cell tracking in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) of rats using dedicated MR coils. To mimic focal neuroinflammation, lysolecithin was locally injected into the left sciatic nerve inducing demyelination followed by severe infiltration of monocytes/macrophages from the circulation. Systemic administration of perfluorocarbons (PFC) led to a fluorine signal along the proximal stretch of the affected sciatic nerves in in vivo(19)F MRI which was not seen on the right healthy side. The preferential in vivo uptake of PFC by circulating mononuclear cells was confirmed by density gradient centrifugation of the blood. Removal of nerves with consecutive ex vivo(19)F MRI and additional (19)F spectroscopy for quantification corroborated the localization of the (19)F marker within the injured nerves (1.0710(18)1.0010(18) mean detectable fluorine spins) while contralateral naive nerves did not exhibit any detectable fluorine signal. Histological assessment confirmed the presence of numerous ED1-positive macrophages within the nerve lesions. Control experiments showed that intraneural application of saline led to an inflammatory reaction restricted to the perineurium which could also be detected by (19)F MRI. In conclusion, we show that (19)F MRI is a promising new technology to visualize hematogenous macrophage responses in the nervous system.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been previously shown to support neuron survival and direct neurite outgrowth in vitro, and to enhance axonal regeneration in vivo. However, a systematic analysis of NGF dose and dose duration on behavioral recovery following peripheral nerve injury in rodents has not been previously investigated. Here, we show that NGF promotes a bell shaped dose-response, with an optimal threshold effect occurring at 800 pg/l. High dose NGF inhibited regeneration. However, this effect could be reversed through functional blockade of p75 receptors, thus implicating these receptors as mediators of the inhibitory response. Longer term evaluation showed that animals administered NGF at 80 ng/day for 3 weeks had greater sensorimotor recovery compared to all other treatment groups. These animals made significantly fewer errors during skilled locomotion, and displayed both increased vertical and fore-aft ground reaction forces during flat surface locomotion. Furthermore, terminal electrophysiological and myological assessments (EMG, wet gastrocnemius muscle weights) corroborated the behavioral data. Overall, these data support the hypothesis that both appropriate dose and duration of NGF are important determinants of behavioral recovery following nerve injury in the rat.
Gestational alcohol exposure leads to a spectrum of neurological symptoms which range from severe mental retardation caused by high dose exposure, to subtle cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms caused by low-to-moderate doses. We and other investigators have demonstrated that exposure to moderate levels of alcohol throughout gestation leads to impaired neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, although the mechanisms by which this occurs are not known. To begin to distinguish cell-intrinsic from microenvironmental contributions to impaired adult neurogenesis, we isolated neural stem progenitor cells (NSPCs) from the adult SVZ of mice exposed to moderate levels of alcohol throughout gestation. We found that NSPCs isolated from fetal alcohol exposed (FAE) mice displayed reduced neurosphere formation in culture, as assessed by a serial passage neurosphere assay, and reduced neuronal differentiation upon growth factor withdrawal. These studies suggest that gestational alcohol exposure leads to long-lasting NSPC-intrinsic dysregulation, which may underlie in vivo neurogenic deficits.
Stem cell vitality is critical for the growth of the developing brain. Growth factors can define the survival of neural stem cells (NSCs) and ethanol can affect growth factor-mediated activities. The present study tested two hypotheses: (a) ethanol causes the apoptotic death of NSCs and (b) this effect is influenced by the ambient growth factor. Monolayer cultures of non-immortalized NS-5 cells were exposed to fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 2 or transforming growth factor (TGF) 1 in the absence or presence of ethanol for 48 h. Ethanol killed NSCs as measured by increases in the numbers of ethidium bromide+ and annexin V+ cells and decreases in the number of calcein AM+ (viable) cells. These toxic effects were promoted by TGF1. A quantitative polymerase chain reaction array of apoptosis-related mRNAs revealed an ethanol-induced increase (2-fold change; p&lt;0.05) in transcripts involved in Fas ligand (FasL) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling. These effects, particularly the FasL pathway, were potentiated by TGF1. Immunocytochemical analyses of NS-5 cells showed that transcriptional alterations translated into consistent up-regulation of protein expression. Experiments with the neocortical proliferative zones harvested from fetal mice exposed to ethanol showed that ethanol activated similar molecular systems in vivo. Thus, ethanol induces NSC death through two distinct molecular mechanisms, one is initiated by TGF1 (FasL) and another (through TNF) which is TGF1-independent.
Ischemic stroke induces migration of newly formed neuroblasts, generated by neural stem cells in the adult rat subventricular zone (SVZ), towards the injured striatum where they differentiate into mature neurons. Stroke also leads to accumulation of microglia in the SVZ but their role for neurogenesis is unclear. Here we developed a method for selective depletion of the macrophage antigen complex-1 (Mac-1)-expressing microglia population in the SVZ by intraventricular injection of the immunotoxin Mac-1-saporin in rats. We found that the vast majority of Mac-1+ cells were Iba-1+ microglia. The Mac-1+ population was heterogeneous and included both a small proliferative pool of cells, which was not affected by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and a larger subpopulation that changed morphologically into a semi-activated state in response to the insult. This subpopulation did not increase its expression of the phagocytic marker ED1 but exhibited high levels of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2 (TREM-2), associated with alternative microglia activation. A minor portion of the SVZ Mac-1+ cells originated from the blood early after stroke, but this macrophage population became much more substantial at later stages. Almost 80% reduction of Mac-1-expressing microglia, caused by Mac-1 saporin delivered just before and at 1 week after MCAO, did not alter the numbers of newly formed neuroblasts in the striatum or their migratory distance. These findings indicate that the Mac-1-expressing microglia in the SVZ do not play a major role either for the number of neuroblasts which exit the SVZ or their migration in the striatum early following stroke.
Increasing evidence suggests that abnormal oscillatory activity in basal ganglia and cortex plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. Recordings of local field potentials from subthalamic nucleus of patients undergoing deep brain stimulation have focused on oscillations occurring at frequencies below 100 Hz in the alpha, beta and gamma range and suggested that, in particular, an increase of beta band oscillations underlies slowing of movement in Parkinson's disease. Recent findings showing that the amplitude of high frequency oscillations (&gt;200 Hz) couples with the phase of beta activity have raised the important question about the role of subthalamic high frequency oscillations in Parkinson's disease. To investigate functional characteristics and clinical relevance of high frequency oscillations, we recorded local field potentials from 18 subthalamic nuclei of 9 akinetic-rigid Parkinsonian patients with implanted deep brain stimulation electrodes and still externalised leads before and after intake of levodopa. We identified two distinct bands of high frequency oscillations, one centred around 250 Hz and another one around 350 Hz that show characteristic levodopa dependent amplitude and coupling behaviours. Administration of levodopa changed the power ratio between the two high frequency bands towards the component centred around 350 Hz in all 18 nuclei under study (p&lt;10(-4)). Moreover, this power ratio correlated significantly with the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale hemibody akinesia/rigidity subscore (r=0.3618, p=0.015), but interestingly not with beta peak power (p=0.1) suggesting that levodopa induced changes in high frequency and beta oscillations are at least potentially independent of each other. Accordingly, a combined parameter composed of power ratio of high frequency oscillations and beta peak power significantly increased the correlation with the motor state (r=0.45, p=0.004). These results indicate that a shift from slower to faster frequencies of the spectrum greater than 200 Hz represents a prokinetic neurophysiological marker underlying levodopa induced motor improvement in Parkinson's disease.
Serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)R) agonists reduce both L-DOPA- and D1 receptor (D1R) agonist-mediated dyskinesia, but their anti-dyskinetic mechanism of action is not fully understood. Given that 5-HT(1A)R stimulation reduces glutamatergic neurotransmission in the dopamine-depleted striatum, 5-HT(1A)R agonists may diminish dyskinesia in part through modulation of pro-dyskinetic striatal glutamate levels. To test this, rats with unilateral medial forebrain bundle dopamine or sham lesions were primed with L-DOPA (12 mg/kg+benserazide, 15 mg/kg, sc) or the D1R agonist SKF81297 (0.8 mg/kg, sc) until abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) stabilized. On subsequent test days, rats were treated with vehicle or the 5-HT(1A)R agonist 8-OH-DPAT (1.0 mg/kg, sc), followed by L-DOPA or SKF81297, or intrastriatal 8-OH-DPAT (7.5 or 15 mM), followed by L-DOPA. In some cases, the 5-HT(1A)R antagonist WAY100635 was employed to determine receptor-specific effects. In vivo microdialysis was used to collect striatal samples for analysis of extracellular glutamate levels during AIMs assessment. Systemic and striatal 8-OH-DPAT attenuated L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and striatal glutamate efflux while WAY100635 reversed 8-OH-DPAT's effects. Interestingly, systemic 8-OH-DPAT diminished D1R-mediated AIMs without affecting glutamate. These findings indicate a novel anti-dyskinetic mechanism of action for 5-HT(1A)R agonists with implications for the improved treatment of Parkinson's disease.
No study so far has attempted to map the 3D topography of brain hypoxia in the individual rat in vivo following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). In a previous microPET study, we reported that (18)F-fluoromisonidazole ((18)F-MISO) trapping in the brain after MCAo was specific for the hypoxic viable tissue. Here, we used (18)F-MISO microPET to map the 3D topography of brain hypoxia in the acute stage of permanent distal MCAo in individual spontaneously hypertensive rats. Normal rats were also studied. (18)F-MISO was intravenously injected approximately 1 h after clip placement and PET data were acquired for 2 hours. Animals were sacrificed and the brains harvested 48 h later for infarct mapping using standard histopathology. As expected, continuous (18)F-MISO trapping was found over the affected relative to unaffected and control MCA cortex. Using single-subject voxel-based statistical mapping, tracer accumulation 90-120 min after injection was consistently significantly higher in the anterior MCA cortex (proximal relative to clip site) and gradually decreased towards posterior areas, a pattern consistent with the classic penumbra concept. The data also suggested that (i) a portion of the significant (18)F-MISO trapping area may sit outside the contours of the final infarct despite the permanent MCAo, suggesting that (18)F-MISO may be a marker not only of severe (penumbral) but also of milder (oligemic) hypoxia, and (ii) small portions of the final infarct may not exhibit early tracer trapping, suggesting that by the time the tracer was administered this tissue had already progressed to irreversible damage. This study shows the feasibility of single-subject mapping of brain hypoxia following MCAo in the rat, which has potential applications in pathophysiological investigations.
Stem cell-based cell replacement therapies aiming at restoring injured or diseased brain function ultimately rely on the capability of transplanted cells to promote functional recovery. The mechanisms by which stem cell-based therapies for neurological conditions can lead to functional recovery are uncertain, but structural and functional repair appears to depend on integration of transplanted cell-derived neurons into neuronal circuitries. The nature by which stem/progenitor cell-derived neurons synaptically integrate into neuronal circuitries is largely unexplored. Here we show that transplanted GFP-labeled neuronal progenitor cells into the rat hippocampus exhibit mature neuronal morphology following 4-10 weeks. GFP-positive cells were preferentially integrated into the principal cell layers of hippocampus, particularly CA3. Patch-clamp recordings from GFP-expressing cells revealed that they generated fast action potentials, and their intrinsic membrane properties were overall similar to endogenous host neurons recorded in same areas. As judged by occurrence of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), transplanted GFP-positive cells were synaptically integrated into the host circuitry. Comparable to host neurons, both paired-pulse depression and facilitation of afferent fiber stimulation-evoked EPSCs were observed in GFP-positive cells. Upon high-frequency stimulation, GFP-positive cells displayed post-tetanic potentiation of EPSCs, in some cases followed by long-term potentiation (LTP) lasting for more than 30 min. Our data show for the first time that transplanted neuronal progenitor cells can become functional neurons and their afferent synapses are capable of expressing activity-dependent short and long-term plasticity. These synaptic properties may facilitate host-to-graft interactions and regulate activity of the grafted cells promoting functional recovery of the diseased brain.
Rat strains selectively bred to be seizure-prone (Fast) versus seizure-resistant (Slow) show differing levels of anxiety, with Slow rats displaying relatively enhanced anxiety-like behaviors to aversive stimuli. Ample data has suggested that highly anxious rodents exhibit reduced avidity for sucrose and greater startle responses than rodents with relatively low anxiety levels. Thus, it was hypothesized that the Slow rats would have lower appetitive (sucrose consumption) and greater defensive (startle response) behaviors than Fast rats. Results confirmed that Slow rats consumed significantly less sucrose and exhibited greater acoustic startle responses than Fast rats. Startle response magnitude was not associated with water consumption, food consumption or body weight but was negatively correlated with sucrose consumption. These observations attest to the link between sucrose avidity and startle reactivity and further reveal that genetic selection for amygdala excitability lead to strain differences in appetitive and defensive behaviors. Thus, Fast and Slow rats may be two unique strains with which to further elucidate the genetic and neurobiological mechanisms underlying appetitive and defensive behaviors and their relation to anxiety and seizure sensitivity.
Reactive astrogliosis impedes axonal regeneration after injuries to the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). Here we report that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), combined with transplanted Schwann cells (SCs), effectively reversed the inhibitory properties of astrocytes at graft-host interfaces allowing robust axonal regeneration, concomitant with vigorous migration of host astrocytes into SC-seeded semi-permeable guidance channels implanted into a right-sided spinal cord hemisection at the 10th thoracic (T10) level. Within the graft, migrated host astrocytes were in close association with regenerated axons. Astrocyte processes extended parallel to the axons, implying that the migrated astrocytes were not inhibitory and might have promoted directional growth of regenerated axons. In vitro, GDNF induced migration of SCs and astrocytes toward each other in an astrocyte-SC confrontation assay. GDNF also enhanced migration of astrocytes on a SC monolayer in an inverted coverslip migration assay, suggesting that this effect is mediated by direct cell-cell contact between the two cell types. Morphologically, GDNF administration reduced astrocyte hypertrophy and induced elongated process extension of these cells, similar to what was observed in vivo. Notably, GDNF treatment significantly reduced production of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), two hallmarks of astrogliosis, in both the in vivo and in vitro models. Thus, our study demonstrates a novel role of GDNF in modifying spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced astrogliosis resulting in robust axonal regeneration in adult rats.
INTRODUCTION: The bar for developing new treatments for CNS disease is getting progressively higher and fewer novel mechanisms are being discovered, validated and developed. The high costs of drug discovery necessitate early decisions to ensure the best molecules and hypotheses are tested in expensive late stage clinical trials. The discovery of brain imaging biomarkers that can bridge preclinical to clinical CNS drug discovery and provide a 'language of translation' affords the opportunity to improve the objectivity of decision-making. AREAS COVERED: This review discusses the benefits, challenges and potential issues of using a science based biomarker strategy to change the paradigm of CNS drug development and increase success rates in the discovery of new medicines. The authors have summarized PubMed and Google Scholar based publication searches to identify recent advances in functional, structural and chemical brain imaging and have discussed how these techniques may be useful in defining CNS disease state and drug effects during drug development. EXPERT OPINION: The use of novel brain imaging biomarkers holds the bold promise of making neuroscience drug discovery smarter by increasing the objectivity of decision making thereby improving the probability of success of identifying useful drugs to treat CNS diseases. Functional imaging holds the promise to: (1) define pharmacodynamic markers as an index of target engagement (2) improve translational medicine paradigms to predict efficacy; (3) evaluate CNS efficacy and safety based on brain activation; (4) determine brain activity drug dose-response relationships and (5) provide an objective evaluation of symptom response and disease modification.

The advantages of MRI in the investigation of liver disease are well documented. Recent developments, including fast scanning technique and new MRI contrast agents, enable improved detection and characterization of focal liver lesions. Therefore, a definitive diagnosis can be made avoiding invasive procedures, such as liver biopsy. In this article, a special emphasis is placed on the clinical use of combined perfusional and hepatocyte-selective MRI contrast agents, which allow us to obtain morphologic and vascular information, owing to the dynamic study, as well as functional information, owing to the hepatocyte-selective phase of enhancement. Different clinical scenarios are considered in order to highlight the proper use of the hepatocyte phase to noninvasively characterize and detect different focal liver lesions.
Chronic constipation (CC) and irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) are two functional gastrointestinal disorders that are associated with constipation. CC and IBS-C affect approximately 20% of the general population including the elderly, impairing quality of life. Patients not responding to over-the-counter treatments require effective and safe long-term therapies. Some treatments introduced in the last decade have been associated with side effects that led to withdrawal from the US market (e.g., tegaserod) or intolerance to treatment (e.g., nausea in patients treated with lubiprostone). Linaclotide is a novel drug, with a unique mechanism of action, low bioavailability and local action in the intestinal epithelial cells. It is currently being developed for patients with CC and IBS-C. From animal studies to human pharmacodynamic Phase Ib trials, and a comprehensive program of Phase IIb and III trials in health and disease, linaclotide demonstrates long-term efficacy and safety in CC and IBS-C.
Advances in neuroscience have led to an expanded and improved understanding of neurobiological changes associated with rehabilitation and exercise in Parkinson's disease (PD). This knowledge has led to a direct clinical impact of increased referral for early and continuous exercise programs for individuals with PD (physical, occupational, speech therapy and general exercise programs) and an increased research focus on the impact of such approaches in humans with PD. The purpose of this article is to examine the role of speech therapy in the landscape of exercise-based interventions for individuals with PD. We will specifically focus on the intensive voice treatment protocol, Lee Silverman Voice Treatment, as an example therapy. This article will briefly review the literature on the characteristics and features of speech and voice disorders in individuals with PD, and will discuss the impact of pharmacological and surgical treatment techniques on these disorders. This will be followed by a focus on behavioral speech treatment, specifically Lee Silverman Voice Treatment, including development of the treatment approach, documenting efficacy, discovery of unexpected outcomes and insights into the mechanism of speech disorders in PD gained from treatment-related changes. This research will be placed in the context of other previous and current speech treatment approaches in development for individuals with PD, and will highlight future directions for research.


The hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease are the aggregates of amyloid- () peptide and tau protein. Autophagy is one major cellular pathway leading to the removal of aggregated proteins. We examined the possibility of inducing autophagy to reduce A peptide and the amyloid precursor protein (APP)-derived fragment APP-CTF levels in cell lines and primary neuronal cultures. We found that induction of autophagy either by small-molecule enhancers of rapamycin (SMER)28, a small-molecule enhancer of autophagy, or following starvation greatly decreased the levels of A peptide (apparent EC(50) of 10 M) and APP-CTF (apparent EC(50) of 20 M) in a -secretase-independent manner. Pharmacological inhibition of autophagy led to a significant accumulation of A peptide and APP-CTF and diminished the effect of SMER28. Three essential components of the autophagic pathway, autophagy-related protein (Atg)5, Beclin1, and Ulk1, were shown to be involved in the degradation of A and APP-CTF, and Atg5 was necessary for the effect of SMER28. In addition, the autophagic marker light chain 3-II cocompartmentalized with APP-CTF. These results support the involvement of autophagy in the clearance of A and APP-CTF. We therefore propose that small molecule enhancers of autophagy, such as SMER28, may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other proteinopathies.
Nebulin is a giant protein expressed at high levels in skeletal muscle. Mutations in the nebulin gene (NEB) lead to muscle weakness and various congenital myopathies. Despite increasing clinical and scientific interest, the pathogenesis of weakness remains unknown. The present study, therefore, aims at unraveling the underlying molecular mechanisms. Hence, we recorded and analyzed the mechanics as well as the X-ray diffraction patterns of human membrane-permeabilized single muscle fibers expressing nebulin mutations. Results demonstrated that, during contraction, the cycling rate of myosin heads attaching to actin is dramatically perturbed, causing a reduction in the fraction of myosin-actin interactions in the strong binding state. This phenomenon prevents complete thin-filament activation, more especially proper and full tropomyosin movement, further limiting additional binding of myosin cross-bridges. At the cell level, this reduces the force-generating capacity and, overall, provokes muscle weakness. To reverse such a negative cascade of events, future potential therapeutic interventions should, therefore, focus on the triggering component, the altered myosin cross-bridge cycling kinetics.
Aberrations in protein folding, processing, and/or degradation are common features of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Sodium 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) is a well-known histone deacetylase inhibitor, which increases gene transcription of a number of genes, and also exerts neuroprotective effects. PBA acts as a chemical chaperone reducing the load of mutant or unfolded proteins during cellular stress. Previously, we reported that 5-week administration of PBA reinstated memory loss and dendritic spine densities in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. In this study we reported that chronic administration of PBA, starting before the onset of disease symptoms (6 month-old) prevents age-related memory deficits in Tg2576 mice. The amelioration of the memory impairment is associated to a decrease in amyloid beta pathology and the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), suggesting that inflammation was reduced in PBA-treated animals. Together, the beneficial effects of PBA make it a promising agent for the prevention of AD.
Repair of DNA adducts appears to be an important mechanism in chemotherapy responsiveness in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Meta-analyses have suggested that the addition of chemotherapy increases the percentage of long-term survivors. Because GBM is characterized by multiplicity of pathways that characterize growth and treatment resistance, we hypothesized probing a multiplicity of repair factors may be able to identify more than one prognostic factor that may be utilized in molecularly targeted therapy that might improve survival and QOL. Seven DNA repair factors showed statistical significance when added to the initial logistic model of RPA class on length of survival status. After adjusting for RPA class the only statistically significant result of the multivariable logistic regressions for these 7 DNA repair factors was that as hMLH1-MF1 increased, the odds of being a short-term survivor versus a long-term survivor decreased (OR: 0.913, 95 per cent CI: 0.838-0.995, p=0.0385), multivariable analysis showed no associations between survival status and MGMT and p53 status, and the only statistically significant prognostic DNA repair factor was human Mut L Homologue 1 (hMLH1).
Purinergic neurotransmission was proposed in 1972 following identification of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) as the transmitter in non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic inhibitory nerves in guinea-pig taenia coli. Subsequently ATP was identified as a co-transmitter in sympathetic, parasympathetic and most nerves in the peripheral and central nervous systems. ATP acts as a short-term signalling molecule in neurotransmission, neuromodulation and secretion and has long-term (trophic) roles in cell proliferation, differentiation and death in development and regeneration. Three subclasses of purine and pyrimidine receptors have been identified, P1 adenosine receptors (4 subtypes), P2X ionotropic nucleotide receptors (7 subtypes) and P2Y metabotropic receptors (8 subtypes). ATP is released physiologically by many cell types by mechanical deformation and, after release, ATP undergoes ectonucleotidase degradation. Purinergic receptors appeared early in evolution and have a widespread distribution on many non-neuronal cells and neurons. Purinergic signalling is involved in embryonic and stem cell development. There is a rapidly growing literature about the pathophysiology of purinergic signalling including therapeutic developments for diseases, including stroke, thrombosis, osteoporosis, kidney failure, bladder incontinence, cystic fibrosis, dry eye, cancer and brain disorders.
Psychotropic treatments such as second generation or atypical antipsychotics are efficacious in a wide spectrum of psychiatric disorders ranging from schizophrenia to depression, bipolar disorder, and autism. These treatments are associated with peripheral metabolic derangements that are often also present in drug-naive patients. Furthermore, altering lipid composition/levels (with omega 3 fatty acids) and ameliorating oxidative toxicities may treat/prevent disease. The above observations are reexamined from the perspective of a myelin-centered model of the human brain. The model proposes that the human brain's extensive myelination required higher metabolic resources that caused evolutionary adaptations resulting in our quadratic (inverted U) myelination trajectory that peaks in the sixth decade of life. It further proposes that optimal brain function depends on exquisite action potential synchronization that myelin makes possible and that myelin's exceptional vulnerability to subtle metabolic/oxidative abnormalities may promote both developmental and degenerative diseases. Available data are integrated herein to suggest that widely used psychotropic treatments have under-appreciated CNS metabolic and neurotransmitter effects on myelination, its plasticity, and repair that may substantially contribute to their mechanisms of action.
Neural stem/progenitor cells capable of differentiating into the neurons and glial cells that populate the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) persist in specific neural stem cell niches that regulate stem cell proliferation, survival and differentiation. There is growing evidence that the extracellular matrix within neural stem cell niches is required for neural stem cell maintenance. Here, we review findings supporting a pivotal role for the glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA) and its transmembrane receptors in neural stem/progenitor cell proliferation, differentiation and maturation. We also outline findings supporting changing roles for HA as cells become committed to distinct lineages in the brain and spinal cord.
Microglia respond rapidly to injury of peripheral nerve axons (axotomy). This response is integrated into the responses of the injured neurons, i.e. processes for neuron survival, axon regeneration and restoration of target contact. The microglial response is also integrated in changes in presynaptic terminals on axotomized motor or autonomic neurons and in changes in the central terminals of peripherally axotomized sensory neurons. Microglia also has an established role in interacting with astrocytes to shape their response to peripheral axotomy. Axotomy models in mice have demonstrated a role for microglia in regulating the entry of lymphocytes into motor nuclei or sensory areas following peripheral axotomy. Whether this is a universal component of peripheral nerve injury remains to be determined. Under certain circumstances, microglia activated by axotomy are major contributors to CNS pathology, e.g. in models of neuropathic pain. However, the general roles played by microglia after peripheral nerve injury are still incompletely understood. Early proposals that the microglial reaction to peripheral nerve injury is preparatory for the eventuality of neuron degeneration may still have relevance.
A feature of most neurological disorders is demyelination, whereby myelin is lost from axons partly through stripping by macrophages/microglia. Spontaneous remyelination by oligodendrocytes that mature from oligodendrocyte precursor cells occurs following demyelination, even in the chronic inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system, multiple sclerosis. If remyelination does not occur or is prevented, then one consequence besides the loss of saltatory nerve conduction is the degeneration of axons. Thus, promoting remyelination is a desired result. In this article, we review the data that despite a reputation as &quot;bad&quot; factors for CNS wellbeing, including the promotion of neuroinflammation and demyelination, some aspects of macrophages/microglia activity are indeed &quot;good&quot;, and can engender repair from the &quot;ugly&quot; phenomenon of demyelination. We discuss factors that help promote the benefits of macrophages/microglia activity for remyelination.
Drug addiction is a chronic brain disorder characterized by withdrawal symptoms that occur during drug abstinence and a high tendency of relapse. Compared with the currently available pharmacological interventions, acupuncture therapy has the potential to help drug addicts stay away from drugs without major adverse side effects. It has taken decades of research to optimize the parameters of electrical acupoint stimulation for detoxification and for relapse prevention, as well as to establish a safe and easy procedure by which drug addicts can use it on themselves. The discovery that acupuncture can trigger the release of opioid substances from the brain in the 1970s provided the inspiration. Following this, basic research on animals made it possible to understand the mechanisms of action and establish the procedure for treating drug addictions. This article reviews the past, present, and foreseeable future regarding the use of acupuncture-related technique for the treatment of opiate addiction from the perspective of translational medicine.
Falls are a common complication in Huntington's disease (HD) and detection of postural instability (PI) may be useful for identifying patients who are at risk of falls. The aim of our study was to find the most sensitive clinical test for PI in patients with HD and to correlate PI with the other symptoms. 20 HD patients were examined using: (1) The Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS), (2) The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and (3) six clinical tests for PI. Inter-scale and test correlations were inspected and uni-dimensionality, validity, and measurement precision were analyzed using a factor analysis model/latent PI score. PI was compared with information obtained from surveys completed independently by patients and caregivers, and both reports were evaluated for absolute agreement using intraclass correlations (ICCs). PI was found in 16 patients; the tests correlated better with caregivers' reports (r=0.78) than patients' responses. The validity of the patients' answers decreased with the level of MMSE scores. PI correlated with MMSE (r=0.64, p&lt;0.01), the subscale score for voluntary movements (r=0.86, p&lt;0.01), the overall motor subscore (r=0.73, p&lt;0.01), and the Luria test subscore (r=0.87, p&lt;0.01). The stance with feet close together and tandem gait correlated best with the latent PI score, and factor loadings confirmed they were the most sensitive tests for PI detection in HD.
The superfamily of Solute Carriers (SLCs) has around 384 members in the human genome grouped into at least 48 families. While many of these transporters have been well characterized with established important biological functions, there are few recently identified genes that are not studied regarding tissue distribution or evolutionary origin. Here we study 14 of these recently discovered SLC genes (HIAT1, HIATL1, MFSD1, MFSD5, MFSD6, MFSD9, MFSD10, SLC7A14, SLC7A15, SLC10A6, SLC15A5, SLC16A12, SLC30A10 and SLC21A21) with the purpose to give much better picture over the sequence relationship and tissue expression of the diverse SLC gene family. We used a range of bioinformatic methods to classify each of these genes into the different SLC gene families. We found that 9 of the 14 atypical SLCs are distant members of the Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS) clan while the others belong to the APC clan, the DMT clan, the CPA_AT clan and the IT clan. We found most of the genes to be highly evolutionary conserved, likely to be present in most bilateral species, except for SLC21A21 that we found only present in mammals. Several of these transporter genes have highly specific tissue expression profile while it is notable that most are expressed in the CNS with the exception of SLC21A21 and SLC15A5. This work provides fundamental information on 14 transporters that previously have not received much attention enabling a more comprehensive view over the SLC superfamily.
During embryogenesis, the rhombic lip of the fourth ventricle is the germinal origin of a diverse collection of neuronal populations that ultimately reside in the brainstem and cerebellum. Rhombic lip neurogenesis requires the bHLH transcription factor Atoh1 (Math1), and commences shortly after neural tube closure (E9.5). Within the rhombomere 1-isthmus region, the rhombic lip first produces brainstem and deep cerebellar neurons (E9.5-E12), followed by granule cell precursors after E12. While Atoh1 function is essential for all of these populations to be specified, the downstream genetic programs that confer specific properties to early and late born Atoh1 lineages are not well characterized. We have performed a comparative microarray analysis of gene expression within early and later born cohorts of Atoh1 expressing neural precursors purified from E14.5 embryos using a transgenic labeling strategy. We identify novel transcription factors, cell surface molecules, and cell cycle regulators within each pool of Atoh1 lineages that likely contribute to their distinct developmental trajectories and cell fates. In particular, our analysis reveals new insights into the genetic programs that regulate the specification and proliferation of granule cell precursors, the putative cell of origin for the majority of medulloblastomas.
Activation of the alternative pathway of the complement system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration. Membrane attack complex (MAC) has been identified mainly on the Bruch's membrane and drusen underlying the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). Membrane cofactor protein (CD46) preferentially regulates the alternative pathway of complement. The aim of this study was to evaluate the potential of increasing CD46 expression on RPE cells using an adenovirus as a gene therapy approach to reduce alternative pathway-mediated damage to RPE cells. We generated a recombinant adenovirus vector expressing human CD46 (hCD46) and delivered the vector to murine hepatocytes and RPE cells in vitro. After incubation in human serum in conditions in which the classical pathway of complement was blocked, we measured alternative pathway-mediated damage of these cells by quantifying lysis and MAC formation. Adenovirus expressing hCD46 was delivered to the subretinal space of adult mice, and 1 week later, ocular flat mounts were challenged with human serum and the levels of complement-mediated damage was quantified. Adenovirus-mediated delivery of hCD46 localizes to the basal and lateral surfaces of RPE cells where it offers protection from alternative pathway-mediated damage, but not classical, allowing the classical pathway to function unhindered.
Play behavior in juvenile primates, rats and other species is sexually dimorphic, with males showing more play than females. In mice, sex differences in juvenile play have only been examined in out-bred CD-1 mice. In this strain, contrary to other animals, male mice display less play soliciting than females. Using an established same-sex dyadic interaction test, we examined play in in-bred C57BL/6J (B6) 21-day-old mice. When paired with non-siblings, males tended to be more social than females, spending more time exploring the test cage. Females displayed significantly more anogenital sniffing and solicited play more frequently than did males. To determine if the origin of the sex difference was sex chromosome genes or gonadal sex, next we used the four core genotype mouse. We found significant interactions between gonadal sex and genotype for several behaviors. Finally, we asked if sibling pairs (as compared to non-siblings) would display qualitatively or quantitatively different behavior. In fact, XX females paired with a sibling were more social and less exploratory or investigative, whereas XY males exhibited less investigative and play soliciting behaviors in tests with siblings. Many neurobehavioral disorders, like autism spectrum disorder (ASD), are sexually dimorphic in incidence and patients interact less than normal with other children. Our results suggest that sex chromosome genes interact with gonadal hormones to shape the development of juvenile social behavior, and that social context can drastically alter sex differences. These data may have relevance for understanding the etiology of sexually dimorphic disorders such as ASD.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominantly inherited disease, characterized by various neurocutaneous symptoms, cognitive impairments and problems in fine and gross motor performance. Although cognitive deficits in NF1 have been attributed to increased release of the inhibitory neurotransmitter -amino butyric acid (GABA) in the hippocampus, the origin of the motor deficits is unknown. Cerebellar Purkinje cells, the sole output neurons of the cerebellar cortex, are GABAergic neurons and express neurofibromin at high levels, suggesting an important role for the cerebellum in the observed motor deficits in NF1. To test this, we determined the cerebellar contribution to motor problems in Nf1(+/-) mice, a validated mouse model for NF1. Using the Rotarod, a non-specific motor performance test, we confirmed that, like NF1 patients, Nf1(+/-) mice have motor deficits. Next, to evaluate the role of the cerebellum in these deficits, mice were subjected to cerebellum-specific motor performance and learning tests. Nf1(+/-) mice showed no impairment on the Erasmus ladder, as step time and number of missteps were not different. Furthermore, when compensatory eye movements were tested, no performance deficits were found in the optokinetic reflex and vestibulo-ocular reflex in the dark (VOR) or in the light (VVOR). Finally, Nf1(+/-) mice successfully completed short- and long-term VOR adaptation paradigms, tests that both depend on cerebellar function. Thus, despite the confirmed presence of motor performance problems in Nf1(+/-) mice, we found no indication of a cerebellar component. These results, combined with recent clinical data, suggest that cerebellar function is not overtly affected in NF1 patients.
Previous studies on mice with a disruption of the gene encoding acid-sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a) suggest that ASIC1a is required for normal fear behavior. To investigate the effects of altering the subunit composition of brain ASICs on behavior, we developed transgenic mice expressing ASIC3 via the pan-neuronal synapsin I promoter. These mice express ASIC3 in the brain, where the endogenous ASIC3 protein is not detected. We found that in ASIC3 transgenic mice, ASIC3 co-immunoprecipitated with the endogenous ASIC1a protein and distributed in the same subcellular brain fractions as ASIC1a. In addition, ASIC3 significantly increased the rate of desensitization of acid-evoked currents in cultured cortical neurons. Importantly, ASIC3 reduced Pavlovian fear conditioning to both context and auditory cues. These observations suggest that ASIC3 can heteromultimerize with ASIC1a in the brain and alter the biophysical properties of the endogenous channel complex. Moreover, these data suggest that ASIC subunit composition and channel desensitization may be critical determinants for ASIC-dependent behavior.
Neurocognitive dysfunction is a core feature of schizophrenia with particularly prominent deficits in verbal episodic memory. The molecular basis of this memory impairment is poorly understood and its relatedness to normal variation in memory performance is unclear. In this study, we explore, in a sample of cognitively impaired schizophrenia patients, the role of polymorphisms in seven genes recently reported to modulate episodic memory in normal subjects. Three polymorphisms (GRIN2B rs220599, GRM3 rs2189814 and PRKCA rs8074995) were associated with episodic verbal memory in both control and patients with cognitive deficit, but not in cognitively spared patients or the pooled schizophrenia sample. GRM3 and PRKCA acted in opposite directions in patients compared to controls, possibly reflecting an abnormal brain milieu and/or adverse environmental effects in schizophrenia. The encoded proteins balance glutamate signalling vs. excitotoxicity in complex interactions involving the excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), implicated in the dysfunctional glutamatergic signalling in schizophrenia. Double carrier status of the GRM3 and PRKCA minor alleles was associated with lower memory test scores and with increased risk of schizophrenia. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs8074995 lies within the PRKCA region spanned by a rare haplotype associated with schizophrenia in a recent UK study and provides further evidence of PRKCA contribution to memory impairment and susceptibility to schizophrenia. Our study supports the utility of parsing the broad phenotype of schizophrenia into component cognitive endophenotypes that reduce heterogeneity and enable the capture of potentially important genetic associations.
Accumulating evidences underlie the importance of the interplay between environmental and genetic factors in contributing to the risk to develop mental illness. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its Tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB) receptor play a fundamental contribution to brain development and plastic adaptations to life events. In the present study, the potential for the BDNF/TrkB contribution in increasing vulnerability to negative social experiences was assessed by subjecting TrkB.T1 overexpressing mice to a chronic social defeat model. TrkB.T1 mice overexpress the dominant-negative truncated splice variant of TrkB receptor leading to decreased BDNF signaling. After repeated social defeat, mice were assessed in a longitudinal study for behavioral, physiological, endocrine and immune responses potentially related to psychiatric endophenotypes. TrkB.T1 overexpression corresponded to smaller changes in metabolic parameters such as body weight, food intake, feed efficiency and peripheral ghrelin levels compared with wild-type (wt) littermates following social defeat. Interestingly, 4 weeks after the last defeat, TrkB.T1 overexpressing mice exhibited more consistent social avoidance effects than what observed in wt subjects. Finally, previously unreported effects of TrkB mutations could be observed on lymphoid organ weight and on peripheral immune biomarker levels, such as interleukin-1 and regulated on activation, normal, T-cell expressed, and secreted (RANTES), thus suggesting a systemic role of BDNF signaling in immune function. In conclusion, the present data support a contribution of TrkB to stress vulnerability that, given the established role of TrkB in the response to antidepressant treatment, calls for further studies addressing the link between stress susceptibility and variability in drug efficacy.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the main water channel in the brain and primarily localized to astrocytes where the channels are thought to contribute to water and K(+) homeostasis. The close apposition of AQP4 and inward rectifier K(+) channels (Kir4.1) led to the hypothesis of direct functional interactions between both channels. We investigated the impact of AQP4 on stimulus-induced alterations of the extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](o)) in murine hippocampal slices. Recordings with K(+)-selective microelectrodes combined with field potential analyses were compared in wild type (wt) and AQP4 knockout (AQP4(-/-)) mice. Astrocyte gap junction coupling was assessed with tracer filling during patch clamp recording. Antidromic fiber stimulation in the alveus evoked smaller increases and slower recovery of [K(+)](o) in the stratum pyramidale of AQP4(-/-) mice indicating reduced glial swelling and a larger extracellular space when compared with control tissue. Moreover, the data hint at an impairment of the glial Na(+)/K(+) ATPase in AQP4-deficient astrocytes. In a next step, we investigated the laminar profile of [K(+)](o) by moving the recording electrode from the stratum pyramidale toward the hippocampal fissure. At distances beyond 300 m from the pyramidal layer, the stimulation-induced, normalized increases of [K(+)](o) in AQP4(-/-) mice exceeded the corresponding values of wt mice, indicating facilitated spatial buffering. Astrocytes in AQP4(-/-) mice also displayed enhanced tracer coupling, which might underlie the improved spatial re- distribution of [K(+)](o) in the hippocampus. These findings highlight the role of AQP4 channels in the regulation of K(+) homeostasis.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting predominantly motor neurons. Recent studies suggest that the disease progression of ALS is non-cell-autonomous, although the interaction between neurons and glial cells in different disease stages is not entirely clear. Here, we demonstrate that the interferon (IFN) signaling pathway is activated in human SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, a rodent model of ALS. IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) increased in the spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) mice at a presymptomatic age. In addition, the up-regulated ISGs, and most likely their transcriptional activators, were found specifically in astrocytes surrounding motor neurons, suggesting that IFN signaling in astrocytes was triggered by specific pathologic changes in motor neurons. Furthermore, induction of ISGs in cultured astrocytes was highly sensitive to IFN, especially Type I IFN. ISGs in astrocytes were activated specifically by endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced neurodegeneration in vitro, implicating a similar process in the presymptomatic stage of SOD1 mutant mice. Finally, reduction or deletion of IFN receptor 1 inhibited IFN signaling and increased the life-span of SOD1(G93A) mice. Thus, the activation of IFN signaling pathways represents an early &quot;dialogue&quot; between motor neurons and astrocytes in response to pathological changes in ALS.
Microglia are critical cells in mediating the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders such as HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. We hypothesize that HIV-1 glycoprotein 120 (gp120) activates microglia by enhancing outward K(+) currents, resulting in microglia secretion of neurotoxins, consequent neuronal dysfunction, and death. To test this hypothesis, we studied the effects of gp120 on outward K(+) current in cultured rat microglia. Application of gp120 enhanced outward K(+) current in a dose-dependent manner, which was blocked by voltage-gated K(+) (K(v) ) channel blockers. Western blot analysis revealed that gp120 produced an elevated expression of K(v) channel proteins. Examination of activation and inactivation of outward K(+) currents showed that gp120 shifted membrane potentials for activation and steady-state inactivation. The gp120-associated enhancement of outward K(+) current was blocked by either a CXCR4 receptor antagonist T140 or a specific protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89, suggesting the involvement of chemokine receptor CXCR4 and PKA in gp120-mediated enhancement of outward K(+) current. Biological significance of gp120-induced enhancement of microglia outward K(+) current was demonstrated by experimental results showing the neurotoxic activity of gp120-stimulated microglia, evaluated by TUNEL staining and MTT assay, significantly attenuated by K(v) channel blockers. Taken together, these results suggest that gp120 induces microglia neurotoxic activity by enhancing microglia outward K(+) current and that microglia K(v) channels may function as a potential target for the development of therapeutic strategies.
The technology to generate autologous pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) from almost any somatic cell type has brought various cell replacement therapies within clinical research. Besides the challenge to optimize iPS protocols to appropriate safety and GMP levels, procedures need to be developed to differentiate iPS cells into specific fully differentiated and functional cell types for implantation purposes. In this article, we describe a protocol to differentiate mouse iPS cells into oligodendrocytes with the aim to investigate the feasibility of IPS stem cell-based therapy for demyelinating disorders, such as multiple sclerosis. Our protocol results in the generation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) that can develop into mature, myelinating oligodendrocytes in-vitro (co-culture with DRG neurons) as well as in-vivo (after implantation in the demyelinated corpus callosum of cuprizone-treated mice). We report the importance of complete purification of the iPS-derived OPC suspension to prevent the contamination with teratoma-forming iPS cells.
Olfactory hallucinations have been reported in association with numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders, in particular as a component of partial complex seizure and psychiatric disorders, but are rarely described in migraine disease. We report the case of an adolescent who reported complex hallucinations during a migraine attack.


Spiral ganglion neurons are the first neural element of the auditory system. They receive precise synaptic signals which represent features of sound stimuli encoded by hair cell receptors and they deliver a digital representation of this information to the central nervous system. It is well known that spiral ganglion neurons are selectively responsive to specific sound frequencies, and that numerous structural and physiological specializations in the inner ear increase the quality of this tuning, beyond what could be accomplished by the passive properties of the basilar membrane. Further, consistent with what we know about other sensory systems, it is becoming clear that the parallel divergent innervation pattern of type I spiral ganglion neurons has the potential to encode additional features of sound stimuli. To date, we understand the most about the sub-modalities of frequency and intensity coding in the peripheral auditory system. Work reviewed herein will address the issue of how intrinsic electrophysiological features of the neurons themselves have the potential to contribute to the precision of coding and transmitting information about these two parameters to higher auditory centers for further processing.
Despite the significant impact of hearing and balance disorders on the general population there are currently no dedicated pharmaceuticals that target the inner ear. Advances in molecular biology and neuroscience have improved our understanding of the inner ear allowing the development of a range of molecular targets that have the potential to treat both hearing and balance disorders. One of the principal advantages of the inner ear is that it is accessible through a variety of approaches that would allow a potential to be delivered locally rather than systemically. This significantly broadens the potential medications that can be developed and opens the possibility of local gene delivery as a therapeutic intervention. Several potential clinical targets have been identified including delivery of neurotrophin expressing genes as an adjunct to cochlear implantation, delivery of protective genes to prevent trauma and the development of strategies for regenerating inner ear sensory cells. In order to translate these potential therapeutics into humans we will want to optimize the gene delivery methodology, dosing and activity of the drug for therapeutic value. To this end we have developed a series of adenovectors that efficiently transduce the inner ear. The use of these gene delivery approaches are attractive for the potential of hair cell regeneration after loss induced by trauma or ototoxins. This approach is particularly suited for the development of molecular therapies targeted at the vestibular system given that no device based therapeutic such a cochlear implant available for vestibular loss.
Over the past decade, there has been a burgeoning of scientific interest in the neurobiological origins of tinnitus. During this period, numerous behavioral and physiological animal models have been developed which have yielded major clues concerning the likely neural correlates of acute and chronic forms of tinnitus and the processes leading to their induction. The data increasingly converge on the view that tinnitus is a systemic problem stemming from imbalances in the excitatory and inhibitory inputs to auditory neurons. Such changes occur at multiple levels of the auditory system and involve a combination of interacting phenomena that are triggered by loss of normal input from the inner ear. This loss sets in motion a number of plastic readjustments in the central auditory system and sometimes beyond the auditory system that culminate in the induction of aberrant states of activation that include hyperactivity, bursting discharges and increases in neural synchrony. This article will review was has been learned about the biological origins of these alterations, summarize where they occur and examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms that are most likely to underlie them.

Estradiol enhances the formation of dendritic spines and excitatory synapses in hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo, but the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Kalirin-7 (Kal7), the major isoform of Kalirin in the adult hippocampus, is a Rho GDP/GTP exchange factor localized to postsynaptic densities. In the hippocampus, both Kal7 and estrogen receptor  (ER) are highly expressed in a subset of interneurons. Over-expression of Kal7 caused an increase in spine density and size in hippocampal neurons. To determine whether Kalirin might play a role in the effects of estradiol on spine formation, Kal7 expression was examined in the hippocampus of ovariectomized rats. Estradiol replacement increased Kal7 staining in both CA1 pyramidal neurons and interneurons in ovariectomized rats. Estradiol treatment of cultured hippocampal neurons increased Kal7 levels at the postsynaptic side of excitatory synapses and increased the number of excitatory synapses along the dendrites of pyramidal neurons. These increases were mediated via ER because a selective ER agonist, but not a selective ER agonist, caused a similar increase in both Kal7 levels and excitatory synapse number in cultured hippocampal neurons. When Kal7 expression was reduced using a Kal7-specific shRNA, the density of excitatory synapses was reduced and estradiol was no longer able to increase synapse formation. Expression of exogenous Kal7 in hippocampal interneurons resulted in decreased levels of GAD65 staining. Inhibition of GABAergic transmission with bicuculline produced a robust increase in Kal7 expression. These studies suggest Kal7 plays a key role in the mechanisms of estradiol-mediated synaptic plasticity.
Status epilepticus (SE) in adulthood dramatically alters the hippocampus and produces spatial learning and memory deficits. Some factors, like environmental enrichment and exercise, may promote functional recovery from SE. Prenatal choline supplementation (SUP) also protects against spatial memory deficits observed shortly after SE in adulthood, and we have previously reported that SUP attenuates the neuropathological response to SE in the adult hippocampus just 16 days after SE. It is unknown whether SUP can ameliorate longer-term cognitive and neuropathological consequences of SE, whether repeatedly engaging the injured hippocampus in a cognitive task might facilitate recovery from SE, and whether our prophylactic prenatal dietary treatment would enable the injured hippocampus to more effectively benefit from cognitive rehabilitation. To address these issues, adult offspring from rat dams that received either a control (CON) or SUP diet on embryonic days 12-17 first received training on a place learning water maze task (WM) and were then administered saline or kainic acid (KA) to induce SE. Rats then either remained in their home cage, or received three additional WM sessions at 3, 6.5, and 10 weeks after SE to test spatial learning and memory retention. Eleven weeks after SE, the brains were analyzed for several hippocampal markers known to be altered by SE. SUP attenuated SE-induced spatial learning deficits and completely rescued spatial memory retention by 10 weeks post-SE. Repeated WM experience prevented SE-induced declines in glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and dentate gyrus neurogenesis, and attenuated increased glial fibrilary acidic protein (GFAP) levels. Remarkably, SUP alone was similarly protective to an even greater extent, and SUP rats that were water maze trained after SE showed reduced hilar migration of newborn neurons. These findings suggest that prophylactic SUP is protective against the long-term cognitive and neuropathological effects of KA-induced SE, and that rehabilitative cognitive enrichment may be partially beneficial.
Nitric oxide (()NO) is a labile endogenous free radical produced upon glutamatergic neuronal activity in hippocampus by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), where it acts as a modulator of both synaptic plasticity and cell death associated with neurodegeneration. The low CNS levels and fast time dynamics of this molecule require the use of rapid analytical methods that can more accurately describe its signaling in vivo. This is critical for understanding how the kinetics of ()NO-dependent signaling pathways is translated into physiological or pathological functions. In these studies, we used ()NO selective microelectrodes coupled with rapid electrochemical recording techniques to characterize for the first time the concentration dynamics of ()NO endogenously produced in hippocampus in vivo following activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Both L-glutamate (1-100 mM) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 0.01-5 mM) produced transient, dose-dependent increases in extracellular ()NO concentration. The production of ()NO in the hippocampus by glutamate was decreased by the nNOS inhibitor 7-NI. Intraperitoneal administration of the NMDA receptor blocker, MK-801, and the inhibitor of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor, NBQX, applied locally greatly attenuated glutamate-evoked overflow of ()NO. Thus, ()NO overflow elicited by activation of glutamate receptors appeared to result from an integrated activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, both of the NMDA and AMPA receptors subtypes. Additionally, distinct concentration dynamics was observed in the trisynaptic loop with stronger and longer lasting effects of glutamate activation on ()NO overflow seen in the CA1 region as compared with the dentate gyrus. Overall, the results provide a quantitative and temporal basis for a better understanding of ()NO activity in the rat hippocampus.

In several mammalian species, lactating females show blunted neural, hormonal, and behavioral responses to stressors. It is not known whether new fathers also show stress hyporesponsiveness in species in which males provide infant care. To test this possibility, we determined the effects of male and female reproductive status on stress responsiveness in the biparental, monogamous California mouse (Peromyscus californicus). Breeding (N=8 females, 8 males), nonbreeding (N=10 females, 10 males) and virgin mice (N=12 females, 9 males) were exposed to a 5-min predator-urine stressor at two time points, corresponding to the early postpartum (5-7 days postpartum) and mid/late postpartum (19-21 days postpartum) phases, and blood samples were collected immediately afterwards. Baseline blood samples were obtained 2 days prior to each stress test. Baseline plasma corticosterone (CORT) concentrations did not differ among male or female groups. CORT responses to the stressor did not differ among female reproductive groups, and all three groups showed distinct behavioral responses to predator urine. Virgin males tended to increase their CORT response from the first to the second stress test, while breeding and nonbreeding males did not. Moreover, virgin and nonbreeding males showed significant behavioral changes in response to predator urine, whereas breeding males did not. These results suggest that adrenocortical responses to a repeated stressor in male California mice may be modulated by cohabitation with a female, whereas behavioral responses to stress may be blunted by parental status.
Estradiol (E2) exerts an inhibitory effect on food intake in a variety of species. While compelling evidence indicates that central, rather than peripheral, estrogen receptors (ERs) mediate this effect, the exact brain regions involved have yet to be conclusively identified. In order to identify brain regions that are sufficient for E2's anorectic effect, food intake was monitored for 48 h following acute, unilateral, microinfusions of vehicle and two doses (0.25 and 2.5 g) of a water-soluble form of E2 in multiple brain regions within the hypothalamus and midbrain of ovariectomized rats. Dose-related decreases in 24-h food intake were observed following E2 administration in the medial preoptic area (MPOA), arcuate nucleus (ARC), and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Within the former two brain areas, the larger dose of E2 also decreased 4-h food intake. Food intake was not influenced, however, by similar E2 administration in the paraventricular nucleus, lateral hypothalamus, or ventromedial nucleus. These data suggest that E2-responsive neurons within the MPOA, ARC, and DRN participate in the estrogenic control of food intake and provide specific brain areas for future investigations of the cellular mechanism underlying estradiol's anorexigenic effect.
During puberty, humans develop a later chronotype, exhibiting a phase-delayed daily rest/activity rhythm. The purpose of this study was to determine: 1) whether similar changes in chronotype occur during puberty in a laboratory rodent species, 2) whether these changes are due to pubertal hormones affecting the circadian timekeeping system. We tracked the phasing and distribution of wheel-running activity rhythms during post-weaning development in rats that were gonadectomized before puberty or left intact. We found that intact peripubertal rats had activity rhythms that were phase-delayed relative to adults. Young rats also exhibited a bimodal nocturnal activity distribution. As puberty progressed, bimodality diminished and late-night activity phase-advanced until it consolidated with early-night activity. By late puberty, intact rats showed a strong, unimodal rhythm that peaked at the beginning of the night. These pubertal changes in circadian phase were more pronounced in males than females. Increases in gonadal hormones during puberty partially accounted for these changes, as rats that were gonadectomized before puberty demonstrated smaller phase changes than intact rats and maintained ultradian rhythms into adulthood. We investigated the role of photic entrainment by comparing circadian development under constant and entrained conditions. We found that the period () of free-running rhythms developed sex differences during puberty. These changes in  did not account for pubertal changes in entrained circadian phase, as the consolidation of activity at the beginning of the subjective night persisted under constant conditions in both sexes. We conclude that the circadian system continues to develop in a hormone-sensitive manner during puberty.
We showed earlier that social isolation from weaning (a paradigm frequently used to model social neglect in children) induces abnormal forms of attack in rats, and assumed that these are associated with hyperarousal. To investigate this hypothesis, we deprived rats of social contacts from weaning and studied their behavior, glucocorticoid and autonomic stress responses in the resident-intruder paradigm at the age of 82 days. Social isolation resulted in abnormal attack patterns characterized by attacks on vulnerable targets, deficient social communication and increased defensive behaviors (defensive upright, flight, freezing). During aggressive encounters, socially deprived rats rapidly switched from one behavior to another, i.e. showed an increased number of behavioral transitions as compared to controls. We tentatively term this behavioral feature &quot;behavioral fragmentation&quot; and considered it a form of behavioral arousal. Basal levels of plasma corticosterone regularly assessed by radioimmunoassay between 27 and 78 days of age were not affected. In contrast, aggression-induced glucocorticoid responses were approximately doubled by socially isolation. Diurnal oscillations in heart rate assessed by in vivo biotelemetry were not affected by social isolation. In contrast, the aggression-induced increase in heart rate was higher in socially isolated than in socially housed rats. Thus, post-weaning social isolation induced abnormal forms of aggression that developed on the background of increased behavioral, endocrine and autonomic arousal. We suggest that this paradigm may be used to model aggression-related psychopathologies associated with hyperarousal, particularly those that are triggered by adverse rearing conditions.
During puberty, human adolescents develop a later chronotype, exhibiting a delay in the timing of rest and activity as well as other daily physiological rhythms. The purpose of this study was to determine whether similar changes in chronotype occur during puberty in a laboratory rodent species, and, if so, to determine whether they are due to pubertal hormones acting on the circadian timekeeping system. To test this hypothesis, we carefully tracked daily activity rhythms across puberty in the slow-developing rodent Octodon degus. We confirmed that male degus showed a large reorganization of activity rhythms that correlated with secondary sex development during puberty, including a loss of bimodality and a 3-5 h phase-advance. Similar to humans, this circadian reorganization showed distinct sex differences, with females showing little change during puberty in two separate experiments. Prepubertal gonadectomy (GDX) eliminated the changes, whereas SHAM gonadectomy had little impact. Therefore, gonadal hormones are likely to play a role in pubertal changes in chronotype in this rodent species. Using evidence from a variety of species, including our recent studies in the rat, we conclude that chronotype changes during puberty are a well-demonstrated phenomenon in mammals.
Age-related deficits have been demonstrated in working memory performance and in the dopamine system thought to support it. We performed positron emission tomography (PET) scans on 12 younger (mean 22.7 years) and 19 older (mean 65.8 years) adults using the radiotracer 6-[(18)F]-fluoro-L-m-tyrosine (FMT), which measures dopamine synthesis capacity. Subjects also underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing a delayed recognition working memory task. We evaluated age-related fMRI activity differences and examined how they related to FMT signal variations in dorsal caudate within each age group. In posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus (PCC/Pc), older adults showed diminished fMRI deactivations during memory recognition compared with younger adults. Greater task-induced deactivation (in younger adults only) was associated both with higher FMT signal and with worse memory performance. Our results suggest that dopamine synthesis helps modulate default network activity in younger adults and that alterations to the dopamine system may contribute to age-related changes in working memory function.
Understanding the structure and function of neural circuits is central is neuroscience research. To address the associated questions, new genetically encoded tools have been developed for mapping, monitoring, and manipulating neurons. Essential to implementation of these tools is their selective delivery to defined neuronal populations in the brain. This has been facilitated by recent improvements in cell type-specific transgene expression using recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors. Here, we highlight these developments and discuss areas for improvement that could further expand capabilities for neural circuit analysis.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is one of nine dominantly inherited neurodegenerative diseases caused by polyglutamine tract expansion. In SCA1, the expanded polyglutamine tract is in the ataxin-1 (ATXN1) protein. ATXN1 is part of an in vivo complex with retinoid acid receptor-related orphan receptor alpha (Rora) and the acetyltransferase tat-interactive protein 60 kDa (Tip60). ATXN1 and Tip60 interact directly via the ATXN1 and HMG-box protein 1 (AXH) domain of ATXN1. Moreover, the phospho-mimicking Asp amino acid at position 776, previously shown to enhance pathogenesis, increases the ability of ATXN1 to interact with Tip60. Using a genetic approach, the biological relevance of the ATXN1/Tip60 interaction was assessed by crossing ATXN1[82Q] mice with Tip60(+/-)animals. Partial Tip60 loss increased Rora and Rora-mediated gene expression and delayed ATXN1[82]-mediated cerebellar degeneration during mid-stage disease progression. These results suggested a specific, temporal role for Tip60 during disease progression. We also showed that genetic background modulated ATXN1[82Q]-induced phenotypes. Of interest, these latter studies showed that some phenotypes are enhanced on a mixed background while others are suppressed.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating, neurodegenerative condition, which lacks effective treatment. Normal Huntingtin (HTT) and mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) are expressed in multiple tissues and can alter transcription of microRNAs (miRs). Importantly, miRs are present in a bio-stable form in human peripheral blood plasma and have recently been shown to be useful biomarkers in other diseases. We therefore sought to identify potential miR biomarkers of HD that are present in, and have functional consequences for, neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In a cell line over-expressing mHTT-Exon-1, miR microarray analysis was used to identify candidate miRs. We then examined their presence and bio-stability in control and HD plasma. We found that miR-34b is significantly elevated in response to mHTT-Exon-1, and its blockade alters the toxicity of mHTT-Exon-1 in vitro. We also show that miR-34b is detectable in plasma from small input volumes and is insensitive to freeze-thaw-induced RNA degradation. Interestingly, miR-34b is significantly elevated in plasma from HD gene carriers prior to symptom onset. This is the first study suggesting that plasma miRs might be used as biomarkers for HD.
Intraneuronal amyloid- (A) may contribute to extracellular plaque deposition, the characteristic pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The E3-ubiquitin ligase parkin ubiquitinates intracellular proteins and induces mitophagy. We previously demonstrated that parkin reduces A levels in lentiviral models of intracellular A. Here we used a triple transgenic AD (3xTg-AD) mouse, which over-expresses APP(Swe), Tau(P301L) and harbor the PS1(M146V) knock-in mutation and found that lentiviral parkin ubiquitinated intracellular A in vivo, stimulated beclin-dependent molecular cascade of autophagy and facilitated clearance of vesicles containing debris and defective mitochondria. Parkin expression decreased intracellular A levels and extracellular plaque deposition. Parkin expression also attenuated caspase activity, prevented mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress and restored neurotransmitter synthesis. Restoration of glutamate synthesis, which was independent of glial-neuronal recycling, depended on mitochondrial activity and led to an increase in -amino butyric acid levels. These data indicate that parkin may be used as an alternative strategy to reduce A levels and enhance autophagic clearance of A-induced defects in AD. Parkin-mediated clearance of ubiquitinated A may act in parallel with autophagy to clear molecular debris and defective mitochondria and restore neurotransmitter balance.


Since their validation in mammals, there have been profound ethical discussions on the possible applications of somatic cell nuclear transfer, human embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells to reproductive medicine. This has been the case whether these technologies were considered as direct (i.e. when procreation is the ultimate goal) or indirect applications. In most countries, the majority of these approaches have been either stringently regulated, or regulation has been strongly and consensually suggested. However, this is not necessarily the case for possibilities such as same-sex chimaeras or the direct differentiation of gametes from somatic cells, skipping a pluripotent cell intermediate. The author suggests that the field of reproductive medicine should be more proactive in discussing both current and emerging developments with possible implications for human reproduction, even those reaching beyond current paradigms.
We propose a point process model of spiking activity from auditory neurons. The model takes account of the neuron's intrinsic dynamics as well as the spectrotemporal properties of an input stimulus. A discrete Volterra expansion is used to derive the form of the conditional intensity function. The Volterra expansion models the neuron's baseline spike rate, its intrinsic dynamics-spiking history-and the stimulus effect which in this case is the analog of the spectrotemporal receptive field (STRF). We performed the model fitting efficiently in a generalized linear model framework using ridge regression to address properly this ill-posed maximum likelihood estimation problem. The model provides an excellent fit to spiking activity from 55 auditory nerve neurons. The STRF-like representation estimated jointly with the neuron's intrinsic dynamics may offer more accurate characterizations of neural activity in the auditory system than current ones based solely on the STRF.
Granger causality (GC) is one of the most popular measures to reveal causality influence of time series and has been widely applied in economics and neuroscience. Especially, its counterpart in frequency domain, spectral GC, as well as other Granger-like causality measures have recently been applied to study causal interactions between brain areas in different frequency ranges during cognitive and perceptual tasks. In this paper, we show that: 1) GC in time domain cannot correctly determine how strongly one time series influences the other when there is directional causality between two time series, and 2) spectral GC and other Granger-like causality measures have inherent shortcomings and/or limitations because of the use of the transfer function (or its inverse matrix) and partial information of the linear regression model. On the other hand, we propose two novel causality measures (in time and frequency domains) for the linear regression model, called new causality and new spectral causality, respectively, which are more reasonable and understandable than GC or Granger-like measures. Especially, from one simple example, we point out that, in time domain, both new causality and GC adopt the concept of proportion, but they are defined on two different equations where one equation (for GC) is only part of the other (for new causality), thus the new causality is a natural extension of GC and has a sound conceptual/theoretical basis, and GC is not the desired causal influence at all. By several examples, we confirm that new causality measures have distinct advantages over GC or Granger-like measures. Finally, we conduct event-related potential causality analysis for a subject with intracranial depth electrodes undergoing evaluation for epilepsy surgery, and show that, in the frequency domain, all measures reveal significant directional event-related causality, but the result from new spectral causality is consistent with event-related time-frequency power spectrum activity. The spectral GC as well as other Granger-like measures are shown to generate misleading results. The proposed new causality measures may have wide potential applications in economics and neuroscience.
The roots of black galingale (Kaempferia parviflora) were chloroform-extracted and the isolated two sesquiterpene and immunotoxicity effects were studied. The structures and stereochemistry of these compounds were established on the basis of analysis of spectra including UV, MS, (1)H-NMR, and (13)C-NMR as follows: 1 (4-acetoxycadina-2,9-diene-1,8-dione), 2 (1,3,4-trihydroxy-9-cadinen-8-one). Compound 2 had a significant toxic effect against early fourth-stage larvae of Aedes aegypti L. with an LC(50) value of 0.7 M and an LC(90) value of 3.8 M. The results could be useful in search for newer, safer, and more effective natural immunotoxicity agents against A. aegypti.
Almost a decade after the publication of the complete sequence of the genome of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, the mechanisms involved in gene regulation remain poorly understood. Like other eukaryotic organisms, P. falciparum's genomic DNA organizes into nucleosomes. Nucleosomes are the basic structural units of eukaryotic chromatin and their regulation is known to play a key role in regulation of gene expression. Despite its importance, the relationship between nucleosome positioning and gene regulation in the malaria parasite has only been investigated recently. Using two independent and complementary techniques followed by next-generation high-throughput sequencing, our laboratory recently generated a dynamic atlas of nucleosome-bound and nucleosome-free regions (NFRs) at single-nucleotide resolution throughout the parasite erythrocytic cycle. We have found evidences that genome-wide changes in nucleosome occupancy play a critical role in controlling the rigorous parasite replication in infected red blood cells. However, the role of nucleosome positioning at remarkable locations such as transcriptional start sites (TSS) was not investigated. Here we show that a study of NFR in experimentally determined TSS and in silico-predicted promoters can provide deeper insights of how a transcriptionally permissive organization of chromatin can control the parasite's progression through its life cycle. We find that NFRs found at TSS and core promoters are strongly associated with high levels of gene expression in asexual erythrocytic stages, whereas nucleosome-bound TSSs and promoters are associated with silent genes preferentially expressed in sexual stages. The implications in terms of regulatory evolution, adaptation of gene expression and their impact in the design of antimalarial strategies are discussed.
There may be some difficulties to differentiate Behcet's disease (BD), recurrent aphthosis (RA), and herpetic aphthous ulceration, from other mimicking oral disorders. Despite of unexpected sensitivity and responsiveness, the skin pathergy test regarding a non specific hypersensitivity has long been thought as one of auxiliary diagnostic benefits for BD. To determine the potential usefulness and disease specificity of the prick reaction with saliva, a skin prick test with neat and filter-sterilized saliva was performed on the forearm skin of 26 individuals; 10 patients with BD (8 incomplete type without uveitis, 1 complete type, and 1 neurological type), 5 with RA, 3 with herpetic oral aphthosis, 2 with erythema nodosum alone, and 6 healthy controls. We assessed the skin reaction at 48 hours after pricking, and the pricked skin lesions were biopsied and analyzed immunohistologically. Nine of 10 BD patients (90 %) exhibited an indurative erythema at the skin site pricked with self-saliva, whereas 3 of 5 RA patients (60%) were relatively weak reaction. Pricking with filter-sterilized saliva failed to recapitulate any of positive skin reactions, albeit a faint erythematous dot appeared in a few BD patients, implicating the involvement of causative microorganism(s) in oral bacterial flora. Culture of saliva from 3 randomly chosen BD patients revealed numerous streptococcal colonies on Mitis-Salivarius agar. Histology of the pricked skin sites showed perivascular inflammatory infiltrates, composed of CD4+ T cells and CD68+ monocyte/macrophage lineage, a feature consistent with a delayed type hypersensitive reaction. Our results suggested that skin prick test using self-saliva (a new diagnostic pathergy) can be a simple and valuable in vivo diagnostic approach for differentiating BD and RA from other mimicking mucocutaneous diseases. The positive skin prick may be triggered by resident intra-oral microflora, particularly streptococci, and may in part address the underlying immunopathology in BD.
Previous research has led to the idea that derived traits can arise through the evolution of novel roles for conserved genes. We explored whether neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like signalling, a conserved pathway that regulates food-related behaviour, is involved in a derived, nutritionally-related trait, the division of labour in worker honey bees. Transcripts encoding two NPY-like peptides were expressed in separate populations of brain neurosecretory cells, consistent with endocrine functions. NPY-related genes were upregulated in the brains of older foragers compared with younger bees performing brood care ('nurses'). A subset of these changes can be attributed to nutrition, but neuropeptide F peptide treatments did not influence sugar intake. These results contrast with recent reports of more robust associations between division of labour and the related insulin-signalling pathway and suggest that some elements of molecular pathways associated with feeding behaviour may be more evolutionarily labile than others.
Fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) is a neurodegenerative mycotoxin produced by Fusarium verticiloides mould that contaminates maize worldwide. FB(1) toxicity has been connected with deregulation of sphingolipid metabolism, but the mechanism of cytotoxicity remains controversial. In cell cultures of rat primary astrocytes and human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y), we found that FB(1) inhibits mitochondrial complex I, which leads to a decrease in the rate of mitochondrial and cellular respiration, depolarisation of the mitochondrial membrane, induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in mitochondria and deregulation of calcium signalling. Despite the increase in ROS production, the intracellular level of glutathione (GSH) was significantly increased. After 24h of FB(1) exposure, no cell death was observed. Thus, mitochondria appear to be the primary target of FB(1), which leads to sustained deregulation of calcium homeostasis and presumably to cell death.
There is mounting evidence implicating the role of oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) in neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer's disease. In this study we aimed to investigate the possible protective effect of chitooligosaccharide (COS), an antioxidant oligosaccharide, on hydrogen peroxide induced apoptosis in NGF-differentitated rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. COS treatment reversed the decrease of cell viability induced by H(2)O(2) and this was associated with diminished intracellular ROS and decreased level of cytosolic Ca(2+). Additionally, COS contributed to up-regulation of Bcl-2, down regulation of Bax protein and reduction of cleaved Caspase-3 protein. COS treatment stabilized Nrf2 in nucleus and increased the Hsp70 level within cell while down-regulated Hsp90 expression. Moreover, COS could inhibit the phosphorylation of different mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPKs), whose aberrant phosphorylation has been implicated in AD. Our findings suggest that heat shock response and MAPK cascades are both involved in cell survival, and by concomitantly regulating both pathways, COS can be a promising agent in treating neurodegenerative diseases.
Hypoxia ischemia (HI; reduced blood oxygenation and/or flow to the brain) represents one of the most common injuries for both term and preterm/very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. These children experience elevated incidence of cognitive and/or sensory processing disabilities, including language based learning disabilities. Clinical data also indicate more substantial long-term deficits for HI injured male babies as compared to HI injured females. Previously, we reported significant deficits in rapid auditory processing and spatial learning in male rats with postnatal day 1 (P1), P7, or P10 HI injury. We also showed sex differences in HI injured animals, with more severe deficits in males as compared to females. Given these findings, combined with extant clinical data, the current study sought to assess a putative role for perinatal testosterone in modulating behavioral outcome following early hypoxic-ischemic injury in rats. Male, female, and testosterone-propionate (TP) treated females were subjected to P7 HI or sham surgery, and subsequently (P30+) underwent a battery of auditory testing and water maze assessment. Results confirm previous reports of sex differences following HI, and add new findings of significantly worse performance in TP-treated HI females compared to vehicle treated HI females. Post mortem anatomic analyses showed consistent effects, with significant brain weight decreases seen in HI male and TP-treated HI females but not female HI or sham groups. Further neuromorphometric analysis of brain structures showed that HI male animals exhibited increased pathology relative to HI females as reflected in ventricular enlargement. Findings suggest that neonatal testosterone may act to enhance the deleterious consequences of early HI brain injury, as measured by both neuropathology and behavior.
Stochastic systems are infinitely dimensional and deterministic systems are low dimensional, while real systems lie somewhere between these two limit cases. If the calculation of a low (finite) dimension is in fact possible, one could conclude that the system under study is not purely random. In the present work we calculate the maximal Lyapunov exponent from interspike intervals time series recorded from the internal segment of the Globus Pallidusfrom patients with Parkinson's disease. We show the convergence of the maximal Lyapunov exponent at a dimension equal to 7 or 8, which is therefore our estimation of the embedding dimension for the system. For dimensions below 7 the observed behavior is what would be expected from a stochastic system or a complex system projecting onto lower dimensional spaces. The maximal Lyapunov exponent did not show any differences between tremor and akineto-rigid forms of the disease. However, it did decay with the value of motor Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale -OFF scores. Patients with a more severe disease (higher UPDRS-OFF score) showed a lower value of the maximal Lyapunov exponent. Taken together, both indexes (the maximal Lyapunov exponent and the embedding dimension) remark the importance of taking into consideration the system's non-linear properties for a better understanding of the information transmission in the basal ganglia.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is common in community and clinical settings. The associated individual and societal burden is substantial, but many of those who could benefit from treatment are not recognized or treated. This paper reviews the pharmacological treatment of GAD, based on findings of randomized placebo-controlled studies. Particular attention is paid to response rates to acute treatment, treatment tolerability, prediction of response, duration of treatment, and further management of patients who do not respond to initial treatment approaches. On the basis of their proven efficacy and reasonable tolerability in randomized placebo-controlled trials, recent evidence-based guidelines for pharmacological management have recommended initial treatment with either a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, although there is also good evidence for the efficacy of pregabalin and quetiapine. It is difficult to predict reliably which patients will respond well to pharmacological treatment, but response to antidepressants is unlikely if there is no evidence of an onset of effect within 4 wk. The small number of placebo-controlled relapse-prevention studies causes uncertainty about the optimal duration of treatment after a satisfactory initial response, but continuing treatment for at least 12 months is recommended. There have been few investigations of the further management of patients who have not responded to first-line treatment, but switching to another evidence-based treatment, or augmentation approaches may be beneficial.
N-substituted benztropine (BZT) analogs are molecules that display high affinity for the dopamine transporter (DAT), therapeutic-like effects in animal models of cocaine abuse, and psychopharmacological characteristics consistent with those of a substitute medication for cocaine addiction. Since amphetamine (Amph) and cocaine share mechanisms of action at the DAT, we evaluated the effectiveness of a BZT analog in animal models of Amph addiction. We tested in mice and rats the effects of the BZT derivative, 3-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane (AHN-1055), on Amph-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), locomotor activity, sensitization, self-administration and FosB accumulation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The results showed that AHN-1055 did not produce rewarding, stimulant, or sensitized locomotor effects in mice when administered alone but it readily blocked the rewarding, stimulant, and sensitizing effects of repeated Amph exposure. Furthermore, in mice undergoing conditioning in the CPP paradigm, the BZT analog prevented the accumulation of FosB protein induced in the NAc shell region by Amph treatment. Notably, treatment with AHN-1055 dose-dependently reduced Amph self-administration in rats with a steady history of voluntary Amph intake. These results provide a straightforward demonstration that a BZT derivative with binding affinity for DAT exhibits high efficacy in animal models of Amph abuse, suggesting that the novel generation of BZT analogs could have wider therapeutic applications in stimulant-spectrum disorders than those previously recognized.


In previous studies event-related potentials and oscillations in response to subject's own name have been analyzed extensively on group-level in healthy subjects and in patients with a disorder of consciousness. Subject's own name as a deviant produces a P3. With equiprobable stimuli, non-phase-locked alpha oscillations are smaller in response to subject's own name compared to other names or subject's own name backwards. However, little is known about replicability on a single-subject level. Seventeen healthy subjects were assessed in an own-name paradigm with equiprobable stimuli of subject's own name, another name, and subject's own name backwards. Event-related potentials and non-phase locked oscillations were analyzed with single-subject, non-parametric statistics. No consistent results were found either for ERPs or for the non-phase locked changes of oscillatory activities. Only 4 subjects showed a robust effect as expected, that is, a lower activity in the alpha-beta range to subject's own name compared to other conditions. Four subjects elicited a higher activity for subject's own name. Thus, analyzing the EEG reactivity in the own-name paradigm with equiprobable stimuli on a single-subject level yields a high variance between subjects. In future research, single-subject statistics should be applied for examining the validity of physiologic measurements in other paradigms and for examining the pattern of reactivity in patients.

Rationale Reperfusion in ischemic stroke can be pursued by either systemic intravenous thrombolysis or endovascular treatment. However, systemic intravenous thrombolysis with alteplase within 45h of symptom onset in selected patients is the only medication of proven efficacy. No randomized-controlled trials have so far compared the two modalities. To explore this, after a pilot phase, we started the SYNTHESIS Expansion trial. Aims To determine whether endovascular treatment (i.e., intra-arterial thrombolysis with alteplase - if necessary, associated to or substituted by mechanical clot disruption and/or retrieval) compared with systemic intravenous thrombolysis with alteplase, administered according to European labelling, increases the proportion of independent survivors at three-months. Design SYNTHESIS Expansion is an open-label, multicenter randomized-controlled trial, with blinded follow-up. Eligibility applies to; patients with symptomatic ischemic stroke, seen within 45h of onset; being able to initiate intravenous alteplase immediately, and endovascular treatment as soon as possible (not later than six-hours of stroke onset). The study is pragmatically based on the 'uncertainty principle' between endovascular treatment and systemic intravenous thrombolysis for patients eligible for intravenous alteplase. There are no prespecified clinical or instrumental criteria to further select a patient, although investigators are left free to use them. Enrollment will be completed with 350 randomized patients. Primary analysis is on an intent-to-treat basis. Study outcomes Primary: modified Rankin scale score of 0 or 1 at three-months. Secondary: neurological deficit seven-days after thrombolysis and the safety of the procedure on the basis of events reported within seven-days following thrombolysis - symptomatic cerebral hemorrhage, fatal and nonfatal stroke, death from any cause, neurological deterioration.

Circadian clocks are the endogenous oscillators that harmonize a variety of physiological processes within the body. Although many urinary functions exhibit clear daily or circadian variation in diurnal humans and nocturnal rodents, the precise mechanisms of these variations are as yet unclear. In this review, we briefly introduce circadian clocks and their organization in mammals. We then summarize known daily or circadian variations in urinary function. Importantly, recent findings by others as well as results obtained by us suggest an active role of circadian clock genes in various urinary functions. Finally, we discuss possible research avenues for the circadian control of urinary function.


This study aims at reviving an important contribution by the pioneer neurobiologist and neurophilosopher Christfried Jakob (1866-1956) to the understanding of higher cortical functions. Jakob studied cortical dynamics at multiple levels by comparing gnoses and praxes and their corresponding pathological states, i.e. the agnosias and the apraxias. We herein provide a complete English translation of Jakob's original Spanish article dating to 1921, and further consider some key points under the scope of the neuropsychological knowledge available then, and the research evidence available 90 years later.
The regulatory constraints imposed on use of chemical control agents in agriculture are rendering crops increasingly vulnerable to plant parasitic nematodes. Thus, it is important that new control strategies which meet requirements for low toxicity to non-target species, vertebrates and the environment are pursued. This would be greatly facilitated by an improved understanding of the physiology and pharmacology of these nematodes, but to date, these microscopic species of the Phylum Nematoda have attracted little attention in this regard. In this review, the current information available for neurotransmitters and neuromodulator in the plant parasitic nematodes is discussed in the context of the more extensive literature for other species in the phylum, most notably Caenorhabditis elegans and Ascaris suum. Areas of commonality and distinctiveness in terms of neurotransmitter profile and function between these species are highlighted with a view to improving understanding of to what extent, and with what level of confidence, this information may be extrapolated to the plant parasitic nematodes.
Cannabis is the most commonly used illicit drug worldwide. Cannabis users also appear to use other psychoactive drugs more frequently than noncannabis users. Here, 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and diazepam binding to human serum albumin (HSA) and HSA-heme is reported. THC binds to two different binding sites of HSA (K(d1)  10(-7) M and K(d2) = 10(-3)M) without affecting diazepam binding (K(d) = 1.2  10(-5) M). THC binding to the high-affinity site accounts for the low free fraction of the drug in plasma. Moreover, THC increases the affinity of heme for HSA. Accordingly, the affinity of THC for HSA-heme is higher than that for HSA. THC could bind to FA2 and FA7 sites, as substantiated by docking simulations; nevertheless, the observed allosteric effect(s) suggests that the primary binding site of THC is the FA2 cleft that positively modulates heme affinity. Possibly, the HSA conformational transition(s) induced by THC binding could account for drug delivery to the liver through receptor- mediated endocytosis.
Choroidal neovascularization, an uncommon occurrence in children, may complicate up to 20% of cases of closed-globe blunt trauma with Bruch's membrane rupture. Visual outcome in untreated eyes is usually poor, and there is no consensus on the management of this complication. Treatment options include observation, surgical removal of the membrane, photocoagulation, or photodynamic therapy. Antivascular endothelial growth factor therapy has recently been proposed in sporadic adult cases. We report a case of post-traumatic choroidal neovascularization in a boy that has was successfully treated with intravitreal bevacizumab.
Colonies or communities of animals such as fishes, frogs, seabirds, or marine mammals can be noisy. Although vocal communication between clearly identified sender(s) and receiver(s) has been well studied, the properties of the noisy sound that results from the acoustic network of a colony of gregarious animals have received less attention. The resulting sound could nonetheless convey some information about the emitting group. Using custom-written software for automatic detection of vocalizations occurring over many hours of recordings, this study reports acoustic features of communal vocal activities in a gregarious species, the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata). By biasing the sex ratio and using two different housing conditions (individual versus communal housing), six groups of zebra finches were generated, with six different social structures that varied both in terms of sex-composition and proportion of paired individuals. The results showed that the rate of emission and the acoustic dynamic both depended on the social structure. In particular, the vocal activity of a group of zebra finches depended mainly on the number of unpaired birds, i.e., individuals not part of a stably bonded pair.
When a test sound consisting of pure tones with equal intensities is preceded by a precursor sound identical to the test sound except for a reduction in the intensity of one tone, an auditory &quot;enhancement&quot; phenomenon occurs: In the test sound, the tone which was previously softer stands out perceptually. Here, enhancement was investigated using inharmonic sounds made up of five pure tones well resolved in the auditory periphery. It was found that enhancement can be elicited not only by increases in intensity but also by shifts in frequency. In both cases, when the precursor and test sounds are separated by a 500-ms delay, inserting a burst of pink noise during the delay has little effect on enhancement. Presenting the precursor and test sounds to opposite ears rather than to the same ear significantly reduces the enhancement resulting from increases in intensity, but not the enhancement resulting from shifts in frequency. This difference suggests that the mechanisms of enhancement are not identical for the two types of change. For frequency shifts, enhancement may be partly based on the existence of automatic &quot;frequency-shift detectors&quot; [Demany and Ramos, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 117, 833-841 (2005)].
Sensitivity to interaural time differences (ITDs) with unmodulated low-frequency stimuli was assessed in bimodal listeners who had previously shown to be good performers in ITD experiments. Two types of stimuli were used: (1) an acoustic sinusoid combined with an electric transposed signal and (2) an acoustic sinusoid combined with an electric clicktrain. No or very low sensitivity to ITD was found for these stimuli, even though subjects were highly trained on the task and were intensively tested in multiple test sessions. In previous studies with users of a cochlear implant (CI) and a contralateral hearing aid (HA) (bimodal listeners), sensitivity was shown to ITD with modulated stimuli with frequency content between 600 and 3600 Hz. The outcomes of the current study imply that in speech processing design for users of a CI in combination with a HA on the contralateral side, the emphasis should be more on providing salient envelope ITD cues than on preserving fine-timing ITD cues present in acoustic signals.
Currently there are few standardized speech testing materials for Mandarin-speaking cochlear implant (CI) listeners. In this study, Mandarin speech perception (MSP) sentence test materials were developed and validated in normal-hearing subjects listening to acoustic simulations of CI processing. Percent distribution of vowels, consonants, and tones within each MSP sentence list was similar to that observed across commonly used Chinese characters. There was no significant difference in sentence recognition across sentence lists. Given the phonetic balancing within lists and the validation with spectrally degraded speech, the present MSP test materials may be useful for assessing speech performance of Mandarin-speaking CI listeners.





This panel emerged from shared clinical concerns when working with adult patients whose presentation style was reminiscent of a disorganized (Type D) infant attachment pattern. Psychotherapeutic work with such patients poses complicated transference and countertransference dilemmas which are addressed by all four panellists via theory and clinical vignettes. In common is an interest in contemporary attachment, neuroscience and trauma theories and their relationship to analytical psychology. Intergenerational trauma seems to be a salient factor in the evolution of fragmented and fragmenting interactions that lead to failures in self-coherence and healthy interpersonal relationships. Such early relational trauma is compounded by further episodes of abuse and neglect leading to failure in a core sense of self. These clinicians share how they have integrated theory and practice in order to help dissociated and disorganized patients to transform their dark and extraordinary suffering through implicit and explicit experiences with the analyst into new, life giving patterns of relationship with self and others. The alchemy of transformation, both positive and negative, is evident in the case material presented.
A positive inotropic action by the sympathetic nervous system on skeletal muscles has been observed and investigated in animal and in vitro studies. This action provided a theoretical basis for the putative ergogenic action of catecholamines and adrenergic agonists, although there is no clear evidence of this effect in humans. The aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence of inotropic effects associated to physiological sympathetic activation in healthy subjects. The muscle force capacity was investigated in the tibialis anterior (n = 9 subjects) and in the soleus (n = 9) muscles electrically stimulated with single pulses and double pulses with variable interspike interval (4-1,000 ms) and short pulse trains (frequency: 5-14 Hz) before, during, and after sympathetic activation by the cold pressor test (CPT). CPT significantly decreased by 10.4  7.2 and 10.6  4.4% the force produced by single and double pulse stimulation, respectively, and produced smaller decreases in the force obtained by train stimulation in the tibialis anterior, while no significant changes were observed in either type of contraction in the soleus muscle. CPT failed to induce any increase in the force capacity of the investigated muscles. The prevalent decrease in force evidenced in this study supports the concept that the weakening sympathetic action on type I fiber, already shown to occur in humans, prevails over the putative potentiating action.
In this study, we analyze the processing of low-frequency sounds in the cochlear apex through responses of auditory nerve fibers (ANFs) that innervate the apex. Single tones and irregularly spaced tone complexes were used to evoke ANF responses in Mongolian gerbil. The spike arrival times were analyzed in terms of phase locking, peripheral frequency selectivity, group delays, and the nonlinear effects of sound pressure level (SPL). Phase locking to single tones was similar to that in cat. Vector strength was maximal for stimulus frequencies around 500Hz, decreased above 1kHz, and became insignificant above 4 to 5kHz. We used the responses to tone complexes to determine amplitude and phase curves of ANFs having a characteristic frequency (CF) below 5kHz. With increasing CF, amplitude curves gradually changed from broadly tuned and asymmetric with a steep low-frequency flank to more sharply tuned and asymmetric with a steep high-frequency flank. Over the same CF range, phase curves gradually changed from a concave-upward shape to a concave-downward shape. Phase curves consisted of two or three approximately straight segments. Group delay was analyzed separately for these segments. Generally, the largest group delay was observed near CF. With increasing SPL, most amplitude curves broadened, sometimes accompanied by a downward shift of best frequency, and group delay changed along the entire range of stimulus frequencies. We observed considerable across-ANF variation in the effects of SPL on both amplitude and phase. Overall, our data suggest that mechanical responses in the apex of the cochlea are considerably nonlinear and that these nonlinearities are of a different character than those known from the base of the cochlea.
The establishment of a functional brain requires coordinated and stereotyped formation of synapses between neurons. For this, trans-synaptic molecular cues (synaptic organizers) are exchanged between a neuron and its target to organize appropriate synapses. The understanding of signalling mechanisms by which such synaptic organizers lead to synapse formation is just being elucidated. However, recent studies revealed that some of these cues act through receptor protein tyrosine kinases (RPTKs) or phosphatases (RPTPs). Synaptogenic RPTKs and RPTPs pattern synaptic network through affecting local protein-protein binding dynamics, changing the phosphorylation state of signalling cascades, or promoting gene expression. Each RPTK or RPTP has distinct roles in synapse formation, serving at different synapses or showing differential synaptogenic effects. Thus, tyrosine phosphorylation signalling plays critical roles in building the orchestrated synaptic circuitry in the brain.
FCCP (carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone), a classical uncoupler of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, is used in this study as a model to clarify how interactions of uncouplers with membrane lipid bilayers may influence membrane biophysics and their protonophoric activity itself. In order to disclose putative effects that may be important when considering using uncouplers for pharmacological purposes, an extensive characterization of FCCP membrane lipid interactions using accurate biophysical approaches and simple model lipid systems was carried out. Differential scanning calorimetry studies showed that FCCP molecules disturb lipid bilayers and favor lateral phase separation in mixed lipid systems. (31)P NMR assays indicated that FCCP alters the curvature elastic properties of membrane models containing non-bilayer lipids, favoring lamellar/H(II) transition, probably by alleviation of hydrocarbon-packing constraints in the inverted hexagonal phase. Taking advantage of FCCP quenching effects on the fluorescent probes DPH (1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene) and DPH-PA (3-(p-(6-phenyl)-1,3,5-hexatrienyl)phenylpropionic acid), it is demonstrated that FCCP distributes across the bilayer thickness in both a single and a ternary lipid system mimicking the inner mitochondrial membrane. This behavior is consistent with the ability of the compound to migrate through the thickness of the inner mitochondrial membrane, an event required for its protonophoric activity. Finally, the study of the membrane fluidity in different lipid systems, as reported by the rotational correlation time () of DPH or DPH-PA, showed that the extension at which FCCP disturbs membrane properties associated with the dynamics and the order of lipid molecules depends on the lipid composition of the model lipid system assayed.
The study of ligand-receptor interactions using high-resolution NMR techniques, namely the saturation transfer difference (STD), is presented for the recognition process between La(III) complexes of 1,4,7,10-tetrakis(carboxymethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane monoamide and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid bisamide glycoconjugates and the galactose-specific lectin Ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA(120)). This new class of Gd(III)-based potential targeted MRI contrast agents (CAs), bearing one or two terminal sugar (galactosyl or lactosyl) moieties, has been designed for in vivo binding to the asialoglycoprotein receptor, which is specifically expressed at the surface of liver hepatocytes, with the aim of leading to a new possible diagnosis of liver diseases. The in vitro affinity constants for the affinity of the divalent La(III)-glycoconjugate complexes for RCA(120), used as a simple, water-soluble receptor model, were higher than those of the monovalent analogues. The combination of the experimental data obtained from the STD NMR experiments with molecular modelling protocols (Autodock 4.1) allowed us to predict the mode of binding of monovalent and divalent forms of these CAs to the galactose 1 binding sites of RCA(120). The atomic details of the molecular interactions allowed us to corroborate and supported the interaction of both sugar moieties and the linkers with the surface of the protein and, thus, their contribution to the observed interaction stabilities.
This paper illustrates an informatic technique for inferring and quantifying the dynamic role of a single intrinsic current in a mechanism of neural bursting activity. We analyze the patterns of the most dominant currents in a model of half-center oscillation in the leech heartbeat central pattern generator. We find that the patterns of dominance change substantially over a cycle, allowing different local reductions to be applied to the model. The result is a hybrid dynamical systems model, which is a piecewise representation of the mechanism combining multiple vector fields and discrete state changes. The simulation of such a model tests explicit hypotheses about the mechanism and is a novel way to retain both mathematical clarity and scientific detail in answering mechanistic questions about a complex model. Several insights into the central mechanism of &quot;escape-release&quot; in the model are elucidated by this analysis and compared with previous studies. The broader application and extension of this technique is also discussed.

Recently, resting-state functional near-infrared spectroscopy (rs-fNIRS) research has experienced tremendous progress. Resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) has been adopted as a pivotal biomarker in rs-fNIRS studies. However, it is yet to be clear if the RSFC derived from rs-fNIRS is reliable. This concern impedes extensive utilization of rs-fNIRS. We systematically address the issue of reliability. Sixteen subjects participate in two rs-fNIRS sessions held one week apart. RSFC in sensorimotor system is calculated using the seed-correlation approach. Then, test-retest reliability is evaluated at three different scales (map-, cluster-, and channelwise) for individual- and group-level RSFC derived from different types of fNIRS signals [oxygenated (HbO), deoxygenated (HbR), and total hemoglobin (HbT)]. The results show that, for HbO signals, individual-level RSFC generally has good-to-excellent map-/clusterwise reliability, while group-level RSFC has excellent reliability. For HbT signals, the results are similar. For HbR signals, the clusterwise reliability is comparable to that for HbO while the mapwise reliability is slightly lower (fair to good). Focusing on RSFC at a single channel, we report poor channelwise reliability for all three types of signals. We hereby propose that fNIRS-derived RSFC is a reliable biomarker if interpreted in map- and clusterwise manners. However, channelwise interpretation of individual RSFC should proceed with caution.
The capacity of the blood enzyme glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) to remove glutamate from the brain by means of blood glutamate degradation has been shown in experimental models to be an efficient and novel neuroprotective tool against ischemic stroke; however, the beneficial effects of this enzyme should be tested in patients with stroke to validate these results. This study aims to investigate the association of GOT levels in blood with clinical outcome in patients with acute ischemic stroke. In two clinical independent studies, we found that patients with poor outcome show higher glutamate and lower GOT levels in blood at the time of admission. Lower GOT levels and higher glutamate levels were independently associated with poorer functional outcome at 3 months and higher infarct volume. These findings show a clear association between high blood glutamate levels and worse outcome and vice versa for GOT, presumably explained by the capacity of this enzyme to metabolize blood glutamate.
As ischemic stroke is associated with an excessive release of glutamate into the neuronal extracellular space, a decrease in blood glutamate levels could provide a mechanism to remove it from the brain tissue, by increasing the brain-blood gradient. In this regard, the ability of glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) to metabolize glutamate in blood could represent a potential neuroprotective tool for ischemic stroke. This study aimed to determine the neuroprotective effects of GOT in an animal model of cerebral ischemia by means of a middle cerebral arterial occlusion (MCAO) following the Stroke Therapy Academic Industry Roundtable (STAIR) group guidelines. In this animal model, oxaloacetate-mediated GOT activation inhibited the increase of blood and cerebral glutamate after MCAO. This effect is reflected in a reduction of infarct size, smaller edema volume, and lower sensorimotor deficits with respect to controls. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy confirmed that the increase of glutamate levels in the brain parenchyma after MCAO is inhibited after oxaloacetate-mediated GOT activation. These findings show the capacity of the GOT to remove glutamate from the brain by means of blood glutamate degradation, and suggest the applicability of this enzyme as an efficient and novel neuroprotective tool against ischemic stroke.
Prophylactic neuroprotection against stroke could reduce stroke burden in thousands of patients at high risk of stroke, including those with recent transient ischemic attacks (TIAs). Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors (PHIs), such as deferoxamine (DFO), reduce stroke volume when administered at high doses in the peristroke period, which is largely mediated by the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (HIF-1). Yet, in vitro experiments suggest that PHIs may also induce neuroprotection independent of HIF-1. In this study, we examine chronic, prophylactic, low-dose treatment with DFO, or another iron chelator deferasirox (DFR), to determine whether they are neuroprotective with this paradigm and mediate their effects through a HIF-1-dependent mechanism. In fact, prophylactic administration of low-dose DFO or DFR significantly reduces stroke volume. Surprisingly, DFO remained neuroprotective in mice haploinsufficient for HIF-1 (HIF-1+/-) and transgenic mice with conditional loss of HIF-1 function in neurons and astrocytes. Similarly, DFR was neuroprotective in HIF-1+/- mice. Neither DFO nor DFR induced expression of HIF-1 targets. Thus, low-dose chronic administration of DFO or DFR induced a prolonged neuroprotective state independent of HIF-1 function. As DFR is an orally administered and well-tolerated medication in clinical use, it has promise for prophylaxis against stroke in patients at high risk of stroke.
Stroke triggers an intense inflammatory response that could be a consequence of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) activation. However, the clinical significance and the therapeutic possibilities of TLR in stroke is not completely clear. In this study, we analyze the association between the expression of TLR2 and TLR4, inflammatory molecules and endogenous ligands, and clinical outcome of ischemic stroke patients, and we test the potential of TLR2/TLR4 and their endogenous ligands as therapeutic targets. For this purpose, we included 110 patients with ischemic stroke finding that TLR2 and TLR4 are independently associated to poor outcome and correlated with higher serum levels of interleukin (IL)1, IL6, tumor necrosis factor , and VCAM1, and that TLR4 was independently associated to lesion volume. In addition, we have developed an in vitro model to test the potential therapeutic value of blocking TLR2/TLR4 or their endogenous ligands. Cultured cells (monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells) were treated with serum from ischemic stroke patients, showing a strong inflammatory response that was blocked when TLR2/4 or cellular fibronectin (cFN) or HSP60 were blocked. In conclusion, TLR2 and TLR4 are associated to outcome in stroke patients and TLR2/4 or their endogenous ligands, cFN/HSP60 could be new therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke.
Spontaneous intracranial hypotension results from 1 or more spontaneous spinal cerebrospinal fluid leaks, and generally presents with severe and persisting orthostatic headache. Diagnosis can be difficult as spontaneous intracranial hypotension is very rare in childhood and has a wide spectrum of clinical features and neuroimaging findings. Lumbar autologous epidural blood patch can be helpful for confirmation of diagnosis and symptom relief. We report a 15-year-old female with spontaneous intracranial hypotension who experienced immediate resolution of her symptoms following lumbar autologous epidural blood patch on 2 occasions, and review the literature on this well-recognized but probably underdiagnosed headache syndrome in childhood.
Hashimoto's encephalopathy, a steroid-responsive encephalopathy, presents with cognitive deterioration, psychiatric symptoms, and seizures and is often associated with elevation of anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies or thyroid dysfunction. Because of the absence of a gold-standard diagnostic test and serological marker of disease, improvement in cognitive impairment is an important sign when assessing response to corticosteroid treatment. The purpose of this case study is to present a methodology for tracking neurocognitive functioning using computerized testing (CNS Vital Signs) in a 14-year-old girl with Hashimoto's encephalopathy. Computerized neuropsychological testing was done prior to commencing corticosteroid treatment, as well as at 7 follow-up assessments over 1 year. Improvement in cognitive, psychological, and behavioral functioning heralded a response to treatment, which was sustained during tapering of medication. Computerized neuropsychological testing seems to be a viable tool for tracking cognitive functioning (when rapid assessments are desired) and assessing response to corticosteroid treatment in Hashimoto's encephalopathy.

A liquid chromatography method coupled to mass spectrometry was developed for the quantification of bupropion, its metabolite hydroxy-bupropion, moclobemide, reboxetine and trazodone in human plasma. The validation of the analytical procedure was assessed according to Socit Franaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques and the latest Food and Drug Administration guidelines. The sample preparation was performed with 0.5 mL of plasma extracted on a cation-exchange solid phase 96-well plate. The separation was achieved in 14 min on a C18 XBridge column (2.1 mm100 mm, 3.5 m) using a 50 mM ammonium acetate pH 9/acetonitrile mobile phase in gradient mode. The compounds of interest were analysed in the single ion monitoring mode on a single quadrupole mass spectrometer working in positive electrospray ionisation mode. Two ions were selected per molecule to increase the number of identification points and to avoid as much as possible any false positives. Since selectivity is always a critical point for routine therapeutic drug monitoring, more than sixty common comedications for the psychiatric population were tested. For each analyte, the analytical procedure was validated to cover the common range of concentrations measured in plasma samples: 1-400 ng/mL for reboxetine and bupropion, 2-2000 ng/mL for hydroxy-bupropion, moclobemide, and trazodone. For all investigated compounds, reliable performance in terms of accuracy, precision, trueness, recovery, selectivity and stability was obtained. One year after its implementation in a routine process, this method demonstrated a high robustness with accurate values over the wide concentration range commonly observed among a psychiatric population.
Rather than arising from the passive accumulation of excess calories, obesity is a state in which the biologically defended level of body fat stores increases due to defects in the homeostatic process that matches food intake and energy expenditure over time. By deleting leptin receptors from distinct brain regions and neuronal subsets, researchers are beginning to identify the neuroanatomical substrates responsible for this regulation. In this issue of the JCI, Scott et al. demonstrate that loss of leptin receptors in a subset of hindbrain neurons increases food intake in mice, but, unlike what is observed when leptin receptors are deleted from hypothalamic neurons, these mice compensate by increasing energy expenditure and hence do not become obese. Although many brain areas can regulate energy intake and/or energy expenditure, it is likely that only a small subset of neurons actively matches the two over time. It is vital to clarify how this works if we are to improve our understanding of obesity pathogenesis and options available for its treatment.

Anton's syndrome is arguably the most striking form of anosognosia. Patients with this syndrome behave as if they can see despite their obvious blindness. Although best known for his description of asomatognosia and visual anosognosia, Gabriel Anton (1858-1933) made other significant contributions to the clinical neurosciences, including pioneering work in neurosurgery, neuropsychology, and child psychiatry. However, it has not been recognized in the English literature that Anton was also a dedicated advocate of eugenics and racial hygiene. This paper provides a case of Anton's syndrome and puts the works of Gabriel Anton into their historic context.
Costello syndrome is a congenital disorder because of HRAS gene mutation, frequently associated with neurologic impairment and sleep disorders. The aims of the study were to evaluate the sleep EEG, and particularly the sleep spindles, in a population of patients with Costello syndrome and to compare them with those characterizing unaffected subjects. Eleven subjects (5 men and 6 women) with Costello syndrome were included in the study; age ranged between 18 months and 31 years (mean, 9.6  9.4 years). The diagnosis was posed on the basis of established clinical criteria and confirmed molecularly. Sleep EEG was studied by means of full-night, laboratory-based video-polysomnography, performed overnight, during hospitalization. Sleep activity was quantified by means of power spectral analysis. Patients heterozygous for an HRAS mutation exhibited increased EEG power in 12- to 15-Hz activity band compared with age-matched control subjects. In conclusion, the authors observed a consistent increase in the amplitude of cortical sleep spindles in all our subjects with an HRAS mutation. These &quot;giant&quot; spindles were not associated with any evidence of structural damage of the cortex or the thalami and should be considered as phenotypic feature of sleep EEG activity in Costello syndrome because of HRAS mutation.
As patients lose their physical independence, disturbances in gait are a leading cause for institutional care in Parkinson's disease (PD). For many years, clinicians have acknowledged the role that external visual cues often have on improving gait in PD. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience, C.A. Lebold and Q.J. Almeida present data that dissects out the roles of focused attention and proprioceptive processing in the amelioration of gait deficits. Their findings suggest that focused visual attention on the lower limbs in PD may be compensating for a deficit in proprioceptive processing. This study highlights the potential therapeutic benefits of strategies that could tap into this mechanism.
Pellagra is the clinical manifestation of niacin deficiency. The classical manifestations of pellagra include diarrhea, dementia, and dermatitis, but not all patients with pellagra present with all three manifestations. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience Hiraga et al. present an interesting patient with pellagra who has laryngitis and hoarseness. Clinicians should remain alert for both the common and uncommon clinical manifestations of pellagra.

It is well known that the sedative properties of antihistamines can differ considerably between individual drugs. Several factors have been suggested to determine the presence, absence, and/or magnitude of sedation by antihistamines. Research has suggested that the sedative effects caused by central H1 blockade partly depend on the availability of histamine competing for the same receptor and that this competition is affected by a mechanism related to sleep. Consequently, the present study was designed to compare the effects of evening and morning doses of the first-generation antihistamine hydroxyzine on cognition. It was expected that the sedative effect of hydroxyzine would be apparent in the evening after an evening dose but would be smaller in the morning after a morning dose owing to the greater release of histamine shortly after awakening. Eighteen participants (9 females) participated in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind 3-way crossover design. Performance was assessed using several psychomotor tests: that is, divided attention task, critical tracking task, stop signal task, the attention network test, and the experimental attention switch task. Results demonstrated that evening doses of hydroxyzine impaired performance on the divided attention and the attention network test. Impairment after morning doses was generally larger in magnitude and affected performance measures in all tasks. It is concluded that hydroxyzine-induced impairment at tmax is more prominent after morning doses compared with evening doses and that the present study could not present direct evidence to substantiate the hypothesis that histamine availability inversely affects the magnitude of antihistamine impairment.
Self-projection, the capacity to re-experience the personal past and to mentally infer another person's perspective, has been linked to medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In particular, ventral mPFC is associated with inferences about one's own self, whereas dorsal mPFC is associated with inferences about another individual. In the present fMRI study, we examined self-projection using a novel camera technology, which employs a sensor and timer to automatically take hundreds of photographs when worn, in order to create dynamic visuospatial cues taken from a first-person perspective. This allowed us to ask participants to self-project into the personal past or into the life of another person. We predicted that self-projection to the personal past would elicit greater activity in ventral mPFC, whereas self-projection of another perspective would rely on dorsal mPFC. There were three main findings supporting this prediction. First, we found that self-projection to the personal past recruited greater ventral mPFC, whereas observing another person's perspective recruited dorsal mPFC. Second, activity in ventral versus dorsal mPFC was sensitive to parametric modulation on each trial by the ability to relive the personal past or to understand another's perspective, respectively. Third, task-related functional connectivity analysis revealed that ventral mPFC contributed to the medial temporal lobe network linked to memory processes, whereas dorsal mPFC contributed to the fronto-parietal network linked to controlled processes. In sum, these results suggest that ventral-dorsal subregions of the anterior midline are functionally dissociable and may differentially contribute to self-projection of self versus other.
The L1 family of cell adhesion molecules (L1-CAMs) is known to be involved in various neuronal functions such as cell adhesion, axon guidance, and synaptic plasticity. We investigated the detailed expression/changes of a close homolog of the L1 cell adhesion molecule (CHL1) after nerve injury and the possible role on neuropathic pain using the rat spared nerve injury (SNI) model. SNI induced the expression of CHL1 in L4/5 DRG neurons, particularly in small-size injured neurons and in satellite cells. In the spinal cord, CHL1 immunoreactivity increased mainly in laminae I-II of the dorsal horn on the side ipsilateral to the nerve injury. Ultrastructural study clarified the fine localization of CHL1 in axons of primary afferents in the dorsal horn. CHL1 immunoreactivities were localized in the adherence such as axon-axon, axon-dorsal horn neurons (dendrite, soma), and axon-glial cells (astrocyte and microglia). Experimental inhibition of CHL1 adhesion by intrathecal administration of the antibody for CHL1 extracellular domain significantly prevented and reversed SNI-induced mechanical allodynia. Thus, alterations of CHL1 may be involved in the structural plasticity after peripheral nerve injury and have important roles in neuropathic pain.
Inherent in the design of the mammalian auditory system is the precision necessary to transduce complex sounds and transmit the resulting electrical signals to higher neural centers. Unique specializations in the organ of Corti are required to make this conversion, such that mechanical and electrical properties of hair cell receptors are tailored to their specific role in signal coding. Electrophysiological and immunocytochemical characterizations have shown that this principle also applies to neurons of the spiral ganglion, as evidenced by distinctly different firing features and synaptic protein distributions of neurons that innervate high- and low-frequency regions of the cochlea. However, understanding the fine structure of how these properties are distributed along the cochlear partition and within the type I and type II classes of spiral ganglion neurons is necessary to appreciate their functional significance fully. To address this issue, we assessed the localization of the postsynaptic AMPA receptor subunits GluR2 and GluR3 and the presynaptic protein synaptophysin by using immunocytochemical labeling in both postnatal and adult tissue. We report that these presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins are distributed oppositely in relation to the tonotopic map and that they are equally distributed in each neuronal class, thus having an overall gradation from one end of the cochlea to the other. For synaptophysin, an additional layer of heterogeneity was superimposed orthogonal to the tonotopic axis. The highest anti-synaptophysin antibody levels were observed within neurons located close to the scala tympani compared with those located close to the scala vestibuli. Furthermore, we noted that the protein distribution patterns observed in postnatal preparations were largely retained in adult tissue sections, indicating that these features characterize spiral ganglion neurons in the fully developed ear.
A subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) expresses the photopigment melanopsin, rendering these cells intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs). These cells are critical for competent circadian entrainment, pupillary light reflex, and other non-imaging-forming photic responses. Research has now demonstrated the presence of multiple subpopulations of ipRGC based on the dendritic stratification in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), those monostratified in the Off sublamina (M1), those monostratified in the On sublamina (M2,4,5), and those bistratified in both the On and the Off sublaminae (M3). Despite evidence that M1 and M2 cells are distinct subpopulations of ipRGC based on distinct morphological and physiological properties, the inclusion of M3 cells as a distinct subtype has remained controversial. Aside from the identification of M3 cells as a morphological subpopulation of ipRGC, to date there have been no functional descriptions of M3 cell physiology or synaptic inputs. Our data provide the first in-depth description of M3 cell structural and functional properties. We report that M3 cells form a morphologically heterogeneous population but one that is physiologically homogeneous with properties similar to those of M2 cells.
Local interneurons (LNs) play important roles in shaping and modulating the activity of output neurons in primary olfactory centers. Here, we studied the morphological characteristics, odor responses, and neurotransmitter content of LNs in the antennal lobe (AL, the insect primary olfactory center) of the moth Manduca sexta. We found that most LNs are broadly tuned, with all LNs responding to at least one odorant. 70% of the odorants evoked a response, and 22% of the neurons responded to all the odorants tested. Some LNs showed excitatory (35%) or inhibitory (33%) responses only, while 33% of the neurons showed both excitatory and inhibitory responses, depending on the odorant. LNs that only showed inhibitory responses were the most responsive, with 78% of the odorants evoking a response. Neurons were morphologically diverse, with most LNs innervating almost all glomeruli and others innervating restricted portions of the AL. 61 and 39% of LNs were identified as GABA-immunoreactive (GABA-ir) and non-GABA-ir, respectively. We found no correlations between odor responses and GABA-ir, neither between morphology and GABA-ir. These results show that, as observed in other insects, LNs are diverse, which likely determines the complexity of the inhibitory network that regulates AL output.

The perception of sensory stimuli by an animal requires several steps, commencing with the capture of stimulus energy by an antenna that, as the interface between the physical world and the nervous system, modifies the stimulus in ways that enhance the animal's perception. The mammalian external ear, for example, collects sound and spectrally alters it to increase sensitivity and improve the detection of directionality. In view of the morphological diversity of the lateral-line system across species and its accessibility to observation and experimental intervention, we sought to investigate the role of antennal structures on the response characteristics of the lateral line. The surface-feeding killifish Aplocheilus lineatus is able to hunt in darkness by detecting surface capillary waves with the lateral-line system atop its head. This cephalic lateral line consists of a stereotyped array of 18 mechanosensitive neuromasts bordered by fleshy ridges. By recording microphonic potentials, we found that each neuromast has a unique receptive field defined by its sensitivity to stimulation of the water's surface. The ridges help determine these receptive fields by altering the flow of water over each neuromast. Modification of the hydrodynamic environment by the addition of a supplemental ridge changes the pattern of water movement, perturbs the receptive fields of adjacent neuromasts and impairs the fish's localization ability. On the basis of electrophysiological, hydrodynamic and behavioral evidence, we propose that the ridges constitute a hydrodynamic antenna for the cephalic lateral line.
The perceived distance between touches on a single skin surface is larger on regions of high tactile sensitivity than those with lower acuity, an effect known as Weber's illusion. This illusion suggests that tactile size perception involves a representation of the perceived size of body parts preserving characteristics of the somatosensory homunculus. Here, we investigated how body shape is coded within this representation by comparing tactile distances presented in different orientations on the hand. Participants judged which of two tactile distances on the dorsum of their left hand felt larger. One distance was aligned with the proximodistal axis (along the hand), the other with the mediolateral axis (across the hand). Across distances were consistently perceived as larger than along ones. A second experiment showed that this effect is specific to the hairy skin of the hand dorsum and does not occur on glabrous skin of the palm. A third experiment demonstrated that this bias reflects orientation on the hand surface, rather than an eye- or torso-centered reference frame. These results mirror known orientational anisotropies of both tactile acuity and of tactile receptive fields (RFs) of cortical neurons. We suggest that the dorsum of the hand is implicitly represented as wider than it actually is and that the shape of tactile RFs may partly explain distortions of mental body representations.
The associations between relationship adjustment and symptoms of depression and anxiety were evaluated in a sample of pregnant married or cohabiting women (N = 113) who were at risk for perinatal depression because of a prior history of major depression. Women completed self-report measures of relationship adjustment, depressive symptoms, and anxiety symptoms monthly during pregnancy and for the first six months following the birth of their child. Multilevel modeling was used to examine concurrent and time-lagged within-subjects effects for relationship adjustment and depressive and anxiety symptoms. Results revealed that (a) relationship adjustment was associated with both depressive symptoms and anxiety symptoms in concurrent analyses; (b) relationship adjustment was predictive of subsequent anxiety symptoms but not subsequent depressive symptoms in lagged analyses; and (c) depressive symptoms were predictive of subsequent relationship adjustment in lagged analyses with symptoms of depression and anxiety examined simultaneously. These results support the continued investigation into the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between relationship functioning and depressive and anxiety symptoms in women during pregnancy and the postpartum period.
P2X receptors are trimeric cation channels that open in response to the binding of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to a large extracellular domain. The x-ray structure of the P2X4 receptor from zebrafish (zfP2X4) receptor reveals that the extracellular vestibule above the gate opens to the outside through lateral fenestrations, providing a potential pathway for ions to enter and exit the pore. The extracellular region also contains a void at the central axis, providing a second potential pathway. To investigate the energetics of each potential ion permeation pathway, we calculated the electrostatic free energy by solving the Poisson-Boltzmann equation along each of these pathways in the zfP2X4 crystal structure and a homology model of rat P2X2 (rP2X2). We found that the lateral fenestrations are energetically favorable for monovalent cations even in the closed-state structure, whereas the central pathway presents strong electrostatic barriers that would require structural rearrangements to allow for ion accessibility. To probe ion accessibility along these pathways in the rP2X2 receptor, we investigated the modification of introduced Cys residues by methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagents and constrained structural changes by introducing disulfide bridges. Our results show that MTS reagents can permeate the lateral fenestrations, and that these become larger after ATP binding. Although relatively small MTS reagents can access residues in one of the vestibules within the central pathway, no reactive positions were identified in the upper region of this pathway, and disulfide bridges that constrain movements in that region do not prevent ion conduction. Collectively, these results suggest that ions access the pore using the lateral fenestrations, and that these breathe as the channel opens. The accessibility of ions to one of the chambers in the central pathway likely serves a regulatory function.


Despite the fact that migraine and epilepsy are among the commoner brain diseases and that comorbidity of these conditions is well known, only few reports of migralepsy and hemicrania epileptica (HE) have been published according to the current ICHD-II criteria. Particularly, ICHD-II describes &quot;migraine-triggered seizure&quot; (i.e., migralepsy) among complications of migraine at &quot;1.5.5&quot; (as a rare event in which a seizure happens during migrainous aura), while hemicrania epileptica (coded at &quot;7.6.1&quot;) and post-ictal headache (coded at &quot;7.6.2&quot;) are described among headaches attributed to epileptic seizure. However, to date neither the International Headache Society nor the International League against Epilepsy mention that headache/migraine may be the sole ictal epileptic manifestation. Based on the current knowledge, migralepsy is highly unlikely to exist as such. We, therefore, propose to delete this term until clear evidence its existence is provided. Moreover, we herein propose a revision of terminology and classification criteria to properly represent the migraine/headache relationships. We suggest the term &quot;ictal epileptic headache&quot; in cases in which headache/migraine is the sole ictal epileptic manifestation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term outcome in 61 patients with medication-overuse headache (MOH) who 4years previously had been included in a randomized open-label prospective multicentre study. Sixty patients still alive after 4years were invited to a follow-up investigation. Fifty patients (83%) participated. Sixteen visited a neurologist, 22 were interviewed through telephone, 2 gave response by a letter, and 10 were evaluated through hospital records. The influence of baseline characteristics on outcome 4years later was evaluated by non-parametric tests. p values below 0.01 were considered significant. At follow-up, the 50 persons had a mean reduction of 6.5 headache days/month (p&lt;0.001) and 9.5 acute headache medication days/month (p&lt;0.001) compared to baseline. Headache index/month was reduced from 449 to 321 (p&lt;0.001). Sixteen persons (32%) were considered as responders due to a 50% reduction in headache frequency from baseline, whereas 17 (34%) persons met the criteria for MOH. None of the baseline characteristics consistently influenced all five outcome measures. Total Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) score at baseline was predictors (p&lt;0.005) for being a responder after 4years. At 4years' follow-up, one-third of the 50 MOH patients had 50% reduction in headache frequency from baseline. A low total HADS score at baseline was associated with the most favorable outcome.
The functional association between body size and metabolic rate (BS-MR) is one of the most intriguing issues in ecological physiology. An average scaling exponent of 3/4 is broadly observed across animal and plant taxa. The numerical value of 3/4 is theoretically predicted under the optimized version of West, Brown, and Enquist's vascular resource supply network model. Insects, however, have recently been proposed to express a numerically different scaling exponent and thus application of the WBE network model to insects has been rejected. Here, we re-analyze whether such variation is indeed supported by a global deviation across all insect taxa at the order and family levels to assess if specific taxa influence insect metabolic scaling. We show that a previous reported deviation is largely due to the effect of a single insect family (Termitidae). We conclude that the BS-MR relationship in insects broadly supports the core predictions of the WBE model. We suggest that the deviation observed within the termites warrants further investigation and may be due to either difficulty in accurately measuring termite metabolism and/or particularities of their life history. Future work on allometric scaling should assess the nature of variation around the central tendencies in scaling exponents in order to test if this variation is consistent with core assumptions and predictions of the WBE model that stem by relaxing its secondary optimizing assumptions that lead to the 3/4 exponent.
We provide rigorous and exact results characterizing the statistics of spike trains in a network of leaky Integrate-and-Fire neurons, where time is discrete and where neurons are submitted to noise, without restriction on the synaptic weights. We show the existence and uniqueness of an invariant measure of Gibbs type and discuss its properties. We also discuss Markovian approximations and relate them to the approaches currently used in computational neuroscience to analyse experimental spike trains statistics.

Voltage-gated sodium channel -subunit type III (Na(v)1.3) is mainly expressed in the central nervous system and is associated with neurological disorders. The expression of mouse Scn3a product (Na(v)1.3) mainly occurs in embryonic and early postnatal brain but not in adult brain. Here, we report for the first time the identification and characterization of the mouse Scn3a gene promoter region and regulation of the promoter activity by GC box and CpG methylation. Luciferase assay showed that the promoter region F1.2 (nt -1,049 to +157) had significantly higher activity in PC12 cells, comparing with that in SH-SY5Y cells and HEK293 cells. A stepwise 5' truncation of the promoter region found that the minimal functional promoter located within the region nt -168 to +157. Deletion of a GC box (nt -254 to -258) in the mouse Scn3a promoter decreased the promoter activity. CpG methylation of the F1.2 without the GC box completely repressed the promoter activity, suggesting that the GC box is a critical element in the CpG-methylated Scn3a promoter. These results suggest that the GC box and CpG methylation might play important roles in regulating mouse Scn3a gene expression.
Human PRUNE is thought to enhance the metastasis of tumor cells. We found that a hypothetical paralog of PRUNE, PRUNE2, binds to 8-oxo-GTP, an oxidized form of GTP. Hypothetical PRUNE2 gene consists of C9orf65 and BMCC1/BNIPXL, both of which are malignant tumor-associated genes. We isolated PRUNE2 complementary DNA and revealed that the protein is composed of 3,062 residues. C9orf65 and BMCC1/BNIPXL encode the N-terminal part (259 residues) and C-terminal part (2,729 residues) of PRUNE2, respectively. We demonstrated the endogenous full-length PRUNE2 protein (338kDa) by Western blot and mass spectrometry. PRUNE2 bound to 8-oxo-GTP as well as GTP. The expression levels of human PRUNE2 and mouse Prune2 messenger RNA (mRNA) were highest in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and, to a lesser extent, in other nerve tissues. DRG neurons express higher levels of PRUNE2 in their soma compared with adjacent cells. In addition, their expression levels in the adult nerve tissues were higher than those in fetal or neonatal nerve tissues. The present study indicates that C9orf65 and BMCC1/BNIPXL are transcribed as PRUNE2 mRNA, which is translated to a large PRUNE2 protein. The nerve tissue-specific and post-development expression of PRUNE2/Prune2 suggests that PRUNE2 may contribute to the maintenance of mature nervous systems.
The selection of a suitable nerve electrode for neuroprosthetic applications implies a trade-off between invasiveness and selectivity, wherein the ultimate goal is achieving the highest selectivity for a high number of nerve fascicles by the least invasiveness and potential damage to the nerve. The transverse intrafascicular multichannel electrode (TIME) is intended to be transversally inserted into the peripheral nerve and to be useful to selectively activate subsets of axons in different fascicles within the same nerve. We present a comparative study of TIME, LIFE and multipolar cuff electrodes for the selective stimulation of small nerves. The electrodes were implanted on the rat sciatic nerve, and the activation of gastrocnemius, plantar and tibialis anterior muscles was recorded by EMG signals. Thus, the study allowed us to ascertain the selectivity of stimulation at the interfascicular and also at the intrafascicular level. The results of this study indicate that (1) intrafascicular electrodes (LIFE and TIME) provide excitation circumscribed to the implanted fascicle, whereas extraneural electrodes (cuffs) predominantly excite nerve fascicles located superficially; (2) the minimum threshold for muscle activation with TIME and LIFE was significantly lower than with cuff electrodes; (3) TIME allowed us to selectively activate the three tested muscles when stimulating through different active sites of one device, both at inter- and intrafascicular levels, whereas selective activation using multipolar cuff (with a longitudinal tripolar stimulation configuration) was only possible for two muscles, at the interfascicular level, and LIFE did not activate selectively more than one muscle in the implanted nerve fascicle.
This computational study is devoted to the optimal parameter calibration for coordinated reset (CR) stimulation, a stimulation technique suggested for an effective desynchronization of pathological neuronal synchronization. We present a detailed study of the parameter space of the CR stimulation method and show that CR stimulation can induce cluster states, desynchronization and oscillation death. The stimulation-induced cluster states (at CR offset) cause the longest desynchronizing post-stimulus transients, which constitute an essential part of the CR stimulation effect. We discover a desynchronization-related anti-resonance response of the stimulated oscillators induced by a periodic ON-OFF CR stimulation protocol with m cycles ON stimulation followed by n cycles OFF stimulation. The undesired collective oscillations are effectively desynchronized if the stimulation is administered at resonant frequencies of the controlled ensemble, which is in complete contrast to the typical effect of the usual periodic forcing.
A brain-computer interface (BCI) can be used to accomplish a task without requiring motor output. Two major control strategies used by BCIs during task completion are process control and goal selection. In process control, the user exerts continuous control and independently executes the given task. In goal selection, the user communicates their goal to the BCI and then receives assistance executing the task. A previous study has shown that goal selection is more accurate and faster in use. An unanswered question is, which control strategy is easier to learn? This study directly compares goal selection and process control while learning to use a sensorimotor rhythm-based BCI. Twenty young healthy human subjects were randomly assigned either to a goal selection or a process control-based paradigm for eight sessions. At the end of the study, the best user from each paradigm completed two additional sessions using all paradigms randomly mixed. The results of this study were that goal selection required a shorter training period for increased speed, accuracy, and information transfer over process control. These results held for the best subjects as well as in the general subject population. The demonstrated characteristics of goal selection make it a promising option to increase the utility of BCIs intended for both disabled and able-bodied users.
Predominant components in electro- or magneto-encephalography (EEG/MEG) are scalp projections of synchronized neuronal electrical activity distributed over cortical structures. Reconstruction of cortical sources underlying EEG/MEG can thus be achieved with the use of the cortical current density (CCD) model. We have developed a sparse electromagnetic source imaging method based on the CCD model, named as the variation-based cortical current density (VB-SCCD) algorithm, and have shown that it has much enhanced performance in reconstructing extended cortical sources in simulations (Ding 2009 Phys. Med. Biol. 54 2683-97). The present study aims to evaluate the performance of VB-SCCD, for the first time, using experimental data obtained from six participants. The results indicate that the VB-SCCD algorithm is able to successfully reveal spatially distributed cortical sources behind motor potentials induced by visually cued repetitive finger movements, and their dynamic patterns, with millisecond resolution. These findings of motor sources and cortical systems are supported by the physiological knowledge of motor control and evidence from various neuroimaging studies with similar experiments. Furthermore, our present results indicate the improvement of cortical source resolvability of VB-SCCD, as compared with two other classical algorithms. The proposed solver embedded in VB-SCCD is able to handle large-scale computational problems, which makes the use of high-density CCD models possible and, thus, reduces model misspecifications. The present results suggest that VB-SCCD provides high resolution source reconstruction capability and is a promising tool for studying complicated dynamic systems of brain activity for basic neuroscience and clinical neuropsychiatric research.
Automatic spike sorting is a prerequisite for neuroscience research on multichannel extracellular recordings of neuronal activity. A novel spike sorting framework, combining efficient feature extraction and an unsupervised clustering method, is described here. Wavelet transform (WT) is adopted to extract features from each detected spike, and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (KS test) is utilized to select discriminative wavelet coefficients from the extracted features. Next, an unsupervised single linkage clustering method based on grey relational analysis (GSLC) is applied for spike clustering. The GSLC uses the grey relational grade as the similarity measure, instead of the Euclidean distance for distance calculation; the number of clusters is automatically determined by the elbow criterion in the threshold-cumulative distribution. Four simulated data sets with four noise levels and electrophysiological data recorded from the subthalamic nucleus of eight patients with Parkinson's disease during deep brain stimulation surgery are used to evaluate the performance of GSLC. Feature extraction results from the use of WT with the KS test indicate a reduced number of feature coefficients, as well as good noise rejection, despite similar spike waveforms. Accordingly, the use of GSLC for spike sorting achieves high classification accuracy in all simulated data sets. Moreover, J-measure results in the electrophysiological data indicating that the quality of spike sorting is adequate with the use of GSLC.
Neuroplastin-65 (Np65) is a brain-specific cell adhesion molecule belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Homophilic trans-interaction of Np65 mediates adhesion between cells and modulates synaptic plasticity. This interaction solely occurs through the first immunoglobulin (Ig) module of Np65, but the exact binding mechanism has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we identify the homophilic binding motif of Np65 and show that a synthetic peptide modeled after this motif, termed enplastin, binds to Np65. We demonstrate that both Np65- and enplastin-induced intracellular signaling depends on fibroblast growth factor receptor, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, Ca(2+) /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration. In addition, we show that interference with Np65 homophilic binding by enplastin has an inhibitory effect on Np65-mediated neurite outgrowth in vitro and on the initial phase of spatial learning in rats.
Wnt signaling is a key pathway that helps organize development of the nervous system. It influences cell proliferation, cell fate, and cell migration in the developing nervous system, as well as axon guidance, dendrite development, and synapse formation. Given this wide range of roles, dysregulation of Wnt signaling could have any number of deleterious effects on neural development and thereby contribute in many different ways to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders. Some major psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorders, are coming to be understood as subtle dysregulations of nervous system development, particularly of synapse formation and maintenance. This review will therefore touch on the importance of Wnt signaling to neurodevelopment generally, while focusing on accumulating evidence for a synaptic role of Wnt signaling. These observations will be discussed in the context of current understanding of the neurodevelopmental bases of major psychiatric diseases, spotlighting schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorder. In short, this review will focus on the potential role of synapse formation and maintenance in major psychiatric disorders and summarize evidence that defective Wnt signaling could contribute to their pathogenesis via effects on these late neural differentiation processes.
High occurrence of measles, rubella and varicella zoster antibodies has been used as a biomarker for MS (the MRZ test). We analyzed measles antibody titres with respect to measles infection/measles vaccination status in 166 patients with MS or clinically isolated syndrome. Fifty blood donors served as controls. Measles vaccination yielded CSF measles antibodies in fewer patients (62%) than measles infection did (87%, p=0.001) and yielded lower measles titres in both serum and CSF (p&lt;0.001). Controls had lower CSF measles titres than patients with measles vaccination alone (p&lt;0.001). Childhood vaccinations probably reduce the sensitivity of the MRZ diagnostic test for MS.
An impaired vitamin D (vit-D) processing by immune cells of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients may increase their vulnerability for a poor vit-D status. We assessed with qPCR the expression of vit-D related genes in PBMC and CD4+ T-cells. Gene expression profiles of vit-D receptor (VDR), CYP27B1 and CYP24A1 did not differ between RRMS patients and healthy controls. Interestingly, more VDR expression in PBMC correlated with less circulating IFN-+ CD4+ T-cells. Our results suggest that vit-D processing by immune cells is not impaired in RRMS, and is potentially relevant for the composition of the peripheral CD4+ T-cell compartment.

Telemedicine refers to the transfer of medical information from one site to another using distance communications technology. This approach has benefitted many medical specialties, with telestroke being a prelude to its applications in neurology. Our review will focus on the use of telemedicine in neurological practice (teleneurology) following a brief discussion of telestroke. Given the emerging nature of trial evidence in teleneurology, our aim is to provide a narrative review and highlight areas that merit further investigation.
Central neuropathic pain (CNP) after stroke has not been studied in sufficient detail and published studies have only included patients with cerebral artery infarct or hemorrhage. This study evaluates the prevalence and factors associated with CNP after cerebral venous (and sinus) thrombosis (CVT). This observational study included all patients admitted to our stroke unit for CVT between January 2002 and December 2007. Clinical data for each patient were collected prospectively and were combined with retrospective review of neuroradiological imaging. CVT patients were systematically examined at the outpatient clinic at 6 months, 12 months, and annually thereafter, and information on long-term functional outcome, including the presence of CNP, were obtained by open-ended questions. A standardized CNP assessment was performed during the last outpatient visit and was based on the patient's interview and clinical examination. Pain characteristics were assessed by the DN4-questionnaire. CNP was considered when the patient met the following criteria: painful area within the area of sensory abnormalities and follow-up MRI showing brain parenchymal lesion. Among the 43 patients admitted for CVT, seven (16%) developed CNP during the first year of follow-up. Standardized CNP assessment was performed 24.9  11.6 months after CVT: eight patients (19%) suffered from CNP. Initial motor deficit (87 vs. 17%, p &lt; 0.001), initial sensory deficit (62 vs. 20%, p = 0.03), cerebral infarction (75 vs. 23%, p = 0.009), right-sided lesion on initial MRI (62 vs. 17%, p = 0.017), thalamic (37 vs. 0%, p = 0.005) and basal ganglia involvement (25 vs. 0%, p = 0.03) and vein of Galen occlusion (25 vs. 0%) were significantly associated with CNP. Despite several methodological limitations, CNP after CVT seems to be frequent, accounting for one-fifth of all cases of CVT. Some clinical and radiological factors might contribute to the development of CNP.

The cytokine, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), has been implicated in many aspects of immune system development, immune response regulation, and T cell-mediated tissue injury. TNF plays a less well-defined role in the pathogenesis of the idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) group of disorders, and has been considered a potential therapeutic target. Observational studies of TNF-blockade in (mostly refractory) IIM have yielded inconsistent beneficial results so that administration of these biological agents is presently deemed an unreliable alternative treatment strategy. Moreover, anti-TNF therapy has the rare potential to trigger myositis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, hinting at a pre-existing &quot;overlap disorder&quot;. The full potential of TNF-antagonism will be realized only if randomized controlled trials ascertain appropriate treatment regimens and identify patient subgroups most likely to benefit from such therapy.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PwPD) have a slow, shuffling gait, marked by sporadic freezing of gait (FoG) during which effective stepping ceases temporarily. As these gait problems are not commonly improved by medical and surgical treatments, alternative approaches to manage these problems have been adopted. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of real and virtual visual cues on walking in PD. We assessed 26 mid-stage PwPD, on and off medication, on a laboratory-based walking task which simulated real world challenges by incorporating FoG triggers and using appropriate placebo conditions. Cueing interventions were presented via virtual reality glasses (VRG rhythmic, visual flow and static placebo cues), and as transverse lines (TL) on the walkway. Objective measures of gait (task completion time; velocity, cadence, stride length; FoG frequency) and self-rated fear of falling (FoF) were recorded. Cueing intervention affected task completion time only off medication. Whereas placebo VRG cues provided no improvement in walking, visual flow VRG cues marginally reduced the task completion time. TL on the floor elicited more substantial improvements in gait with reduced cadence, increased stride length and reduced FoG frequency. VRG rhythmic cueing impaired overall walking. Notably, a final no-intervention condition yielded quicker task completion, greater walking velocity, increased stride length and less frequent FoG. Although the VRG produced modest improvements only in the visual flow condition, their flexibility is an advantage. These results endorse the use of TL and justify further testing and customisation of VRG cues for individual PwPD.
Fatigue is an important contributor to quality of life in patients who survive aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), but the determinants of this fatigue are unclear. We assessed the occurrence of fatigue 1 year after SAH and its relation to physical or cognitive impairment, passive coping, and emotional problems, measured 3 months after SAH. This was a prospective cohort study of 108 patients who visited our SAH outpatient clinic 3 months after SAH and who were living independently in the community 1 year after SAH. Fatigue was evaluated using the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). Analysis of variance was used to analyze the data. Fatigue (FSS  4) was present in 77 patients (71%). Mean FSS scores were 4.1 (SD 1.6) in the group of patients having 'neither physical nor cognitive impairment,' 5.2 (1.4) having 'either physical or cognitive impairment,' and 5.9 (0.9) having 'both physical and cognitive impairments.' Mean FSS scores were higher in patients scoring high on passive coping (85 vs. 58%; RR 1.46, 95% CI 1.13-1.87), anxiety (84 vs. 55%; RR 1.53, 95% CI 1.17-2.02), or depression (85 vs. 62%; RR 1.36, 95% CI 1.08-1.72) than in patients without these complaints. Relationships between these complaints and FSS scores were higher in patients having neither physical nor cognitive impairments than in patients having physical or cognitive impairments. Fatigue is common after SAH and is related to physical and cognitive impairments. In patients with neither physical nor cognitive impairments, passive coping style and emotional problems are important predictors of fatigue.
Despite the important role of taste function in nutrition and health, little is known about changes in taste function caused by Parkinson disease (PD). The taste function of 31 PD patients and 29 healthy controls was assessed quantitatively using filter paper taste strip tests (TSTs) impregnated with four basic taste qualities at four different concentrations. The mean TST score was significantly lower in PD patients, as a consequence of taste impairment in the female PD patients (it did not differ significantly in males), which was likely to be attributable to the lower Mini-Mental State Examination score in patients with PD than in controls in women. TST scores in PD patients were not correlated with patient age, duration, or severity of their PD, or olfactory function. The findings of our study suggest that taste dysfunction should be included in the list of nonmotor symptoms of PD.



The authors report here the case of a patient with severe deficits in arousal and sustained attention, associated with hemispatial neglect. These impairments were secondary to acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, with bilateral involvement of the medial nuclei and pulvinar of the thalamus. Treatment with the noradrenergic agonist guanfacine, previously used for attention deficits in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and stroke, was associated with a significant amelioration of both the spatial and sustained attention impairments in neglect. Guanfacine may prove to be a useful tool in the treatment of disorders of attention associated with neurological conditions.
Proximal upper limb muscles are represented bilaterally in primary motor cortex. Goal-directed upper limb movement requires precise control of proximal and distal agonist and antagonist muscles. Failure to suppress antagonist muscles can lead to abnormal movement patterns, such as those commonly experienced in the proximal upper limb after stroke. We examined whether noninvasive brain stimulation of primary motor cortex could be used to improve selective control of the ipsilateral proximal upper limb. Thirteen healthy participants performed isometric left elbow flexion by contracting biceps brachii (BB; agonist) and left forearm pronation (BB antagonist) before and after 20 min of cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation (c-tDCS) or sham tDCS of left M1. During the tasks, motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in left BB were acquired using single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation of right M1 150-270 ms before muscle contraction. As expected, left BB MEPs were facilitated before flexion and suppressed before pronation. After c-tDCS, left BB MEP amplitudes were reduced compared with sham stimulation, before pronation but not flexion, indicating that c-tDCS enhanced selective muscle activation of the ipsilateral BB in a task-specific manner. The potential for c-tDCS to improve BB antagonist control correlated with BB MEP amplitude for pronation relative to flexion, expressed as a selectivity ratio. This is the first demonstration that selective muscle activation in the proximal upper limb can be improved after c-tDCS of ipsilateral M1 and that the benefits of c-tDCS for selective muscle activation may be most effective in cases where activation strategies are already suboptimal. These findings may have relevance for the use of tDCS in rehabilitation after stroke.
Imaging, lesion, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies have implicated a number of regions of the brain in searching for a target defined by a combination of attributes. The necessity of both frontal eye fields (FEF) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in task performance has been shown by the application of TMS over these regions. The effects of stimulation over these two areas have, thus far, proved to be remarkably similar and the only dissociation reported being in the timing of their involvement. We tested the hypotheses that 1) FEF contributes to performance in terms of visual target detection (possibly by modulation of activity in extrastriate areas with respect to the target), and 2) PPC is involved in translation of visual information for action. We used a task where the presence (and location) of the target was indicated by an eye movement. Task disruption was seen with FEF TMS (with reduced accuracy on the task) but not with PPC stimulation. When a search task requiring a manual response was presented, disruption with PPC TMS was seen. These results show dissociation of FEF and PPC contributions to visual search performance and that PPC involvement seems to be dependent on the response required by the task, whereas this is not the case for FEF. This supports the idea of FEF involvement in visual processes in a manner that might not depend on the required response, whereas PPC seems to be involved when a manual motor response to a stimulus is required.
The cerebellum is thought to play a key role in the integration of sensory and motor events. Little is known, however, about how sensory and motor maps in the cerebellum superimpose. In the present study we investigated the relationship between these two maps for the representation of single fingers. Participants made isometric key presses with individual fingers or received vibratory tactile stimulation to the fingertips while undergoing high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using multivariate analysis, we have demonstrated that the ipsilateral lobule V and VIII show patterns of activity that encode, within the same region, both which finger pressed and which finger was stimulated. The individual finger-specific activation patches are smaller than 3 mm and only show a weak somatotopic organization. To study the superposition of sensory and motor maps, we correlated the finger-specific patterns across the two conditions. In the neocortex, sensory stimulation of one digit led to activation of the same patches as force production by the same digit; in the cerebellum, these activation patches were organized in an uncorrelated manner. This suggests that, in the cerebellum, a movement of a particular finger is paired with a range of possible sensory outcomes. In summary, our results indicate a small and fractured representation of single digits in the cerebellum and suggest a fundamental difference in how the cerebellum and the neocortex integrate sensory and motor events.
Intercalated (ITC) amygdala neurons are thought to play a critical role in the extinction of conditioned fear. However, several factors hinder progress in studying ITC contributions to extinction. First, although extinction is usually studied in rats and mice, most ITC investigations were performed in guinea pigs or cats. Thus it is unclear whether their connectivity is similar across species. Second, we lack criteria to identify ITC cells on the basis of their discharge pattern. As a result, key predictions of ITC extinction models remain untested. Among these, ITC cells were predicted to be strongly excited by infralimbic inputs, explaining why infralimbic inhibition interferes with extinction. To study the connectivity of ITC cells, we labeled them with neurobiotin during patch recordings in slices of the rat amygdala. This revealed that medially located ITC cells project topographically to the central nucleus and to other ITC clusters located more ventrally. To study the infralimbic responsiveness of ITC cells, we performed juxtacellular recording and labeling of amygdala cells with neurobiotin in anesthetized rats. All ITC cells were orthodromically responsive to infralimbic stimuli, and their responses usually consisted of high-frequency (~350 Hz) trains of four to six spikes, a response pattern never seen in neighboring amygdala nuclei. Overall, our results suggest that the connectivity of ITC cells is conserved across species and that ITC cells are strongly responsive to infralimbic stimuli, as predicted by extinction models. The unique response pattern of ITC cells to infralimbic stimuli can now be used to identify them in fear conditioning experiments.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) are implicated in synaptic plasticity and modulation of glutamatergic excitatory transmission. Effect of NMDAR activation on inhibitory GABAergic transmission remains largely unknown. Here, we report that a brief application of NMDA could induce two distinct actions in CA1 pyramidal neurons in mouse hippocampal slices: 1) an inward current attributed to activation of postsynaptic NMDARs; and 2) fast phasic synaptic currents, namely spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs), mediated by GABA(A) receptors in pyramidal neurons. The mean amplitude of sIPSCs was also increased by NMDA. This profound increase in the sIPSC frequency and amplitude was markedly suppressed by the sodium channel blocker TTX, whereas the frequency and mean amplitude of miniature IPSCs were not significantly affected by NMDA, suggesting that NMDA elicits repetitive firing in GABAergic interneurons, thereby leading to GABA release from multiple synaptic sites of single GABAergic axons. We found that the NMDAR open-channel blocker MK-801 injected into recorded pyramidal neurons suppressed the NMDA-induced increase of sIPSCs, which raises the possibility that the firing of interneurons may not be the sole factor and certain retrograde messengers may also be involved in the NMDA-mediated enhancement of GABAergic transmission. Our results from pharmacological tests suggest that the nitric oxide signaling pathway is mobilized by NMDAR activation in CA1 pyramidal neurons, which in turn retrogradely facilitates GABA release from the presynaptic terminals. Thus NMDARs at glutamatergic synapses on both CA1 pyramidal neurons and interneurons appear to exert feedback and feedforward inhibition for determining the spike timing of the hippocampal microcircuit.
Successful navigation requires a constantly updated neural representation of directional heading, which is conveyed by head direction (HD) cells. The HD signal is predominantly controlled by visual landmarks, but when familiar landmarks are unavailable, self-motion cues are able to control the HD signal via path integration. Previous studies of the relationship between HD cell activity and path integration have been limited to two or more arenas located in the same room, a drawback for interpretation because the same visual cues may have been perceptible across arenas. To address this issue, we tested the relationship between HD cell activity and path integration by recording HD cells while rats navigated within a 14-unit T-maze and in a multiroom maze that consisted of unique arenas that were located in different rooms but connected by a passageway. In the 14-unit T-maze, the HD signal remained relatively stable between the start and goal boxes, with the preferred firing directions usually shifting &lt;45 during maze traversal. In the multiroom maze in light, the preferred firing directions also remained relatively constant between rooms, but with greater variability than in the 14-unit maze. In darkness, HD cell preferred firing directions showed marginally more variability between rooms than in the lighted condition. Overall, the results indicate that self-motion cues are capable of maintaining the HD cell signal in the absence of familiar visual cues, although there are limits to its accuracy. In addition, visual information, even when unfamiliar, can increase the precision of directional perception.
Forward walking (FW) and backward walking (BW) are two important forms of locomotion in quadrupeds. Participation of the motor cortex in the control of FW has been intensively studied, whereas cortical activity during BW has never been investigated. The aim of this study was to analyze locomotion-related activity of the motor cortex during BW and compare it with that during FW. For this purpose, we recorded activity of individual neurons in the cat during BW and FW. We found that the discharge frequency in almost all neurons was modulated in the rhythm of stepping during both FW and BW. However, the modulation patterns during BW and FW were different in 80% of neurons. To determine the source of modulating influences (forelimb controllers vs. hindlimb controllers), the neurons were recorded not only during quadrupedal locomotion but also during bipedal locomotion (with either forelimbs or hindlimbs walking), and their modulation patterns were compared. We found that during BW (like during FW), modulation in some neurons was determined by inputs from limb controllers of only one girdle, whereas the other neurons received inputs from both girdles. The combinations of inputs could depend on the direction of locomotion. Most often (in 51% of forelimb-related neurons and in 34% of the hindlimb-related neurons), the neurons received inputs only from their own girdle when this girdle was leading and from both girdles when this girdle was trailing. This reconfiguration of inputs suggests flexibility of the functional roles of individual cortical neurons during different forms of locomotion.
The medullary ventral respiratory column (VRC) of neurons is essential for respiratory motor pattern generation; however, the functional connections among these cells are not well understood. A rostral extension of the VRC, including the retrotrapezoid nucleus/parafacial region (RTN-pF), contains neurons responsive to local perturbations of CO(2)/pH. We addressed the hypothesis that both local RTN-pF interactions and functional connections from more caudal VRC compartments--extending from the Btzinger and pre-Btzinger complexes to the ventral respiratory group (Bt-VRG)--influence the respiratory modulation of RTN-pF neurons and their responses to central chemoreceptor and baroreflex activation. Spike trains from 294 RTN-pF and 490 Bt-VRG neurons were monitored with multielectrode arrays along with phrenic nerve activity in 14 decerebrate, vagotomized cats. Overall, 214 RTN-pF and 398 Bt-VRG neurons were respiratory modulated; 124 and 95, respectively, were cardiac modulated. Subsets of these neurons were tested with sequential, selective, transient stimulation of central chemoreceptors and arterial baroreceptors; each cell's response was evaluated and categorized according to the change in firing rate (if any) following the stimulus. Cross-correlation analysis was applied to 2,884 RTN-pFRTN-pF and 8,490 Bt-VRGRTN-pF neuron pairs. In total, 174 RTN-pF neurons (59.5%) had significant features in short-time scale correlations with other RTN-pF neurons. Of these, 49 neurons triggered cross-correlograms with offset peaks or troughs (n = 99) indicative of paucisynaptic excitation or inhibition of the target. Forty-nine Bt-VRG neurons (10.0%) were triggers in 74 Bt-VRGRTN-pF correlograms with offset features, suggesting that Bt-VRG trigger neurons influence RTN-pF target neurons. The results support the hypothesis that local RTN-pF neuron interactions and inputs from Bt-VRG neurons jointly contribute to respiratory modulation of RTN-pF neuronal discharge patterns and promotion or limitation of their responses to central chemoreceptor and baroreceptor stimulation.
Effortful cognitive performance is theoretically expected to depend on the formation of a global neuronal workspace. We tested specific predictions of workspace theory, using graph theoretical measures of network topology and physical distance of synchronization, in magnetoencephalographic data recorded from healthy adult volunteers (N = 13) during performance of a working memory task at several levels of difficulty. We found that greater cognitive effort caused emergence of a more globally efficient, less clustered, and less modular network configuration, with more long-distance synchronization between brain regions. This pattern of task-related workspace configuration was more salient in the -band (16-32 Hz) and -band (32-63 Hz) networks, compared with both lower (-band; 8-16 Hz) and higher (high -band; 63-125 Hz) frequency intervals. Workspace configuration of -band networks was also greater in faster performing participants (with correct response latency less than the sample median) compared with slower performing participants. Processes of workspace formation and relaxation in relation to time-varying demands for cognitive effort could be visualized occurring in the course of task trials lasting &lt;2 s. These experimental results provide support for workspace theory in terms of complex network metrics and directly demonstrate how cognitive effort breaks modularity to make human brain functional networks transiently adopt a more efficient but less economical configuration.
Trial-to-trial variations in the firing rates of neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT) are correlated with the behavior of macaque monkeys performing motion detection and motion discrimination tasks. Here we examine how these correlations depend on the direction of motion used for a detection task relative to the preferred direction of the neuron under study. There was a robust correlation between the firing rate of MT neurons and the animal's detection of motion when the direction of that motion was within  45 of the preferred direction of the neuron. This correlation was undetectable using motions that were  90 away from the preferred direction, and an inverse correlation between activity and behavior was found for motion in the null direction. Correlation between reaction times and single-cell activity in MT followed a similar pattern. Although motion detection could have been based solely on the activity of neurons preferring the expected direction, these results suggest that it depends on the relative activity of neurons preferring opposite directions of motion. They furthermore show that the subset of neurons used to guide behavior can vary from trial to trial based on task requirements.
Apraxia caused by left hemispheric stroke typically impairs skilled sequential movements. After stroke, apraxic patients need to reacquire motor skills by motor learning. The current study assessed for the first time incidental motor sequence learning in apraxic patients. Forty-eight human subjects (henceforth called &quot;patients&quot;) with left hemispheric stroke affecting the middle cerebral artery territory (18 with apraxia and 30 without apraxia) and 17 age-matched healthy controls were tested on a visuomanual serial reaction time task. Subjects performed four blocks consisting of repetitions of a complex six element sequence containing ambiguous pairwise transitions before a new and unfamiliar sequence was introduced in block 5. Reaction time (RT) disadvantages in this fifth block indicated incidental sequence-specific motor learning. The intentional retrieval of the learned motor knowledge was assessed subsequently with a free recall task. Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) was performed to investigate for the first time the lesion correlates of deficits in learning and retrieving sequential motor knowledge. Despite generally prolonged RTs, apraxic patients showed sequence-specific motor learning as could be observed in nonapraxic patients and healthy controls. However, apraxic patients showed reduced intentional retrieval of the learned sequence. VLSM revealed that impaired intentional retrieval of motor sequence knowledge resulted from dorsal premotor cortex lesions. Apraxic patients showed a dissociation of preserved incidental motor (sequence) learning and deficient intentional retrieval of this incidentally learned motor knowledge. The data suggest that novel approaches for treating apraxia should focus on incidental motor learning, but that automatic rather than intentional retrieval strategies should be enforced.
The mammalian organ of Corti consists of a highly organized array of hair cells and supporting cells that originate from a common population of prosensory progenitors. Proper differentiation of this complex cellular mosaic requires lateral inhibition mediated by Notch signaling. Several studies have implicated Notch signaling in the earlier induction of the prosensory domain that lies along the length of the cochlear duct, and which forms before the onset of hair cell and supporting cell differentiation. To investigate the role of Notch signaling in prosensory domain formation, we conditionally inactivated the transcriptional mediator of canonical Notch signaling, RBPj, throughout the inner ear. Although RBPj mutants have severe vestibular defects and a shortened cochlear duct, markers of the prosensory domain appear at the normal time and location in the cochlea of RBPj mutants. Despite the lack of RBPj, hair cell and supporting cell markers also appear at appropriate times in the cochlea, suggesting that RBPj is dispensable for differentiation of the cochlear sensory epithelium. However, we also observed that differentiating hair cells and supporting cells rapidly die in RBPj mutants, suggesting a requirement of RBPj for cell survival in this tissue. Finally, in contrast to the chick basilar papilla, ectopic activation of Notch signaling did not induce ectopic sensory patches in nonsensory regions of the cochlea. Our results indicate that canonical Notch signaling is not necessary for prosensory specification in the mouse cochlea, suggesting that other signaling pathways may specify this highly derived sensory organ.
Precise targeting and maintenance of axonal domains in myelinated axons is essential for saltatory conduction. Caspr and Caspr2, which localize at paranodal and juxtaparanodal domains, contain binding sites for the cytoskeletal adaptor protein 4.1B. The exact role of 4.1B in the organization and maintenance of axonal domains is still not clear. Here, we report the generation and characterization of 4.1B-null mice. We show that loss of 4.1B in the PNS results in mislocalization of Caspr at paranodes and destabilization of paranodal axoglial septate junctions (AGSJs) as early as postnatal day 30. In the CNS, Caspr localization is progressively disrupted and ultrastructural analysis showed paranodal regions that were completely devoid of AGSJs, with axolemma separated from the myelin loops, and loops coming off the axolemma. Most importantly, our phenotypic analysis of previously generated 4.1B mutants, used in the study by Horresh et al. (2010), showed that Caspr localization was not affected in the PNS, even after 1 year; and 4.1R was neither expressed, nor enriched at the paranodes. Furthermore, ultrastructural analysis of these 4.1B mutants showed destabilization of CNS AGSJs at  1 year. We also discovered that the 4.1B locus is differentially expressed in the PNS and CNS, and generates multiple splice isoforms in the PNS, suggesting 4.1B may function differently in the PNS versus CNS. Together, our studies provide direct evidence that 4.1B plays a pivotal role in interactions between the paranodal AGSJs and axonal cytoskeleton, and that 4.1B is critically required for long-term maintenance of axonal domains in myelinated axons.
The integration of multisensory information has been shown to be guided by spatial and temporal proximity, as well as to be influenced by attention. Here we used neural measures of the multisensory spread of attention to investigate the spatial and temporal linking of synchronous versus near-synchronous auditory and visual events. Human participants attended selectively to one of two lateralized visual-stimulus streams while task-irrelevant tones were presented centrally. Electrophysiological measures of brain activity showed that tones occurring simultaneously or delayed by 100 ms were temporally linked to an attended visual stimulus, as reflected by robust cross-modal spreading-of-attention activity, but not when delayed by 300 ms. The neural data also indicated a ventriloquist-like spatial linking of the auditory to the attended visual stimuli, but only when occurring simultaneously. These neurophysiological results thus provide unique insight into the temporal and spatial principles of multisensory feature integration and the fundamental role attention plays in such integration.
Inner hair cells (IHCs) in the mammalian cochlea are able to continuously release neurotransmitter in the presence of constant stimuli. Nonetheless, strong synaptic depression is observed over the first few milliseconds of stimulation. This process most likely underlies adaptation in the auditory nerve. In the present study we demonstrate that under certain conditions of stimulation, facilitation can occur at the IHC ribbon synapse. Using simultaneous whole-cell, voltage-clamp recordings from IHCs and afferent fiber endings in excised postnatal rat cochleae, we stimulated IHCs with 2 ms long test depolarizations from a holding potential of -89 mV. Synaptic currents in afferent fibers occurred with high failure rates of  50%. However, when a pre-depolarization to values of -55 to -49 mV was implemented before the test pulse, success rates of the synaptic response increased to 100%, the strength of the synaptic response increased  2.8-fold, and synaptic latency was reduced by  50%. When calcium influx was minimized during pre-depolarization, none of these effects were found, suggesting that calcium influx during pre-depolarizations is required for synaptic conditioning. Similarly, in response to paired-pulse protocols, short term facilitation occurred. The response to the second stimulus increased up to  5-fold, and its latency was reduced by up to 35% compared to the response to the first stimulus. We propose that at the IHC resting membrane potential, the ribbon synapse operates in a constantly facilitated mode caused by Ca(2+) influx, optimizing the size and timing of the postsynaptic response in auditory nerve fibers.
In 2007, the Neuroscience Nursing Foundation (NNF) convened a research panel to update NNF's research priorities used to guide funding. The research panel identified leaders in neuroscience nursing and conducted a review of neuroscience nursing research literature and an American Association of Neuroscience Nurses membership survey on research priorities. A workgroup of leaders in neuroscience nursing was then convened to draft and set priorities on the basis of the review of the literature and the membership survey. The updated priorities were submitted to the NNF Board of Trustees for approval. The revised document reviews the mission of NNF and outlines six strategies and five program areas (including specific subareas) that represent priorities for NNF research funding. The purpose of the updated priority document is to provide guidelines for the systematic development of knowledge in neuroscience nursing through the encouragement of selected neuroscience nursing research activities.
Fxyd1 encodes a trans-membrane protein that modulates Na(+) ,K(+) -ATPase activity and is a substrate for multiple protein kinases. Fxyd1 expression is repressed by methyl CpG-binding protein 2 (Mecp2) in the frontal cortex (FC) but not in the cerebellum (CB) of the mouse brain. Consistently with these observations, FXYD1 mRNA abundance is increased in the FC of Rett syndrome (RTT) patients with MECP2 mutations. Because Fxyd1 is implicated in the regulation of neuronal excitability, understanding how Fxyd1 expression is controlled is important. Here we report that basal expression of Fxyd1a and Fxyd1b, the two main alternatively spliced forms of Fxyd1 mRNA, is lower in the FC than in the CB. This difference is accompanied by increased Mecp2 recruitment to the promoter region of these two Fxyd1 mRNA forms. DNA methylation of both promoters is more frequent in the FC than in the CB, and in both cases the most frequently methylated CpG dinucleotides are adjacent to [A/T](4) sequences required for high-affinity Mecp2 binding. Consistently with these features of epigenetic silencing, histone 3 acetylated at lysines 9 and 14 (H3K9/14ac) and histone 3 methylated at lysine 4 (H3K4me3), both activating histone marks, were associated with the Fxyd1 promoter to a lesser degree in the FC than in the CB. These results indicate that differential Fxyd1 expression in these two brain regions is, at least in part, regulated by an epigenetic mechanism involving increased DNA methylation of the two alternative Fxyd1 promoters, enhanced Mecp2 recruitment, and reduced association of activating histones.
We established spontaneously immortalized Schwann cell lines from long-term cultures of adult Fischer 344 rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and peripheral nerves. One of these cell lines, designated immortalized Fischer rat Schwann cells 1 (IFRS1), showed spindle-shaped morphology; immunoreactivity for S100, p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR) ), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), laminin, and vimentin; and mRNA expression of neurotrophic factors (NGF, GDNF, and CNTF), neurotrophin receptors (p75(NTR) , truncated TrkB, and TrkC), cell adhesion molecules (L1, NCAM, and N-cadherin), myelin proteins [P0, PMP22, and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG)], transcription factors (Krox20, Sox10, and Oct6), neuregulin-1 receptors (ErbB2 and ErbB3), and an orphan G protein-coupled receptor (Gpr126). Conditioned medium (CM) obtained from IFRS1 cells exhibited potent biological activity for the promotion of neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth of cultured adult rat DRG neurons. Furthermore, light and electron microscopic analyses revealed that IFRS1 cells were capable of myelinating neurites while in coculture with adult rat DRG neurons. These findings indicate that IFRS1 cells possess some biological properties of mature Schwann cells and that the coculture system with adult DRG neurons and IFRS1 cells can be a useful tool for the study of peripheral nerve degeneration and regeneration.
The GTP binding proteins Rhes and AGS1/Dexras1 define a subfamily of the Ras superfamily and have been shown to affect signaling by G-protein-coupled receptors. We tested the effects of both proteins at an early stage of signaling by dopamine receptors, activation of adenylyl cyclase. Rhes decreased dopamine D1 receptor agonist-stimulated cAMP accumulation in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. It had no effect on cAMP accumulation in the absence of agonist. AGS1/Dexras1, on the other hand, decreased cAMP accumulation in both vehicle-treated and agonist-treated cells, resulting in a higher percentage of stimulation by agonist or a higher signal-to-noise ratio. The effects of AGS1/Dexras1 on cAMP accumulation were not blocked by pertussis toxin, suggesting that it may produce these effects through interaction with a G() i monomer. Both Rhes and AGS1/Dexras1 were associated with GTP-bound G() i in pull-down assays. However, Rhes had no effect on the ability of activated D2 receptor to inhibit cAMP. Neither Rhes nor AGS1/Dexras1 interacted with the D1 receptor in pull-down assays. These findings show that, in addition to its well-known effects on signaling through Gi-coupled receptors, AGS1/Dexras1 can affect signaling through a Gs/olf-coupled receptor. Furthermore, the results suggest that Rhes exerts some of its effects by interacting with G() i.
Acute ischemic stroke, one of the most prominent causes of death and disability in the modern world has attracted an extensive amount of research on its pathophysiology and treatment. There has been significant progress with successful reperfusion treatments associated with improved clinical outcomes, but neuroprotective strategies have failed to show clinical benefit despite promising benchtop results. Unfortunately reperfusion strategies can be employed in a small number of patients who present in the appropriate time window. Neuroprotective strategies may aid in prolonging time windows, thereby potentially increasing the number of eligible patients to benefit from reperfusion treatments. Additional strategies can be used to potentially protect the brain after reperfusion thereby preventing edema and hemorrhage. Previous clinical studies have failed to show benefit likely due to poor patient selection, altering time windows that had shown benefit in bench models and failure to link treatments with reperfusion.
Sutureless vascular anastomoses have been the subject of extensive research for decades. In neurosurgery the need for a safe and fast technique is high, because temporary occlusion of cerebral arteries may rapidly lead to brain ischemia. Conventional sutured anastomoses have always been the golden standard. Limited working space and difficult suturing techniques were reasons to find alternatives. Many artificial devices to create anastomoses have been engineered over the years like tissue sealants, clips and automated suturing sets with variable success. For all previous options, temporary occlusion of the recipient artery was necessary. The Excimer Laser Assisted Non-Occlusive Anastomosis (ELANA) technique facilitates the construction of an end-to-side anastomosis without temporary occlusion of the recipient artery using a platinum ring and a laser. However, the technical challenge of intracranial micro-sutures remained. Experiments using less sutures eventually resulted in a sutureless ELANA (SELANA) anastomosis. After in vitro and in vivo experiments, the SELANA slide was considered feasible for intracranial use although some concrete improvements, like the inclusion of a clip at the back of the device, were needed. Therefore, the development of an ideal sutureless anastomosis is still ongoing. This process is an evolution rather than a revolution.
RhoA is a key regulator of the actin cytoskeleton that is upregulated after spinal cord injury (SCI). We analyzed different methods for siRNA delivery and developed siRNAs targeting RhoA (siRhoA) for SCI treatment. Cy 3.5-labeled siRNA delivered at the time of SCI yielded fluorescence in several cell types in the injury site. Intraspinal injections of chemically stabilized siRhoA into the spinal cord of injured rats reduced RhoA protein levels after 1 week and improved hindlimb walking over 6 weeks. To explore a less invasive route, we tested intrathecal injection of Cy 3.5-labeled siRNA via lumbar puncture 1 day after SCI, which resulted in robust uptake in the T9-T10 injury site. Lumbar injection of siRhoA 1 day after SCI reduced RhoA mRNA and protein levels 3 days after injection. Although siRhoA treatment did not yield significant improvement in locomotion, it decreased tactile hypersensitivity significantly compared to controls. Histological analysis at 8 weeks showed significant improvement in white matter sparing with siRhoA compared to control siRNA. siRhoA treatment also resulted in less accumulation of ED1+macrophages, increased PKC- immunoreactivity in the corticospinal tract rostral to the injury site, and increased serotonergic fiber growth 12 mm caudal to the contusion site. The ability of siRhoA to preserve white matter and promote serotonergic axonal regrowth caudal to the injury site is likely to suppress allodynia. This provides justification for considering clinical development of RhoA inhibitors to treat SCI sub-acutely to reduce allodynia, which occurs frequently in SCI patients.
Secondary degeneration is a serious consequence of traumatic injury to the central nervous system (CNS) and involves the progressive loss of neurons and function. However, while disruption to myelin has been observed in spared axons, the ultrastructural abnormalities that occur in myelin and axons spatially separated from the primary injury and susceptible exclusively to secondary degeneration are unknown. We used a model of secondary degeneration in which the dorsal aspect of rat optic nerve (ON) was transected leaving the central/ventral ON undamaged, but vulnerable to secondary degeneration. Transmission electron microscopy of the central/ventral ON at 1 and 3 months was used to quantify secondary changes in axon diameter, myelin sheath thickness and morphology, compared to normal animals. Three months after partial ON transection, cross-sectional nerve area at the injury site was increased (p  0.05), and changes in axons and myelin sheaths were detected in the central/ventral ON. Although myelin sheath thickness remained normal at both time points, average axon diameter significantly increased at 3 months. The density of the total axon population was decreased by 1 month, reflecting loss of retinal ganglion cells as previously published, with a decrease in the density of normally-myelinated axons, but an increase in unmyelinated axon density (p  0.05). Myelin basic protein immunoreactivity and fluoromyelin staining were also significantly reduced. Within four subpopulations of abnormally-myelinated axons, there was: no change in lightly-myelinated axons; an increase in axons with excessive myelination (at 1 month); and an increase in the density of axons with partial and fully-decompacted myelin (at 3 months, p  0.05). Chronic axon swelling and myelin sheath compaction defects are features of secondary degeneration, and may contribute to the reported loss of ON function following partial transection.
Axonal demyelination is a consistent pathological characteristic of spinal cord injury (SCI). Although an increased number of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) is observed in the injured spinal cord, they fail to convert into mature oligodendrocytes. However, little is known about the underlying mechanism. In our study, we identified a link between inhibition of OPC survival and differentiation and reactive astrocytes in glial scar that was mediated by tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-). Initially, both glial scar tissue and reactive astrocyte-conditioned medium were shown to inhibit OPC differentiation. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunochemistry revealed that OPCs expressed type 1 TNF- receptor (TNF-R1). When TNF- or TNF-R1 was neutralized with antibody, the effect of reactive astrocyte-conditioned medium or recombinant TNF- protein on OPC differentiation was markedly attenuated. In addition, reactive astrocyte-conditioned medium was also shown to induce OPC apoptosis. All these findings provide the first evidence that reactive astrocytes release TNF- to inhibit OPC survival and prevent them from differentiating into mature oligodendrocytes, suggesting a mechanism for the failure of remyelination after SCI.
The benefit of induced hyperventilation for intracranial pressure (ICP) control after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) is controversial. In this study, we investigated the impact of early and sustained hyperventilation on compliances of the cerebral arteries and of the cerebrospinal (CSF) compartment during mild hyperventilation in severe TBI patients. We included 27 severe TBI patients (mean 39.5  3.4 years, 6 women) in whom an increase in ventilation (20% increase in respiratory minute volume) was performed during 50 min as part of a standard clinical CO(2) reactivity test. Using a new mathematical model, cerebral arterial compliance (Ca) and CSF compartment compliance (Ci) were calculated based on the analysis of ICP, arterial blood pressure, and cerebral blood flow velocity waveforms. Hyperventilation initially induced a reduction in ICP (17.5  6.6 vs. 13.9  6.2 mmHg; p &lt; 0.001), which correlated with an increase in Ci (r(2)= 0.213; p = 0.015). Concomitantly, the reduction in cerebral blood flow velocities (CBFV, 74.6  27.0 vs. 62.9  22.9 cm/sec; p &lt; 0.001) marginally correlated with the reduction in Ca (r(2)= 0.209; p = 0.017). During sustained hyperventilation, ICP increased (13.9  6.2 vs. 15.3  6.4 mmHg; p &lt; 0.001), which correlated with a reduction in Ci (r(2)= 0.297; p = 0.003), but no significant changes in Ca were found during that period. The early reduction in Ca persisted irrespective of the duration of hyperventilation, which may contribute to the lack of clinical benefit of hyperventilation after TBI. Further studies are needed to determine whether monitoring of arterial and CSF compartment compliances may detect and prevent an adverse ischemic event during hyperventilation.
To begin to unravel the complexity of HIV-associated changes in the brain, broader, multifaceted analyses of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are needed that examine a wide range of proteins reflecting different functions. To provide the first broad profiles of protein changes in the CSF of HIV-infected patients, we used antibody arrays to measure 120 cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, and other proteins. CSF from HIV-infected patients with a range of cognitive deficits was compared to CSF from uninfected, cognitively normal patients to begin to identify protein changes associated with HIV infection and neurological disease progression. Uninfected patients showed relatively consistent patterns of protein expression. Highly expressed proteins in CSF included monocyte chemotactic protein-1, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteases, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, adiponectin, soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor-1, urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2. Inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines were expressed at low levels. HIV-infected patients showed increases in inflammatory proteins (interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha), anti-inflammatory proteins (IL-13), and chemokines but these correlated poorly with neurological status. The strongest correlation with increasing severity of neurological disease was a decline in growth factors, particularly, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NT-3. These studies illustrate that HIV infection is associated with parallel changes in both inflammatory and neuroprotective proteins in the CSF. The inverse relationship between growth factors and neurological disease severity suggests that a loss of growth factor neuroprotection may contribute to the development of neural damage and may provide useful markers of disease progression.

The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the primary cellular compartment where proteins are synthesized and modified before they can be transported to their destination. Dysfunction of the ER impairs protein homeostasis and leads to the accumulation of misfolded/unfolded proteins in the ER, or ER stress. While it has long been recognized that ER stress is a major cause of conformational disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, certain types of cancer, and type 2 diabetes, recent evidence suggests that ER stress is also implicated in many chronic inflammatory diseases. These diseases include irritable bowel syndrome, atherosclerosis, diabetic complications, and many others. Diabetic retinopathy is a common microvascular complication of diabetes, characterized by chronic inflammation, progressive damage to retinal vascular and neuronal cells, vascular leakage, and abnormal blood vessel growth (neovascularization). In this review, we discuss the role and mechanisms of ER stress in retinal inflammation and vascular damage in diabetic retinopathy.


The objective was to explore quantitative methods for the measurement of lip mobility and lip force and to relate these to qualitative assessments of lip function. Fifty healthy adults (mean age 45 years) and 23 adults with diagnoses affecting the facial muscles (mean age 37 years) participated in the study. Diagnoses were Mbius syndrome (n=5), Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (n=6) and Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (n=12). A system for computerised 3D analysis of lip mobility and a lip force meter were tested, and the results were related to results from qualitative assessments of lip mobility, speech (articulation), eating ability and saliva control. Facial expressions studied were open mouth smile and lip pucker. Normative data and cut-off values for adults on lip mobility and lip force were proposed, and the diagnostic value of these thresholds was tested. The proposed cut-off values could identify all inviduals with moderate or severe impairment of lip mobility but not always the milder cases. There were significant correlations between the results from quantitative measurements and qualitative assessments. The examined instruments for measuring lip function were found to be reliable with an acceptable measuring error. The combination of quantitative and qualitative ways to evaluate lip function made it possible to show the strong relation between lip contraction, lip force, eating ability and saliva control. The same combination of assessments can be used in the future to study if oral motor exercises aimed at improving lip mobility and strength could have a positive effect on lip function.

With each failure of anti-amyloid- therapy in clinical trials, new trials are initiated with no hint of slowing down. This may be due, in part, to the fact that the amyloid cascade hypothesis has been so modified over time that it is now impossible to confirm or deny. The hypothesis now states, in effect, that invisible molecules target invisible structures. Still relevant, however, are multiple factors that surely cast some doubt but have either been rationalized or overlooked. Among these are the poor correlation between amyloid- deposits and disease, the substantial differences between familial and sporadic disease, pathological assessment that indicates the secondary nature of lesions/proteins/cascades, the fact that soluble species are poorly reproducible laboratory phenomena, and the irrelevance of synaptic assessment to pathological interpretation. Although not yet dogma, the premature addition of mild cognitive impairment as the implied in vivo homologue to the soluble toxin-synapse interaction is also problematic. In either case, the amyloid cascade hypothesis continues to dominate the Alzheimer's disease literature and grant applications. The more the neuroscience community perseverates along these lines in the face of accumulating outcome data to the contrary, the more one is left to wonder whether the hypothesis is too big to fail.
In the quest for susceptibility factors of inflammatory neuropathies, many genes implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases have been investigated with negative or conflicting results. We studied, with a gene candidate approach, the CD1 system specialized in capturing and presenting glycolipids to antigen-specific T cells, and the SH2D2A gene encoding for a T-cell-specific adapter protein implicated in control of early T-cell activation. In Guillain-Barr syndrome, an initially positive association study with polymorphism of CD1A and CD1E genes was not confirmed. In chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, we did not find an association with CD1 genes, but we found an association with a homozygous genotype for a low repeat number of tandem GA in the SH2D2A gene. This genotype could result in defective control and elimination of autoreactive T cells. All the studies were performed on relatively small size populations. Confirmation in larger sized studies is required both for CD1 and SH2D2A genes. Considering the relative rarity of patients with inflammatory neuropathies, this can only be accomplished by international collaboration.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is an autoimmune disease that targets the myelin sheaths in peripheral nerves. Primary demyelination can be detected by electrodiagnostic studies or nerve biopsy, but these do not distinguish between demyelination resulting from CIDP or from non-inflammatory causes such as diabetes or Charcot-Marie-Tooth type I. Consequently, the diagnosis of CIDP in such patients is often missed. Studies are needed to establish electrodiagnostic criteria for CIDP in patients with diabetes, and to identify biomarkers that distinguish between inflammatory and non-inflammatory causes of demyelinating neuropathy.
Activity-induced weakness was reported in multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). This was attributed to activity-dependent conduction block (CB) arising in demyelinated axons. It is not known if activity-induced weakness is common, nor if it is specific for MMN and CIDP. We, therefore, carried out an investigation by questionnaire in 64 MMN patients, 52 CIDP patients, 48 progressive spinal muscular atrophy (PSMA) patients, and 30 normal subjects. Subjects were asked if they experienced an increase in weakness when performing 10 common tasks. The percentage of tasks causing activity-induced weakness was higher in the patient groups than in the normal subjects (p &lt; 0.001). The risk of activity-induced weakness exceeding that in normal subjects was sixfold higher for each patient group when adjusted for sex, age, and a fatigue score. With further adjustment for scores of weakness and axon loss, no significant differences were found between the patient groups. In conclusion, activity-induced weakness is frequently reported in MMN and CIDP. It is, however, not specific for these neuropathies as PSMA patients reported it to the same extent.
This study describes the normal morphology and morphometry of the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve (DCBU) in humans. Fourteen nerves of eight donors were prepared by conventional techniques for paraffin and epoxy resin embedding. Semiautomatic morphometric analysis was performed by means of specific computer software. Histograms of the myelinated and unmyelinated fiber population and the G-ratio distribution of fibers were plotted. Myelinated fiber density per nerve varied from 5,910 to 10,166 fibers/mm(2) , with an average of 8,170  393 fibers/mm(2) . The distribution was bimodal with peaks at 4.0 and 9.5 m. Unmyelinated fiber density per nerve varied from 50,985 to 127,108, with an average of 78,474  6,610 fibers/mm(2) , with a unimodal distribution displaying a peak at 0.8 m. This study thus adds information about the fascicles and myelinated and unmyelinated fibers of DCBU nerves in normal people, which may be useful in further studies concerning ulnar nerve neuropathies, mainly leprosy neuropathy.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) 1E receptor is highly expressed in the human frontal cortex and hippocampus, and this distribution suggests the function of 5-HT(1E) receptors might be linked to memory. To test this hypothesis, behavioral experiments are needed. Because rats and mice lack a 5-HT(1E) receptor gene, knockout strategies cannot be used to elucidate this receptor's functions. Thus, selective pharmacological tools must be developed. The tryptamine-related agonist BRL54443 [5-hydroxy-3-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-1H-indole] is one of the few agents that binds 5-HT(1E) receptors with high affinity and some selectively; unfortunately, it binds equally well to 5-HT(1F) receptors (K(i)  1 nM). The differences between tryptamine binding requirements of these two receptor populations have never been extensively explored; this must be done to guide the design of analogs with greater selectivity for 5-HT(1E) receptors versus 5-HT(1F) receptors. Previously, we determined the receptor binding affinities of a large series of tryptamine analogs at the 5-HT(1E) receptor; we now examine the affinities of this same series of compounds at 5-HT(1F) receptors. The affinities of these compounds at 5-HT(1E) and 5-HT(1F) receptors were found to be highly correlated (r = 0.81). All high-affinity compounds were full agonists at both receptor populations. We identified 5-N-butyryloxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine as a novel 5-HT(1F) receptor agonist with &gt;60-fold selectivity versus 5-HT(1E) receptors. There is significant overlap between 5-HT(1E) and 5-HT(1F) receptor orthosteric binding properties; thus, identification of 5-HT(1E)-selective orthosteric ligands will be difficult. The insights generated from this study will inform future drug development and molecular modeling studies for both 5-HT(1E) and 5-HT(1F) receptors.
Bombesin is a pruritogenic agent that causes intense itch-scratching activity in rodents. Bombesin has high affinity for the gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) receptor (GRPr) and the neuromedin B (NMB) receptor (NMBr). The aim of this study was to investigate pharmacologically the ability of GRPr and NMBr to elicit scratching behavior in rats. The intracerebroventricular route was selected for drug delivery because the study focused on supraspinal sites of action. The magnitude and duration of scratching produced by the naturally occurring peptides GRP and NMB were characterized. Antagonists selective for GRPr [(d-Tpi6, Leu13(CH2-NH)-Leu14)Bombesin(6-14) (RC-3095)] and NMBr [(S)--methyl--[[[(4-nitrophenyl)amino]carbonyl]amino]-N-[[1-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexyl]methyl]-1H-indole-3-propanamide (PD168368)] were used to define the role of GRPr and NMBr in the scratching response. After intracerebroventricular administration, GRP (0.03-0.3 nmol) and NMB (0.1-1 nmol) dose-dependently elicited marked scratching. There was a tolerance to scratching elicited by daily repeated administration of bombesin, GRP, or NMB. Presession administration of RC-3095 (0.1-1 nmol) and PD168368 (0.3-3 nmol) dose-dependently antagonized scratching elicited by GRP and NMB, respectively. More importantly, 1 nmol of RC-3095 failed to block NMB-elicited scratching, and 3 nmol of PD168368 failed to block GRP-elicited scratching. In addition, pretreatment with effective doses of RC-3095 or PD168368 alone or in combination did not block bombesin-elicited scratching. Through the use of the selective antagonists RC-3095 and PD168368, this study demonstrates that central GRPr and NMBr act independently to elicit scratching behavior and there is an additional, unidentified receptor mechanism underlying bombesin-elicited scratching.
Chronic dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to deleterious motor sequelae known as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). No known therapeutic can eliminate LID, but preliminary evidence suggests that dl-1-isopropylamino-3-(1-naphthyloxy)-2-propanol [()propranolol], a nonselective -adrenergic receptor (AR) antagonist, may reduce LID. The present study used the rat unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine model of PD to characterize and localize the efficacy of ()propranolol as an adjunct to therapy with L-DOPA. We first determined whether ()propranolol was capable of reducing the development and expression of LID without impairing motor performance ON and OFF L-DOPA. Coincident to this investigation, we used reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction techniques to analyze the effects of chronic ()propranolol on markers of striatal activity known to be involved in LID. To determine whether ()propranolol reduces LID through AR blockade, we subsequently examined each enantiomer separately because only the (-)enantiomer has significant AR affinity. We next investigated the effects of a localized striatal AR blockade on LID by cannulating the region and microinfusing ()propranolol before systemic L-DOPA injections. Results showed that a dose range of ()propranolol reduced LID without deleteriously affecting motor activity. Pharmacologically, only (-)propranolol had anti-LID properties indicating AR-specific effects. Aberrant striatal signaling associated with LID was normalized with ()propranolol cotreatment, and intrastriatal ()propranolol was acutely able to reduce LID. This research confirms previous work suggesting that ()propranolol reduces LID through AR antagonism and presents novel evidence indicating a potential striatal locus of pharmacological action.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine 2C (5-HT(2C)) receptor subtype has received considerable attention as a target for drug discovery, having been implicated in a wide variety of disorders. Here, we describe the in vitro pharmacological profile of the novel 5-HT(2C) receptor-selective agonist vabicaserin [(-)-4,5,6,7,9,9a,10,11,12,12a-decahydrocyclopenta[c] [1,4]diazepino[6,7,1-ij]quinoline hydrochloride] (SCA-136), including a comprehensive strategy to assess 5-HT(2B) receptor selectivity using diverse preparations and assays of receptor activation. Vabicaserin displaced (125)I-(2,5-dimethoxy)phenylisopropylamine binding from human 5-HT(2C) receptor sites in Chinese hamster ovary cell membranes with a K(i) value of 3 nM and was &gt;50-fold selective over a number of serotonergic, noradrenergic, and dopaminergic receptors. Binding affinity determined for the human 5-HT(2B) receptor subtype using [(3)H]5HT was 14 nM. Vabicaserin was a potent and full agonist (EC(50), 8 nM; E(max), 100%) in stimulating 5-HT(2C) receptor-coupled calcium mobilization and exhibited 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism and 5-HT(2B) antagonist or partial agonist activity in transfected cells, depending on the level of receptor expression. In rat stomach fundus and human colonic longitudinal muscle endogenously expressing 5-HT(2B) receptors, vabicaserin failed to induce a 5-HT(2B) receptor-dependent contraction and produced a rightward shift of the 5-HT and -methyl-5-HT concentration-response curves in these preparations, respectively, consistent with 5-HT(2B) competitive antagonism. Likewise, vabicaserin failed to induce a 5-HT(2B) receptor-mediated contraction in arteries from deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt-treated rats, a model of hypersensitized 5-HT(2B) receptor function, and produced a rightward shift in the 5-HT-induced response that was consistent with 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonism. In summary, vabicaserin is a novel, potent, and selective 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating stroke subtype accounting for approximately 3 to 7% of cases each year. Despite its rarity among the various stroke types, SAH is still responsible for approximately 25% of all stroke fatalities. Although various preventative and therapeutic interventions have been explored for potential neuroprotection after SAH, a considerable percentage of patients still experience serious neurologic and/or cognitive impairments as a result of the primary hemorrhage and/or secondary brain damage that occurs. Z-ligustilide (LIG), the primary lipophilic component of the Chinese traditional medicine radix Angelica sinensis, has been shown to reduce ischemic brain injury via antiapoptotic pathways. Accordingly, in our study, we investigated the neuroprotective potential of LIG after experimental SAH in rats. Rats with SAH that was induced using the established double hemorrhage model were studied with and without LIG treatment. Mortality, neurobehavioral evaluation, brain water content, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and vasospasm assessment of the basilar artery were measured on days 3 and 7 after injury. Additional testing was done to evaluate for apoptosis using TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling staining as well as immunohistochemistry and Western blotting to identify key proapoptotic/survival proteins, i.e., p53, Bax, Bcl-2, and cleaved caspase-3. The results showed that LIG treatment reduced mortality, neurobehavioral deficits, brain edema, BBB permeability, and cerebral vasospasm. In addition, treatment reduced the number of apoptotic cells in the surrounding brain injury site, which accompanied a marked down-regulation of proapoptotic proteins, p53, and cleaved caspase-3. Our data suggest that LIG may be an effective therapeutic modality for SAH victims by altering apoptotic mechanisms.
Previous exposure to amphetamine leads to enhanced locomotor and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA) responding to the drug as well as enhanced amphetamine self-administration. Here, we investigated the effects of exposure to (9)-tetrahydrocannibinol ((9)-THC) on behavioral and biochemical responding to amphetamine. Rats in different groups received five exposure injections of vehicle or one of five doses of (9)-THC (0.4, 0.75, 1.5, 3.0, and 6.0 mg/kg i.p.) and were tested 2 days and 2 weeks later. Exposure to all but the lowest and highest doses of (9)-THC enhanced the locomotor response to amphetamine (0.75 mg/kg i.p.), but all failed to enhance NAcc DA overflow in response to the drug. Moreover, exposure to 3.0 mg/kg i.p. (9)-THC increased forskolin-evoked adenylyl cyclase activity in the NAcc and rats' locomotor response to the direct DA receptor agonist apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg s.c.), suggesting that (9)-THC sensitized locomotor responding to amphetamine by up-regulating postsynaptic DA receptor signaling in the NAcc. Finally, amphetamine self-administration (200 g/kg/infusion i.v.) was enhanced in amphetamine (5  1.5 mg/kg i.p.)-exposed rats, but not in rats exposed to (9)-THC (5  3.0 mg/kg i.p.). Previous exposure to this dose of (9)-THC modestly increased apomorphine SA (0.5 mg/kg/infusion i.v.). Thus, unlike amphetamine exposure, exposure to (9)-THC does not enhance the subsequent NAcc DA response to amphetamine or promote amphetamine self-administration. Although (9)-THC leads to alterations in postsynaptic DA receptor signaling in the NAcc and these can affect the generation of locomotion, these neuroadaptations do not seem to be linked to the expression of enhanced amphetamine self-administration.


Exposure to methylazoxymethanol (MAM) at embryonic day 17 (E17) in the rat has been proposed to be a promising model for schizophrenia that mimics behavioural abnormalities and deficits in prefrontal cortex (PFC) networks. In this study, we investigated for the first time the effects of antipsychotics on abnormal behaviours observed in prenatally MAM-exposed rats. We first examined spontaneous and MK-801-induced locomotor activity in an open field in adult E17 MAM- or saline-exposed rats. Then, the effect of single injections of haloperidol, clozapine and risperidone was investigated in MAM- or sham-exposed rats on spontaneous and MK-801 (0.05mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity. Risperidone more selectively counteracted the spontaneous hyperactivity in MAM than in sham rats, while haloperidol and clozapine induced similar effects on spontaneous locomotion in both groups. The main result of this study is that all the tested antipsychotics were more effective in attenuating the MK-801-induced hyperlocomotion in MAM than in sham rats. These findings further support the validity of E17 MAM exposure as a model for schizophrenia and add to its heuristic value in screening therapies for schizophrenia.
Our objectives were to (i) estimate lifetime prevalence of psychiatric comorbidity in heroin users and (ii) evaluate psychiatric comorbidity as a predictor of drug-related hospitalization following either (a) methadone maintenance or (b) naltrexone implant treatment. Our method consisted of retrospective, longitudinal follow-up using prospectively collected, state-wide hospital data on two cohorts of heroin-dependent persons (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition), first time treated with naltrexone implant (n=317) or methadone (n=521) between January 2001 and December 2002. Outcome measures were: (i) prevalence of comorbidity and (ii) changes in risk for drug-related hospitalization - categorized as 'opioid drugs', 'non-opioid drugs', and 'any drug' - to 3.5 years post-treatment. Nearly 32% had psychiatric comorbidity. In both cohorts, comorbid patients generally had significantly greater odds of drug-related hospitalization pre-treatment compared with non-comorbid counterparts. These differences generally reduced in magnitude post-treatment. Comorbid naltrexone-treated patients had less 'opioid' and 'any drug' related hospitalizations post-treatment. Similarly, comorbid methadone-treated patients had reduced hospitalization risk for 'non-opioid' and 'any drug' related hospitalization post-treatment. Treatment of persons without depression, anxiety, or personality disorder with naltrexone implant was associated with increased risk of 'non-opioid' drug-related hospitalization, while methadone treatment was associated with increased risk of 'opioid' drug-related hospitalization. Although comorbid heroin users entered treatment with significantly higher risk of drug-related hospitalization than non-comorbid users, substantial reductions in drug-related hospitalization were generally observed post-treatment. This challenges the view that comorbidity predicts poor drug treatment outcomes. Differences in research methodology were noted; recommendation for rigorous analytical methodology in future research on assessing treatment outcomes was accordingly offered.
Despite advances in treatments, relapses in schizophrenia still occur. The causes of relapse are not always apparent, especially for patients that are compliant with medication. One possibility is that the brain adapts to long-term antipsychotic drug treatment, leading to tolerance and withdrawal symptoms. This has been described as supersensitivity psychosis. Tardive dyskinesia is also thought to occur as a consequence of dopamine supersensitivity caused by chronic treatment with antipsychotics. Another associated feature is sensitivity to life stress. This study investigated the relationship between abnormal movements, life events and drug treatment in patients relapsing on antipsychotics with high potency at the dopamine D2 receptor. Twenty-two patients from a cohort of 128 patients experiencing a psychotic relapse were assessed; of these, seven (32%) met criteria for the presence of abnormal involuntary movements. These subjects were found to be clinically distinct from the subjects without abnormal movements. They tended to be older with a greater duration of illness and higher dosage of antipsychotics but more symptoms of psychosis compared with the other subjects. Relapse was also associated with minor life events. The association between abnormal involuntary movements and high levels of psychotic symptoms suggests that dopamine sensitization/supersensitivity may underlie both phenomena. These results suggest that clinicians may have to consider alternative dosing strategies, novel agents or switching to one of the antipsychotics that have a lower affinity for the D2 receptor.
Blood biomarkers are useful for the management of many diseases and could be useful for doctors caring for stroke patients, if they accurately predicted a diagnosis or recurrence of stroke. In a series of studies, we systematically reviewed the blood biomarker literature in stroke, determined the performance of existing blood biomarkers for the diagnosis of stroke and examined the value of markers of inflammation to predict recurrent stroke and myocardial infarction.


The psychiatric literature is divided with regard to the long-term psychological effects associated with Holocaust (Shoah) experiences because the findings of clinical and empirical studies often contradict each other. Despite case reports of emotional sequelae related to intergenerational transmission of trauma, recent empirical research has suggested that offspring of survivors of the Shoah did not differ from other children and found no evidence that traumatic experiences of survivors of the Shoah affected their children's and grandchildren's adjustment. To shed light on some of the differences between the empirical and clinical observations, the present study set out to compare the grandchildren of survivors of the Shoah and persons of the same age whose families had not been through the Shoah experience. This study compared the two groups on some psychological dimensions relevant to traumatic sequelae: hopelessness, temperament, personality, attitudes, and interpersonal expectations. Subjects were 124 equally divided among the Shoah survivors' grandchildren and comparison groups; we administered to all subjects TEMPS-A Rome, Beck Hopelessness Scale, State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory, and 9AP (9 Attachment Profile). We found no differences between two groups in Hopelessness, Dysthimic/Cyclotimic/Anxious, Hyperthimic temperament, and self-perception; instead the Shoah survivors' grandchildren have a view of the other as rejecting, hostile, submissive, insecure, unreliable, and competitive in the interpersonal relationships. The Shoah survivors' grandchildren are similar to controls in affective temperament, hopelessness and self-perception, but they are more irritable and angry than controls, and their perception about others is deeply negative. Attribution theory was used to elucidate these findings.
Although estrogens help to prepare the uterus for blastocyst implantation, small elevations above optimal levels can prevent implantation. In diverse mammals, stressors including extreme temperatures, physical restraint, environment changes, and predator exposure can impede implantation. This can be mimicked by treating inseminated females with exogenous estrogens. Peri-implantation stressors can elevate estradiol levels, while exogenous estrogen antibodies can mitigate the influences of stress on implantation. Another stimulus that disrupts implantation is exposure to novel males (the &quot;Bruce effect&quot;). This effect, best known in mice, is mediated by chemical factors in male urine. Although a longstanding hypothesis relates the Bruce effect to the female's olfactory memory trace of the sire and reaction to odors of novel males, evidence increasingly supports an alternative hypothesis that implicates males' excreted estrogens. Male urine contains substantial amounts of unconjugated estradiol, and males actively deliver urine toward females which impinges on their nasal region. The Bruce effect can be diminished by drug treatment of males that reduces urinary estradiol, and by treatment of females with estrogen antibodies. Tritiated estradiol ((3)H-E(2)) systemically delivered to male mice was evident in their urine. When (3)H-E(2) was given intra-nasally to inseminate females, it was found in their circulation and in diverse tissues, with greatest radioactivity in the uterus. Accordingly, evidence indicates that males' excreted estradiol can arrive at the female reproductive tract, where it can disrupt implantation through known mechanisms.
Sleep deprivation (SD) affects hippocampus-dependent memory formation. Several studies in rodents have shown that brief SD immediately following a mild foot shock impairs consolidation of contextual fear memory as reflected in a reduced behavioural freezing response during re-exposure to the shock context later. In the first part of this study, we examined whether this reduced freezing response is accompanied by an attenuated fear-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Results show that 6h of SD immediately following the initial shock results in a diminished adrenal corticosterone (CORT) response upon re-exposure to the shock context the next day. In the second part, we established whether the attenuated freezing response in SD animals is associated with reduced activation of relevant brain areas known to be involved in the retrieval and expression of fear memory. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain slices showed that the normal increase in phosphorylation of the transcription factor 3',5'-cyclic AMP response-element binding protein (CREB) upon re-exposure to the shock context was reduced in SD animals in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and in the amygdala. In conclusion, brief SD impairs the consolidation of contextual fear memory. Upon re-exposure to the context, this is reflected in a diminished behavioural freezing response, an attenuated HPA axis response and a reduction of the normal increase of phosphorylated CREB expression in the hippocampus and amygdala.
To date, no detailed examination of the pattern of change in reaction time performance for different sensory modalities has been conducted across the circadian cycle during sleep deprivation. Therefore, we compared sustained auditory and visual attention performance during 40h of sleep deprivation assessing multiple metrics of auditory and visual psychomotor vigilance tasks (PVT). Forty healthy participants (14 women) aged 30.88.6years were studied. Subjects were scheduled for an 8h sleep schedule at home prior to three-six laboratory baseline days with an 8h sleep schedule followed by 40h sleep deprivation. Visual and auditory PVTs were 10min in duration, and were administered every 2h during sleep deprivation. Data were analysed with mixed-model anova. Sleep deprivation and circadian phase increased response time, lapses, anticipations, standard deviation of response times and time on task decrements for visual and auditory PVTs. In general, auditory vigilance was faster and less variable than visual vigilance, with larger differences between auditory and visual PVT during sleep deprivation versus baseline. Failures to respond to stimuli within 10s were four times more likely to occur to visual versus auditory stimuli. Our findings highlight that lapses during sleep deprivation are more than just long responses due to eye closure or visual distraction. Furthermore, our findings imply that the general pattern of change in attention during sleep deprivation (e.g. circadian variation, response slowing, lapsing and anticipations, time on task decrements and state instability) is similar among sensory-motor behavioral response modalities.
Following research indicating that the treatment needs of women are different from those of men, researchers and clinicians have argued that drug treatment programs for women should be designed to take their needs into account. Such programs tend to admit only women and incorporate philosophies and activities that are based on a social, peer-based model that is responsive to women's needs. To assess the relative effectiveness of women-only (WO) outpatient programs compared with mixed-gender (MG) outpatient programs, 291 study volunteers were recruited (152 WO, 139 MG), and a 1-year follow-up was completed with 259 women (135 WO, 124 MG). Using bivariate, logistic regression, and generalized estimating equation analysis, the following four outcomes were examined: drug and alcohol use, criminal activity, arrests, and employment. In both groups, women showed improvement in the four outcome measures. Comparison of the groups on outcomes yielded mixed results; women who participated in the WO treatment reported significantly less substance use and criminal activity than women in the MG treatment, but there were no differences in arrest or employment status at follow-up compared with those in the MG treatment.
This study analyzed trajectories of initial stress and long-term mental health after the 1980 North Sea oil rig disaster. A growth-mixture model of the survivors' stress manifestations in the first 8 weeks (Posttraumatic Stress Scale, [PTSS-10]) and general mental health in 1980, 1981, 1985, and 2007 (General Health Questionnaire, [GHQ-20]) was estimated. Survivors' GHQ-scores in 1985 and 2007 were contrasted to those of a comparison group. Four trajectories were identified among survivors. The resilient (n = 43) displayed initially moderate stress that rapidly declined. The recovery (n = 10), chronic (n = 8), and relapse (n = 9) showed initially stable high stress scores, but the long-term mental health differed. Early screening may identify those at long-term risk.



Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) have been occasionally reported to bleed from their venous side. This may particularly be the case when venous ectasias or aneurysms develop in the setting of steno-occlusive venopathy. Venous side hemorrhage should be suspected when the hematoma is centered on the venous pouch or when a venous pseudoaneurysm is identified on angiography. For AVMs with an identifiable point of rupture, early treatment is recommended in an attempt to secure the weak spot and minimize the risk of rerupture. When possible, microsurgical resection is the definitive and preferred treatment. In contrast, because of its latency period, stereotactic radiosurgery does not confer immediate protection in such cases. Endovascular transarterial embolization may offer immediate cure to only a minority of small AVMs, but remains a very useful temporizing strategy for arterial rupture sites such as proximal or intranidal aneurysms, allowing to defer definitive AVM treatment by either microsurgery or radiosurgery to a later stage. However, when the rupture site is venous in location and the AVM cannot be readily cured by either microsurgery because of its location in eloquent brain or embolization because of its large size, protecting patients from early rerupture may become problematic. We propose that, by reducing flow through the AVM, transarterial embolization may lead to secondary thrombosis of venous pseudoaneurysms and confer durable occlusion of these weak spots, pending definitive AVM cure. Therefore, transarterial embolization should be routinely attempted in such difficult-to-manage cases. An illustrative clinical case is presented in support of this hypothesis.

Musicians differ from nonmusicians in many ways; their many special skills reflect the fact that their brains are built differently and function differently. This review of 172 references from PAMA's bibliographic database reveals that most differences occur in the neurobiological realm, in contrast to those of gross anatomy and physiology. Gross changes occur in both cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres and in both gray and white matter. Neurophysiologic differences, measured by sophisticated imaging and electrophysiological techniques, are revealed in sound processing in general, as well as in multiple parameters of music perception, processing, and performance. Most of the neurological differences, both structural and functional, seem to be related to the early age of onset, intense degree, and prolonged duration of musical training and affect multiple, widespread areas of the brain. Training-related differences extend beyond the musical realm to speech, special senses, and general mental parameters and are seen in both instrumental and vocal musicians. A small percentage of reviewed papers demonstrated no appreciable differences between musicians and nonmusicians in a few parameters.
The adult mammal brain is mostly considered as non-neurogenic, except in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, where ongoing neurogenesis occurs. However, anti-neurogenic influences can be removed in pathological conditions or after specific injury. That is what happens in a model of unilateral vestibular neurectomy (UVN) that mimics human pathology in adult cats. We showed for the first time that a UVN promoted an intense reactive cell proliferation in the deafferented vestibular nuclei located in the brainstem. The new cells survived up to one month, differentiated into glial cells - microglia or astrocytes - or GABAergic neurons, so highlighting a GABAergic neurogenesis. Surprisingly, we further showed that post-UVN reactive cell proliferation contributed successfully to fine restoration of vestibular posturo-locomotor functions. In conclusion, these pioneering studies bring new pieces of a promising puzzle in both stem cell and vestibular therapy domains.

Pyruvate, an endogenous metabolite of glycolysis, is an anti-toxicity agent. Recent studies have suggested possible roles for pyruvate in protecting CNS neurons from excitotoxic and metabolic insults. Utilizing cultures derived from embryonic rat cortex, the studies presented in this paper indicate that an astroglia-mediated mechanism is involved in the neuroprotective effects of pyruvate against glutamate toxicity. Glutamate-induced toxicity could be reversed by pyruvate in a mixed culture of cortex cells. Importantly, in pure neuronal cultures from the same tissue, pyruvate failed to protect against glutamate toxicity. Addition of astroglia to the pure neuronal cultures restores the ability of pyruvate to protect neurons from glutamate-induced toxicity. Our results further suggest that pyruvate can induce glia to up-regulate the synthesis of glutathione (GSH), an antioxidant that protects cells from toxins such as free radicals. Taken together, our data suggest that astroglia in mixed cultures are essential for mediating the effects of pyruvate, revealing a novel mechanism by which pyruvate, an important intermediate of tricarboxylic acid cycle in the body, may act to protect neurons from damage during insults such as brain ischemia.
Fluorescent proteins and molecules are now widely used to tag and visualize proteins resulting in an improved understanding of protein trafficking, localization, and function. In addition, fluorescent tags have also been used to inactivate protein function in a spatially and temporally-defined manner, using a technique known as fluorophore-assisted light inactivation (FALI) or chromophore-assisted light inactivation (CALI). In this study we tagged the serotonin A subunit with the -bungarotoxin binding sequence (BBS) and subsequently labeled 5-HTA/BBS receptors with fluorescently conjugated -bungarotoxin in live cells. We show that 5-HTA/BBS receptors are constitutively internalized in the absence of an agonist and internalization as well as receptor function are inhibited by fluorescence. The fluorescence-induced disruption of function and internalization was reduced with oxygen radical scavengers suggesting the involvement of reactive oxygen species, implicating the FALI process. Furthermore, these data suggest that intense illumination during live-cell microscopy may result in inadvertent FALI and inhibition of protein trafficking.
Glucocorticoid (GC) hormones are secreted from the adrenal gland in a characteristic pulsatile pattern. This ultradian secretory activity exhibits remarkable plasticity, with distinct changes in response to both physiological and stressful stimuli in humans and experimental animals. It is therefore important to understand how the pattern of GC exposure regulates intracellular signaling through the GC receptor (GR). We have previously shown that each pulse of ligand initiates rapid, transient GR activation in several physiologically relevant and functionally diverse target cell types. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, we detect cyclical shifts in the net equilibrium position of GR association with regulatory elements of GC-target genes and have investigated in detail the mechanism of pulsatile transcriptional regulation of the GC-induced Period 1 gene. Transient recruitment of the histone acetyl transferase complex cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP)/p300 is found to precisely track the ultradian hormone rhythm, resulting in transient localized net changes in lysine acetylation at GC-regulatory regions after each pulse. Pulsatile changes in histone H4 acetylation and concomitant recruitment of RNA polymerase 2 precede ultradian bursts of Period 1 gene transcription. Finally, we report the crucial underlying role of the intranuclear heat shock protein 90 molecular chaperone complex in pulsatile GR regulation. Pharmacological interference of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) with geldanamycin during the intranuclear chaperone cycle completely ablated GR's cyclical activity, cyclical cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP)/p300 recruitment, and the associated cyclical acetylation at the promoter region. These data imply a key role for an intact nuclear chaperone cycle in cyclical transcriptional responses, regulated in time by the pattern of pulsatile hormone.
An increasing number of studies have evaluated the potential therapeutic relevance of histone deacetylases (HDAC) inhibitors in mood disorder including bipolar disorder (BD). It has been suggested that the anterior limbic, which controls impulsivity and psychosis, is dysfunctional in BD. The present studies aims to evaluate the effects of microinjection of HDAC inhibitors in the ventricle, amygdala, striatum, prefrontal, and hippocampus on m-amphetamine-induced manic-like behavior in rats. Rats were given a single intracerebral (in the ventricle, amygdala, striatum, prefrontal, or hippocampus) injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid, sodium butyrate (SB), or valproate (VPA) followed by an intraperitoneal injection of saline or m-AMPH 2 h before the open-field task. The activity of HDAC was evaluated in amygdala, striatum, prefrontal, and hippocampus of animals. The microinjection of SB and VPA in the ventricle, amygdala, striatum, and prefrontal, but not in hippocampus blocked the hyperactivity induced by m-AMPH. In addition, SB and VPA inhibited the HDAC activity; however, this effect varied depending on the experimental procedure and the brain structure evaluated. Our results suggest that the antimanic effects of SB and VPA, HDAC inhibitors, are related to the amygdala, striatum, and prefrontal, but not the hippocampus. More studies are needed to clarify the therapeutic effects of the HDAC inhibitor in BD and thereby develop new drugs.
Reactive astrocytes are associated with a vast array of central nervous system (CNS) pathologies. The activation of astrocytes is characterized by changes in their molecular and morphological features, and depending on the type of damage can also be accompanied by inflammatory responses, neuronal damage, and in severe cases, scar formation. Although reactive astrogliosis is the normal physiological response essential for containing damage, it can also have detrimental effects on neuronal survival and axon regeneration, particularly in neurodegenerative diseases. It is believed that progressive changes in astrocytes as they become reactive are finely regulated by complex intercellular and intracellular signaling mechanisms. However, these have yet to be sorted out. Much has been learned from gain-of-function approaches in vivo and culture paradigms, but in most cases, loss-of-function genetic studies, which are a critical complementary approach, have been lacking. Understanding which signaling pathways are required to control different aspects of astrogliosis will be necessary for designing therapeutic strategies to improve their beneficial effects and limit their detrimental ones in CNS pathologies. In this article, we review recent advances in the mechanisms underlying the regulation of aspects of astrogliosis, with the main focus on the signaling pathways that have been studied using loss-of-function genetic mouse models.
Several studies have proposed that brain glutamate signaling abnormalities and glial pathology have a role in the etiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). These conclusions were primarily drawn from post-mortem studies in which forebrain brain regions were examined. The locus coeruleus (LC) is the primary source of extensive noradrenergic innervation of the forebrain and as such exerts a powerful regulatory role over cognitive and affective functions, which are dysregulated in MDD. Furthermore, altered noradrenergic neurotransmission is associated with depressive symptoms and is thought to have a role in the pathophysiology of MDD. In the present study we used laser-capture microdissection (LCM) to selectively harvest LC tissue from post-mortem brains of MDD patients, patients with bipolar disorder (BPD) and from psychiatrically normal subjects. Using microarray technology we examined global patterns of gene expression. Differential mRNA expression of select candidate genes was then interrogated using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and in situ hybridization (ISH). Our findings reveal multiple signaling pathway alterations in the LC of MDD but not BPD subjects. These include glutamate signaling genes, SLC1A2, SLC1A3 and GLUL, growth factor genes FGFR3 and TrkB, and several genes exclusively expressed in astroglia. Our data extend previous findings of altered glutamate, astroglial and growth factor functions in MDD for the first time to the brainstem. These findings indicate that such alterations: (1) are unique to MDD and distinguishable from BPD, and (2) affect multiple brain regions, suggesting a whole-brain dysregulation of such functions.
Noninvasive detection and in vivo imaging of apoptosis plays a critical role in the development of therapeutics in many different fields including cancer. We have developed an apoptosis biosensor by fusing green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the N-terminus of the naturally secreted Gaussia luciferase separated by a caspase-3 cleavage peptide consisting of aspartic acid (D), glutamic acid (E), valine (V), and aspartic acid (D) or DEVD. We showed that this fusion is retained in the cytoplasm of cells in an inactive form. Upon apoptosis, the DEVD peptide is cleaved in response to caspase-3 activation, freeing ssGluc, which can now enter the secretory pathway where it is folded properly and is released from the cells and can be detected in the conditioned medium in culture or in blood of live animals ex vivo over time. Because Gluc is secreted from cells via conventional pathway through the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi and vesicles, we showed that the presence of Gluc in these compartments in response to apoptosis can be visualized in vivo using bioluminescence imaging. This reporter provides a valuable tool for imaging and real-time monitoring of apoptosis and is compatible with high-throughput functional screening application in cultured cells and animal models.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) has been demonstrated to be an effective therapy for the treatment of primary dystonia as well as tardive dystonia. Results for other forms of secondary dystonia have been less consistent. Although a number of target sites have been explored for the treatment of dystonia, most notably the motor thalamus, the target of choice remains the sensorimotor portion of the GPi. Although the optimal site within the GPi has not been determined, most centers agree that the optimal site involves the posteroventral lateral &quot;sensorimotor&quot; portion of the GPi. Microelectrode recording (MER) can be used to identify boundaries of the GPi and nearby white matter tracts, including the corticospinal tract and optic tract, and the sensorimotor GPi. However, whether or not the use of MER leads to improved outcomes compared with procedures performed without MER has not been determined. Currently, there is no evidence to support or refute the hypothesis that mapping structures with MER provides better short- or long-term outcomes. Centers using MER do not report a preference of one system over another, but there have not been any studies to compare the relative benefits or risks of using more than 1 electrode simultaneously. Comparison studies of different target structures and targeting techniques in dystonia have not been performed. Additional research, which includes comparative studies, is needed to advance our understanding and optimization of DBS targets, techniques, and approaches along with their relative benefits and risks in dystonia.
Maple syrup urine disease is a rare metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the branched-chain -keto acid dehydrogenase complex gene. Patients generally present early in life with a toxic encephalopathy because of the accumulation of the branched-chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine and the corresponding ketoacids. Movement disorders in maple syrup urine disease have typically been described during decompensation episodes or at presentation in the context of a toxic encephalopathy, with complete resolution after appropriate dietary treatment. Movement disorders in patients surviving childhood are not well documented. We assessed 17 adult patients with maple syrup urine disease (mean age, 27.5 years) with a special focus on movement disorders. Twelve (70.6%) had a movement disorder on clinical examination, mainly tremor and dystonia or a combination of both. Parkinsonism and simple motor tics were also observed. Pyramidal signs were present in 11 patients (64.7%), and a spastic-dystonic gait was observed in 6 patients (35.2%). In summary, movement disorders are common in treated adult patients with maple syrup urine disease, and careful neurological examination is advisable to identify those who may benefit from specific therapy.  2011 Movement Disorder Society.
Botulinum toxin injections ameliorate dystonic symptoms by blocking the neuromuscular junction and weakening dystonic contractions. We asked if botulinum toxin injections in dystonia patients might also affect the integrity of sensorimotor cortical plasticity, one of the key pathophysiological features of dystonia. We applied a paired associative stimulation protocol, known to induce long-term potentiation-like changes in the primary motor cortex hand area to 12 patients with cervical dystonia before and 1 and 3 months after botulinum toxin injections to the neck muscles. Primary motor cortex excitability was probed by measuring transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked motor evoked potentials before and after paired associative stimulation. We also measured the input-output curve, short-interval intracortical inhibition, intracortical facilitation, short afferent inhibition, and long afferent inhibition in hand muscles and the clinical severity of dystonia. Before botulinum toxin injections, paired associative stimulation significantly facilitated motor evoked potentials in hand muscles. One month after injections, this effect was abolished, with partial recovery after 3 months. There were significant positive correlations between the facilitation produced by paired associative stimulation and (1) the time elapsed since botulinum toxin injections and (2) the clinical dystonia score. One effect of botulinum toxin injection treatment is to modulate afferent input from the neck. We propose that subsequent reorganization of the motor cortex representation of hand muscles may explain the effect of botulinum toxin on motor cortical plasticity.  2011 Movement Disorder Society.
Patients diagnosed with Parkinson's disease on clinical grounds who subsequently turn out to have normal dopamine transporter imaging have been referred to as SWEDDs (scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficits). Despite having clinical features similar to those of Parkinson's disease, these patients seem to have different pathophysiology, prognosis, and treatment requirements. In this study we determined the similarities and differences in the gaits of SWEDDs and Parkinson's disease patients to investigate whether walking patterns can distinguish these entities. We used 3-D motion capture to analyze the gaits of 11 SWEDDs patients (who had unilateral or asymmetric upper limb tremor with a rest component), 12 tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease patients, and 13 healthy control participants. In common with Parkinson's disease patients, SWEDDs patients had a slow gait mainly because of a small stride length, as well as a reduced arm swing. However, several abnormal features of posture and gait in Parkinson's disease were normal in SWEDDs. Thus, SWEDDs patients had normal trunk and elbow posture, normal stride length variability, and normal bilateral step-phase coordination, all of which were abnormal in Parkinson's disease patients. We also searched for signs of ataxic movements during normal and tandem walking, but found no evidence that ataxic gait was a general feature in SWEDDs. These findings could aid the clinician in identification of potential tremulous SWEDDs cases.  2011 Movement Disorder Society.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a spectrum of neurological disorders in laboratory animals that is used to model multiple sclerosis (MS). However, few agents have translated from efficacy in EAE to the treatment of human disease. Although this may reflect species differences in pathological disease mechanisms, importantly it may also relate to the practice of how drugs and models are currently used. This often bears very little resemblance to the clinical scenarios where treatments are investigated, such that lack of appreciation of the biology of disease may doom drugs to failure. The use of EAE is critically appraised with the aim of provoking thought, improving laboratory practise and aiding researchers and reviewers to address quality issues when undertaking, reporting and interpreting animal studies related to MS research. This is important as many researchers using EAE could and should do more to improve the quality of the studies.
The impact of lesion location on cognitive functioning was assessed in a group of 97 patients with a clinically isolated syndrome. Using the Brief Repeatable Battery, we evidenced that 24% of patients showed at least one abnormal test, 20% at least two and 15% at least three. Verbal learning performances were inversely associated with presence of lesions in Broca's area, in the right frontal lobe and in the splenium while spatial learning performances were inversely correlated to the presence of lesions in the deep white matter. No associations were evidenced between lesion location and performance of tasks exploring attention and executive functions.



Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradicoloneuropathy (CIDP) is a treatable form of neuropathy. Efforts to devise sets of electrodiagnostic (nerve conduction) criteria to distinguish primary demyelination from primary axonal neuropathies have been elusive, and at least 16 criteria have been proposed. Modifications to criteria frequently represent minor changes based on applying a set to a small number of patients with the clinical diagnosis of CIDP, whereas others are based on physiological changes related to demyelination and other pathophysiological features. The various modifications continue to result in limited sensitivity, likely related to the wide range of nerve conduction abnormalities among CIDP patients. Although some sets are appropriate for formal clinical drug trials, their complexity makes them difficult to apply in the clinic or electromyography laboratory. This study considers the evolution of the criteria, discusses their limitations, and ends with a simplified set of guidelines that can be applied in the clinic or laboratory.
Preventing falls and fall-related injuries among older people is an urgent public health challenge. This paper provides an overview of the background to and research planned for a 5-year National Health and Medical Research Council Partnership Grant on implementing falls prevention research findings into policy and practice. This program represents a partnership between key Australian falls prevention researchers, policy makers and information technology companies which aims to: (1) fill gaps in evidence relating to the prevention of falls in older people, involving new research studies of risk factor assessment and interventions for falls prevention; (2) translate evidence into policy and practice, examining the usefulness of new risk-identification tools in clinical practice; and (3) disseminate evidence to health professionals working with older people, via presentations, new evidence-based guidelines, improved resources and learning tools, to improve the workforce capacity to prevent falls and associated injuries in the future.

Mechanisms of signal transduction regulation remain a fundamental question in a variety of biological processes and diseases. Previous evidence indicates that the primary cilium can act as a signalling hub, but its exact role in many of the described pathways has remained elusive. Here, we investigate the mechanism of cilia-mediated regulation of the canonical Wnt pathway. We found that primary cilia dampen canonical Wnt signalling through a spatial mechanism involving compartmentalization of signalling components. The cilium, through regulated intraflagellar transport, diverts Jouberin (Jbn), a ciliopathy protein and context-specific Wnt pathway regulator, away from the nucleus and limits -catenin nuclear entry. This repressive regulation does not silence the pathway, but instead maintains a discrete range of Wnt responsiveness; cells without cilia have potentiated Wnt responses, whereas cells with multiple cilia have inhibited responses. Furthermore, we show that this regulation occurs during embryonic development and is disrupted in cancer cell proliferation. Together these data explain a spatial mechanism of Wnt signalling regulation that may provide insight into ciliary regulation of other signalling pathways.
Intracellular Ca(2+) is essential for diverse cellular functions. Ca(2+) entry into many cell types including immune cells is triggered by depleting endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+), a process termed store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE). STIM1 is an ER Ca(2+) sensor. Upon Ca(2+) store depletion, STIM1 clusters at ER-plasma membrane junctions where it interacts with and gates Ca(2+)-permeable Orai1 ion channels. Here we show that STIM1 is also activated by temperature. Heating cells caused clustering of STIM1 at temperatures above 35 C without depleting Ca(2+) stores and led to Orai1-mediated Ca(2+) influx as a heat off-response (response after cooling). Notably, the functional coupling of STIM1 and Orai1 is prevented at high temperatures, potentially explaining the heat off-response. Additionally, physiologically relevant temperature shifts modulate STIM1-dependent gene expression in Jurkat T cells. Therefore, temperature is an important regulator of STIM1 function.
The ciliopathy Joubert syndrome is marked by cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, a phenotype for which the pathogenic mechanism is unclear. To investigate Joubert syndrome pathogenesis, we have examined mice with mutated Ahi1, the first identified Joubert syndrome-associated gene. These mice show cerebellar hypoplasia with a vermis-midline fusion defect early in development. This defect is concomitant with expansion of the roof plate and is also evident in a mouse mutant for another Joubert syndrome-associated gene, Cep290. Furthermore, fetal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of human subjects with Joubert syndrome reveals a similar midline cleft, suggesting parallel pathogenic mechanisms. Previous evidence has suggested a role for Jouberin (Jbn), the protein encoded by Ahi1, in canonical Wnt signaling. Consistent with this, we found decreased Wnt reporter activity at the site of hemisphere fusion in the developing cerebellum of Ahi1-mutant mice. This decrease was accompanied by reduced proliferation at the site of fusion. Finally, treatment with lithium, a Wnt pathway agonist, partially rescued this phenotype. Our findings implicate a defect in Wnt signaling in the cerebellar midline phenotype seen in Joubert syndrome that can be overcome with Wnt stimulation.
In the twentieth century, the dominant model of sexual differentiation stated that genetic sex (XX versus XY) causes differentiation of the gonads, which then secrete gonadal hormones that act directly on tissues to induce sex differences in function. This serial model of sexual differentiation was simple, unifying and seductive. Recent evidence, however, indicates that the linear model is incorrect and that sex differences arise in response to diverse sex-specific signals originating from inherent differences in the genome and involve cellular mechanisms that are specific to individual tissues or brain regions. Moreover, sex-specific effects of the environment reciprocally affect biology, sometimes profoundly, and must therefore be integrated into a realistic model of sexual differentiation. A more appropriate model is a parallel-interactive model that encompasses the roles of multiple molecular signals and pathways that differentiate males and females, including synergistic and compensatory interactions among pathways and an important role for the environment.
We found that CNS-directed expression of interferon- (IFN-) resulted in basal ganglia calcification, reminiscent of human idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC), and nigrostriatal degeneration. Our results indicate that IFN- mediates age-progressive nigrostriatal degeneration in the absence of exogenous stressors. Further study of this model may provide insight into selective nigrostriatal degeneration in human IBGC and other Parkinson syndromes.
The ability to search efficiently for a target in a cluttered environment is one of the most remarkable functions of the nervous system. This task is difficult under natural circumstances, as the reliability of sensory information can vary greatly across space and time and is typically a priori unknown to the observer. In contrast, visual-search experiments commonly use stimuli of equal and known reliability. In a target detection task, we randomly assigned high or low reliability to each item on a trial-by-trial basis. An optimal observer would weight the observations by their trial-to-trial reliability and combine them using a specific nonlinear integration rule. We found that humans were near-optimal, regardless of whether distractors were homogeneous or heterogeneous and whether reliability was manipulated through contrast or shape. We present a neural-network implementation of near-optimal visual search based on probabilistic population coding. The network matched human performance.
Hippocampal mossy fiber synapses have been reported to lack NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of AMPA excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), unlike conventional glutamatergic synapses. An explanation for this difference may reside in the relatively low number of NMDARs at these synapses. Because mossy fiber synapses display LTP selective for NMDARs, we examined whether this would affect the plasticity rules at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses in mouse hippocampal slices. We found that LTP of NMDARs serves as a metaplastic switch making mossy fiber synapses competent for generating NMDAR-dependent LTP of AMPA EPSCs.
KCC2 is a neuron-specific K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter that maintains a low intracellular Cl(-) concentration that is essential for hyperpolarizing inhibition mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Deficits in KCC2 activity occur in disease states associated with pathophysiological glutamate release. However, the mechanisms by which elevated glutamate alters KCC2 function are unknown. The phosphorylation of KCC2 residue Ser940 is known to regulate its surface activity. We found that NMDA receptor activity and Ca(2+) influx caused the dephosphorylation of Ser940 in dissociated rat neurons, leading to a loss of KCC2 function that lasted longer than 20 min. Protein phosphatase 1 mediated the dephosphorylation events of Ser940 that coincided with a deficit in hyperpolarizing GABAergic inhibition resulting from the loss of KCC2 activity. Blocking dephosphorylation of Ser940 reduced the glutamate-induced downregulation of KCC2 and substantially improved the maintenance of hyperpolarizing GABAergic inhibition. Reducing the downregulation of KCC2 therefore has therapeutic potential in the treatment of neurological disorders.
Viral infection converts the normal functions of a cell to optimize viral replication and virion production. One striking observation of this conversion is the reconfiguration and reorganization of cellular actin, affecting every stage of the viral life cycle, from entry through assembly to egress. The extent and degree of cytoskeletal reorganization varies among different viral infections, suggesting the evolution of myriad viral strategies. In this Review, we describe how the interaction of viral proteins with the cell modulates the structure and function of the actin cytoskeleton to initiate, sustain and spread infections. The molecular biology of such interactions continues to engage virologists in their quest to understand viral replication and informs cell biologists about the role of the cytoskeleton in the uninfected cell.

The nervous system is protected by barriers that restrict the invasion of pathogens. Nevertheless, mechanisms have evolved by which microbes can pass these barriers, enter and exit neurons and target various regions of the nervous system. In the brain, immune responses to pathogens are generally not robust, so microbes can hide and survive or, conversely, cause severe uncontrolled infections. Depending on their sites of entry and the regions that they target, microbes can cause diverse nervous system dysfunctions and even influence host behaviour to their own advantage. This Review discusses routes by which microbes can reach the nervous system and cause persistent or life-threatening infections.
Neurons are generally considered to communicate information by increasing or decreasing their firing rate. However, in principle, they could in addition convey messages by using specific spatiotemporal patterns of spiking activities and silent intervals. Here, we review expanding lines of evidence that such spatiotemporal coding occurs in the cerebellum, and that the olivocerebellar system is optimally designed to generate and employ precise patterns of complex spikes and simple spikes during the acquisition and consolidation of motor skills. These spatiotemporal patterns may complement rate coding, thus enabling precise control of motor and cognitive processing at a high spatiotemporal resolution by fine-tuning sensorimotor integration and coordination.
Trax-translin heteromers, also known as C3PO, have been proposed to activate the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) by facilitating endonucleolytic cleavage of the siRNA passenger strand. We report on the crystal structure of hexameric Drosophila C3PO formed by truncated translin and Trax, along with electron microscopic and mass spectrometric studies on octameric C3PO formed by full-length translin and Trax. Our studies establish that Trax adopts the translin fold, possesses catalytic centers essential for C3PO's endoRNase activity and interacts extensively with translin to form an octameric assembly. The catalytic pockets of Trax subunits are located within the interior chamber of the octameric scaffold. Truncated C3PO, like full-length C3PO, shows endoRNase activity that leaves 3'-hydroxyl-cleaved ends. We have measured the catalytic activity of C3PO and shown it to cleave almost stoichiometric amounts of substrate per second.
High-level languages (Matlab, Python) are popular in neuroscience because they are flexible and accelerate development. However, for simulating spiking neural networks, the cost of interpretation is a bottleneck. We describe a set of algorithms to simulate large spiking neural networks efficiently with high-level languages using vector-based operations. These algorithms constitute the core of Brian, a spiking neural network simulator written in the Python language. Vectorized simulation makes it possible to combine the flexibility of high-level languages with the computational efficiency usually associated with compiled languages.
Statistical models of neural activity are integral to modern neuroscience. Recently interest has grown in modeling the spiking activity of populations of simultaneously recorded neurons to study the effects of correlations and functional connectivity on neural information processing. However, any statistical model must be validated by an appropriate goodness-of-fit test. Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests based on the time-rescaling theorem have proven to be useful for evaluating point-process-based statistical models of single-neuron spike trains. Here we discuss the extension of the time-rescaling theorem to the multivariate (neural population) case. We show that even in the presence of strong correlations between spike trains, models that neglect couplings between neurons can be erroneously passed by the univariate time-rescaling test. We present the multivariate version of the time-rescaling theorem and provide a practical step-by-step procedure for applying it to testing the sufficiency of neural population models. Using several simple analytically tractable models and more complex simulated and real data sets, we demonstrate that important features of the population activity can be detected only using the multivariate extension of the test.
A simple expression for a lower bound of Fisher information is derived for a network of recurrently connected spiking neurons that have been driven to a noise-perturbed steady state. We call this lower bound linear Fisher information, as it corresponds to the Fisher information that can be recovered by a locally optimal linear estimator. Unlike recent similar calculations, the approach used here includes the effects of nonlinear gain functions and correlated input noise and yields a surprisingly simple and intuitive expression that offers substantial insight into the sources of information degradation across successive layers of a neural network. Here, this expression is used to (1) compute the optimal (i.e., information-maximizing) firing rate of a neuron, (2) demonstrate why sharpening tuning curves by either thresholding or the action of recurrent connectivity is generally a bad idea, (3) show how a single cortical expansion is sufficient to instantiate a redundant population code that can propagate across multiple cortical layers with minimal information loss, and (4) show that optimal recurrent connectivity strongly depends on the covariance structure of the inputs to the network.
Humans carrying the prevalent rs9939609 A allele of the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) gene are more susceptible to developing obesity than noncarries. Recently, polymorphisms in the FTO gene of elderly subjects have also been linked to a reduced volume in the frontal lobe as well as increased risk for incident Alzheimer disease. However, so far there is no evidence directly linking the FTO gene to functional cognitive processes. Here we examined whether the FTO rs9939609 A allele is associated with verbal fluency performance in 355 elderly men at the age of 82 years who have no clinically apparent cognitive impairment. Retrieval of verbal memory is a good surrogate measure reflecting frontal lobe functioning. Here we found that obese and overweight but not normal weight FTO A allele carriers showed a lower performance on verbal fluency than non-carriers (homozygous for rs9939609 T allele). This effect was not observed for a measure of general cognitive performance (i.e., Mini-Mental State Examination score), thereby indicating that the FTO gene primarily affects frontal lobe-dependent cognitive processes in elderly men.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) can be proteolytically processed along two pathways, the amyloidogenic that leads to the formation of the 40-42 amino acid long Alzheimer-associated amyloid  (A) peptide and the non-amyloidogenic in which APP is cut in the middle of the A domain thus precluding A formation. Using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry we have shown that A is present in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as several shorter isoforms in addition to A1-40 and A1-42. To address the question by which processing pathways these shorter isoforms arise, we have developed a cell model that accurately reflects the A isoform pattern in CSF. Using this model, we determined changes in the A isoform pattern induced by -, -, and -secretase inhibitor treatment. All isoforms longer than and including A1-17 were -secretase dependent whereas shorter isoforms were -secretase independent. These shorter isoforms, including A1-14 and A1-15, were reduced by treatment with - and -secretase inhibitors, which suggests the existence of a third and previously unknown APP processing pathway involving concerted cleavages of APP by - and -secretase.
The cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by caspases unmasks a domain extending from membrane to caspase cleavage site. This domain induces apoptosis in vitro and in vivo when overexpressed in neurons through the help of an internalization vector. In this model, we previously showed that SET rapidly binds to the internalized domain and is involved in downstream deleterious effects. Under these conditions SET mislocalizes from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, as in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this report using the same model, we show that PAT1 attaches to the internalized domain earlier than SET and that this binding causes an increase in the levels of APP and APLP2 at the cell surface. Down regulation experiments of PAT1 and of APP and APLP2 show that the increase of the levels of APP and APLP2 at the cell surface triggers the cell death signal and SET mislocalization into the cytoplasm. In the context of AD these data suggest that mislocalization of SET into the cytoplasm may occur downstream of first cell death signal events involving PAT1 protein.
The striatum, the primary site of degeneration in Huntington's disease (HD), connects to the cerebral cortex via topographically organized circuits subserving unique motor, associative and limbic functions. Currently, it is not known whether all cortico-striatal circuits are equally affected in HD. We aimed to study the selective vulnerability of individual cortico-striatal circuits within the striatum in HD, and hypothesized that motor cortico-striatal pathways would be most affected, consistent with HD being a primarily motor disorder. Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) tractography was used to identify connections between the striatum and seven major cortical regions in 12 HD patients and 14 matched controls. The striatum of both groups was parcellated into subregions based on connectivity with the cerebral cortex. Volumetric and DTI microstructural measures of Fractional Anisotropy (FA) and Mean Diffusivity (MD) were obtained within each subregion and compared statistically between groups. Tractography demonstrated the topographic organization of cortical connections in the striatum of both controls and HD patients. In HD patients, the greatest difference from controls in volume, FA and MD was observed in M1 and S1 subregions of the caudate and putamen. Motor symptoms correlated with volume and MD in sensorimotor striatal subregions, suggesting that sensorimotor striatal degeneration is closely related to motor dysfunction. DTI tractography provides a novel approach to sensitively examine circuit-specific abnormalities in HD and has identified that the motor cortico-striatal circuit is selectively vulnerable in HD.
Humans subjected to diabetes mellitus (DM) and/or hypertension (HTN) develop cognitive decline, cerebral atrophy and white matter abnormalities, but the relative effects of DM and HTN upon myelin and axonal integrity is unknown. We studied models of Type 1 (streptozotocin-induced) and Type 2 DM (ZDF)  HTN (ZSF-1, SHR) in adult rats using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and structural and molecular techniques. Type 1 or 2 DM independently led to loss of myelin associated with changes with MRI T2 and magnetization tensor ratios throughout white matter regions. HTN's effect on myelin loss was minimal. Loss of oligodendroglia and myelin proteins was only identified in either Type 1 or Type 2 DM. Activation of the signal transduction pathways initiated by the receptor for advanced glycation end products (AGEs), RAGE, including upregulation of the signal transducer nuclear factor (NF) B only occurred with DM. Diabetes is a greater contributor to white matter loss than hypertension in the rat brain, while hypertension only plays a mild additive effect upon neurodegeneration in the presence of diabetes.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NOX) is widely expressed in brain tissue including neurons, glia, and endothelia in neurovascular units. It is a major source of oxidants in the post-ischemic brain and significantly contributes to ischemic brain damage. Inflammation occurs after brain ischemia and is known to be associated with post-ischemic oxidative stress. Post-ischemic inflammation also causes progressive brain injury. In this study we investigated the role of NOX2 in post-ischemic cerebral inflammation using a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion model in mice. We demonstrate that mice with NOX2 subunit gp91(phox) knockout (gp91 KO) showed 35-44% less brain infarction at 1 and 3 days of reperfusion compared with wild-type (WT) mice. Minocycline further reduced brain damage in the gp91 KO mice at 3 days of reperfusion. The gp91 KO mice exhibited less severe post-ischemic inflammation in the brain, as evidenced by reduced microglial activation and decreased upregulation of inflammation mediators, including interleukin-1 (IL-1), tumor necrosis factor-, inducible nitric oxide synthases, CC-chemokine ligand 2, and CC-chemokine ligand 3. Finally, we demonstrated that an intraventricular injection of IL-1 enhanced ischemia- and reperfusion-mediated brain damage in the WT mice (double the infarction volume), whereas, it failed to aggravate brain infarction in the gp91 KO mice. Taken together, these results demonstrate the involvement of NOX2 in post-ischemic neuroinflammation and that NOX2 inhibition provides neuroprotection against inflammatory cytokine-mediated brain damage.
Alpha-synuclein aggregation plays a central role in Parkinson's disease pathology. Direct transmission of alpha-synuclein from pathologically affected to healthy unaffected neurons may be important in the anatomical spread of the disease through the nervous system. We have demonstrated that exosomes released from alpha-synuclein over-expressing SH-SY5Y cells contained alpha-synuclein and these exosomes were capable of efficiently transferring alpha-synuclein protein to normal SH-SY5Y cells. Moreover, the incubation of cells with ammonium chloride or bafilomycin A1 to produce the lysosomal dysfunction recently reported in Parkinson's disease led to an increase in the release of alpha-synuclein in exosomes and a concomitant increase in alpha-synuclein transmission to recipient cells. This study clearly demonstrates the importance of exosomes in both the release of alpha synuclein and its transmission between cells and suggests that factors associated with PD pathology accelerate this process. These mechanisms may play an important role in PD pathology and provide a suitable target for therapeutic intervention.
Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a lysosomal storage disorder which, at the cellular level, shows amyloid A and tau pathologies comparable to those seen in the AD brain. Here, we have investigated, in a mouse model of NPC, the impact of removing the source of A, namely APP, on the disease phenotype and on the expression levels and phosphorylation patterns of tau. We reasoned that removing APP from the NPC brain might help to unveil its impact on the disease phenotype and shed light on the mechanisms governing the interaction, both physiological and pathological, between APP function and tau homeostasis, at least in NPC. We show that, unexpectedly, loss of APP in NPC mice leads to poorer neuromuscular coordination and cumulative survival rates; exacerbation of their cholesterol abnormalities; higher levels of astrocytosis and dysregulation of tau homeostasis. Our results are consistent with a mechanism of neurodegeneration in the NPC and AD brains in which cholesterol dysregulation is a key early pathogenic event affecting tau homeostasis in parallel with, and independently of, amyloid accumulation.
CMT4D disease is a severe autosomal recessive demyelinating neuropathy with extensive axonal loss leading to early disability, caused by mutations in the N-myc downstream regulated gene 1 (NDRG1). NDRG1 is expressed at particularly high levels in the Schwann cell (SC), but its physiological function(s) are unknown. To help with their understanding, we characterise the phenotype of a new mouse model, stretcher (str), with total Ndrg1 deficiency, in comparison with the hypomorphic Ndrg1 knock-out (KO) mouse. While both models display normal initial myelination and a transition to overt pathology between weeks 3 and 5, the markedly more severe str phenotype suggests that even low Ndrg1 expression results in significant phenotype rescue. Neither model replicates fully the features of CMT4D: although axon damage is present, regenerative capacity is unimpaired and the mice do not display the early severe axonal loss typical of the human disease. The widespread large fibre demyelination coincides precisely with the period of rapid growth of the animals and the dramatic (160-500-fold) increase in myelin volume and length in large fibres. This is followed by stabilisation after week 10, while small fibres remain unaffected. Gene expression profiling of str peripheral nerve reveals non-specific secondary changes at weeks 5 and 10 and preliminary data point to normal proteasomal function. Our findings do not support the proposed roles of NDRG1 in growth arrest, terminal differentiation, gene expression regulation and proteasomal degradation. Impaired SC trafficking failing to meet the considerable demands of nerve growth, emerges as the likely pathogenetic mechanism in NDRG1 deficiency.
The accumulation of soluble oligomeric amyloid- peptide (oA) proceeds the formation of senile plaques and contributes to synaptic and memory deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The mechanism of mediating microglial oA clearance remains unclear and thought to occur via scavenger receptors (SRs) in microglia. SRs respond to their ligands in a subtype-specific manner. Therefore, we sought to identify the specific subtypes of SRs that mediate oA internalization and proteases that degrade oA species in nave primary microglia. The component of oA species were characterized by western blot analysis, analytical ultracentrifugation analysis, and atomic force microscopy. The oA species remained soluble in the medium and microglial lysates during incubation at 37 C. SR-A, but not CD36, mediated oA internalization in microglia as suggested by the use of subtype-specific neutralizing antibodies and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). Immunoprecipitation analysis showed that oA interacted with SR-A on the plasma membrane. After internalization, over 40% of oA vesicles were trafficked toward lysosomes and degraded by cysteine proteases, including cathepsin B. The inhibitors of proteasome, neprilysin, matrix metalloproteinases, and insulin degrading enzyme failed to protect internalized oA from degradation. Our study suggests that SR-A and lysosomal cathepsin B are critical in microglial oA clearance, providing insight into how microglia are involved in the clearance of oA and their roles in the early stages of AD.

Neuroscientists have recently begun to explore topics, such as the nature of the self, that were previously considered problems for philosophy rather than for science. This article aims to provide a starting point for interdisciplinary exchange by reviewing three philosophical debates about the nature of the self in light of contemporary work in cognitive neuroscience. Continental rationalist and British empiricist approaches to the unity of the self are discussed in relation to earlier work on split-brain patients, and to more recent work on &quot;mental time travel&quot; and the default mode network; the phenomenological movement, and the central concept of intentionality, are discussed in relation to interoceptive accounts of emotion and to the mirror neuron system; and ongoing philosophical debates about agency and autonomy are discussed in relation to recent work on action awareness and on insight in clinical populations such as addicts and patients with frontotemporal dementia.
The extensive infarction affecting the posterior vermis and the medial and posterior regions of both cerebellar hemispheres, as well as the small central pontine lesion, seems to have disrupted multiple cerebral and brainstem cerebellar loops. These loops process information related to many cognitive domains, behavior and emotion, including decision making, empathy and theory of mind.
Transamidation of -synuclein by the Ca(2+)-dependent enzyme tissue transglutaminase (tTG, EC 2.3.2.13) is implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD). tTG may therefore offer a novel therapeutic target to intervene in PD. Here we first evaluated the potency and efficacy of three recently developed irreversible active-site inhibitors of tTG (B003, Z006 and KCC009) to inhibit tTG activity in vitro and in living cells. In vitro, all compounds were found to be full inhibitors of tTG activity showing a rank order of potency (defined by IC-50 values) of Z006&gt;B003&gt;KCC009. Upon Ca(2+) ionophore (A23187) induced activation of cellular tTG (measured by incorporation of the tTG-specific amine substrate 5-(biotinamido)pentylamine (BAP) into cellular proteins) in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, only Z006 (0.3-30 M) retained the capacity to completely inhibit tTG activity. Under these conditions B003 (3-300 M) only partially blocked tTG activity whereas KCC009 (3-100 M) failed to affect tTG activity at any of the concentrations used. Z006 (30 M) also blocked the tTG mediated incorporation of BAP into -synuclein monomers and SDS-resistant multimers in vitro and in -synuclein overexpressing SHSY5Y cells exposed to A23187 or the PD mimetic 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+)). Moreover, Z006 (30 M) substantially reduced formation of SDS-resistant -synuclein multimers in SH-SY5Y cells exposed to A23187 or MPP(+) in the absence of BAP. We conclude that -synuclein is a cellular substrate for tTG under conditions mimicking PD and blockade of tTG activity counteracts -synuclein transamidation and aggregation in vitro and in living cells. Moreover, our cell model appears an excellent readout to identify candidate inhibitors of intracellular tTG.
The high-affinity glutamate transporter GLT-1 plays a key role in the control of the glutamate homeostasis in the central nervous system and protects neurons against excitotoxicity. Splice variants of the original transcript have been identified and their involvement in neurodegenerative disorders has been proposed. However, the functions and the regulations of these isoforms remain unclear. In this study, we focused our interest on the expression of two C-terminal splice variants of GLT-1 (GLT-1a and b) in primary astrocyte cultures exposed to distinct chemical environments. While GLT-1a and GLT-1b mRNAs were both increased in response to treatment with N(6),2'-O-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (dBcAMP), the culture supplement G5 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), the regulation of GLT-1b appeared quicker and was more pronounced. Besides, using validated antibodies, we evidenced a differential regulation of the two proteins in cells exposed to TNF-. Thus, while dBcAMP and the G5 supplement stimulated the expression of both isoforms at 3 and 7 days, a transient upregulation of GLT-1a was induced by TNF-, which contrasts with the sustained induction of the GLT-1b isoform. These results shed light on the complex influence of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF- on GLT-1a mRNA and protein expression and on the necessity to distinctly consider the GLT-1 isoforms with appropriate tools in studies addressing the regulation of glutamate transporters.
Communication between astrocytes via the gap junction is crucial for maintaining homeostasis of the extra-neuronal microenvironment of the central nervous system. Dysfunction of astrocytic gap junctions is involved in many brain disorders. Our previous studies demonstrated a novel co-localization of Nogo-66 receptor at glial gap junctions in rat cerebellum and posterior pituitary. The present study was aimed at exploring whether Nogo-66 can modulate glial gap junctions in vitro. We confirmed the co-localization of Nogo-66 receptor with Cx43 in cultured astrocytes, and stimulated astrocytes with myelin extracts, or Nogo-66-Fc conditioned medium. Finally, we expressed and purified a functionally effective GST-Nogo-66 peptide. Lucifer yellow transfer assay was adopted to measure the gap junction permeability. The results showed that the spreading of Lucifer yellow was inhibited significantly by all three treatments as compared with their corresponding controls. Therefore, this study shows a novel inhibitory effect of Nogo-66 on the permeability of astrocytic gap junctions, suggesting a presumable role of Nogo-66 receptor in modulating the glial gap junction.
Previous studies have shown that polyphenols might be potent neuroprotective agents in Drosophila melanogaster, a valid model for PD, acutely treated with oxidative stress-stimulants. This study report for the first time that polyphenols exposure prolong life span (P &lt; 0.05 by log-rang test) and restore locomotor activity (i.e., climbing capability, P &lt; 0.05 by (2) test) of Drosophila melanogaster chronically exposed to paraquat compared to flies treated with paraquat alone in 1% glucose. We found that (10%) glucose partially prolongs life span and climbing in Drosophila exposed to iron, PQ or in combination, suggesting that both stimuli enhance a movement disorder in a concentration-dependent and temporal-related fashion. Moreover, chronic exposure of (1 mM) PQ/(0.5 mM) iron synergistically affect both survival and locomotor function independently of the temporal order of the exposure to the toxicants, but the survival is modulated in a concentration and temporal fashion by glucose. This investigation is the first to report that Ddc-GAL4 transgenic flies chronically fed with polyphenols increase life span (P &lt; 0.05 by log-rang test) and enhance movement abilities (P &lt; 0.05 by (2) test) compared to untreated Ddc-GAL4 or treated with paraquat in 1% glucose. Our present findings support the notion that Drosophila melanogaster might be a suitable model to study genetic, environmental and nutritional factors as causal and/or modulators in the development of PD. Most importantly, according to our model, we have demonstrated for the first time chronic polyphenols exposure as potential therapeutic compounds in the treatment of PD. These findings altogether open new avenues for the screening, testing and development of novel antioxidant drugs against oxidative stress stimuli.
Alpha ()-synuclein neuronal effects are continually being defined although its role in regulating glial phenotypes remains unclear. An ability to regulate microglial activation was investigated using primary cultures from wild type and -synuclein deficient mice (Snca-/-). Snca-/- microglia demonstrated increased secretion of the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), impaired phagocytic ability, elevated prostaglandin levels, and increased protein levels of key enzymes in lipid-mediated signaling events, cytosolic phospholipase (cPLA(2)), cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and phospholipase D2 (PLD2) when compared to wild type cells. Increased cytokine secretion and cPLA(2) and Cox-2 levels in Snca-/- microglia were partially attenuated by inhibiting PLD-dependent signaling with n-butanol treatment.
The loss of nigral dopaminergic (DA) neurons is the disease-defining pathological change responsible for progressive motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. In this study, we sought to establish a culture method for adult rat tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive DA neurons. In this context, we investigated the role of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), transforming growth factor-3 (TGF-3), glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) in these cultures. Culturing in the presence of FGF2, BDNF and GDNF enhanced the survival of DA neurons by 15-fold and promoted neurite growth. In contrast, dbcAMP promoted neurite growth in all neurons but did not enhance DA cell survival. This study demonstrates that long-term cultures of DA neurons can be established from the mature rat brain and that survival and regeneration of DA neurons can be manipulated by epigenetic factors such as growth factors and intracellular cAMP pathways.

Delirium is defined by a fluctuating level of attentiveness and has been associated with increased ICU mortality and poor cognitive outcomes in both general ICU and neurocritical care populations. Sedation use in the ICU can contribute to delirium. Limiting ICU sedation allows for the diagnosis of underlying acute neurological insults associated with delirium and leads to shorter mechanical ventilation time, shorter length of stay, and improved 1 year mortality rates. Identifying the underlying etiology of delirium is critical to developing treatment paradigms.




The cognitive activity of the human brain benefits from the functional connectivity of multiple brain regions that form specific, functional brain networks. Recent studies have indicated that the relationship between brain regions can be investigated by examining the temporal interaction (known as functional connectivity) of spontaneous blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signals derived from resting-state functional MRI. Most of these studies plausibly assumed that inter-regional interactions were temporally stationary. However, little is known about the dynamic characteristics of resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC). In this study, we thoroughly examined this question within and between multiple functional brain networks. Twenty-two healthy subjects were scanned in a resting state. Several of the RSFC networks observed, including the default-mode, motor, attention, memory, auditory, visual, language and subcortical networks, were first identified using a conventional voxel-wise correlation analysis with predefined region of interests (ROIs). Then, a variable parameter regression model combined with the Kalman filtering method was employed to detect the dynamic interactions between each ROI and all other brain voxels within each of the RSFC maps extracted above. Experimental results revealed that the functional interactions within each RSFC map showed time-varying properties, and that approximately 10-20% of the voxels within each RSFC map showed significant functional connectivity to each ROI during the scanning session. This dynamic pattern was also observed for the interactions between different functional networks. In addition, the spatial pattern of dynamic connectivity maps obtained from neighboring time points had a high similarity. Overall, this study provides insights into the dynamic properties of resting-state functional networks.
Evidence has suggested asymmetrical processing of taste in the human insular cortex, but this phenomenon has not been demonstrated in the rodent brain. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a powerful tool for studying the functional organization of the brain. In this study, we established a blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI method at 7 T to investigate the responses to gustatory stimulation in the insular cortex of anesthetized rats (220-310 g, n=15). BOLD signals were observed in the insular cortex in response to 0.5 M sucrose solution as the tastant but not observed in response to distilled water as the control. The reproducibility of the BOLD signals in response to the tastant was confirmed between fMRI runs in the same animal and across animals. The signals were mainly located between 2.3 mm and 0.0 mm anterior to the bregma in the insular cortex. Interestingly, the signals were observed in the insular cortex of both hemispheres, but they were asymmetrical: the anterior and posterior regions to the intersection of the middle cerebral artery and the rhinal fissure as the landmark of the gustatory cortex were dominant in the left and right hemispheres of the insular cortex, respectively. These results suggest that activity in both hemispheres of the insular cortex should be considered to analyze taste processing. We think that BOLD fMRI of taste function in rodents will improve our understanding of taste information processing.
Gamma Band Activity (GBA) is increasingly studied for its relation with attention, change detection, maintenance of working memory and the processing of sensory stimuli. Activity around the gamma range has also been linked with early visual processing, although the relationship between this activity and the low frequency visual evoked potential (VEP) remains unclear. This study examined the ability of blind and semi-blind source separation techniques to extract sources specifically related to the VEP and GBA in order to shed light on the relationship between them. Blind (Independent Component Analysis-ICA) and semi-Blind (Functional Source Separation-FSS) methods were applied to dense array EEG data recorded during checkerboard stimulation. FSS was performed with both temporal and spectral constraints to identify specifically the generators of the main peak of the VEP (P100) and of the GBA. Source localisation and time-frequency analyses were then used to investigate the properties and co-dependencies between VEP/P100 and GBA. Analysis of the VEP extracted using the different methods demonstrated very similar morphology and localisation of the generators. Single trial time frequency analysis showed higher GBA when a larger amplitude VEP/P100 occurred. Further examination indicated that the evoked (phase-locked) component of the GBA was more related to the P100, whilst the induced component correlated with the VEP as a whole. The results suggest that the VEP and GBA may be generated by the same neuronal populations, and implicate this relationship as a potential mediator of the correlation between the VEP and the Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) effect measured with fMRI.
Simultaneous transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may advance the understanding of neurophysiological mechanisms of TMS. However, it remains unclear if TMS induces fMRI signal changes consistent with the standard hemodynamic response function (HRF) in both local and remote regions. To address this issue, we delivered single-pulse TMS to the left M1 during simultaneous recoding of electromyography and time-resolved fMRI in 36 healthy participants. First, we examined the time-course of fMRI signals during supra- and subthreshold single-pulse TMS in comparison with those during voluntary right hand movement and electrical stimulation to the right median nerve (MNS). All conditions yielded comparable time-courses of fMRI signals, showing that HRF would generally provide reasonable estimates for TMS-evoked activity in the motor areas. However, a clear undershoot following the signal peak was observed only during subthreshold TMS in the left M1, suggesting a small but meaningful difference between the locally and remotely TMS-evoked activities. Second, we compared the spatial distribution of activity across the conditions. Suprathreshold TMS-evoked activity overlapped not only with voluntary movement-related activity but also partially with MNS-induced activity, yielding overlapped areas of activity around the stimulated M1. The present study has provided the first experimental evidence that motor area activity during suprathreshold TMS likely includes activity for processing of muscle afferents. A method should be developed to control the effects of muscle afferents for fair interpretation of TMS-induced motor area activity during suprathreshold TMS to M1.
This study examined the large-scale connectivity among multiple resting-state networks (RSNs) in the human brain. Independent component analysis was first applied to the resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) data acquired from 12 healthy young subjects for the separation of RSNs. Four sensory (lateral and medial visual, auditory, and sensory-motor) RSNs and four cognitive (default-mode, self-referential, dorsal and ventral attention) RSNs were identified. Gaussian Bayesian network (BN) learning approach was then used for the examination of the conditional dependencies among these RSNs and the construction of the network-to-network directional connectivity patterns. The BN based results demonstrated that sensory networks and cognitive networks were hierarchically organized. Specially, we found the sensory networks were highly intra-dependent and the cognitive networks were strongly intra-influenced. In addition, the results depicted dominant bottom-up connectivity from sensory networks to cognitive networks in which the self-referential and the default-mode networks might play respectively important roles in the process of resting-state information transfer and integration. The present study characterized the global connectivity relations among RSNs and delineated more characteristics of spontaneous activity dynamics.
Post-mortem and neuroimaging studies in Parkinson's disease (PD) have shown involvement of the brain serotoninergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic pathways alongside the characteristic degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. The rate of progression of the degenerative process in these extrastriatal areas is still unclear. We used (18)F-dopa PET, a marker of aromatic aminoacid decarboxylase activity in monoaminergic neurons, to assess longitudinal changes in tracer uptake in brain noradrenergic, serotoninergic and extrastriatal dopaminergic structures over a 3-year period in a group of early PD patients. Ten PD patients had (18)F-dopa PET twice: at baseline and again after 37.121.5 months follow up. A standard object map was used to extract tracer influx constants (Ki) in 11 striatal and extrastriatal regions. Progressive decreases in (18)F-dopa Ki occurred over the follow-up period in the majority of the investigated areas, the fastest annual declines occurring in putamen (8.1%), locus coeruleus (7.8%), and globus pallidus interna (7.7%). Caudate and hypothalamus showed 6.3% and 6.1% annual Ki declines, respectively. At baseline, some structures showed increased levels of (18)F-dopa uptake in PD compared to controls (internal pallidum, locus coeruleus), indicating possible compensatory upregulation of monoamine turnover. These increased levels had normalised (globus pallidus interna) or become subnormal (locus coeruleus) at follow-up suggesting exhaustion of these mechanisms within the first years of disease. Loss of monoaminergic function in extrastriatal regions, as reflected by(18)F-dopa PET, is delayed and occurs independently from nigrostriatal degeneration. When assessing the efficacy of novel neuroprotective agents on nigrostriatal dysfunction in PD, (18)F-dopa PET could provide supplementary information concerning function of extrastriatal monoaminergic structures.
The left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) is known to be involved in the processing of syntactic complexity, such as word order variation. It is also known to be involved in semantic interpretation in studies of various types of semantic and pragmatic anomalies. Across neuroimaging studies of language processing, two main approaches can be found, one that contrasts anomalous and well-formed words or sentences in order to yield an error response and one that contrasts two well-formed syntactic structures differing in complexity, investigating effects of increased integration costs. The present fMRI study aimed at disentangling the error signal from the processing cost signal in LIFG. To do so, we examined the so-called Locative Alternation, which involves the contrast between the Content-Locative construction, e.g. He sprays paint on the wall, and the Container-Locative construction, e.g. He sprays the wall with paint, which have been argued to differ in processing. By including asymmetric verbs, e.g. He blocks the road with rocks vs. *He blocks rocks on the road, we were able to study the contrast between well formed and anomalous constructions. Participants performed an acceptability judgment task during fMRI. The results showed that increased syntactic integration costs yielded both increased response time as well as LIFG activation. Anomalous sentences yielded low acceptability rating but no increase in response time, yet they also evoked increased LIFG activation. Thus, the processing cost and the error signal were found to be functionally independent, but spatially overlapping in the brain.
Neural activity in mammalian brains exhibits large spontaneous fluctuations whose structure reveals the intrinsic functional connectivity of the brain on many spatial and temporal scales. Between remote brain regions, spontaneous activity is organized into large-scale functional networks. To date, it has remained unclear whether the intrinsic functional connectivity between brain regions scales down to the fine detail of anatomical connections, for example the fine-grained topographic connectivity structure in visual cortex. Here, we show that fMRI signal fluctuations reveal a detailed retinotopically organized functional connectivity structure between the visual field maps of remote areas of the human visual cortex. The structured coherent fluctuations were even preserved in complete darkness when all visual input was removed. While the topographic connectivity structure was clearly visible in within hemisphere connections, the between hemisphere connectivity structure differs for representations along the vertical and horizontal meridian respectively. These results suggest a tight link between spontaneous neural activity and the fine-grained topographic connectivity pattern of the human brain. Thus, intrinsic functional connectivity reflects the detailed connectivity structure of the cortex at a fine spatial scale. It might thus be a valuable tool to complement anatomical studies of the human connectome, which is one of the keys to understand the functioning of the human brain.
The use of quantitative T(1) mapping in neuroscience and neurology has raised strong interest in the development of T(1)-mapping techniques that can measure T(1) in the whole brain, with high accuracy and precision and within short imaging and computation times. Here, we present a new inversion-recovery (IR) based T(1)-mapping method using a standard 3D magnetization-prepared rapid gradient-echo (MPRAGE) sequence. By varying only the inversion time (TI), but keeping other parameters constant, MPRAGE image signals become linear to exp(-TI/T(1)), allowing for accurate T(1) estimation without flip angle correction. We also show that acquiring data at just 3 TIs, with the three different TI values optimized, gives maximum T(1) precision per unit time, allowing for new efficient approaches to measure and compute T(1). We demonstrate the use of our method at 7 T to obtain 3D T(1) maps of the whole brain in common marmosets at 0.60mm resolution and within 11 min. T(1) maps from the same individuals were highly reproducible across different days. Across subjects, the peak of cerebral gray matter T(1) distribution was 173552 ms, and the lower edge of cerebral white matter T(1) distribution was 127043 ms. We found a significant decrease of T(1) in both gray and white matter of the marmoset brain with age over a span of 14 years, in agreement with previous human studies. This application illustrates that MPRAGE-based 3D T(1) mapping is rapid, accurate and precise, and can facilitate high-resolution anatomical studies in neuroscience and neurological diseases.
Understanding how to make learning more efficient and effective is an important goal in behavioral neuroscience. The notion of &quot;desirable difficulties&quot; asserts that challenges for learners during study result in superior learning. One &quot;desirable difficulty&quot; that has a robust benefit on learning is contextual interference (CI), in which different tasks are practiced in an interleaved order rather than in a repetitive order. This study is the first to combine functional imaging and paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation to analyze the neural basis of the CI effect in skill learning. Difficulty during practice of a serial reaction time task was manipulated by presenting sequences of response locations in a repetitive or an interleaved order. Participants practiced 3 sequences for 2 days and were tested on day 5 to examine sequence-specific learning. During practice, slower response times (RT), greater frontal-parietal blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal, and higher motor cortex (M1) excitability were found in the interleaved condition compared to the repetitive condition. Consistent with the CI effect, we found faster RT, decreased BOLD signal in frontal-parietal regions, and greater M1 excitability during the day 5 retention task when subjects had practiced interleaved sequences. Correlation analyses indicated that greater BOLD signal in contralateral sensorimotor region and M1 excitability during interleaved practice were interrelated. Furthermore, greater BOLD signal in prefrontal, premotor and parietal areas and greater M1 excitability during interleaved practice correlated with the benefit of interleaved practice on retention. This demonstrates that interleaved practice induces interrelated changes in both cortical hemodynamic responses and M1 excitability, which likely index the formation of enhanced memory traces and efficient long-term retrieval.
Assessment of brain connectivity has revealed that the structure and dynamics of large-scale network organization are altered in multiple disease states suggesting their use as diagnostic or prognostic indicators. Further investigation into the underlying mechanisms, organization, and alteration of large-scale brain networks requires a homologous animal model that would allow neurophysiological recordings and experimental manipulations. The current study presents a comprehensive assessment of macaque resting-state networks based on evaluation of intrinsic low-frequency fluctuations of the blood oxygen-level-dependent signal using group independent component analysis. Networks were found underlying multiple levels of sensory, motor, and cognitive processing. The results demonstrate that macaques share remarkable homologous network organization with humans, thereby providing strong support for their use as an animal model in the study of normal and abnormal brain connectivity as well as aiding the interpretation of electrophysiological recordings within the context of large-scale brain networks.
We have recently introduced a novel MRI methodology, so-called super resolution track-density imaging (TDI), which produces high-quality white matter images, with high spatial resolution and exquisite anatomical contrast not available from other MRI modalities. This method achieves super resolution by utilising the long-range information contained in the diffusion MRI fibre tracks. In this study, we validate the super resolution property of the TDI method by using in vivo diffusion MRI data acquired at ultra-high magnetic field strength (7 T), and in silico diffusion MRI data from a well-characterised numerical phantom. Furthermore, an alternative version of the TDI technique is described, which mitigates the track length weighting of the TDI map intensity. For the in vivo data, high-resolution diffusion images were down-sampled to simulate low-resolution data, for which the high-resolution images serve as a gold standard. For the in silico data, the gold standard is given by the known simulated structures of the numerical phantom. Both the in vivo and in silico data show that the structures that could be identified in the TDI maps only after using super resolution were consistent with the corresponding structures identified in the reference maps. This supports the claim that the structures identified by the super resolution step are accurate, thus providing further evidence for the important potential role of the super resolution TDI methodology in neuroscience.
Space and time are important components of our episodic memories. Without this information, we cannot determine the &quot;where and when&quot; of our recent memories, rendering it difficult to disambiguate individual episodes from each other. The neural underpinnings of spatial and temporal order memory in humans remain unclear, in part because of difficulties in disentangling the contributions of these two types of source information. To address this issue, we conducted an experiment in which participants first navigated a virtual city, experiencing unique routes in a specific temporal order and learning about the spatial layout of the city. Spatial and temporal order information were dissociated in our task such that learning one type of information did not facilitate the other behaviorally. This allowed us to then address the extent to which the two types of information involved functionally distinct or overlapping brain areas. During functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), participants retrieved information about the relative distance of stores within the city (spatial task) and the temporal order of stores from each other (temporal task). Comparable hippocampal activity was observed during these two tasks, but greater prefrontal activity was seen during temporal order retrieval whereas greater parahippocampal activity was seen during spatial retrieval. We suggest that while the brain possesses dissociable networks for maintaining and representing spatial layout and temporal order components of episodic memory, this information may converge into a common representation for source memory in areas such as the hippocampus.
Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a widely applied method in computational neurosciences but it is currently recommended to compare only data collected at a single MRI scanner. Multi-site VBM would be a desirable approach to increase group size and, thus, statistical power. We aimed to assess if multi-site VBM is feasible on similar hardware and compare the magnitude of inter- and intra-scanner differences. 18 healthy subjects were scanned in two identical 3T MRI scanners using different head coil designs, twice in scanner A and once in scanner B. 3D T1-weighted images were processed with SPM8 and FSL4.1 and compared as paired t-test (scan versus re-scan) on a voxel basis by means of a general linear model (GLM). Additionally, coefficient-of-difference (coeffD) maps were calculated for respective pairs of gray matter segmentations. We found considerable inter-scanner differences clearly exceeding a commonly used GLM significance threshold of p&lt;0.05 (FWE corrected). The spatial pattern of detected differences was dependent on whether SPM8 or FSL4.1 was used. The inclusion of global correcting factors either aggravated (SPM8) or reduced the GLM detected differences (FSL4.1). The coeffD analysis revealed markedly higher variability within the FSL4.1 stream both for the inter- and the intra-scanner comparison. A lowered bias cutoff (30 mm FWHM) in SPM8 improved the comparability for cortical areas. Intra-scanner scan/re-scan differences were generally weaker and did not exceed a p&lt;0.05 (FWE corrected) threshold in the GLM analysis. At 3T profound inter-scanner differences are to be expected that could severely confound an unbalanced VBM analysis. These are like related to the receive bias of the radio-frequency hardware.

Previous studies have observed a sex-dependent lateralization of amygdala activation related to emotional memory. Specifically, it was shown that the activity of the right amygdala correlates significantly stronger with memory for images judged as arousing in men than in women, and that there is a significantly stronger relationship in women than in men between activity of the left amygdala and memory for arousing images. Using a large sample of 235 male adolescents and 235 females matched for age and handedness, we investigated the sex-specific lateralization of amygdala activation during an emotional face perception fMRI task. Performing a formal sex by hemisphere analysis, we observed in males a significantly stronger right amygdala activation as compared to females. Our results indicate that adolescents display a sex-dependent lateralization of amygdala activation that is also present in basic processes of emotional perception. This finding suggests a sex-dependent development of human emotion processing and may further implicate possible etiological pathways for mental disorders most frequent in adolescent males (i.e., conduct disorder).
Reliable identification of thalamic nuclei is required to improve positioning of electrodes in Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS), and to allow the role of individual thalamic nuclei in health and disease to be fully investigated. In this work, a previously proposed method for identifying sub-regions within the thalamus based on differences in their T1 and T2 values is explored in detail. The effect on the segmentation of T1 and T2 dependence weighted against priors for spatial position and extent was investigated. When T1 and T2 dependence was highly weighted, good distinction between identified regions was obtained in T1/T2 feature-space, but no contiguous anatomically distinct regions were identified within the thalamus. Incorporating spatial priors was necessary to ensure anatomically distinct regions were defined. Optimal values for segmentation parameters were obtained by assessing performance on a 'synthetic thalamus'. Using these optimum input parameters, within- and between-subjects reproducibility was assessed. Good reproducibility was obtained when six regions were specified to be identified in the thalamus. The six regions identified were similar in the majority of the normal subject group. However, intriguingly these regions were different from those obtained in the same subjects using a well-known connectivity-based segmentation technique. This method shows promise to identify intrathalamic structures on the basis of T1 and T2 signal. A comprehensive characterisation of thalamic nuclei may require a fully multi-modal approach.
Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes (RCVS) comprise a group of disorders characterized by prolonged, but reversible vasoconstriction of the cerebral arteries, usually associated with acute-onset, severe, recurrent headaches, with or without additional neurological signs and symptoms. Various complications of this condition have been observed, such as cortical subarachnoid hemorrhages (cSAH), intracerebral hemorrhages, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy, ischaemic strokes and transient ischaemic attacks. It is important to include RCVS in thunderclap headache differential diagnosis and among non-aneurismatic subarachnoid hemorrhage causes. In the past years, thanks to the major diffusion of new diagnostic tools such as magnetic resonance, computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography, RCVS have been demonstrated to be more frequent than previously thought. We report an illustrative case of a woman affected by a small cSAH, associated to RCVS, after elective triplet cesarean delivery. To our knowledge, this is the first case of cSAH associated to RCVS after a triplet pregnancy.
Neuropathic pain is a disabling symptom frequently reported by patients with neuropathies. Pain-questionnaires are the best way to investigate it. Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) questionnaire specifically assesses the different symptoms of neuropathic pain. The objective of this study was to evaluate, through the NPSI, the different neuropathic painful symptoms in a population of neuropathic patients. 277 patients with different neuropathies were evaluated with the NPSI to investigate the prevalence of the different neuropathic symptoms. Neuropathic pain was reported by 94.4% of the patients, resulting to be common not only in diabetic and iatrogenic neuropathies, but also in hereditary, paraproteinemic, and idiopathic neuropathies. The majority of our patients (88.6%) presented paresthesia/dysesthesia. The results of our study point out the difference in the occurrence of the painful symptoms. A scale able to discriminate distinct types of neuropathic pain may provide clinicians with adequate therapeutic choices in the daily practice.
Varicella zoster, limited to the mandibular nerve, is rare. Classical symptoms are pain, hypesthesia and vesicular eruption restricted to the third trigeminal segment (V3). Little is known on taste affection after mandibular nerve zoster. We report two cases of patients suffering from mandibular zoster associated with subjective taste disorder. In both cases, gustatory measures confirmed ipsilateral hemiageusia of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. After 2 months, the symptoms regressed and psychophysical measures came back to normal values, whereas post-zoster neuralgia lasted for more than 1 year. Gustatory dysfunction is a possible symptom after mandibular nerve zoster. In contrast to post-zoster neuralgia, taste function seems to recover quickly.

A recent editorial entitled &quot;State of Aggregation&quot; (Nat. Neurosci. 2011; 14:399) described the importance of establishing the structural state of pathogenic protein aggregates (A, -synuclein, huntingtin, etc.) in studies of neurodegenerative disorders. While this is a laudable goal, it is based on the assumption that the neurotoxicity depends upon a specific tertiary structure of the protein aggregates. Here, I describe evidence (not mentioned in the editorial) that suggests that it is not the protein oligomers, per se, that damage neurons. Instead, neurons are damaged by an unseen sequence(s) of chemical reactions that generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), and it is the ROS that cause both protein aggregation and neurotoxicity. The latter &quot;proteooxidotoxicity&quot; mechanism provides an explanation for numerous findings in the field of neurodegenerative disorders, including the inability to identify specific receptors for the pathogenic proteins.
Activated microglial cells, which are the resident macrophages of the central nervous system, surround amyloid -plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. Inflammation including microglial activation may contribute in AD pathogenesis, and biomarkers for this process may thus be of value to study AD pathogenesis and might facilitate development of therapies targeting these cells. We therefore examined cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in patients with AD, other dementias, mild cognitive impairment and in healthy controls. Samples were analyzed for markers with known association to macrophage activity, including chitotriosidase, YKL-40 (CHI3L1, HC gp-39) and chemokine CC motif ligand 2 (CCL2, MCP1). Patients with AD had higher chitotriosidase activity than controls and patients with stable mild cognitive impairment, consistent with the presence of activated microglial cells in AD brains, but with large overlaps between groups. CCL2 and YKL-40 concentrations did not differ among groups. Microglial markers are unlikely to be useful for AD diagnosis, but might be useful for identification of distinct subgroups of patients, and for the development and implementation of drugs targeting microglial pathology.
Aggregation of amyloid-beta is one of the major characteristics in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although several mechanisms behind the formation of such aggregates have been suggested the regulatory factors are still unknown. The present study aimed at investigating the association of lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL1) polymorphisms with AD diagnosis and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers (CSF) for the disease. Proteins of the lysyl oxidase (LOX) family are involved in cross-linking extracellular matrix proteins to insoluble fibers and have been associated with neurodegenerative diseases including AD. Genetic polymorphisms in LOXL1 (rs1048661, rs3825942, and rs2165241) have been linked to exfoliation syndrome and exfoliation glaucoma, conditions that have shown association with AD. The polymorphisms were genotyped by Taqman allelic discrimination in a study sample including AD patients (n = 318) and controls (n = 575). In a subgroup of the population, the polymorphisms were analyzed in relation to APOE 4 genotype and to CSF (T-tau, P-tau, and A(1-42)). No evidence for associations of these polymorphisms with risk for AD or any of the studied CSF biomarkers measured was found. These results do not support LOXL1 as being a major risk gene for AD.
Alzheimer's disease is the most widespread form of dementia. Its histopathological hallmarks include vascular and extracellular -amyloid (A) deposition and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Gradual decline of cognitive functions linked to progressive synaptic loss makes patients unable to store new information in the earlier stages of the pathology, later becoming completely dependent because they are unable to do even elementary daily life actions. Although more than a hundred years have passed since Alois Alzheimer described the first case of AD, and despite many years of intense research, there are still many crucial points to be discovered in the neuropathological pathway. The development of transgenic mouse models engineered with overexpression of the amyloid precursor protein carrying familial AD mutations has been extremely useful. Transgenic mice present the hallmarks of the pathology, and histological and behavioural examination supports the amyloid hypothesis. As in human AD, extracellular A deposits surrounded by activated astrocytes and microglia are typical features, together with synaptic and cognitive defects. Although animal models have been widely used, they are still being continuously developed in order to recapitulate some missing aspects of the disease. For instance, AD therapeutic agents tested in transgenic mice gave encouraging results which, however, were very disappointing in clinical trials. Neuronal cell death and NFTs typical of AD are much harder to replicate in these mice, which thus offer a fundamental but still imperfect tool for understanding and solving dementia pathology.
Mutations of the mitofusin 2 (MFN2) gene have been reported to be the most common cause of the axonal form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT). The aim of this study was to describe a de novo MFN2 p.R104W mutation and characterize the associated phenotype. We screened the entire coding region of MFN2 gene and characterized its clinical phenotype, nerve conduction studies and sural nerve biopsy. Neuropsychological tests and brain MRI were also performed. A de novo mutation was found in exon 4 (c.310C&gt;T; p.R104W). In addition to a severe and early onset axonal neuropathy, the patient presented learning problems, obesity, glucose intolerance, leukoencephalopathy, brain atrophy and evidence of myelin involvement and mitochondrial structural changes on sural nerve biopsy. These results suggest that MFN2 p.R104W mutation is as a hot-spot for MFN2 gene associated to a large and complex range of phenotypes.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of upper and lower motor neurones leading to muscle weakness and paralysis. Despite recent advances in the genetics of ALS, the mechanisms underlying motor neurone degeneration are not fully understood. Mitochondria are known to be involved in the pathogenesis of ALS, principally through mitochondrial dysfunction, the generation of free radicals, and impaired calcium handling in ALS patients and models of disease. However, recent studies have highlighted the potential importance of altered mitochondrial morphology and defective axonal transport of mitochondria in ALS. Here, we review the evidence for mitochondrial involvement in ALS and discuss potential therapeutic strategies targeting mitochondria.
One of the challenges in neuropathology is to clarify how molecules, functional carriers of uni-dimensional sequence of amino acid or nucleic acid, behave to engender disease-specific pathological processes in complex three-dimensional (3D) structures such as the human brain in an ordered chronological sequence (four-dimensional extension as a whole). Along with expanding molecular explanations for brain diseases, parallel and independent hypotheses based on morphological observations are particularly useful and necessary for reasonable understanding of the brain and its dysfunction. For example, with classical methods such as silver impregnations, it is possible to differentiate underlying molecular pathologies (three-repeat tau/Campbell-Switzer vs. four-repeat tau/Gallyas silver impregnation) for improved histological diagnosis. Innovations with 3D reconstruction not only provide more realistic reproduction of the targets but also allow quantitative measurement on a 3D basis (3D volumetry). Contrary to the prevailing impression that pathological deposits are generally toxic to cells, quantification demonstrated possible countertoxic potentials of ubiquitin-positive intranuclear inclusions in CAG-repeat disorders on a two-dimensional basis and of glial cytoplasmic inclusions of multiple system atrophy on 3D volumetry. Furthermore, 3D extension of neurites around target lesions is now traceable in relation to the relevant clinical consequences. This neurite neuropathology may pave the way for early specific diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders, as established through (123) I-metaiodobenzylguanidine cardiac scintigraphy for Parkinson disease, aiming at therapeutic intervention before depletion of mother neurons is feasible. For appropriate translation of sequence biology into the frame of human neuropathology, it is necessary to expand further the morphological dimensions so that comprehensive understanding of these disorders leads to specific diagnosis and treatment as early as possible.
We describe a case of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with semantic dementia and lower motor neuron disease. A 63-year-old man presented with the full clinical picture of semantic dementia, including semantic anomia, surface alexia, lexical agraphia, associative agnosia, prosopagnosia and phonagnosia. Flaccid dysarthria, bulbar dysphagia and fasciculations developed 7 years after onset, followed by death within a year. The neuropathological examination showed heavy neuronal loss in the anterior temporal lobe cortex, dorsal vagal and hypoglossal nuclei and anterior horns of the spinal cord. Ubiquitin- and TDP-43-positive cytoplasmic inclusions were abundant in layer II of affected cortices and in granular cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, whereas dystrophic neurites were sparse and intranuclear inclusions absent. It is concluded that FTLD-TDP type 3 can be associated with semantic dementia and lower motor neuron disease in combination.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by the absence of paternally contributed genes in chromosome 15, and is characterized by hypotonia, feeding difficulty, mental retardation, growth failure, hypogonadism and severe obesity. To elucidate the pathogenesis of neurological disorders, we immunohistochemically examined the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons (GABAis) in the cerebral cortex and acetylcholine neurons (AchNs) in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (MyN) and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus pars compacta (PPNc) in an autopsy case of one PWS patient with a deletion in the 15q11-q12 region and three control patients. The GABAis in the cerebral cortex and AchNs in the MyN were well preserved in the PWS patient. The AchNs in the PPNc in the PWS patient were severely reduced in comparison with those in controls, whereas catecholaminergic neurons and GABAis were preserved. The selective loss of AchNs in the PPNc may be involved in hypotonia and/or REM sleep abnormalities in PWS patients.
The field of theoretical neuroscience is gaining increasing recognition. Virtually all areas of neuroscience offer potential linkage points for computational work. In developmental neuroscience, main areas of research are neural development and connectivity, and connectionist modeling of cognitive development. In this paper, we suggest that computational models can be helpful tools for understanding the pathogenesis and consequences of perinatal brain damage and subsequent developmental disability. In particular, designing multi-scale computational models should be considered by developmental neuroscientists interested in helping reduce the risk for developmental disabilities.

Besides being involved in analgesia, -opioid receptors have recently been shown to exert antidepressant-like and neuroprotective effects. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a key enzyme involved in cellular apoptosis and in mood disorders, may constitute a molecular target of -opioid receptors. However, relatively little is known on how -opioid receptors affect the multiple signaling pathways regulating GSK-3. In the present study, we show that activation of human -opioid receptors stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells induced a rapid GSK-3 phosphorylation on Ser9 and a significant inhibition of the kinase activity. This effect was dependent on G proteins Gi/Go, unaffected by cell transfection with the G scavenger transducin, required the Src non-receptor tyrosine kinase and the specific involvement of the  isoform of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. -Opioid agonists activated the protein kinase Akt in a Src-dependent manner and chemical inhibition of Akt or stable expression of a dominant negative Akt1 mutant reduced the stimulation of GSK-3 phosphorylation. Moreover, -opioid receptor regulation of Akt and GSK-3 was dependent on transphosphorylation and transactivation of platelet-derived growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor tyrosine kinases. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity was also required, as -opioid effects on Akt and GSK-3 were mimicked by the AMPK activator A-769662 and reduced by the AMPK inhibitor Compound C. Conversely, inhibition of protein kinase C isoforms, extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1/2 and mammalian target of rapamycin was without effect, although the latter two kinases were activated by -opioid agonists. The results identify Src-dependent transactivation of receptor tyrosine kinases as a key process in -opioid receptor inhibitory control of GSK-3 and reveal a novel -opioid regulatory mechanism mediated by AMPK. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Nootropic agents or cognitive enhancers are purported to improve mental functions such as cognition, memory, or attention. The aim of our study was to determine the effects of two possible cognitive enhancers, huperzine A and IDRA 21, in normal young adult monkeys performing a visual memory task of varying degrees of difficulty. Huperzine A is a reversible acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, its administration results in regionally specific increases in acetylcholine levels in the brain. In human clinical trials, Huperzine A resulted in cognitive improvement in patients with mild to moderate form of Alzheimer's disease (AD) showing its potential as a palliative agent in the treatment of AD. IDRA 21 is a positive allosteric modulator of glutamate AMPA receptors. It increases excitatory synaptic strength by attenuating rapid desensitization of AMPA receptors and may thus have beneficial therapeutic effects to ameliorate memory deficits in patients with cognitive impairments, including AD. The present study evaluated the effects of the two drugs in normal, intact, young adult monkeys to determine whether they can result in cognitive enhancement in a system that is presumably functioning optimally. Six young pigtail macaques (Macaca nemestrina) were trained on delayed non-matching-to-sample task, a measure of visual recognition memory, up to criterion of 90% correct responses on each of the four delays (10s, 30s, 60s, and 90s). They were then tested on two versions of the task: Task 1 included the four delays intermixed within a session and the monkeys performed it with the accuracy of 90%. Task 2 included, in each of 24 trials, a list of six objects presented in succession. Two objects from the list were then presented for choice paired with novel objects and following two of the four delays intermixed within a session. This task with a higher mnemonic demand yielded an average performance of 64% correct. Oral administration of huperzine A did not significantly affect the monkeys' performance on either task. However, a significant negative correlation was found between the baseline performance on each delay and the change in performance under huperzine A, suggesting that under conditions in which the subjects were performing poorly (55-69%), the drug resulted in improved performance, whereas no improvement was obtained when the baseline was close to 90%. In fact, when the subjects were performing very well, huperzine A tended to reduce the performance accuracy, indicating that in a system that functions optimally, the increased availability of acetylcholine does not improve performance or memory, especially when the animals are close to the maximum performance. In contrast, oral administration of IDRA 21 significantly improved performance on Task 2, especially on the longest delay. This finding supports the potential use of this drug in treatment of cognitive and memory disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Disturbances of cell cycle regulation and DNA repair in post-mitotic neurons have been implicated in degenerative and malignant diseases of the human brain. Recent work is now suggesting that abnormal regulation of these functions in GABA cells of the adult hippocampus may also play a role in two neuropsychiatric disorders. In schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, a network of genes involved in the regulation of GAD, a marker for the functional differentiation of GABA cells, show pronounced changes in expression and include kainate receptor subunits, TGF and Wnt signaling pathways, epigenetic factors and transcription factors. One of these genes, cyclin D2, is involved in the regulation of cell cycle and DNA repair and appears to be a pivotal element in linking GAD expression with these functional clusters of genes. Dysfunction of post-mitotic GABAergic neurons in the adult hippocampus of patients with psychotic disorders is associated with changes in the expression of genes that are involved in the maintenance of functional and genomic integrity of GABA cells. The nature of these changes is quite different in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, suggesting that a common cell phenotype (in this case, decreased GAD expression) may involve two fundamentally different molecular endophenotypes and reflect unique susceptibility genes involved in the respective disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is highly enriched in neurons and binds to approximately 4% of mRNAs in mammalian brain. Its loss is a hallmark of fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common form of mental retardation. In this review we discuss the mutation in the fragile X mental retardation-1 gene (FMR1), that leads to FXS, the role FMRP plays in neuronal cells, experiments from our own laboratory that demonstrate reductions of FMRP in additional psychiatric disorders (autism, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder), and potential therapies to ameliorate the loss of FMRP. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Zn+ is co-released at glutamatergic synapses throughout the central nervous system and acts as a neuromodulator for glutamatergic neurotransmission, as a key modulator of NMDA receptor functioning. Zn+ is also implicated in the neurotoxicity associated with several models of acute brain injury and neurodegeneration. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease affecting motor neurons in the spinal cord and cortex. In this study, we have investigated the modulatory role exerted by Zn+ in NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity in either near-pure or mixed cortical cultured neurons obtained from either mice over-expressing the G93A mutant form of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) human gene, a gene linked to familial ALS, or wild type (WT) mice. To that aim, SOD1(G93A) or WT cultures were exposed to either NMDA by itself or to Zn+ prior to a toxic challenge with NMDA, and neuronal loss evaluated 24 h later. While we failed to observe any significant difference between NMDA and Zn+/NMDA-mediated toxicity in mixed SOD1(G93A) or WT cortical cultures, different vulnerability to these toxic paradigms was found in near-pure neuronal cultures. In the WT near-pure neuronal cultures, a brief exposure to sublethal concentrations of Zn+-enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated cell death, an effect that was far more pronounced in the SOD1(G93A) cultures. This increased excitotoxicity in SOD1(G93A) near-pure neuronal cultures appears to be mediated by a significant increase in NMDA-dependent rises of intraneuronal Ca+ levels as well as enhanced production of cytosolic reactive oxygen species, while the injurious process seems to be unrelated to activation of nNOS or ERK1/2 pathways. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Despite identification of the gene for huntingtin (Htt) as causal in Huntington's Disease (HD), explication of HD symptoms and selective damage to the corpus striatum has been elusive. The small G protein Rhes Ras homolog enriched in striatum, highly localized to the striatum, binds selectively to mutant Htt (mHtt) and enhances sumoylation of mHtt. Sumoylation disaggregates mHtt and augments its cytotoxicity. Thus, it appears likely that Rhes-mHtt interaction accounts in substantial part for the selective striatal neurotoxicity of HD with associated extrapyramidal symptomatology. Rhes also binds and activates mTOR, enhancing its influence on protein synthesis, and may be the principal determinant of striatal mTOR activation. In HD, sequestration of Rhes by mHtt may decrease its access to mTOR. The attendant loss of protein translational stimulation may explain the pronounced striatal atrophy of HD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Histamine H3 receptor (H3R) antagonists are currently being investigated for the possible therapeutic use in various cognitive deficits such as those in schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and Alzheimer's disease. Our previous studies suggest a role for H3Rs in ethanol-related behaviors in rat and mice. Here we have examined the role of different H3R ligands on the effects of ethanol in conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm, stimulation of locomotor activity and motor impairment in rotarod and balance beam in male DBA/2J mice. We found that H3R antagonists ciproxifan and JNJ-10181457 inhibited the ethanol-evoked CPP whereas H3R agonist immepip did not alter ethanol-induced place preference. Acute stimulatory response by ethanol was also modulated by H3R ligands. Ciproxifan increased ethanol activation when ethanol was given 1g/kg but not at 1.5g/kg dose. Immepip pretreatment diminished ethanol stimulation and increased motor-impairing effects of ethanol on the balance beam. In conclusion, these findings give further evidence of the involvement of H3R in the regulation of the effects of ethanol. The inhibition of ethanol reward by H3R antagonism implies that H3R might be a possible target to suppress compulsory ethanol seeking. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Gangliosides are lipophilic compounds found in cell plasma membranes throughout the brain that play a role in neuronal plasticity and regeneration. Indeed, absence or abnormal accumulation of gangliosides has been shown to lead to neurological disorders. Experimental data have shown that exogenous gangliosides exhibit properties similar to the neurotrophins, a family of neurotrophic factors that are important in the survival and maintenance of neurons and prevention of neurological diseases. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is the most abundant of the neurotrophins. This work was done to reveal the neurotrophic mechanism of exogenous gangliosides. In particular, we examined whether gangliosides promote the release of BDNF. Rat hippocampal neurons or human neuroblastoma cells were transduced with a recombinant adenovirus expressing BDNF-flag to facilitate detection of BDNF. Release of BDNF was then determined by Western blot analysis and a two-site immunoassay of culture medium. The depolarizing agent KCl was used as a comparison. In hippocampal neurons, both GM1 ganglioside and KCl evoked within minutes the release of mature BDNF. In human cells, GM1 and other gangliosides released both mature BDNF and pro-BDNF. The effect of gangliosides was structure-dependent. In fact, GT1b preferentially released mature BDNF whereas GM1 released both mature and pro-BDNF. Ceramide and sphingosine did not modify the release of BDNF. This work provides additional experimental evidence that exogenous gangliosides can be used to enhance the neurotrophic factor environment and promote neuronal survival in neurological diseases. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Epileptiform discharges recorded in the 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) in vitro epilepsy model are mediated by glutamatergic and GABAergic signaling. Using a 60-channel perforated multi-electrode array (pMEA) on corticohippocampal slices from 2 to 3 week old mice we recorded interictal- and ictal-like events. When glutamatergic transmission was blocked, interictal-like events no longer initiated in the hilus or CA3/CA1 pyramidal layers but originated from the dentate gyrus granule and molecular layers. Furthermore, frequencies of interictal-like events were reduced and durations were increased in these regions while cortical discharges were completely blocked. Following GABA(A) receptor blockade interictal-like events no longer propagated to the dentate gyrus while their frequency in CA3 increased; in addition, ictal-like cortical events became shorter while increasing in frequency. Lastly, drugs that affect tonic and synaptic GABAergic conductance modulated the frequency, duration, initiation and propagation of interictal-like events. These findings confirm and expand on previous studies indicating that multiple synaptic mechanisms contribute to synchronize neuronal network activity in forebrain structures. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Throughout his long productive scientific career, Erminio Costa demonstrated several scholarly traits that illustrate a pattern for paths of successful achievement that should guide young scientists. Not only did he seek excellent training, he got and gave good mentoring. That guidance allowed him to ask important questions and to develop the methods necessary to obtain definitive answers by pursuing those questions in depth. Without question, he blazed trails in neuropharmacology that have been an inspiration to many others and me. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Trends in neuropharmacology: in memory of Erminio Costa'.
Identification of children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) is difficult because information regarding prenatal exposure is often lacking, a large proportion of affected children do not exhibit facial anomalies, and no distinctive behavioral phenotype has been identified. Castellanos and Tannock have advocated going beyond descriptive symptom-based approaches to diagnosis to identify biomarkers derived from cognitive neuroscience. Classical eyeblink conditioning and magnitude comparison are particularly promising biobehavioral markers of FASD-eyeblink conditioning because a deficit in this elemental form of learning characterizes a very large proportion of alcohol-exposed children; magnitude comparison because it is a domain of higher order cognitive function that is among the most sensitive to fetal alcohol exposure. Because the neural circuitry mediating both these biobehavioral markers is well understood, they have considerable potential for advancing understanding of the pathophysiology of FASD, which can contribute to development of treatments targeted to the specific deficits that characterize this disorder.
The current debate on mechanisms of action understanding and recognition has re-opened the question of how perceptual and motor systems are linked. It has been proposed that the human motor system has a role in action perception; however, there is still no direct evidence that actions can modulate early neural processes associated with perception of meaningful actions. Here we show that plans for action modulate the perceptual processing of observed actions within 200 ms of stimulus onset. We examined event-related potentials to images of hand gestures presented while participants planned either a matching (congruent) or non-matching (incongruent) gesture. The N170/VPP, representing visual processing of hand gestures, was reliably altered when participants concurrently planned congruent versus incongruent actions. In a second experiment, we showed that this congruency effect was specific to action planning and not to more general semantic aspects of action representation. Our findings demonstrate that actions encoded via the motor system have a direct effect on visual processing, and thus imply a bi-directional link between action and perception in the human brain. We suggest that through forward modelling, intended actions can facilitate the encoding of sensory inputs that would be expected as a consequence of the action.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients report memory problems greater than those normally expected with ageing, but do not fulfil criteria for clinically probable Alzheimer's disease. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that impaired performance on the Paired Associates Learning (PAL) test from the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) may be sensitive and specific for early and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. We adapted the basic CANTAB PAL task for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in order to examine the functional brain deficits, at encoding and retrieval separately, in patients with MCI compared to healthy matched volunteers. As well as investigating the main effects of encoding and retrieval, we characterized neural responses in the two groups to increasing memory load. We focused on changes in BOLD response in the hippocampus and related structures, as an a priori region of interest based on what is known about the neuropathology of the early stages of Alzheimer's disease and previous information on the neural substrates of the PAL task. We also used structural MRI in the same patients to assess accompanying structural brain abnormalities associated with MCI. In terms of the BOLD response, the bilateral hippocampal activation in the MCI and control groups depended upon load, the MCI patients activating significantly more than controls at low loads and significantly less at higher loads. There were no other differences between MCI patients and controls in terms of the neural networks activated during either encoding or retrieval of the PAL task, including the prefrontal, cingulate and temporal cortex. The functional deficit in hippocampal activation in the MCI patients was accompanied by structural differences in the same location, suggesting that the decrease in hippocampal activation may be caused by a decrease in the amount of grey matter. This is one of the first studies to have used both encoding and retrieval phases of a memory paradigm for fMRI in MCI patients, and to have shown that the BOLD response in MCI patients can show both hyperactivation and hypoactivation in the same individuals as a function of memory load and encoding/retrieval. The findings suggest that performance on PAL might be a useful cognitive biomarker for early detection of Alzheimer's disease, especially when used in conjunction with neuroimaging.
Adaptive neuroplastic changes have been well documented in congenitally blind individuals for the processing of tactile and auditory information. By contrast, very few studies have investigated olfactory processing in the absence of vision. There is ample evidence that the olfactory system is highly plastic and that blind individuals rely more on their sense of smell than the sighted do. The olfactory system in the blind is therefore likely to be susceptible to cross-modal changes similar to those observed for the tactile and auditory modalities. To test this hypothesis, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure changes in the blood-oxygenation level-dependent signal in congenitally blind and blindfolded sighted control subjects during a simple odor detection task. We found several group differences in task-related activations. Compared to sighted controls, congenitally blind subjects more strongly activated primary (right amygdala) and secondary (right orbitofrontal cortex and bilateral hippocampus) olfactory areas. In addition, widespread task-related activations were found throughout the whole extent of the occipital cortex in blind but not in sighted participants. The stronger recruitment of the occipital cortex during odor detection demonstrates a preferential access of olfactory stimuli to this area when vision is lacking from birth. This finding expands current knowledge about the supramodal function of the visually deprived occipital cortex in congenital blindness, linking it also to olfactory processing in addition to tactile and auditory processing.
Numerous studies have shown that imitating observed actions belongs to the same category of processes involved in planning and executing actions. New competencies may be acquired by actually executing a task or by executing a task after having seen how to do it. The performance of thirty dyslexic children was compared with that of an age- and gender-matched group of thirty normally reading children on tasks of learning a visuo-motor sequence by observation or by trial and error. The children observed an actor detecting a visuo-motor sequence and then performed the task reproducing either the previously observed sequence or a new one (Learning by Observation), or detected a sequence by trial and error (Learning by Doing), or first performed the task by trial and error and then performed it after an observational training (Learning by Observation after Doing). Results demonstrate that the dyslexic children were severely impaired in learning a sequence by observation, were able to detect a sequence by trial and error, and became as efficient as normal readers in reproducing an observed sequence after a task of learning by doing. Thus, the impaired ability to learn by observation could be reversed by agentive experience that supplied dyslexic children with a powerful learning mechanism, which enabled them to efficiently transfer action information across modalities. The beneficial effect of practice on the ability to learn by observation could provide dyslexic children a useful chance to acquire new cognitive abilities through more tuned teaching approach.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder arising in the aftermath of a traumatic event. The most prevalent hypothesis is that of an increased amygdala activity to threat cues. The amygdala has also shown an implication in orienting attention toward threat. The aim of the study was to explore the correlations between amygdala activity, symptom severity and attentional bias in PTSD. Patients and healthy controls were assayed on an fMRI emotional face matching task and an attentional detection of target (DOT) task. The amygdala showed enhanced activity in PTSD (vs. controls). It positively correlated with anxiety scores and PTSD symptomatology. It also positively correlated with the disengagement index. Mostly, these results provide preliminary support for an implication of the amygdala in attention orientation to threat in PTSD. These results are further discussed in light of recent theories concerned with cortico-limbic functioning.
Language is fairly well preserved in most patients with mild Alzheimer's disease, but writing ability seems to be impaired even in the early stages of the disease. To investigate the neural bases of writing impairments in Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined the correlation between writing ability and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 52 Japanese patients with mild AD compared to 22 controls, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). We found that, compared with control subjects, Kana writing to dictation and copying Kanji words were preserved in AD patients, but writing to dictating Kanji words was impaired. We classified the errors in the Kanji dictation task into four types to investigate the correlation between rCBF and the error type, as follows: non-response errors, phonologically plausible errors, non-phonologically plausible errors, and peripheral errors. Non-response errors, which indicated difficulty with retrieving Kanji graphic images, were the most frequent. When controlled for confounding factors, the number of non-response errors negatively correlated with rCBF in the left inferior parietal lobule, the posterior middle and inferior temporal gyri, and the posterior middle frontal gyrus. Thus, the impaired recall of Kanji in early Alzheimer's disease is related to dysfunctional cortical activity, which appears to be predominant in the left frontal, parietal, and temporal regions.
Short-term memory binding of visual features which are processed across different dimensions (shape-colour) is impaired in sporadic Alzheimer's disease, familial Alzheimer's disease, and in asymptomatic carriers of familial Alzheimer's disease. This study investigated whether Alzheimer's disease also impacts on within-dimension binding processes. The study specifically explored whether visual short-term memory binding of features of the same type (colour-colour) is sensitive to Alzheimer's disease. We used a neuropsychological battery and a short-term memory binding task to assess patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (Experiment 1), familial Alzheimer's disease (Experiment 2) due to the mutation E280A of the Presenilin-1 gene and asymptomatic carriers of the mutation. The binding task assessed change detection within arrays of unicoloured objects (Colour Only) or bicoloured objects the colours of which had to be remembered separately (Unbound Colours) or together (Bound Colours). Performance on the Bound Colours condition (1) explained the largest proportion of variance between patients (sporadic and familial Alzheimer's disease), (2) combined more sensitivity and specificity for the disease than other more traditional neuropsychological tasks, (3) identified asymptomatic carriers of the mutation even when traditional neuropsychological measures and other measures of short-term memory did not and, (4) contrary to shape-colour binding, correlated with measures of hippocampal functions. Colour-colour binding and shape-colour binding both appear to be sensitive to AD even though they seem to rely on different brain mechanisms.
Recent evidence suggests that patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), as compared with normal individuals, exhibit increased false recognition by stimulus repetition in the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) task or associative recognition memory tasks, probably due to impaired recollection-based monitoring. However, because of possible alternative explanations for the findings of these previous studies, the evidence for impaired recollection-based monitoring in AD patients remains inconclusive. In this study, we employed stimulus repetition in old/new recognition judgments of single-item picture memory without a factor of association between the stimuli and examined whether AD patients showed increased false item recognition as compared with healthy controls. AD patients and healthy controls studied single-item pictures presented either once or three times. They were later asked to make an old/new recognition judgment in response to (a) Same pictures, pictures identical to those seen at encoding, (b) Similar lures, novel pictures similar to but not identical to those seen at encoding, and (c) Dissimilar lures, novel pictures not similar to those seen at encoding. For Same pictures, repeated presentation of stimuli increased the proportion of &quot;old&quot; responses in both groups. For Similar lures, repeated presentation of stimuli increased the rate of &quot;old&quot; responses in AD patients but not in control subjects. The results of the present study clearly demonstrated elevated false recognition by stimulus repetition in single-item recognition in AD patients. The present findings strongly support the view that AD patients are impaired in their ability to use item-specific recollection in order to avoid false recognition.
Compared to adults, relatively little is known about autobiographical memory and the ability to imagine fictitious and future scenarios in school-aged children, despite the importance of these functions for development and subsequent independent living. Even less is understood about the effect of early hippocampal damage on children's memory and imagination abilities. To bridge this gap, we devised a novel naturalistic autobiographical memory task that enabled us to formally assess the memory for recent autobiographical experiences in healthy school-aged children. Contemporaneous with the autobiographical memories being formed, the children also imagined and described fictitious scenarios. Having established the performance of healthy school-aged children on these tasks, we proceeded to make comparisons with children (n=21) who had experienced neonatal hypoxia/ischaemia, and consequent bilateral hippocampal damage. Our results showed that healthy children could recall autobiographical events, including spatiotemporal information and specific episodic details. By contrast, children who had experienced neonatal hypoxia/ischaemia had impaired recall, with the specific details of episodes being lost. Despite this significant memory deficit they were able to construct fictitious scenarios. This is in clear contrast to adults with hippocampal damage, who typically have impaired autobiographical memory and deficits in the construction of fictitious and future scenarios. We speculate that the paediatric patients' relatively intact semantic memory and/or some functionality in their residual hippocampi may underpin their scene construction ability.
We studied a male with acquired prosopagnosia using a battery of Implicit Association Tests (IATs) to investigate whether observing faces varying by social category would activate the patient's implicit social biases. We also asked him to categorize faces explicitly by race, gender, and political party. The patient, G.B., was marginally slower to categorize black compared to white faces. He showed congruency effects in the race and celebrity IATs, but not in the gender or political IATs. These results indicate that G.B. possesses an implicit social sensitivity to certain facial stimuli despite an inability to overtly recognize familiar faces. The results demonstrate that social biases can be retrieved based on facial stimuli via pathways bypassing the fusiform gyri. Thus the IAT effect can be added to the list of covert recognition effects found in prosopagnosia.
The DAT1 gene codes for the dopamine transporter, which clears dopamine from the synaptic cleft, and a variant of this gene has previously been associated with compromised response inhibition in both healthy and clinical populations. This variant has also been associated with ADHD, a disorder that is characterised by disturbed dopamine function as well as problems with response inhibition. In the present study we used fMRI to investigate the role of dopaminergic genetic variation on executive functioning by comparing how activation associated with successful and unsuccessful inhibitions differs based on DAT1-genotype and ADHD-diagnosis in adolescents performing a go/nogo task. The results identify regional specificity concerning which functional differences can be attributed to the possession of the high risk DAT1 genotype, the clinical condition or an interaction between the two. During response inhibition, individuals with two copies of the 10-repeat allele showed increased activation in frontal, medial, and parietal regions, which may indicate that inhibition is more effortful for this group. Conversely, this group displayed a reduced error response in the parahippocampal gyrus, suggestive of reduced learning from errors. There were also a number of frontal, parietal, medial and occipital regions, where the relationship between genotype and fMRI-activation differed between the ADHD group and the typically developing adolescents. Finally, the ADHD group displayed decreased activation in parietal and (pre)frontal regions during response inhibition, and in frontal and medial brain regions on error trials.
Volatile organic solvents such as toluene are voluntarily inhaled for their intoxicating effects. Solvent use is especially prevalent among adolescents, and is associated with deficits in a wide range of cognitive tasks including attention, behavioral control, and risk assessment. Despite these findings, little is known about the effects of toluene on brain areas mediating these behaviors. In this study, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were used to determine the effect toluene on neurons within the medial PFC, a region critically involved in cognitive function. Toluene had no effect on measures of intrinsic excitability, but enhanced stimulus-evoked -amino butyric acid A-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). In the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX) to block action potentials, toluene increased the frequency and amplitude of miniature IPSCs. In contrast, toluene induced a delayed but persistent decrease in evoked or spontaneous AMPA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). This effect was prevented by an intracellular calcium chelator or by the ryanodine receptor and SERCA inhibitors, dantrolene or thapsigargin, respectively, suggesting that toluene may mobilize intracellular calcium pools. The toluene-induced reduction in AMPA EPSCs was also prevented by a cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) antagonist, and was occluded by the CB1 agonist WIN 55,212-2 that itself induced a profound decrease in AMPA-mediated EPSCs. Toluene had no effect on the frequency or amplitude of miniature EPSCs recorded in the presence of TTX. Finally, toluene dose-dependently inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated EPSCs and the magnitude and reversibility of this effect was CB1R sensitive indicating both direct and indirect actions of toluene on NMDA-mediated responses. Together, these results suggest that the effect of toluene on cognitive behaviors may result from its action on inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission of PFC neurons.
Here we utilize a mouse line with a targeted deletion of the 4 subunit (4-/- mice), to investigate the role of 4* nAChRs in reinforcing and locomotor effects of nicotine. Within a conditioned place preference paradigm, both 4-/- mice and wild-type (WT) littermates showed a similar place preference to nicotine (0.5mg/kg i.p.) conditioning. When assessed for operant intravenous self-administration of nicotine (0.05mg/kg/infusion), 4-/- mice did not differ from their WT littermates in self-administration behavior. To further examine a modulatory role for 4* nAChRs in the reinforcing effects of nicotine, a transgenic mouse with a point mutation of the 4 subunit (4-S248F) that renders increased sensitivity to low dose nicotine, was assessed for nicotine self-administration over a range of doses. At higher doses examined (0.05 and 0.07mg/kg/infusion) there was no difference in intravenous nicotine self-administration; however, when mice were offered a lower dose of nicotine (0.03mg/kg/infusion), 4-S248F mice showed greater nicotine intake than controls. Acute administration of 0.5mg/kg nicotine caused significant locomotor depression in WT mice but 4-/- mice instead showed significant hyperactivity. Following chronic, intermittent administration of this dose of nicotine only WT mice displayed significant tolerance. Analogous experiments utilizing administration of the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine in WT mice confirmed a dissociation between the putative nicotinic receptor subtypes required for mediating psychomotor and reinforcing effects of nicotine. These data demonstrate a necessary role for 4* nAChRs in the locomotor depressant effect of nicotine but not the reinforcing effects that support ongoing self-administration of nicotine.


This third chapter discusses the evidence for the rehabilitation of the most common movement disorders of the upper extremity. The authors also present a framework, building on the computation, anatomy, and physiology (CAP) model, for incorporating some of the principles discussed in the 2 previous chapters by Frey et al and Sathian et al in the practice of rehabilitation and for discussing potentially helpful interventions based on emergent neuroscience principles.


Although most work on prenatal stress has been conducted on mammalian species, birds provide useful alternative models since avian embryos develop outside the mother's body in a concealed environment, the egg, which is produced during a short time window of 4-14 days. This facilitates measurement of maternal substances provided for and manipulation of the embryo without interfering with the mother's physiology. We critically review prenatal corticosterone mediated effects in birds by reviewing both studies were females had elevated levels of plasma corticosterone during egg formation and studies applying corticosterone injections directly into the egg. A selected review of the mammalian literature is used as background. The results suggest that besides prenatal exposure to corticosterone itself, maternal corticosterone affects offspring's behaviour and physiology via alteration of other egg components. However, results are inconsistent, perhaps due to the interaction with variation in the post-natal environment, sex, age, developmental mode and details of treatment. The potential role of adaptive maternal programming has not been tested adequately and suggestions for future research are discussed.
The role of early-life stressors in the calibration of individual responses to future challenges has long been investigated in laboratory rodents. Specifically, countless studies show that exposure to early-life stressors - in the form of various periods of maternal separation, administration of exogenous corticosterone and variable feeding conditions - modulate the regulation of defensive responses (e.g. behavioral fearfulness/anxiety and endocrine stress reactivity) in adulthood. Yet, the link between early-life stress and adult defensive responses is not linear. Specifically, while neonatal moderate stress is generally associated with adult subjects characterized by reduced stress reactivity, neonatal elevated stress is often reported to relate to opposite responses. Not only are these findings relevant to the understanding of individual plasticity to contextual features, but also they can have direct implications in the development of rodent models of human disorders. Specifically, these studies demonstrate that the experimental individual responds to early environmental cues with the consequence of adjusting its adaptation to the future environment. If neglected, this aspect may have detrimental consequences in laboratory animal experimentation. For example, neonatal conditions increasing adult responses to moderate stress may result in experimental subjects showing abnormal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) activation to routine husbandry conditions, test environment and general laboratory procedures. The aim of the present review is threefold: (i) propose that neonatal circulating levels of corticosteroids may constitute a potential mediator connecting early and adult defensive systems; (ii) propose that the link between early and adult stress follows a U-shaped curve, with low levels down-regulating individual reactivity to external stressors and high levels exerting opposite effects; (iii) discuss the methodological implications of these considerations in the development of rodent models of human disorders.
The cerebellum, primarily considered a pure motor structure, is increasingly considered to play a role in behaviour and cognition. In a similar manner, there is increasing evidence that the basal ganglia are involved in non-motor processes. Recently a direct connection between the cerebellum and the basal ganglia has been shown to exist. High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become an accepted treatment in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). We performed HFS of the STN in rats to evaluate the neuronal activation in the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCbN) using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. We found an increased c-Fos expression in the DCbN. Previously, we have shown that STN HFS in rats leads to decreased impulsive behaviour and our findings now suggest a link with increased DCbN activity. This is in line with our previous work showing that decreased DCbN activity is accompanied by disruptive behaviour. We suggest that the DCbN play a role in the selection of relevant information on which a behavioural response is based. The connection between the cerebellum and the basal ganglia may imply a role for the cerebellum in behavioural aspects of disorders of the basal ganglia.
This article presents a hypothesis that the rostral premotor-subcortical networks may serve as a gateway between the cognitive and motor networks. Accumulating evidence has propelled an idea that motor and cognitive behaviors considerably share neural substrates and probably computational principles regardless of the species. Here I conducted a meta-analysis of previous neuroimaging studies on motor planning and different cognitive tasks (mental calculation, visuospatial processing and cognitive control), which showed overlap of all activations in the rostral premotor cortex, with a possible rostro-caudal functional gradient. It was also suggested that the rostral premotor areas might form circuits with specific portions of the cerebellum and the basal ganglia. The rostral premotor areas may provide context-dependent connectivity and mediate information flow between the cognitive and motor networks, thereby making the two networks operating interactively or independently.
An increasing number of data involve immunoreceptors in brain development, synaptic plasticity and behavior. However it has yet to be determined whether these proteins in fact transmit an immunoreceptor-like signal in non-hematopoietic neuronal cells. The recruitment and activation of the Syk family tyrosine kinases, Syk and ZAP-70, being a critical step in this process, we conducted a thorough analysis of Syk/ZAP-70 expression pattern in nervous tissues. Syk/ZAP-70 is present in neurons of different structures including the cerebellum, the hippocampus, the visual system and the olfactory system. During the olfactory system ontogeny the protein is detected from the 16th embryonic day and persists in adulthood. Importantly, Syk was phosphorylated on tyrosine residues representative of an active form of the kinase in specialized neuronal subpopulations comprising rostral migratory stream neuronal progenitor cells, hippocampal pyramidal cells, retinal ganglion cells and cerebellar granular cells. Phospho-Syk staining was also observed in synapse-rich regions such as the olfactory bulb glomeruli and the retina inner plexiform layer. Furthermore, our work on cultured primary hippoccampal neurons indicates that as for hematopoietic cells, Syk phosphorylation is readily induced upon pervanadate treatment. Therefore, Syk appears to be a serious candidate in connecting immunoreceptors to downstream adaptor/effector molecules in neurons.
Voltage-gated sodium channel -subunit (Nav) is the major determinant of neuronal electrophysiological characters. In order to compare the composition of Navs among neurochemically different neurons in the rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG), we examined the expression of Nav transcripts in four non-overlapping neuronal populations, with (+) or without (-) N52 immunoreactivity, a marker of neurons with myelinated axons, and TrkA mRNA identified by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Both N52-/TrkA+ and N52-/TrkA- populations had high levels of signals for Nav1.7, Nav1.8, and Nav1.9 mRNAs, but rarely expressed Nav1.1 or Nav1.6. There was no significant difference in these signals, suggesting that C-fiber peptidergic and non-peptidergic neurons have similar electrophysiological characters with regard to sodium currents. N52+/TrkA+ neurons (putative A-fiber nociceptors) had similar high levels of signals for Nav1.7 and Nav1.8, but a significantly lower level of Nav1.9 signals, as compared to N52- neurons. Although, almost no N52+/TrkA- neurons had Nav1.8 or Nav1.9, half of this population expressed Nav1.7 at similar levels to other three populations and the other half completely lacked this channel. These data suggest that Nav1.8 is a common channel for both C- and A-fiber nociceptors, and Nav1.9 is rather selective for C-fiber nociceptors. Nav1.7 is the most universal channel while some functionally unknown N52+/TrkA- subpopulation selectively lacks it.
We examined whether chronic systemic treatment with agonists for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) influences neuroinflammation induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection into the somatosensory cortex in adult mice. Mice were pretreated with Wy-14643 or fenofibrate, both at 30 mg/kg, for 7 days. These treatment protocols increased the amount of PPAR mRNA and active form of PPAR protein in the brain. LPS injection reduced the PPAR mRNA level in the brain. On the contrary, TNF, IL-1, IL-6, iNOS, COX-2, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and PECAM-1 were elevated at 6h after LPS. Wy-14643 and fenofibrate inhibited the elevations of TNF, IL-1, IL-6, COX-2, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1. Wy-14643, but not fenofibrate, also attenuated the iNOS elevation. At 3 days after LPS, Wy-14643 and fenofibrate showed similar inhibitions in these molecules. LPS injection also elevated IL-6 protein levels in the brain and serum at 6h, which was inhibited by fenofibrate. Histological analyses showed that Wy-14643 and fenofibrate profoundly attenuated microglia/macrophage activation, neutrophil recruitment, and neuronal injury at 3 days after LPS. These findings suggest that activation of PPAR attenuates neuroinflammation in the adult mouse brain, implicating that PPAR may be a potential therapeutic target for CNS diseases in which neuroinflammation plays a substantial role.
Cognitive neuroscience, which studies the biological basis of mental processes, widely uses neuroimaging technologies like functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography (PET) to study the human brain. Small laboratory animals, like rodents, are commonly used in brain research and provide abundant models of human brain diseases. The development of high-resolution small-animal PET and various radiotracers together with sophisticated methods for analyzing functional brain imaging data have accelerated research on brain function and neurotransmitter release during behavioral tasks in rodents. In this review, we first summarize advances in the methodology of cognitive research brought about by the development of sophisticated methods for whole-brain imaging analysis and improvements in neuroimaging protocols. Then, we discuss basic mechanisms related to metabolic changes and the expression of neurotransmitters in various brain areas during task-induced neural activity. In particular, we discuss glucose metabolism imaging and brain receptor imaging for various receptor systems. Finally, we discuss the current status and future perspectives. Mechanisms of neurotransmitter expression will probably become an increasingly important field of study in the future, leading to more collaboration between investigators in fields such as computational and theoretical neuroscience.
Pain hypersensitivity that develops after tissue or nerve injury is dependent both on peripheral processes in the affected tissue and on enhanced neuronal responses in the central nervous system, including the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. It has become increasingly clear that strengthening of glutamatergic sensory synapses, such as those established in the dorsal horn by nociceptive thin-caliber primary afferent fibers, is a major contributor to sensitization of neuronal responses that leads to pain hypersensitivity. Here, the authors review recent findings on the roles of ionotropic glutamate receptors in synaptic plasticity in the dorsal horn in relation to acute and persistent pain.
Intravenous and intraarterial recombinant tissue plasminogen activator remains underutilized in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, largely due to strict adherence to the concept of the therapeutic time window for administration. Recent efforts to expand the number of patients eligible for thrombolysis have been mirrored by an evolution in endovascular recanalization technology and techniques. As a result, there is a growing need to establish efficient and reliable means by which to select candidates for endovascular intervention beyond the traditional criteria of time from symptom onset. Perfusion imaging techniques, particularly CT perfusion used in combination with CT angiography, represent an increasingly recognized means by which to identify those patients who stand to benefit most from endovascular recanalization. Additionally, CT perfusion and CT angiography appear to provide sufficient data by which to exclude patients in whom there is little chance of neurological recovery or a substantial risk of postprocedure symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage. The authors review the current literature as it pertains to the limitations of time-based selection of patients for intervention, the increasing utilization of endovascular therapy, and the development of a CT perfusion-based selection of acute stroke patients for endovascular recanalization. Future endeavors must prospectively evaluate the utility and safety of CT perfusion-based selection of candidates for endovascular intervention.






Electrical stimulation of the primary motor cortex has been used since 1991 to treat chronic neuropathic pain. Since its inception, motor cortex stimulation (MCS) treatment has had varied clinical outcomes. Until this point, there has not been a systematic study of the stimulation parameters that most effectively treat chronic pain, or of the mechanisms by which MCS relieves pain. Here, using a rodent model of central pain, we perform a systematic study of stimulation parameters used for MCS and investigate the mechanisms by which MCS reduces hyperalgesia. Specifically, we study the role of the inhibitory nucleus zona incerta (ZI) in mediating the analgesic effects of MCS. In animals with mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia, we find that stimulation at 50 A, 50 Hz, and 300 s square pulses for 30 minutes is sufficient to reverse mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. We also find that stimulation of the ZI mimics the effects of MCS and that reversible inactivation of ZI blocks the effects of MCS. These findings suggest that the reduction of hyperalgesia may be due to MCS effects on ZI. In an animal model of central pain syndrome, motor cortex stimulation reduces hyperalgesia by activating zona incerta and therefore restoring inhibition in the thalamus.

Objectives:The purposes of this study were: (1) to explore cancer patients' complaints of poor sleep, which often involve a combination of somatic symptoms and nightmares; and (2) to understand these sleep disturbances in the light of modern dream theories and intervention modalities.Method:The literature search originated with several majorarticles (Revonsuo, 2000; Krakow &amp; Zadra, 2006; Hobson, 2009) which then opened up the search through their references. We also used the database PubMed, and employed the following key words: cancer, nightmares/dreams, sleep disturbances,and dream theory. The literature search covered the interval between 1900 (Freud, 1900) and 2009. Our criteria for selecting studies included the most recent major review articles on the neuroscience of sleep and dreams; articles reviewing sleep disturbances in cancer patients and relevanttreatments; and articles reviewing interventions for traumatic dreams. Approximately 30 articles were deemed worthy of inclusion.Results:Thirty article/books/chapters met the criteria for relevance related to key theories and clinical interventions related to nightmares and traumatic dreams of cancer patients. Key concepts involve threat simulation theory and imagery rehearsal therapy in regard to theoretical and interventional paradigms significantly generalizable to cancer patients. The dream material included in this article presents patients' attempts to deal with complex threats such as intense dependency/ loss of self-sufficiency, disfigurement, and death. This is especially true with regard to the doctor-patient relationship at all stages of the illness and disease. Imagery rehearsal can facilitate empowerment in light of highly threatening and conflictual cancer-related dreams in which the patient feels helpless and victimized.Significance of results:This review offers a new lens on current dream theories and understanding of sleep disturbance in cancer patients as well as their familes and medical caregivers. Modern theories lead to opportunities for intervention that can both relieve symptoms and improve communication between medical caregivers and patients and families.
About 1% of newborn presents some form of congenital heart disease (CHD). Eighty-five percent of these children, thanks to medical and surgical improvement, reaches adulthood. This open up new challenges in patients management, such as the evaluation and optimization of psychosocial functioning and quality of life of CHD subjects. The present review collects research literature regarding neurocognitive and psychopathological adjustment, and personality and quality of life of these patients, analyzing variables that may influence their development. Literature data lean towards a multifactorial process implied into an insufficient outcome of neurocognitive development in many patients. Psychopathological development seems &quot;problematic&quot; with the expression of behavioural disorders both externalising and internalising. But current researches don't consent univocal and definitive conclusions. The need for interventions to improve existential outcome for CHD subjects emerges: research on genetic factors and early recognition of at risk subjects must go with the necessity for research aiming to determine protective and risk factors related to personality, environment and relational aspects entailed in the development of CHD subjects. Finally, some evidences noticed in CHD subjects psychopathological and quality of life outcomes which are even better than normal ones. These results depend on the elaboration of their disease that CHD subjects have carried on. Factors regarding mainly personality development are essential in determining these outcomes.
A role for the immune system in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease (PD) has previously been suggested. A recent genome-wide association (GWA) study identified an association between one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) region (HLA-DRA rs3129882) and PD in a population of American patients with European ancestry. In that study, the minor rs3129882 allele (G) was associated with an increased risk of PD under an additive model. Due to the increased likelihood of obtaining false positive results in GWA studies compared to studies conducted based on a hypothesis-driven approach, repeated validation of findings from GWA studies are necessary. Herein, we evaluated the association between rs3129882 and PD in three different Caucasian patient-control series (combined 1313 patients and 1305 controls) from the US, Ireland, and Poland. We observed no association (OR: 0.96, P = 0.50) between rs3129882 and PD when analyzing our data under an additive or dominant model. In contrast, when examined under a recessive model, the GG genotype was observed to be protective in the Irish (OR: 0.55, P = 0.008), Polish (OR: 0.67, P = 0.040) and combined (OR: 0.75, P = 0.006) patient-control series. In view of these diverging results, the exact role of genetic variation at the HLA region and susceptibility to PD remains to be resolved.

Benign hereditary chorea (BHC, MIM 118700) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder manifesting with chorea in conjunction with hypothyroidism and respiratory problems, a triad also named &quot;brain-lung-thyroid syndrome&quot;. BHC is characterized by childhood onset with minimal or no progression into adult life and normal cognitive function. The genetic basis of BHC has been partially resolved, when mutations in the TTF1 gene on chromosome 14q13 encoding the thyroid transcription factor-1 have been identified in a number of BHC patients, suggesting that aberration of TTF1 transcriptional function or haploinsufficiency is associated with this disorder. TTF1 (also known as TITF1, TEBP or NKX2-1), belonging to the NKX2 homeodomain transcription factor family, has been implicated in several important molecular pathways essential for brain, thyroid and lung morphogenesis. Clinical evaluation of TTF1 gene mutations carrier patients exposed the involvement of each of the triad's components characterized by heterogeneity between index cases and even within families. This review highlights the current updates on expanded clinical aspects of BHC, imaging and treatment experience, its genetic markers, proposed molecular mechanisms, animal models and link to cancer.


In the present study we used a transgenic mouse model, carrying the neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor gene promoter linked to the LacZ reporter gene (Y1R/LacZ mice) to test the hypothesis of its up-regulation by gonadal hormones. Y1 receptor gene expression was detected by means of histochemical procedures and quantitative image analysis in the paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, medial preoptic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and bed nucleus of stria terminalis of two-month-old female mice at different stages of estrous cycle. Qualitative and quantitative analyses showed that Y1R/LacZ transgene expression was higher in the paraventricular, arcuate, and ventromedial nuclei of proestrus mice as compared to mice in the other stages of the estrous cycle. In addition, we performed a comparison with a group of sexually active males. In this comparison a significant difference (less in males) was observed between males and proestrus females in the same nuclei. In conclusion, these data indicate that fluctuations in circulating levels of gonadal hormones, depending by estrous cycle, are paralleled by changes in the expression of NPY Y1 receptor in the hypothalamic nuclei involved in the control of both energy balance and reproduction.
In the present study, differences in visuospatial attention lateralization were evaluated in athletes engaged in open-compared to closed-skill sports and sedentary nonathletes. 23 volleyball players (open skill; Italian national level and regional level), 10 rowers (closed skill, Italian national level), and 23 sedentary participants responded to a computerized line-length judgment task. Five lines, differing in the length of their right and left segments, were randomly presented; the respondent made a forced-choice decision about the respective length of the two segments. Volleyball players responded significantly faster; those at the higher competitive level were also more accurate, making a statistically significantly lower number of leftward errors as compared with rowers and controls. If such responses are due to training rather than self-selection of ability, then the results may suggest the possibility of changing the distribution of visuospatial attention by training in open-skill sports.


Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), which are used commonly to treat anxiety disorders, have characteristic anxiogenic effects following acute administration. Treatment with anxiolytic benzodiazepines (BZs) may reduce these effects, although little is known about potential drug interactions. Our study evaluated acute anxiogenic-like effects of SSRIs, alone and combined with a BZ. Adult male BALB/c mice received fluoxetine (3.0-30.0mg/kg, i.p.) or citalopram (3.0-30.0mg/kg, i.p.) alone or in combination with diazepam (0.3-10.0mg/kg, i.p.), after which they were evaluated with the light/dark and open-field tests for anxiogenesis/anxiolysis. In addition, release of the stress hormone corticosterone was assessed following combined SSRI/BZ administration. In the light/dark and open-field tests, acute SSRIs produced a behavioral profile consistent with anxiogenesis, while diazepam produced an anxiolytic-like profile. Pre-treatment with diazepam (0.3-10mg/kg) reversed the effects of an anxiogenic-like dose of an SSRI (18mg/kg fluoxetine, 30mg/kg citalopram) in both light/dark and open-field tests. Diazepam, fluoxetine or citalopram, and their combination all significantly increased plasma corticosterone levels to the same degree. These findings suggest that a BZ-type drug can attenuate acute anxiogenic-like effects of an SSRI via a mechanism independent of corticosterone regulation.
Cannabinoid CB(2) agonists produce antinociception without central nervous system (CNS) side-effects. This study was designed to characterize the pharmacological and antinociceptive profile of AM1710, a CB(2) agonist from the cannabilactone class of cannabinoids. AM1710 did not exhibit off-target activity at 63 sites evaluated. AM1710 also exhibited limited blood brain barrier penetration. AM1710 was evaluated in tests of antinociception and CNS activity. CNS side-effects were evaluated in a modified tetrad (tail flick, rectal temperature, locomotor activity and rota-rod). Pharmacological specificity was established using CB(1) (SR141716) and CB(2) (SR144528) antagonists. AM1710 (0.1-10mg/kg i.p.) produced antinociception to thermal but not mechanical stimulation of the hindpaw. AM1710 (5mg/kg i.p.) produced a longer duration of antinociceptive action than the aminoalkylindole CB(2) agonist (R,S)-AM1241 (1mg/kg i.p.) at maximally antinociceptive doses. Antinociception produced by the low (0.1mg/kg i.p.) dose of AM1710 was blocked selectively by the CB(2) antagonist SR144528 (6mg/kg i.p.), whereas antinociception produced by the high dose of AM1710 (5mg/kg i.p.) was blocked by either SR144528 (6mg/kg i.p.) or SR141716 (6mg/kg i.p.). AM1710 did not produce hypoactivity, hypothermia, tail flick antinociception, or motor ataxia when evaluated in the tetrad at any dose. In conclusion, AM1710, a CB(2)-preferring cannabilactone, produced antinociception in the absence of CNS side-effects. Thus, any CB(1)-mediated antinociceptive effects of this compound may be attributable to peripheral CB(1) activity. The observed pattern of pharmacological specificity produced by AM1710 is consistent with limited blood brain barrier penetration of this compound and absence of CNS side-effects.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is believed to be initiated by the accumulation of neurotoxic forms of A peptide within the brain. AD patients show reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF), the extent of the reduction correlating with the impairment of cognition. There is evidence that cerebral hypoperfusion precedes and may even trigger the onset of dementia in AD. Cerebral hypoperfusion impairs neuronal function, reduces the clearance of A peptide and other toxic metabolites from the brain, and upregulates A production. Studies in animal models of AD have shown the reduction in CBF to be more than would be expected for the reduction in neuronal metabolic activity. A may contribute to the reduction in CBF in AD, as both A and A induce cerebrovascular dysfunction. A acts directly on cerebral arteries to cause cerebral smooth muscle cell contraction. A causes increased neuronal production and release of endothelin-1 (ET-1), a potent vasoconstrictor, and upregulation of endothelin-converting enzyme-2 (ECE-2), the enzyme which cleaves ET-1 from its inactive precursor. ET-1 and ECE-2 are also elevated in AD, making it likely that upregulation of the ECE-2-ET-1 axis by A contributes to the chronic reduction of CBF in AD. At present, only a few symptomatic treatment options exist for AD. The involvement of ET-1 in the pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction associated with elevated A indicates the potential for endothelin receptor antagonists in the treatment of AD. It has already been demonstrated that the endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan, preserves aortic and carotid endothelial function in Tg2576 mice, and our findings suggest that endothelin receptor antagonists may be beneficial in maintaining CBF in AD.
The 5-Hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor is a member of the cys-loop family of ligand gated ion channels, of which the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is the prototype. All other 5-HT receptors identified to date are metabotropic receptors. The 5-HT3 receptor is present in the central and peripheral nervous systems, as well as a number of non-nervous tissues. As an ion channel that is permeable to the cations, Na(+), K(+), and Ca(2+), the 5-HT3 receptor mediates fast depolarizing responses in pre- and post-synaptic neurons. As such, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists that are used clinically block afferent and efferent synaptic transmission. The most well established physiological roles of the 5-HT3 receptor are to coordinate emesis and regulate gastrointestinal motility. Currently marketed 5-HT3 receptor antagonists are indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy, radiation, and anesthesia-induced nausea and vomiting, as well as irritable bowel syndrome. Other therapeutic uses that have been explored include pain and drug addiction. The 5-HT3 receptor is one of a number of receptors that play a role in mediating nausea and vomiting, and as such, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists demonstrate the greatest anti-emetic efficacy when administered in combination with other drug classes.







Processing of meaning is critical for language perception, and therefore the majority of research on meaning processing has focused on the semantic, lexical, conceptual, and propositional processing of language. However, music is another a means of communication, and meaning also emerges from the interpretation of musical information. This article provides a framework for the investigation of the processing of musical meaning, and reviews neuroscience studies investigating this issue. These studies reveal two neural correlates of meaning processing, the N400 and the N5 (which are both components of the event-related electric brain potential). Here I argue that the N400 can be elicited by musical stimuli due to the processing of extra-musical meaning, whereas the N5 can be elicited due to the processing of intra-musical meaning. Notably, whereas the N400 can be elicited by both linguistic and musical stimuli, the N5 has so far only been observed for the processing of meaning in music. Thus, knowledge about both the N400 and the N5 can advance our understanding of how the human brain processes meaning information.


Stress research has been dominated by a circular type of reasoning that occurrence of a stress response is bad. Consequently, the stimulus is often interpreted as stressful in terms of aversiveness involving uncontrollability and unpredictability, which may have maladaptive and pathological consequences. However, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathico-adrenomedullary (SAM) system are not only activated in response of the organism to challenges, but also prepare and support the body for behavior. Therefore, a considerable part of the physiological and hormonal responses to a certain situation can be a direct reflection of the metabolic requirements for the normal ongoing behavioral activity, rather than of the stressful nature. In order to clarify this, behavioral, physiological, hormonal and electroencephalographic (EEG) responses to novel cage exposure were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Forced confrontation with a novel cage has been interpreted as a psychological and aversive stressor. However, this interpretation is simply based on the occurrence of a stress response. This study aimed at detailed analysis of the time course of the novelty-induced responses. Different parameters were measured simultaneously in freely moving rats, which allowed correlational comparisons. Hereto, radio telemetry using a small implantable transmitter combined with permanent catheters and an automated blood sampling system was used. A camera placed above the cage allowed behavioral observations. The results show that novelty exposure induced significant increases in locomotor activity, heart rate, blood pressure and plasma corticosterone together with a complete lack of sleep as compared to the undisturbed control situation. The latency to reach significance and the duration of responses varied across parameters but all had recovered within 30min after termination of novelty. The behavioral activity (locomotor activity and EEG wakefulness duration) response pattern was significantly correlated with that of heart rate, blood pressure and plasma corticosterone. Behavioral observations showed mainly explorative behavior in response to novelty. Therefore, the present results indicate that the novelty-induced physiological and hormonal responses are closely related to the ongoing, mainly explorative behavioral activity induced by novelty. An interpretation in terms of metabolic support of ongoing behavior seems to be more appropriate than the frequently used stress interpretation. The present study also emphasizes the added value of simultaneous assessment of behavioral, physiological and hormonal parameters under controlled, non-confounding conditions.
Evidence suggests that the development of diet-induced obesity in males and females might be mediated by distinct mechanisms, warranting different treatment approaches. In previous studies from this laboratory, a high sucrose diet induced excessive weight gain in female but not in male Sprague-Dawley rats, while weight gain in both sexes was similarly attenuated by the administration of a selective antagonist of 34 nicotinic receptors, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC). In the present study, assessment of high-fat induced weight gain, consummatory behavior and biochemical markers of obesity was conducted in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats and the effects of 18-MC treatment were compared in the two sexes. Male rats consuming a high-fat (HF) diet developed excessive weight gain and fat deposition compared to same same-sex controls fed with a low-fat (LF) diet. The development of obesity in these rats was attenuated by repeated administration of 18-MC (20mg/kg, i.p.), which significantly reduced their food intake without altering water intake. In contrast, female rats consuming a HF diet did not become obese and did not respond to 18-MC treatment. These results show that males and females are differentially responsive to HF-induced obesity; the 18-MC data suggest that 34 nicotinic receptors may participate in maintaining obesity, possibly becoming a new and important target for anti-obesity agents.
Cocoa flavanols (CF) influence physiological processes in ways that suggest their consumption may improve aspects of neural function, and previous studies have found positive influences of CF on cognitive performance. In this preliminary study we investigated whether visual, as well as cognitive, function is influenced by an acute dose of CF in young adults. We employed a randomized, single-blinded, order counterbalanced, crossover design in which 30 healthy adults consumed both dark chocolate containing 720mg CF and a matched quantity of white chocolate, with a one week interval between testing sessions. Visual contrast sensitivity was assessed by reading numbers that became progressively more similar in luminance to their background. Motion sensitivity was assessed firstly by measuring the threshold proportion of coherently moving signal dots that could be detected against a background of random motion, and secondly by determining the minimum time required to detect motion direction in a display containing a high proportion of coherent motion. Cognitive performance was assessed using a visual spatial working memory for location task and a choice reaction time task designed to engage processes of sustained attention and inhibition. Relative to the control condition, CF improved visual contrast sensitivity and reduced the time required to detect motion direction, but had no statistically reliable effect on the minimum proportion of coherent motion that could be detected. In terms of cognitive performance, CF improved spatial memory and performance on some aspects of the choice reaction time task. As well as extending the range of cognitive tasks that are known to be influenced by CF consumption, this is the first report of acute effects of CF on the efficiency of visual function. These acute effects can be explained by increased cerebral blood flow caused by CF, although in the case of contrast sensitivity there may be an additional contribution from CF induced retinal blood flow changes.
Plant sterols such as sitosterol and campesterol are frequently applied as functional food in the prevention of atherosclerosis. Recently, it became clear that plasma derived plant sterols accumulate in murine brains. We questioned whether plant sterols in the brain are associated with alterations in brain cholesterol homeostasis and subsequently with brain functions. ATP binding cassette (Abc)g5-/- mice, a phytosterolemia model, were compared to Abcg5+/+ mice for serum and brain plant sterol accumulation and behavioral and cognitive performance. Serum and brain plant sterol concentrations were respectively 35-70-fold and 5-12-fold increased in Abcg5-/- mice (P&lt;0.001). Plant sterol accumulation resulted in decreased levels of desmosterol (P&lt;0.01) and 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol (P&lt;0.01) in the hippocampus, the brain region important for learning and memory functions, and increased lanosterol levels (P&lt;0.01) in the cortex. However, Abcg5-/- and Abcg5+/+ displayed no differences in memory functions or in anxiety and mood related behavior. The swimming speed of the Abcg5-/- mice was slightly higher compared to Abcg5+/+ mice (P&lt;0.001). In conclusion, plant sterols in the brains of Abcg5-/- mice did have consequences for brain cholesterol metabolism, but did not lead to an overt phenotype of memory or anxiety related behavior. Thus, our data provide no contra-indication for nutritional intake of plant sterol enriched nutrition.
Attractor networks successfully account for psychophysical and neurophysiological data in various decision-making tasks. Especially their ability to model persistent activity, a property of many neurons involved in decision-making, distinguishes them from other approaches. Stable decision attractors are, however, counterintuitive to changes of mind. Here we demonstrate that a biophysically-realistic attractor network with spiking neurons, in its itinerant transients towards the choice attractors, can replicate changes of mind observed recently during a two-alternative random-dot motion (RDM) task. Based on the assumption that the brain continues to evaluate available evidence after the initiation of a decision, the network predicts neural activity during changes of mind and accurately simulates reaction times, performance and percentage of changes dependent on difficulty. Moreover, the model suggests a low decision threshold and high incoming activity that drives the brain region involved in the decision-making process into a dynamical regime close to a bifurcation, which up to now lacked evidence for physiological relevance. Thereby, we further affirmed the general conformance of attractor networks with higher level neural processes and offer experimental predictions to distinguish nonlinear attractor from linear diffusion models.
The complex connectivity of the cerebral cortex is a topic of much study, yet the link between structure and function is still unclear. The processing capacity and throughput of information at individual brain regions remains an open question and one that could potentially bridge these two aspects of neural organization. The rate at which information is emitted from different nodes in the network and how this output process changes under different external conditions are general questions that are not unique to neuroscience, but are of interest in multiple classes of telecommunication networks. In the present study we show how some of these questions may be addressed using tools from telecommunications research. An important system statistic for modeling and performance evaluation of distributed communication systems is the time between successive departures of units of information at each node in the network. We describe a method to extract and fully characterize the distribution of such inter-departure times from the resting-state electroencephalogram (EEG). We show that inter-departure times are well fitted by the two-parameter Gamma distribution. Moreover, they are not spatially or neurophysiologically trivial and instead are regionally specific and sensitive to the presence of sensory input. In both the eyes-closed and eyes-open conditions, inter-departure time distributions were more dispersed over posterior parietal channels, close to regions which are known to have the most dense structural connectivity. The biggest differences between the two conditions were observed at occipital sites, where inter-departure times were significantly more variable in the eyes-open condition. Together, these results suggest that message departure times are indicative of network traffic and capture a novel facet of neural activity.


The brainstem is incredibly complex. It contains nuclei, pathways and structures, many with unusual names such as the olives, medial longitudinal fasciculus and the superior and inferior colliculi. The neurological examination can only assess some of them. This article is designed to help make sense of the signs in the more common brainstem syndromes using 'the rule of 4'.

Early-onset aggressive behavior is known for its negative developmental consequences, and the associated high costs for families, the health care system and wider society. Although the origins of aggressive behavior are to be found in early childhood, the costs incurred by aggressive behavior of young children have not been studied extensively. The present study aimed to investigate whether preschool children with a high level of aggressive behavior already differ in the generated amount of costs and impact on family functioning from children with lower levels of aggressive behavior. A population-based sample of 317 preschool children was divided into four groups with different levels of aggression (moderate, borderline, clinical). Parents filled out questionnaires to assess service use (lifetime and past 3 months) and impact on family functioning. Over the past 3 months as well as over the first 4 years of life, children with a clinical level of aggression were more costly than children with a low level of aggression (mean total costs over the past 3 months: low  = 167,05 versus clinical  = 1034,83 and mean lifetime costs: low  = 817,37 versus clinical  = 1433,04), due to higher costs of services used by the child. In addition, families of children with a borderline or clinical level of aggressive behavior reported more impairment in their daily functioning than families of children with lower levels of aggression. The findings demonstrate that a high level of aggressive behavior results in high costs and impaired family functioning in the preschool years already.
Neurotrophins are growth factors that, through variations in concentration and changes in receptor expression, regulate the formation of axons and dendrites during development and throughout adult life. Here we review these growth factors, particularly in the context of schizophrenia, a psychiatric disorder characterized by neurodevelopmental abnormalities. We first discuss emerging information derived from physiologically relevant organotypic cultures and in vivo studies regarding the effects of neurotrophins on the neuronal structure including pruning and GABAergic neurons. We then review postmortem studies of neurotrophin levels and their receptors in brains of individuals with schizophrenia, and compare them with what is known about neurotrophin effects on neuronal structure. This comparison indicates that only some neuropathological defects encountered in patients with schizophrenia can be explained by the single action of neurotrophins on dendrites and axons. However, we propose that a number of inconsistent findings and apparently unrelated results in the schizophrenia field can be reconciled if neurons are considered structurally plastic cells capable of extending and retracting dendrites and axons throughout life.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a peculiar proline-directed serine/threonine kinase. Unlike the other members of the Cdk family, Cdk5 is not directly involved in cell cycle regulation, being normally associated with neuronal processes such as migration, cortical layering and synaptic plasticity. This kinase is present mainly in post-mitotic neurons and its activity is tightly regulated by the interaction with the specific activators, p35 and p39. Despite its pivotal role in CNS development, Cdk5 dysregulation has been implicated in different pathologies, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease (PD) and, most recently, prion-related encephalopathies (PRE). In these neurodegenerative conditions, Cdk5 overactivation and relocalization occurs upon association with p25, a truncated form of the normal activator p35. This activator switching will cause a shift in the phosphorylative pattern of Cdk5, with an alteration both in targets and activity, ultimately leading to neuronal demise. In AD and PRE, two disorders that share clinical and neuropathological features, Cdk5 dysregulation is a linking event between the major neuropathological markers: amyloid plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation and synaptic and neuronal loss. Moreover, this kinase was shown to be involved in abortive cell cycle re-entry, a feature recently proposed as a possible step in the neuronal apoptosis mechanism of several neurological diseases. This review focuses on the role of Cdk5 in neurons, namely in the regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics, synaptic function and cell survival, both in physiological and in pathological conditions, highlighting the relevance of Cdk5 in the main mechanisms of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease and other brain pathologies.
Evidence from genetic, transgenic and post-mortem studies has strongly supported the critical role that neuregulin 1 (NRG1) and its ErbB4 receptor plays in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This article aims to review current evidence regarding the effects of antipsychotic treatment on NRG1-ErbB4 signalling. NRG1 and ErbB4 knockout mice display abnormal behaviours relevant to certain features of schizophrenia, which could be improved by antipsychotic (clozapine/haloperidol) treatment. In contrast to most NRG1/ErbB4 knockout mice with a decreased NRG1-ErbB4 signalling, the majority post-mortem studies showed an increased NRG1-ErbB4 signalling in schizophrenic patients. These differences could be due to degrees of alteration in risk genes (subtle variations in patients vs pronounced alteration in mutant mice) or the duration of the modification on NRG1 signalling. Various antipsychotics have different effects on NRG1 and ErbB4 expression and signalling that are dependent on treatment duration. Current evidence suggests that a chronic (12weeks) antipsychotic treatment, at least in animal models, could downregulate NRG1-ErbB4 signalling, although an upregulation is seen for a short-term treatment. These effects may be due to multiple binding profiles with various G-coupled protein receptors (e.g. dopamine, and serotonin receptors) of antipsychotics. Studies are needed to investigate the interactions between NRG1-ErbB4 and the other signalling pathways (such as glutamatergic, GABAergic and dopaminergic). Furthermore, the interactions between NRG1/ErbB4 and other schizophrenia suspensibility genes under antipsychotic treatment also require investigation.
Excessive level of radicals and/or dysfunctional antioxidant response, oxidative stress, is implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. A condition of oxidative stress has been detected in the brain, peripheral tissues and fluids including plasma. Plasma thioredoxin-1 (Trx1) is well characterized and a putative marker for oxidative stress and recently shown to be increased in plasma at the onset of schizophrenia. The present study aimed to explore whether Trx1 can be used as a marker to identify schizophrenic patients at the time-point when patients have their first episode of psychosis as compared to patients with long-term schizophrenia and mentally healthy patients, respectively. Plasma samples obtained from 18 patients at first episode of psychosis, from 49 long-term schizophrenic patients and from 20 mentally healthy controls (admitted with minor physical injury to the general ward) where analyzed by ELISA for Trx1. The patients with first episode of psychosis were diagnosed at least 6 months later and shown to constitute various psychotic syndromes, including schizophrenia, or affective disorder. The concentration of Trx1 in the patients with first episode of psychosis was 1.5  1.0 ng/ml and 0.8  0.6 ng/ml in controls. In the long-term schizophrenic patients the plasma concentration was 1.5  0.7. The differences between the groups of acute psychotic or long-term schizophrenia patients to controls were significant (p &lt; 0.016 and p &lt; 0.001, respectively). Our data indicate that Trx1 may not be used as an early marker to identify schizophrenic patients in a mixed population of first episode psychotic patients. Further, Trx1 did not discriminate with reliable accuracy patients with psychotic disorder from mentally healthy controls on an individual basis due to overlap in levels of Trx1. However, our observations show that psychotic patients in general are in a significant long-term condition of oxidative stress, with possible implications for the profound morbidity and mortality found in this patient population.


Schizophrenia is a debilitating neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorder. Both the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and neuregulin1 (NRG1) are key molecules involved in normal brain development that have been linked to schizophrenia pathology and aetiology. The NR2 proteins are critical structural and functional subunits of the NMDAR and are developmentally and spatially regulated. Altered NR2 gene and protein expression has been found in human post-mortem schizophrenia brain tissue together with changes in NRG1 and its receptor ErbB4. The NR2 subunits and ErbB4 share a common anchoring domain on the postsynaptic density and therefore a disruption to either of these molecules may influence the functioning of the other. It has been shown that NRG1 signalling can affect NMDAR levels and function, particularly phosphorylation of the NR2 subunits. However little is known about the possible effects of NMDAR dysfunction on NRG1 signalling, which is important with regards to schizophrenia aetiology as numerous risk factors for the disorder can alter NMDAR functioning during early brain development. This review focuses on the role of the NMDA receptor subunits and NRG1 signalling in schizophrenia and proposes a mechanism by which a disruption to the NMDAR, particularly via altering the balance of NR2 subunits during early development, could influence NRG1 signalling.
Animal models are formidable tools to investigate the etiology, the course and the potential treatment of an illness. No convincing animal model of suicide has been produced to date, and despite the intensive study of thousands of animal species naturalists have not identified suicide in nonhuman species in field situations. When modeling suicidal behavior in the animal, the greatest challenge is reproducing the role of will and intention in suicide mechanics. To overcome this limitation, current investigations on animals focus on every single step leading to suicide in humans. The most promising endophenotypes worth investigating in animals are the cortisol social-stress response and the aggression/impulsivity trait, involving the serotonergic system. Astroglia, neurotrophic factors and neurotrophins are implied in suicide, too. The prevention of suicide rests on the identification and treatment of every element increasing the risk.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have reported a variety of brain abnormalities in association with schizophrenia. These include a higher prevalence of an absent adhesio interthalamica (AI; also known massa intermedia), a gray matter junction that is present between the two thalami in approximately 80% of healthy subjects. In this meta-analytic review, we describe and discuss the main AI MRI findings in schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SSDs) to date. The MEDLINE and ISI Web of Knowledge databases were searched up to December 2010, for studies that used MRI to assess AI in patients with SSD and controls. From fourteen potential reports, eleven were eligible to be part of the current review. These studies included 822 patients with SSD and 718 healthy volunteers. There was a large degree of variability in the MRI methods they employed. Patients with SSD had a higher prevalence of absent AI than healthy volunteers (odds ratio = 1.98; 95% confidence interval 1.33-2.94; p = 0.0008). This association was evident in both male and female SSD subjects, and there was no evidence that the prevalence was related to age or duration of illness. The significance of the absence of an AI for SSD may be clarified by studies in large, longitudinal community-based samples using standardized methods.
Previous studies have shown that dysfunctions in the serotonin system and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) are associated strongly with suicidal behavior and suicide, especially among individuals with major depressive disorder. Suicidal behavior has been explained using both the stress-diathesis model and the state-trait interaction model. Specifically, diatheses, or trait-dependent risk factors, are associated with dysfunctions in the serotonin system; however, stress responses, or state-dependent factors, are associated with HPA hyperactivity. Decreases in cholesterol and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels have been associated with impaired brain plasticity among individuals with suicidal behavior. Decreased serotonin functioning has been measured using cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) 5-HIAA, fenfluramine challenge studies, and platelet 5-HT2A receptors. HPA axis dysfunction has been evaluated with the dexamethasone suppression test. Cholesterol and BDNF levels have been measured in blood serum or plasma. Nevertheless, challenges to finding promising and accessible neurobiological predictors of suicide and suicidal behavior remain. As suicide behavior is a complex phenomenon, a combined or multidimensional approach, including each of the aforementioned methods, may be required to predict suicide risk among individuals with major depressive disorder.




Semi-structured interviews were used to assess behavioral economic drug demand in heroin dependent research volunteers. Findings on drug price, competing purchases, and past 30-day income and consumption, established in a previous study, are replicated. We extended these findings by having participants indicate whether hypothetical environmental changes would alter heroin purchasing. Participants (n = 109) reported they would significantly (p &lt; .005) decrease heroin daily purchasing amounts (DPA) from past 30-day levels (M = $60/day) if: (a) they encountered a 33% decrease in income (DPA = $34), (b) family/friends no longer paid their living expenses (DPA = $32), or (c) they faced four-fold greater likelihood of police arrest at their purchasing location (DPA = $42). Participants in higher income quartiles (who purchase more heroin) show greater DPA reductions (but would still buy more heroin) than those in lower income quartiles. For participants receiving government aid (n = 31), heroin purchasing would decrease if those subsidies were eliminated (DPA = $28). Compared to participants whose urine tested negative for cocaine (n = 31), cocaine-positive subjects (n = 32) reported more efficient heroin purchasing, that is, they live closer to their primary dealer; are more likely to have heroin delivered or walk to obtain it (and less likely to ride the bus), thus reducing purchasing time (52 vs. 31 min, respectively); and purchase more heroin per episode. These simulation results have treatment and policy implications: Daily heroin users' purchasing repertoire is very cost-effective, more so for those also using cocaine, and only potent environmental changes (income reductions or increased legal sanctions) may impact this behavior.
Age-related deficits in selective attention have often been demonstrated in the visual modality and, to a lesser extent, in the auditory modality. In contrast, a mounting body of evidence has suggested that cross-modal selective attention is intact in aging, especially in visual tasks that require ignoring the auditory modality. Our goal in this study was to investigate age-related differences in the ability to ignore cross-modal auditory and visual distraction and to assess the role of cognitive control demands thereby. In a set of two experiments, 30 young (mean age = 23.3 years) and 30 older adults (mean age = 67.7 years) performed a visual and an auditory n-back task (0  n  2), with and without cross-modal distraction. The results show an asymmetry in cross-modal distraction as a function of sensory modality and age: Whereas auditory distraction did not disrupt performance on the visual task in either age group, visual distraction disrupted performance on the auditory task in both age groups. Most important, however, visual distraction was disproportionately larger in older adults. These results suggest that age-related distraction is modality dependent, such that suppression of cross-modal auditory distraction is preserved and suppression of cross-modal visual distraction is impaired in aging.

Much of the current understanding about the capacity limits on the number of objects that can be simultaneously processed comes from studies of visual short-term memory, attention, and numerical cognition. Consistent reports suggest that, despite large variability in the perceptual tasks administered (e.g., object tracking, counting), a limit of three to four visual items can be independently processed in parallel. In the research reported here, we asked whether this limit also extends to the domain of action planning. Using a unique rapid visuomotor task and a novel analysis of reach trajectories, we demonstrated an upper limit to the number of targets that can be simultaneously encoded for action, a capacity limit that also turns out to be no more than three to four. Our findings suggest that conscious perceptual processing and nonconscious movement planning are constrained by a common underlying mechanism limited by the number of items that can be simultaneously represented.
In two experiments, we investigated time perception during apparent biological motion. Pictures of initial, intermediate, and final positions of a single movement were presented, with interstimulus intervals that were constant within trials but varied across trials. Movement paths were manipulated by changing the sequential order of body postures. Increasing the path length produced an increase in perceived movement velocity. To produce an implicit measure of apparent movement dynamics, we also asked participants to judge the duration of a frame surrounding the stimuli. Longer paths with higher apparent movement velocity produced shorter perceived durations. This temporal bias was attenuated for nonbody (Experiment 1) and inverted-body (Experiment 2) control stimuli. As an explanation for these findings, we propose an automatic top-down mechanism of biological-motion perception that binds successive body postures into a continuous perception of movement. We show that this mechanism is associated with velocity-dependent temporal compression. Furthermore, this mechanism operates on-line, bridging the intervals between static stimuli, and is specific to configural processing of body form.
Torralba (Visual Neuroscience, 26, 123-131, 2009) showed that, if the resolution of images of scenes were reduced to the information present in very small &quot;thumbnail images,&quot; those scenes could still be recognized. The objects in those degraded scenes could be identified, even though it would be impossible to identify them if they were removed from the scene context. Can tiny and/or degraded scenes be remembered, or are they like brief presentations, identified but not remembered. We report that memory for tiny and degraded scenes parallels the recognizability of those scenes. You can remember a scene to approximately the degree to which you can classify it. Interestingly, there is a striking asymmetry in memory when scenes are not the same size on their initial appearance and subsequent test. Memory for a large, full-resolution stimulus can be tested with a small, degraded stimulus. However, memory for a small stimulus is not retrieved when it is tested with a large stimulus.
Over the last two decades, consequences of HIV infection of the CNS on disease severity and clinical neuropsychiatric manifestations have changed. These changes are due, in part, to improved control of peripheral infection by new anti-retroviral medications and more efficient CNS penetration of combination anti-retroviral therapies (cART). While the life spans of HIV-infected patients have been prolonged with successful cART, the spectrum of cognitive alterations observed in these patients has broadened. Recent studies report that there does not appear to be a single prototypical pattern of neuropsychological impairment associated with HIV, but includes diverse manifestations. Some co-morbidities, such as substance abuse or depression likely play significant roles in the neuropsychiatric profiles of some HIV-infected patients. Newly recognized factors contributing to neurocognitive impairments include aging and unanticipated side effects from cART. Likewise, disturbances in neuroendocrine functioning are emerging as potentially important contributors to HIV-associated neurocognitive alterations. A retrospective review of clinical data from a small cohort of HIV-infected patients admitted to the psychiatric unit of an inner city hospital indicates that thyroid stimulating hormone levels were abnormal in 27% of the patients. Our data from analyses of post-mortem tissues from HIV patients show for the first time HIV infection of the hypothalamus and altered levels of thyroid hormone processing enzymes. Decreased vasopressin and oxytocin immunoreactivity in hypothalamic neurons was also observed. Thus, HIV infection of the CNS may contribute to changes in hypothalamic thyroid hormone signaling, thereby resulting in abnormal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis feedback and neuropsychiatric dysfunction.
Estrogen may be involved in psychosis by an interaction with central dopaminergic activity. Aromatase knockout mice are unable to produce estrogen and have been shown to display altered behavioural responses and effects of the dopamine releaser, amphetamine. This study investigates the effect of gonadal status on amphetamine-induced c-fos expression in the brains of female aromatase knockout and wildtype mice. Six groups of mice were treated intraperitoneally with saline or 5mg/kg amphetamine. Fos immunoreactivity was assessed in the cingulate cortex, caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens. Aromatase knockout mice showed markedly reduced amphetamine-induced Fos immunoreactivity compared to wildtype mice. However, the amphetamine response was restored in aromatase-knockout mice after ovariectomy, which reduced this effect in wildtype controls. Estrogen supplementation reversed the effect of ovariectomy in wildtype mice but had no additional significant effect in aromatase-knockout mice. These results indicate that mechanisms involved in amphetamine-induced c-fos expression are altered in aromatase knockout mice and that the primary hormone involved in this effect is not estrogen, but may be another factor released from the ovaries, such as an androgen. These results provide new insight into the effect of gonadal hormones on amphetamine induced c-fos expression in this mouse model of estrogen deficiency. These results could be important for our understanding of the role of sex steroid hormones in psychosis.
Opioid administration in males results in opioid-induced androgen deficiency which persists throughout the treatment. In adults, this quickly reverses once opioid administration is suspended. However, less is known about the duration of the effect following drug discontinuation in adolescents. Given the significant implications to sexual maturation in adolescent males, this study examined plasma testosterone levels in both morphine withdrawn mice and their drug-nave (saline-injected) cage-mates as compared to drug-nave mice housed physically and visually separate from the morphine-treated mice ('saline only'). Consistent with the literature, plasma testosterone levels in morphine withdrawn adults were reduced on withdrawal day 1 (WD1) and returned to baseline levels by WD9. No significant effects were observed in their saline cage-mates. In the adolescents, no significant differences were observed on WD1 between the morphine withdrawn mice, their saline cage-mates, and the saline only mice - all of which had significantly lower plasma testosterone levels than adults. By WD9, testosterone levels in the saline only adolescent mice had reached adult levels. Notably, plasma testosterone levels were reduced in both the morphine withdrawn adolescent mice and their saline cage-mates, as compared to saline only mice. The effect was not a drug effect per se, given that reduced plasma testosterone levels were not observed in individually housed morphine withdrawn mice. Moreover, our results also suggest that these social effects are not solely explained by stress. These results have numerous implications to the short term and long term health of both adolescents requiring pain management and of adolescent drug addicts.






Single neurons in the primary auditory cortex of the cat show faster adaptation time constants to short- than long-term stimulus history. This ability to encode the complex past auditory stimulation in multiple time scales would enable the auditory system to generate expectations of the incoming stimuli. Here, we tested whether large neural populations exhibit this ability as well, by recording human auditory evoked potentials (AEP) to pure tones in a sequence embedding short- and long-term aspects of stimulus history. Our results yielded dynamic amplitude modulations of the P2 AEP to stimulus repetition spanning from milliseconds to tens of seconds concurrently, as well as amplitude modulations of the mismatch negativity AEP to regularity violations. A simple linear model of expectancy accounting for both short- and long-term stimulus history described our results, paralleling the behavior of neurons in the primary auditory cortex.
It is proposed that six major trends in psychotherapy have continued or emerged over the course of the author's editorship of Psychotherapy, the past seven years. These trends are (a) the increasing integration of techniques and the therapeutic relationship; (b) increasing focus on theoretical integration; (c) increasing efforts at research-practice integration; (d) increases in more specific, integrative reviews; (e) integration of biological, neuroscience understandings; and (f) integration of diversity and cultural considerations into psychotherapy. Each trend is described and its impact on the field is discussed. Cautions about each trend are also noted. The six trends are discussed in the context of integration.
In this study, the distribution patterns of P2Y(1), P2Y(2) P2Y(4), P2Y(6), P2Y(12), and P2Y(13) receptors in the anterior pituitary cells of rat were studied with double-labeling immunofluorescence and Western blot. The results showed that P2Y receptors were widely expressed in the anterior pituitary. P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) receptors were found to be expressed in the majority of gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs, P2Y(2) receptors were expressed in a small subpopulation of lactotrophs and almost all the folliculo-stellate cells, that were also stained with S100 protein immunoreactivity. P2Y(6) receptors were expressed in macrophages. P2Y(13) receptors were expressed in a small subpopulation of cells in the rat anterior pituitary, the identity of which needs to be clarified. P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) receptors are co-expressed in some gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs. Corticotrophs and somatotrophs were found not to express P2Y receptors in this study. FSH and TSH were shown to coexist in the same endocrine cells in rat anterior pituitary. The present data suggests that purines and/or pyrimidines could be involved in regulating the functions of gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs via P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) receptors, some lactotrophs via P2Y(2) receptors, and folliculo-stellate cells via P2Y(2) receptors in the rat anterior pituitary.


Owing to its ability to depict the pathologic features of multiple sclerosis (MS) in exquisite detail, conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging has become an established tool in the diagnosis of this disease and in monitoring its evolution. MR imaging has been formally included in the diagnostic work-up of patients who present with a clinically isolated syndrome suggestive of MS, and ad hoc diagnostic criteria have been proposed and are updated on a regular basis. In patients with established MS and in those participating in treatment trials, examinations performed with conventional MR pulse sequences provide objective measures to monitor disease activity and progression; however, they have a limited prognostic role. This has driven the application of newer MR imaging technologies, including higher-field-strength MR units, to estimate overall MS burden and mechanisms of recovery in patients at different stages of the disease. These techniques have allowed in vivo assessment of the heterogeneity of MS pathologic features in focal lesions and in normal-appearing tissues. More recently, some of the finer details of MS, including macrophage infiltration and abnormal iron deposition, have become quantifiable with MR imaging. The utility of these modern MR techniques in clinical trial monitoring and in the assessment of the individual patient's response to treatment still need to be evaluated.
Chronic dyspnoea is a devastating symptom that debilitates millions of people worldwide. It causes a large burden on both patient and carer, and significant costs to society and health services. Treatment options are limited. Much effort has been directed at optimising lung function and improving exercise capacity, however, the brain mechanisms underlying dyspnoea perception have received less attention. In this review, we focus on cognitive and affective aspects of dyspnoea and discuss how novel neuroimaging methods can provide quantitative measures of these subjective sensations. We draw parallels with the more advanced field of chronic pain, and explain some of the challenges faced when imaging dyspnoea. To date, brain mechanisms of dyspnoea have been investigated in a handful of studies by a limited number of authors. These have found consistent activation in the insular cortex, the anterior cingulate cortex and the amygdala. Novel neuroimaging methods and an improved understanding of perceptual mechanisms underlying dyspnoea now position us to transform dyspnoea research. Future research should investigate how brain regions associated with dyspnoea interact, as well as accurately correlate this neuronal activation with reliable behavioural measures. A better understanding of the brain processes underlying dyspnoea perception will lead to new therapies that will improve quality of life for a very large group of patients.

A 57-year-old man developed bilateral hands and feet numbness, followed by weakness with the legs and skin pigmentation. These symptoms became gradually worsened, and we made a diagnosis of POEMS syndrome because of progressive polyneuropathy, skin changes, IgG lambda type monoclonal proteinemia, and elevated level of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Diffusely enlarged pancreas was noticed in computed tomography. Serological, radiological, and histological findings revealed enlarged pancreas was due to IgG4-related autoimmune pathogenesis. After high dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation, his clinical manifestations, IgG lambda type monoclonal proteinemia, and elevated level of serum VEGF were improved, whereas diffuse enlargement of the pancreas did not change. This is the first case report of POEMS syndrome accompanied with IgG4-related autoimmune pancreatitis. Co-existence of monoclonal and polyclonal plasma proliferative changes in the present patient may provide keys to clarify common mechanisms shared by these two rare disorders, POEMS syndrome and IgG4-related autoimmune disease.
An accumulating amount of evidence suggests that the white matter hyperintensities on T2 weighted brain magnetic resonance imaging predict an increased risk of dementia and gait disturbance. This state has been proposed as cerebral small vessel disease, including leukoaraiosis, Binswanger's disease, lacunar stroke and cerebral microbleeds. However, the concept of cerebral small vessel disease is still obscure. To understand the cerebral small vessel disease, the precise structure and function of cerebral small vessels must be clarified. Cerebral small vessels include several different arteries which have different anatomical structures and functions. Important functions of the cerebral small vessels are blood-brain barrier and perivasucular drainage of interstitial fluid from the brain parenchyma. Cerebral capillaries and glial endfeet, take an important role for these functions. However, the previous pathological investigations on cerebral small vessels have focused on larger arteries than capillaries. Therefore little is known about the pathology of capillaries in small vessel disease. The recent discoveries of genes which cause the cerebral small vessel disease indicate that the cerebral small vessel diseases are caused by a distinct molecular mechanism. One of the pathological findings in hereditary cerebral small vessel disease is the loss of smooth muscle cells, which is an also well-recognized finding in sporadic cerebral small vessel disease. Since pericytes have similar character with the smooth muscle cells, the pericytes should be investigated in these disorders. In addition, the loss of smooth muscle cells may result in dysfunction of drainage of interstitial fluid from capillaries. The precise correlation between the loss of smooth muscle cells and white matter disease is still unknown. However, the function that is specific to cerebral small vessel may be associated with the pathogenesis of cerebral small vessel disease.
Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs generated by a conserved pathway. Their most widely studied function involves restricting transposable elements, particularly in the germline, where piRNAs are highly abundant. Increasingly, another set of piRNAs derived from intergenic regions appears to have a role in the regulation of mRNA from early embryos and gonads. We report a more widespread expression of a limited set of piRNAs and particularly focus on their expression in the hippocampus. Deep sequencing of extracted RNA from the mouse hippocampus revealed a set of small RNAs in the size range of piRNAs. These were confirmed by their presence in the piRNA database as well as coimmunoprecipitation with MIWI. Their expression was validated by Northern blot and in situ hybridization in cultured hippocampal neurons, where signal from one piRNA extended to the dendritic compartment. Antisense suppression of this piRNA suggested a role in spine morphogenesis. Possible targets include genes, which control spine shape by a distinctive mechanism in comparison to microRNAs.
Gender differences in the prevalence of symptoms of anxiety and depression during adolescence are well documented. However, little attention has been given to differences in subjective well-being, self-esteem and psychosocial functioning between boys and girls with symptoms of anxiety and depression. The aim of this study was to investigate gender differences in the associations between such symptoms and subjective well-being, self-esteem, school functioning and social relations in adolescents. Data were taken from a major population-based Norwegian study, the Nord-Trndelag Health study (HUNT), in which 8984 (91% of all invited) adolescents, aged 13-19 years, completed an extensive self-report questionnaire. Although prevalence rates of symptoms of anxiety and depression were higher in girls than in boys, a significant interaction between gender and symptoms of anxiety and depression was found in respect of each of the following outcome variables: subjective well-being, self-esteem, academic problems, frequency of meeting friends and the feeling of not having enough friends. These interactions indicate that the associations between symptoms of anxiety and depression and lower subjective well-being and self-esteem, more academic problems in school and lower social functioning were stronger for boys than for girls. Our findings may contribute to an earlier assessment and more efficient treatment of male adolescent anxiety and depression.
Intelligence and its relationship to achievement is a classical question within psychology. In accordance with earlier British studies, the present study, based on conscription data and follow-ups for Swedish men born 1949-51 (N = 36,156), found that when adjusting for attained social position, people with a high social position of origin tend to have higher intelligence and level of education than people with a lower social position of origin. These results could be seen to contradict the claim that more merit, at least when operationalized as intelligence or education, is required from people with a low social position of origin in order to attain a certain social level.
Many studies have confirmed that the risk of suicide in patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP) is high, and high rates of premature mortality, particularly from suicide, may occur in the early phases of schizophrenia. However, suicide rates are difficult to measure in FEP patients, even in carefully defined samples, and there is relatively little specific information about the risk of suicide at illness onset or retrospectively concerning the untreated psychotic period. This selected review of the literature investigates suicidal behaviour with particular regard to severe suicidality (plans and attempts) and risk factors associated with suicide in FEP patients. A search was performed to identify all papers and book chapters during the period 1965-2010, and approximately 100 studies met the inclusion criteria. Most of evidence suggests that risk of suicidal behaviour is relatively high in FEP patients. The research reports highlight the need for universal, comprehensive, public mental health interventions aimed, not only toward early detection, but also toward the rapid engagement in treatment of people with psychoses. These interventions should include an adequate assessment of suicidal behaviour in patients with FEP, and an examination of the efficacy of specific components of the interventions.
Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1), a strong candidate gene for schizophrenia and other mental disorders, regulates neurodevelopmental processes including neurogenesis, neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth and spine development. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) directly interacts with DISC1 and also plays a role in neurodevelopment. Recently, our group showed that the Disc1-L100P mutant protein has reduced interaction with both GSK3 and . Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of GSK3 activity rescued behavioral abnormalities in Disc1-L100P mutant mice. However, the cellular mechanisms mediating these effects of GSK3 inhibition in Disc1 mutant mice remain unclear. We sought to investigate the effects of genetic inactivation of GSK3 on frontal cortical neuron morphology in Disc1 L100P mutant mice using Golgi staining. We found a significant decrease in dendritic length and surface area in Disc1-L100P, GSK3 null and L100P/GSK3 double mutants. Dendritic spine density was significantly reduced only in Disc1-L100P and L100P/GSK3 +/- mice when compared to wild-type littermates. There was no difference in dendritic arborization between the various genotypes. No significant rescue in dendritic length and surface area was observed in L100P/GSK3 mutants versus L100P mice, but spine density in L100P/GSK3 mice was comparable to wild-type. Neurite outgrowth and spine development abnormalities induced by Disc1 mutation may be partially corrected through GSK3 inactivation, which also normalizes behavior. However, many of the other dendritic abnormalities in the Disc1-L100P mutant mice were not corrected by GSK3 inactivation, suggesting that only some of the anatomical defects have observable behavioral effects. These findings suggest novel treatment approaches for schizophrenia, and identify a histological read-out for testing other therapeutic interventions.
Examination of a limited number of publisher's Instructions for Authors, guidelines from two scientific societies, and the widely accepted policy document of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) provided useful information on authorship practices. Three of five journals examined (Nature, Science, and the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences) publish papers across a variety of disciplines. One is broadly focused on topics in medical research (New England Journal of Medicine) and one publishes research reports in a single discipline (Journal of Bacteriology). Similar elements of publication policy and accepted practices were found across the policies of these journals articulated in their Instructions for Authors. A number of these same elements were found in the professional society guidelines of the Society for Neuroscience and the American Chemical Society, as well as the ICMJE Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals. Taken together, these sources provide the basis for articulating best practices in authorship in scientific research. Emerging from this material is a definition of authorship, as well as policy statements on duplicative publication, conflict of interest disclosure, electronic access, data sharing, digital image integrity, and research requiring subjects' protection, including prior registration of clinical trials. These common elements provide a foundation for teaching about scientific authorship and publication practices across biomedical and life sciences disciplines.
Data collected from the invertebrate models have allowed to establish several of the basic mechanisms of neuronal function and pioneered the studies on the molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in behavioral responses. In the 1970s, the first synaptic proteins--including synapsin--being identified, the first attempts to evaluate their synaptic function were done using available invertebrate preparations. Forty years later, it appears that deductions made from invertebrate synapsin were largely validated in vertebrates, probably reflecting the phylogenic conservation of some specific synapsin sub-domains. In this review, in light of insights got from invertebrate preparations, we discuss the role of synapsin in synaptogenesis and synaptic function, especially on short term plasticity.
Synaptic vesicles are organized in clusters, and synapsin maintains vesicle organization and abundance in nerve terminals. At the functional level, vesicles can be subdivided into three pools: the releasable pool, the recycling pool, and the reserve pool, and synapsin mediates transitions between these pools. Synapsin directs vesicles into the reserve pool, and synapsin II isoform has a primary role in this function. In addition, synapsin actively delivers vesicles to active zones. Finally, synapsin I isoform mediates coupling release events to action potentials at the latest stages of exocytosis. Thus, synapsin is involved in multiple stages of the vesicle cycle, including vesicle clustering, maintaining the reserve pool, vesicle delivery to active zones, and synchronizing release events. These processes are regulated via a dynamic synapsin phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle which involves multiple phosphorylation sites and several pathways. Different synapsin isoforms have unique and non-redundant roles in the multifaceted synapsin function.
The synapsin family in mammals consists of at least 10 isoforms encoded by three distinct genes and composed by a mosaic of conserved and variable domains. Synapsins, although not essential for the basic development and functioning of neuronal networks, are extremely important for the fine-tuning of SV cycling and neuronal plasticity. Single, double and triple synapsin knockout mice, with the notable exception of the synapsin III knockout mice, show a severe epileptic phenotype without gross alterations in brain morphology and connectivity. However, the molecular and physiological mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of the epileptic phenotype observed in synapsin deficient mice are still far from being elucidated. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge about the role of synapsins in the regulation of network excitability and about the molecular mechanism leading to epileptic phenotype in mouse lines lacking one or more synapsin isoforms. The current evidences indicate that synapsins exert distinct roles in excitatory versus inhibitory synapses by differentially affecting crucial steps of presynaptic physiology and by this mean participate in the determination of network hyperexcitability.
Synapsin I is the most abundant brain phosphoprotein present in conventional synapses of the CNS. Knockout and rescue experiments have demonstrated that synapsin is essential for clustering of synaptic vesicles (SVs) at active zones and the organization of the reserve pool of SVs. However, in spite of intense efforts it remains largely unknown how exactly synapsin I performs this function. It has been proposed that synapsin I in its dephosphorylated state may tether SVs to actin filaments within the cluster from where SVs are released in response to activity-induced synapsin phosphorylation. Recent studies, however, have failed to detect actin filaments inside the vesicle cluster at resting central synapses. Instead, proteins with established functional roles in SV recycling have been found within this presynaptic compartment. Here we discuss potential alternative mechanisms of synapsin I-dependent SV clustering in the reserve pool.
Developmental neuroscience is increasingly relevant to clinical child neurology, and study of advances in neurobiology, neurochemistry and neurogenetics should be part of the curriculum of residency training. The profile of synaptic development is especially relevant to neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism, Fragile X syndrome, and early epileptic encephalopathies. This knowledge is increasingly being translated into therapies for previously untreatable disorders.
Neurocritical care (NCC) is now an essential field in child neurology that requires dedicated training. NCC applies the basic principles of neuroresuscitation to all situations, integrates this with modern technology. and emphasizes that brain protection is not limited to the intensive care unit. We outline the essential competencies needed and how to obtain these.
The developing human brain is a remarkable tissue. Embryonic and fetal brain growth is largely genetically controlled. Environmental factors become increasingly important with advancing development. The young pediatric neurologist who masters a little fundamental neuroanatomy, developmental neuroanatomy, and developmental neuropathology will be able to interpret neuroimages and abnormal development because he or she understands the structural changes in growth failures, hemorrhages, acquired lesions, white matter abnormalities, vascular disease and malformations, ventriculomegaly, tumors, infectious disease, common malformations, degenerative and demyelinative diseases, toxic, and metabolic diseases.
Taking of neurological history, performance of neurological examination, and the employment of these sets of information to properly formulate a neurological question constitute the most fundamantal skills of the neurologist. Intelligent facility with these skills must be required of every child neurologist at the completion of training. They will subsequently be refined upon the basis of experience and wider knowledge of neurology and neuroscience which will improve upon the initial level of facility. There are other habits of mind and approach that must also be expected to have been awakened and refined by the time that formal training has been completed.

Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a parasomnia characterized by the loss of muscle atonia during paradoxical (REM) sleep (PS). Conversely, cataplexy, one of the key symptoms of narcolepsy, is a striking sudden episode of muscle weakness triggered by emotions during wakefulness, and comparable to REM sleep atonia. The neuronal dysfunctions responsible for RBD and cataplexy are not known. In the present review, we present the most recent results on the neuronal network responsible for PS. Based on these results, we propose an updated integrated model of the mechanisms responsible for PS and explore different hypotheses explaining RBD and cataplexy. We propose that RBD is due to a specific degeneration of a sub-population of PS-on glutamatergic neurons specifically responsible of muscle atonia, localized in the caudal pontine sublaterodorsal tegmental nucleus (SLD). Another possibility is the occurrence in RBD patients of a specific lesion of the glycinergic/GABAergic pre-motoneurons localized in the medullary ventral gigantocellular reticular nucleus. Conversely, cataplexy in narcoleptics would be due to the activation during waking of the caudal PS-on SLD neurons responsible for muscle atonia. A phasic glutamatergic excitatory pathway from the central amygdala to the SLD PS-on neurons activated during emotion would induce such activation. In normal conditions, the glutamate excitation would be blocked by the simultaneous excitation by the hypocretins of the PS-off GABAergic neurons localized in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and the adjacent deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus, gating the activation of the PS-on SLD neurons.
Theories as to the function of sleep and dreaming and their relationship to emotions have been studied since the beginning of recorded history. Earliest historical records show the predominant view to be that dreams were considered divine in origin and only later did dream theory become linked with the functioning of the brain, perhaps most famously in psychoanalytic theory. The development of sleep laboratory techniques ushered in a new era of the dream study and their relationship to mental health. In this review we outline the history of theories about the genesis and function of dreams and sleep and their relationship to mental illness from ancient mythic and religious views to the first tentative scientific approaches to the ascendency of psychoanalysis and ultimately to the modern era of neuroscience.
Emotion theory emphasizes the distinction between social vs non-social emotional-processing (E-P) although few functional neuroimaging studies have examined whether the neural systems that mediate social vs non-social E-P are similar or distinct. The present fMRI study of script-driven imagery in 20 women demonstrates that social E-P, independent of valence, more strongly recruits brain regions involved in social- and self-referential processing, specifically the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate/precuneus, bilateral temporal poles, bilateral temporoparietal junction and right amygdala. Functional response within brain regions involved in E-P was also significantly more pronounced during negatively relative to positively valenced E-P. Finally, the effect for social E-P was increased for positive relative to negative stimuli in many of these same regions. Future research directions for social and affective neuroscience are discussed.
Cooperation among genetically unrelated individuals is a fundamental aspect of society, but it has been a longstanding puzzle in biological and social sciences. Recently, theoretical studies in biology and economics showed that conditional cooperation-cooperating only with those who have exhibited cooperative behavior-can spread over a society. Furthermore, experimental studies in psychology demonstrated that people are actually conditional cooperators. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural system underlying conditional cooperation by scanning participants during interaction with cooperative, neutral and non-cooperative opponents in prisoner's dilemma games. The results showed that: (i) participants cooperated more frequently with both cooperative and neutral opponents than with non-cooperative opponents; and (ii) a brain area related to cognitive inhibition of pre-potent responses (right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) showed greater activation, especially when participants confronted non-cooperative opponents. Consequently, we suggest that cognitive inhibition of the motivation to cooperate with non-cooperators drives the conditional behavior.

Mammalian neurogenesis has been demonstrated in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus. However, the low rate and the restricted long term survival of newborn cells limit the restorative ability of this process. Adult bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been extensively studied due to their wide therapeutic potential. The aim of this study was to determine if MSC transplantation to the normally restrictive SVZ of mice housed in an enriched environment stimulates endogenous neurogenesis. In the presented study 30 C57BL/6 female mice were divided into 3 groups: standard environment injected with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and enriched environment injected with either PBS or MSCs. Bromodeoxyuridine was injected for 6 days, and 3 weeks later the mice were sacrificed and the brain tissue analyzed immunohistochemically. PBS-treated mice housed in enriched cages showed augmented neurogenesis in the SGZ but not the SVZ. MSC transplantation was associated with increased proliferation and neuronal differentiation of neural progenitors within the SVZ and an increase in the proportion of the newborn neurons out of the total proliferating cells. Histological analysis confirmed the survival of a significant amount of the transplanted cells at least 3 weeks after transplantation, and the presence of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression. To our knowledge, this is the first study to show that MSCs might interfere with the tight regulation of the SVZ, independent of the induced brain lesion.
The adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) lacks the capacity for regeneration, making it a highly sought-after topic for researchers. The identification of neural stem cells (NSCs) in the adult CNS wiped out a long-held dogma that the adult brain contains a set number of neurons and is incapable of replacing them. The discovery of adult NSCs (aNSCs) stoked the fire for researchers who dream of brain self-repair. Unfortunately, the quiescent nature and limited plasticity of aNSCs diminish their regenerative potential. Recent studies evaluating aNSC plasticity under pathological conditions indicate that a switch from quiescent to active aNSCs in neurogenic regions plays an important role in both repairing the damaged tissue and preserving progenitor pools. Here, we summarize the most recent findings and present questions about characterizing the active and quiescent aNSCs in major neurogenic regions, and factors for maintaining their active and quiescent states, hoping to outline an emerging view for promoting the endogenous aNSC-based regeneration.






There are two standing, incompatible accounts of Descartes' contributions to the study of psychosomatic phenomena that pervade histories of medicine, psychology, and psychiatry. The first views Descartes as the father of &quot;rational psychology&quot; a tradition that defines the soul as a thinking, unextended substance. The second account views Descartes as the father of materialism and the machine metaphor. The consensus is that Descartes' studies of optics and motor reflexes and his conception of the body-machine metaphor made early and important contributions to physiology and neuroscience but otherwise his impact was minimal. These predominately negative assessments of Descartes' contributions give a false impression of the role his philosophy played in the development of medicine and psychiatry in seventeenth-century France and beyond. I explore Descartes' influence in the little-known writings of a doctor from Toulouse, Franois Bayle (1622-1709). A study of Bayle gives us occasion to rethink the nature and role of psychosomatic explanation in Descartes' philosophy. The portrait I present is of a Cartesian science that had an actual and lasting effect on medical science and practice, and may offer something of value to practitioners today.

In this work, we evaluated the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced hyperglycemia and an acute episode of insulin-induced hypoglycemia in plasma amino acids and cortical neurotransmitters. For that purpose, we used citrate (vehicle)-treated Wistar rats, STZ-treated rats [i.p., 50 mg/kg body weight], and STZ-treated rats injected with insulin [s.c., dose adjusted with blood glucose levels] 1 h prior to sacrifice to induce an acute episode of hypoglycemia. Plasma was collected for determination of amino acids levels. In addition, cortical synaptosomal preparations were obtained and the total levels of neurotransmitters, levels of aspartate, glutamate, taurine, and GABA released by the action of KCl, iodoacetic acid (IAA), ouabain, and veratridine, membrane potential and ATP levels were evaluated. Compared with control rats, plasma from hypoglycemic rats presented increased levels of aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, and taurine whereas GABA levels were decreased in STZ and hypoglycemic rats. Similarly, glutamate and taurine levels were increased in hypoglycemic synaptosomes while GABA decreased in hypoglycemic and STZ-diabetic synaptosomes. The depolarizing agent KCl promoted an increase in aspartate, glutamate, and taurine release from hypoglycemic synaptosomes. The highest release of neurotransmitters occurred in the presence of veratridine and ouabain, two other depolarizing agents, in all groups of experimental animals. However, a higher release of glutamate was observed in the diabetic and hypoglycemic synaptosomes. No alterations were observed in synaptosomal membrane potential and ATP levels. These results show that in the presence of a metabolic insult a higher release of excitatory amino acids occurs, which may underlay the neuronal injury observed in type 1 diabetic patients under insulin therapy.
We have identified a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the t-PA enhancer (-7351C&gt;T), which is associated with endothelial t-PA release in vivo. In vitro studies demonstrated that this SNP is functional at the level of transcription. In the brain, t-PA has been implicated in both physiologic and pathophysiologic processes. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of the t-PA -7351C&gt;T SNP on t-PA gene expression in human brain tissue. Allelic mRNA expression was measured in heterozygous post-mortem brain tissues using quantitative TaqMan genotyping assay. Protein-DNA interactions were assessed using electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Significantly higher levels of t-PA mRNA were generated from chromosomes that harboured the wild-type -7351C allele, as compared to those generated from the mutant T allele (for the hippocampus, C to T allelic ratio of ~1.3, p=0.010, n=12; and for the cortex, C to T allelic ratio of ~1.2, p=0.017, n=12). EMSA showed reduced neuronal and astrocytic nuclear protein binding affinity to the T allele, and identified Sp1 and Sp3 as the major transcription factors that bound to the -7351 site. ChIP analyses confirmed that Sp1 recognises this site in intact cells. In conclusion, the t-PA -7351C&gt;T SNP affects t-PA gene expression in human brain tissue. This finding might have clinical implications for neurological conditions associated with enhanced t-PA levels, such as in the acute phase of cerebral ischaemia, and also for stroke recovery.
Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) has been described as a potential catalytic bioscavenger due to its ability to hydrolyze organophosphate (OP) insecticides and nerve agents. In vitro catalytic efficiency of purified human and rabbit serum PON1 against different OP substrates was compared to human recombinant PON1, expressed in Trichoplusia ni larvae. Highly purified human and rabbit serum PON1s were prepared by multiple chromatography methods. Purified enzymes showed higher catalytic activity with the substrate p-nitrophenyl acetate compared to diethyl paraoxon. The hydrolyzing potential of PON1s against multiple OPs was evaluated by using an in vitro acetylcholinesterase back-titration assay. Significant differences in the catalytic efficiency of all the three PON1s with regard to various OP substrates were observed. Purified PON1s showed higher catalytic activity towards diisopropylfluorophosphate followed by diethylparaoxon compared to dimethyl paraoxon. Heat inactivation or incubation of PON1 with specific inhibitor resulted in complete loss of the enzyme catalytic activity indicating that OP hydrolysis was intrinsic to PON1. In conclusion, purified PON1s from multiple sources show significant differences in the catalytic activity against several OP substrates. These results underscore the importance of systematic analysis of candidate PON1 molecules for developing as an effective catalytic bioscavenger against toxic OPs and chemical warfare nerve agents.
Although animal researchers established the role of testosterone as a 'social hormone' decades ago, the investigation of its causal influence on human social behaviors has only recently begun. Here, we review and discuss recent studies showing the causal effects of testosterone on social interactions in animals and humans, and outline the basic neurobiological mechanisms that might underlie these effects. Based on these recent findings, we argue that the role of testosterone in human social behavior might be best understood in terms of the search for, and maintenance of, social status.
Cognitive neuroscientists study how the brain implements particular cognitive processes such as perception, learning, and decision-making. Traditional approaches in which experiments are designed to target a specific cognitive process have been supplemented by two recent innovations. First, formal cognitive models can decompose observed behavioral data into multiple latent cognitive processes, allowing brain measurements to be associated with a particular cognitive process more precisely and more confidently. Second, cognitive neuroscience can provide additional data to inform the development of formal cognitive models, providing greater constraint than behavioral data alone. We argue that these fields are mutually dependent; not only can models guide neuroscientific endeavors, but understanding neural mechanisms can provide key insights into formal models of cognition.
Stressful events activate the amygdala and a network of associated brain regions. Studies in both humans and rodents indicate that noradrenaline has a prominent role in this activation. Noradrenaline induces a hypervigilant state that helps to remember the event. This mnemonic effect is enhanced when the situation is so stressful that substantial amounts of corticosteroids are released and reach the amygdala. The combination of the two hormones leads to optimal strengthening of contacts and thus memory. Yet, rises in corticosteroid levels that are not precisely synchronized with noradrenaline release do not act synergistically but rather prevent or suppress the effect of noradrenaline. This dynamic interaction illustrates the adaptive and potentially protective capacity of corticosteroids regarding traumatic memories.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a severe genetic disorder caused by mutations or deletions of the maternally inherited UBE3A gene. UBE3A encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase that is expressed biallelically in most tissues but is maternally expressed in almost all neurons. In this review, we describe recent advances in understanding the expression and function of UBE3A in the brain and the etiology of AS. We highlight current AS model systems, epigenetic mechanisms of UBE3A regulation, and the identification of potential UBE3A substrates in the brain. In the process, we identify major gaps in our knowledge that, if bridged, could move us closer to identifying treatments for this debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder.
Family history interviews are widely used in psychiatric research, as well as in genetic and twin studies, and provide a way to collect family history information quickly and economically. To obtain a valid assessment of family history, it is important to investigate which family member will be able to provide accurate information. Previous research shows that the validity of family history reporting can be influenced by characteristics of the informant, such as age, gender and personal history of psychiatric disorder. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of a subject's position in a pedigree on the validity of data collection. Family history data on diabetes and psychiatric disorders were collected in three generations of 33 families by interviewing both an index subject (3rd generation) and his or her mother (2nd generation). Mothers were shown to report higher rates of diabetes and psychiatric disorder in the family compared to the index subjects. There was no significant difference in the disease rate reported by male and female index subject. Mothers who experienced a depressive episode indicated significantly more family members as having a psychiatric disorder than mothers who never experienced such an episode. This could be explained by the presence of informant bias, but may also result from the fact that depression is a heritable disorder and is therefore actually more prevalent in these families. Our findings suggest that family interview data should be collected by interviewing subjects who have a central position in the pedigree and can therefore provide information on his/her own generation, the previous and the next. In addition, psychiatric status of the informant should be carefully addressed.

We investigated the effects of visuo-spatial attention on the kinematics of grasping movements by employing a dual-task paradigm. Participants had to grasp cylindrical objects of different sizes (motor task) while simultaneously identifying a target digit presented at a different spatial location within a rapid serial visual presentation (perceptual task). The grasping kinematics in this dual-task situation were compared with the those measured in a single-task condition. Likewise, the identification performance was also measured in a single-task condition. Additionally, we kept the visual input constant across conditions by asking participants to fixate. Without instructions about the priority of tasks (Experiment 1) participants showed a considerable drop of identification performance in the dual-task condition. Regarding grasping kinematics, the concurrent perceptual task resulted in a less accurate adaptation of the grip to object size in the early phase of the movement, while movement times and maximum grip aperture were unaffected. When participants were instructed to focus on the perceptual task (Experiment 2), the identification performance stayed at about the same level in the dual-task and the single-task conditions. The perceptual improvement was however associated with a further decrease in the accuracy of the early grip adjustment. We conclude that visual attention is needed for the effective control of the grasp kinematics, especially for a precise adjustment of the hand to object size when approaching the object.
We investigated the organization of eye-movement classes in a natural and dynamical setup. To mimic the goals and objectives of the natural world in a controlled environment, we studied eye-movements while participants played Breakout, an old Atari game which remains surprisingly entertaining, often addictive, in spite of its graphic and structural simplicity. Our results show that eye-movement dynamics can be explained in terms of simple principles of moments of prediction and urgency of action. We observed a consistent anticipatory behavior (gaze was directed ahead of ball trajectory) except during the moment in which the ball bounced either in the walls, or in the paddle. At these moments, we observed a refractory period during which there are no blinks and saccades. Saccade delay caused the gaze to fall behind the ball. This pattern is consistent with a model by which participants postpone saccades at the bounces while predicting the ball trajectory and subsequently make a catch-up saccade directed to a position which anticipates ball trajectory. During bounces, trajectories were smooth and curved interpolating the V-shape function of the ball with minimal acceleration. These results pave the path to understand the taxonomy of eye-movements on natural configurations in which stimuli and goals switch dynamically in time.
Neurologically normal subjects misperceive the midpoints of lines (PSE) as reliably leftward of veridical center, a phenomenon known as pseudoneglect. This leftward bias reflects the dominance of the right cerebral hemisphere in deploying spatial attention. Transient visual cues, delivered to either the left or right endpoints of lines, modulate PSE such that leftward biases are increased by leftward cues, and are decreased by rightward cues, relative to a no-cue control condition. We ask whether lateralized auditory cues can similarly influence PSE in a tachistoscopic visual line bisection task, and describe how visual and auditory cues, in spatially synergistic or antagonistic combinations, jointly influence PSE. Our results demonstrate that whereas auditory and visual cues both modulate PSE, visual cues are overall more potent than auditory cues. Visual and auditory cues are weighted such that visual cues are significantly more potent than auditory cues when visual cues are delivered to left hemispace. Visual and auditory cues are equipotent when visual cues are delivered to right hemispace. These results are consistent with the existence of independent lateralized networks governing the deployment of visuospatial and audiospatial attention. An analysis of the weighting of unisensory visual and auditory cues which optimally predicts PSE in multisensory cue conditions shows that cues combine additively. There was no evidence for a superadditive multisensory cue combination.
In 1888, the Austrian neuroanatomist Heinrich Obersteiner, founder of Vienna's Neurological Institute, published his &quot;Introduction to the Study of the Structure of the Central Nervous Organs in Health and Disease&quot;, a fundamental textbook in which he summarised the state-of-the-art knowledge available then on the normal and pathological anatomy of the human nervous system, incorporating many of his original research findings. The book became &quot;the Bible for generations of budding neurologists&quot; worldwide and was crucial for the eventual development of neurology as an independent medical discipline. In his early career as a neuroanatomist, Sigmund Freud wrote a review of Obersteiner's book for the Wiener Medizinische Wochenschrift. That review was not included in the &quot;Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works&quot;. The present article provides an English translation of Freud's review and further discusses its historical context, especially regarding the influence of Theodor Meynert on his two illustrious students, Freud and Obersteiner.


Simply hearing the song produced by another bird of the same species triggers the regulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) in high-order auditory parts of the zebra finch brain. Some of the identified miRNAs appear to be unique to birds, possibly to songbirds. These findings, reported in BMC Genomics, highlight the complexities of gene regulation associated with vocal communication and point to possible key regulators of song-triggered gene networks.




In hereditary neurodegenerative Huntington disease (HD), early cognitive impairments before motor deficits have been hypothesized to result from dysfunction in the striatum and cortex before degeneration. To test this hypothesis, we examined the firing properties of single cells and local field activity in the striatum and cortex of pre-motor-symptomatic R6/1 transgenic mice while they were engaged in a procedural learning task, the performance on which typically depends on the integrity of striatum and basal ganglia. Here, we report that a dramatically diminished recruitment of the vulnerable striatal projection cells, but not local interneurons, of R6/1 mice in coding for the task, compared with WT littermates, is associated with severe deficits in procedural learning. In addition, both the striatum and cortex in these mice showed a unique oscillation at high -frequency. These data provide crucial information on the in vivo cellular processes in the corticostriatal pathway through which the HD mutation exerts its effects on cognitive abilities in early HD.
Antiinflammatory drugs achieve their therapeutic actions at least in part by regulation of cytokine formation. A &quot;cytokine hypothesis&quot; of depression is supported by the observation that depressed individuals have elevated plasma levels of certain cytokines compared with healthy controls. Here we investigated a possible interaction between antidepressant agents and antiinflammatory agents on antidepressant-induced behaviors and on p11, a biochemical marker of depressive-like states and antidepressant responses. We found that widely used antiinflammatory drugs antagonize both biochemical and behavioral responses to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). In contrast to the levels detected in serum, we found that frontal cortical levels of certain cytokines (e.g., TNF and IFN) were increased by serotonergic antidepressants and that these effects were inhibited by antiinflammatory agents. The antagonistic effect of antiinflammatory agents on antidepressant-induced behaviors was confirmed by analysis of a dataset from a large-scale real-world human study, &quot;sequenced treatment alternatives to relieve depression&quot; (STAR*D), underscoring the clinical significance of our findings. Our data indicate that clinicians should carefully balance the therapeutic benefits of antiinflammatory agents versus the potentially negative consequences of antagonizing the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant agents in patients suffering from depression.
Adolescent offspring of schizophrenia patients (SCZ-Off) are vulnerable to psychiatric disorders. Assessing relationships between clinical and biological measures (such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, fMRI) may elucidate pathways of vulnerability in this group. Here we assessed the relationship between clinically assessed premorbid function, and cortico-striatal activity during sustained attention in controls (HC: with no family history of psychosis) and SCZ-Off. Subjects (n=39) were assessed using the Structured Interview for Prodromal Syndromes and the Scale of Prodromal Symptoms. Based on the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) score, SCZ-Off were cleaved into &quot;high&quot; or &quot;low&quot; clinically functioning sub-groups (SCZ-Off(HF), SCZ-Off(LF) respectively). During fMRI, subjects participated in a modified continuous performance task (CPT-IP). fMRI was conducted on a Bruker MedSpec 4T system (345 EPI scans; TR=2s; 24 slices; 3.83.84mm). Results show SCZ-Off(LF) evinced less activation than both HC and SCZ-Off(HF) in the executive core of the brain's attentional system (anterior cingulate, dorsal prefrontal cortex and caudate), but not visuo-spatial regions such as primary visual or superior parietal cortex. Differences were independent of behavioral performance, and reduction in activity was related to GAF score in a dose-dependent manner. Assessing the relationship between clinical measures and brain activity in domains such as attention provides a window into mechanisms of vulnerability in the developing adolescent brain.
Post-weaning social isolation of rats is utilized as a model of early life stress. We have previously demonstrated that rats exposed to post-weaning social isolation exhibit greater anxiety-like behaviors as adults. Furthermore, these rats exhibit greater density of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) type 2 receptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Therefore, we examined whether antagonism of CRF(2) receptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus reverses the effects of post-weaning social isolation on anxiety states. Male rats were reared in isolation or in groups from day of weaning (postnatal day [PND] 21) to mid-adolescence (PND42) and then allowed to develop to early adulthood housed in groups. At PND62, rats were either infused with vehicle, the CRF(1) receptor antagonist antalarmin (0.25-0.5 g) or the CRF(2) receptor antagonist antisauvagine-30 (2 g) into the dorsal raphe nucleus, 20 min prior to being introduced to the elevated plus maze. Isolation-reared rats showed reduced open arm behavior compared to group-reared rats, confirming the anxiogenic effects of post-weaning social isolation. Infusion of the CRF(2) receptor antagonist, but not the CRF(1) receptor antagonist, into the dorsal raphe nucleus of isolation-reared rats increased open arm behavior when compared to that of group-reared rats. Overall, the findings suggest that CRF(2) receptors within the dorsal raphe nucleus mediate anxiety-like states following post-weaning social isolation, and CRF(2) receptors may represent an important target for the treatment of anxiety disorders following early life stressors.
Agoraphobia in panic disorder (PD) has been related to abnormal balance system function. Vision influences balance and behavioural adaptations; peripheral vision influences orienting and fast defensive reactions whereas central vision analyzes details of objects. We have hypothesized that the abnormal balance function in PD could be mainly related to peripheral vision as part of a defensive alarm system in the brain. In 25 patients with PD and agoraphobia and 31 healthy controls we assessed, by posturography, balance system reactivity to video-films projected in peripheral and central visual fields (randomized sequence). Length, velocity and surface of body sway were calculated. Patients increased their body sway during peripheral stimulation, whereas controls did not; the two groups showed a similar increase of body sway during central stimulation. Anxiety levels during peripheral stimulation significantly influenced the postural response in the group of patients. These preliminary results suggest that the higher visual sensitivity to peripheral stimulation in patients with PD and agoraphobia may be linked to a more active &quot;visual alarm system&quot; involving visual, vestibular and limbic areas that might influence the development of agoraphobia in situations where environmental stimuli are uncertain.
This exploratory study assessed attachment and personality in anorexic women, non-affected siblings, and healthy controls, examining correlations with psychopathology. Thirty-eight anorexic subjects (31 females), thirty-one siblings (22 females), and fifty controls (35 females) participated. Personality development characteristics were assessed using the Attachment Style Questionnaire (ASQ), Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI-2), Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90), and other inventories for clinical assessment of EDs. Both anorexic probands and their siblings described lower maternal care and higher maternal overprotection than did controls. Healthy siblings were more similar to controls, but had lower scores than either controls or affected siblings on preoccupation with relationships (P&lt;0.005) and higher scores than controls on self-transcendence (P&lt;0.015) and obsessive-compulsive traits (P&lt;0.025). Logistic regression indicated that need for approval, persistence, resourcefulness, self-transcendence, state anger, pursuit of thinness, interpersonal distrust, social insecurity, and binge eating differentiated anorexic probands from siblings. The need for approval was related to several psychopathological characteristics. Low preoccupation with relationships, low need for approval, and high self-transcendence may have protected siblings from family and environmental stressors. High need for approval was independently related to psychopathological traits in anorexic siblings. Implications for prevention and treatment are discussed.
Whether or not the use of maladaptive defense style is a trait, as opposed to a state dependent phenomenon, in panic disorder (PD) is a topic still very much up for debate. The aim of the study was to verify whether PD patients, both before and after treatment, used different defense style than the control group. Sixty-one PD patients (recruited from an original sample of 90 patients) and 64 healthy controls were evaluated against the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV disorders, the Symptoms Check List-90, the Hamilton Rating Scales for Anxiety and for Depression and finally the Defense Style Questionnaire-40 (DSQ). The patients were treated with paroxetine or citalopram and were evaluated monthly for one year to assess the remission. The DSQ was re-administered to the patients at the end of the study. Before treatment, PD patients used more neurotic and immature forms of defense than controls. After treatment, those in remission used the same defense styles as the control group, whereas non-remitters still used more immature defenses. However, all the aforementioned difference disappeared, after excluding the effect of symptom severity. Our data supports the hypothesis that the use of maladaptive defenses might be the consequence of PD: when subjects fall ill, their capacity to use mature adaptive defenses may diminish, but when they recover their defensive style returns to a greater maturity. The present results are however limited by the dropout rate (one third of patients did not complete the study) and the use of just one questionnaire to evaluate the complexity of defense styles.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors principally mediate fast excitatory transmission in the brain. Among the three classes of ionotropic glutamate receptors, kainate receptors (KARs) have a unique brain distribution, which has been historically defined by (3)H-radiolabeled kainate binding. Compared with recombinant KARs expressed in heterologous cells, synaptic KARs exhibit characteristically slow rise-time and decay kinetics. However, the mechanisms responsible for these distinct KAR properties remain unclear. We found that both the high-affinity binding pattern in the mouse brain and the channel properties of native KARs are determined by the KAR auxiliary subunit Neto1. Through modulation of agonist binding affinity and off-kinetics of KARs, but not trafficking of KARs, Neto1 determined both the KAR high-affinity binding pattern and the distinctively slow kinetics of postsynaptic KARs. By regulating KAR excitatory postsynaptic current kinetics, Neto1 can control synaptic temporal summation, spike generation and fidelity.
The relationship between top-down enhancement and suppression of sensory cortical activity and large-scale neural networks remains unclear. Functional connectivity analysis of human functional magnetic resonance imaging data revealed that visual cortical areas that selectively process relevant information are functionally connected with the frontal-parietal network, whereas those that process irrelevant information are simultaneously coupled with the default network. This indicates that sensory cortical regions are differentially and dynamically coupled with distinct networks on the basis of task goals.

We have created a mouse genetic model that mimicsa human mutation of Shank3 that deletes the C terminus and is associated with autism. Expressed as a single copy [Shank3(+/C) mice], Shank3C protein interacts with the wild-type (WT) gene product and results in &gt;90% reduction of Shank3 at synapses. This &quot;gain-of-function&quot; phenotype is linked to increased polyubiquitination of WT Shank3 and its redistribution into proteasomes. Similarly, the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor is reduced at synapses with increased polyubiquitination. Assays of postsynaptic density proteins, spine morphology, and synapse number are unchanged in Shank3(+/C) mice, but the amplitude of NMDAR responses is reduced together with reduced NMDAR-dependent LTP and LTD. Reciprocally, mGluR-dependent LTD is markedly enhanced. Shank3(+/C) mice show behavioral deficits suggestive of autism and reduced NMDA receptor function. These studies reveal a mechanism distinct from haploinsufficiency by which mutations of Shank3 can evoke an autism-like disorder.
The serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor is among the most abundant and widely distributed 5-HT receptors in the brain, but is also expressed on serotonin neurons as an autoreceptor where it plays a critical role in regulating the activity of the entire serotonin system. Over-expression of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor has been implicated in reducing serotonergic neurotransmission, and is associated with major depression and suicide. Extensive characterization of the transcriptional regulation of the 5-HT1A gene (HTR1A) using cell culture systems has revealed a GC-rich &quot;housekeeping&quot; promoter that non-selectively drives its expression; this is flanked by a series of upstream repressor elements for REST, Freud-1/CC2D1A and Freud-2/CC2D1B factors that not only restrict its expression to neurons, but may also regulate the level of expression of 5-HT1A receptors in various subsets of neurons, including serotonergic neurons. A separate set of allele-specific factors, including Deaf1, Hes1 and Hes5 repress at the HTR1A C(-1019)G (rs6295) polymorphism in serotonergic neurons in culture, as well as in vivo. Pet1, an obligatory enhancer for serotonergic differentiation, has been identified as a potent activator of 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression. Taken together, these results highlight an integrated regulation of 5-HT1A autoreceptors that differs in several aspects from regulation of post-synaptic 5-HT1A receptors, and could be selectively targeted to enhance serotonergic neurotransmission.
Recent research in cognitive and developmental neuroscience is providing a new approach to the understanding of dyscalculia that emphasizes a core deficit in understanding sets and their numerosities, which is fundamental to all aspects of elementary school mathematics. The neural bases of numerosity processing have been investigated in structural and functional neuroimaging studies of adults and children, and neural markers of its impairment in dyscalculia have been identified. New interventions to strengthen numerosity processing, including adaptive software, promise effective evidence-based education for dyscalculic learners.


Many of the regulatory mechanisms controlling neural stem cell behavior are proving to be conserved between organisms as diverse as worms and man. Common principles are emerging with respect to the regulation of neural stem cell division and the specification of distinct stem and progenitor cell types. Great progress has been made in recent years in identifying the cellular mechanisms underpinning these processes, thanks in large part to the cross-fertilization of research on different model systems. We review here recent findings that highlight hitherto unappreciated similarities in the cell and molecular biology of neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation between invertebrates and vertebrates. As well as underscoring the possible conservation of stem cell mechanisms across phyla, these similarities are proving to be practically useful in studying neural stem cell biology in health and disease.
Since their discovery twenty years ago and prospective isolation a decade later, neural stem cells (NSCs), their progenitors, and differentiated cell derivatives along with other stem-cell based strategies have advanced steadily toward clinical trials, spurred by the immense need to find reparative therapeutics for central nervous system (CNS) diseases and injury. Current phase I/II trials using stem cells in the CNS are the vanguard for the widely anticipated next generation of regenerative therapies and as such are pioneering the stem cell therapy process. While translation has typically been the purview of industry, academic researchers are increasingly driven to bring their findings toward treatments and face challenges in knowledge gap and resource access that are accentuated by the unique financial, manufacturing, scientific, and regulatory aspects of cell therapy. Solutions are envisioned that both address the significant unmet medical need and lead to increased funding for basic and translational research.
While adult-born neurons in the olfactory bulb (OB) and the dentate gyrus (DG) subregion of the hippocampus have fundamentally different properties, they may have more in common than meets the eye. Here, we propose that new granule cells in the OB and DG may function as modulators of principal neurons to influence pattern separation and that adult neurogenesis constitutes an adaptive mechanism to optimally encode contextual or olfactory information. See the related Perspective from Aimone, Deng, and Gage, &quot;Resolving New Memories: A Critical Look at the Dentate Gyrus, Adult Neurogenesis, and Pattern Separation,&quot; in this issue of Neuron.
Dramatic changes in the stem cell ethical and research ecosystem in the last 10 years depended on active engagement among scientists, ethicists, government, and public. Tracing that story demonstrates the value of such engagement, and forecasts a successful method for meeting future challenges.


We investigated the role of connexin 43 (Cx43) hemichannels in the release of glutamate by astrocytes after hypertonic stimulus. Mechanical, osmotic and oxidative stress, and changes in the extracellular or intracellular Ca(2+) levels induce connexin hemichannels located in the plasma membrane to open and release small ions and molecules with signaling potential such as glutamate, ATP, etc. In our past studies, we primarily found that acute hypertonic stimulus induced the release of glutamate. Since glutamate release was involved with several routes, we studied its release routes by astrocytes incubated in a hypertonic media for various periods. The glutamate release was increased after hypertonic stimulus. Glutamate release in hypertonic stimulus was inhibited by gap junction or Cx43 hemichannel blockers, but not by antagonists of purinergic receptor (P2XnR), glutamate transport inhibitors, intracellular Ca(2+) blockers, and pannexin 1(Panx1) hemichannel. The results suggest that glutamate release by the Cx43 hemichannels is likely to feature in the response of cultured astrocytes to hypertonic stimulus.
Glucocorticoids and corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) underlie the physiology of change and adaptation. Both the steroid and peptide are quite ancient. The genes that underlie the production of these information molecules stretch back millions of years. The regulatory mechanisms of glucocorticoids have both restraining and enhancing capabilities on CRH gene expression. While restraint of CRH by glucocorticoids is a fundamental physiological feature of limiting CRH expression from over-use and exhaustion, CRH is also enhanced by glucocorticoids at both the level of extra-hypothalamic CRH sites and at the level of the placenta and fetal programming in the brain. This latter function of glucocorticoids increasing CRH gene expression underlies the physiology of change that underlies diverse adaptive functions.
The acquisition of reward and the avoidance of punishment could logically be contingent on either emitting or withholding particular actions. However, the separate pathways in the striatum for go and no-go appear to violate this independence, instead coupling affect and effect. Respect for this interdependence has biased many studies of reward and punishment, so potential action-outcome valence interactions during anticipatory phases remain unexplored. In a functional magnetic resonance imaging study with healthy human volunteers, we manipulated subjects' requirement to emit or withhold an action independent from subsequent receipt of reward or avoidance of punishment. During anticipation, in the striatum and a lateral region within the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA), action representations dominated over valence representations. Moreover, we did not observe any representation associated with different state values through accumulation of outcomes, challenging a conventional and dominant association between these areas and state value representations. In contrast, a more medial sector of the SN/VTA responded preferentially to valence, with opposite signs depending on whether action was anticipated to be emitted or withheld. This dominant influence of action requires an enriched notion of opponency between reward and punishment.
Cognitive functions that require the prefrontal cortex are highly sensitive to aging in humans, nonhuman primates, and rodents, although the neurobiological correlates of this vulnerability remain largely unknown. It has been proposed that dendritic spines represent the primary site of structural plasticity in the adult brain, and recent data have supported the hypothesis that aging is associated with alterations of dendritic spine morphology and plasticity in prefrontal cortex. However, no study to date has directly examined whether aging alters the capacity for experience-dependent spine plasticity in aging prefrontal neurons. To address this possibility, we used young, middle-aged, and aged rats in a behavioral stress paradigm known to produce spine remodeling in prefrontal cortical neurons. In young rats, stress resulted in dendritic spine loss and altered patterns of spine morphology; in contrast, spines from middle-aged and aged animals were remarkably stable and did not show evidence of remodeling. The loss of stress-induced spine plasticity observed in aging rats occurred alongside robust age-related reductions in spine density and shifts in remaining spine morphology. Together, the data presented here provide the first evidence that experience-dependent spine plasticity is altered by aging in prefrontal cortex, and support a model in which dendritic spines become progressively less plastic in the aging brain.
In the hallmark neuritic dystrophy of Alzheimer's disease (AD), autophagic vacuoles containing incompletely digested proteins selectively accumulate in focal axonal swellings, reflecting defects in both axonal transport and autophagy. Here, we investigated the possibility that impaired lysosomal proteolysis could be a basis for both of these defects leading to neuritic dystrophy. In living primary mouse cortical neurons expressing fluorescence-tagged markers, LC3-positive autophagosomes forming in axons rapidly acquired the endo-lysosomal markers Rab7 and LAMP1 and underwent exclusive retrograde movement. Proteolytic clearance of these transported autophagic vacuoles was initiated after fusion with bidirectionally moving lysosomes that increase in number at more proximal axon levels and in the perikaryon. Disrupting lysosomal proteolysis by either inhibiting cathepsins directly or by suppressing lysosomal acidification slowed the axonal transport of autolysosomes, late endosomes, and lysosomes and caused their selective accumulation within dystrophic axonal swellings. Mitochondria and other organelles lacking cathepsins moved normally under these conditions, indicating that the general functioning of the axonal transport system was preserved. Dystrophic swellings induced by lysosomal proteolysis inhibition resembled in composition those in several mouse models of AD and also acquired other AD-like features, including immunopositivity for ubiquitin, amyloid precursor protein, and hyperphosphorylated neurofilament proteins. Restoration of lysosomal proteolysis reversed the affected movements of proteolytic Rab7 vesicles, which in turn essentially cleared autophagic substrates and reversed the axonal dystrophy. These studies identify the AD-associated defects in neuronal lysosomal proteolysis as a possible basis for the selective transport abnormalities and highly characteristic pattern of neuritic dystrophy associated with AD.
Despite the recent interest in the neuroanatomy of inductive reasoning processes, the regional specificity within prefrontal cortex (PFC) for the different mechanisms involved in induction tasks remains to be determined. In this study, we used fMRI to investigate the contribution of PFC regions to rule acquisition (rule search and rule discovery) and rule following. Twenty-six healthy young adult participants were presented with a series of images of cards, each consisting of a set of circles numbered in sequence with one colored blue. Participants had to predict the position of the blue circle on the next card. The rules that had to be acquired pertained to the relationship among succeeding stimuli. Responses given by subjects were categorized in a series of phases either tapping rule acquisition (responses given up to and including rule discovery) or rule following (correct responses after rule acquisition). Mid-dorsolateral PFC (mid-DLPFC) was active during rule search and remained active until successful rule acquisition. By contrast, rule following was associated with activation in temporal, motor, and medial/anterior prefrontal cortex. Moreover, frontopolar cortex (FPC) was active throughout the rule acquisition and rule following phases before a rule became familiar. We attributed activation in mid-DLPFC to hypothesis generation and in FPC to integration of multiple separate inferences. The present study provides evidence that brain activation during inductive reasoning involves a complex network of frontal processes and that different subregions respond during rule acquisition and rule following phases.
Age-related memory impairment occurs in many mammalian species, including humans. Moreover, women undergoing the menopausal transition often complain of problems with memory. We recently reported that rhesus monkeys display age- and menopause-related recognition memory impairment on a hippocampus-reliant test [delayed nonmatching-to-sample (DNMS)]. In the same monkeys, perforated synapse densities in the dentate gyrus outer molecular layer (OML) correlated with DNMS recognition accuracy, while total axospinous synapse density was similar across age and menses groups. The current study examined whether synaptic characteristics of OML axonal boutons are coupled with age- or menopause-related memory deficits. Using serial section electron microscopy, we measured the frequencies of single-synapse boutons (SSBs), multiple-synapse boutons (MSBs), and boutons with no apparent synaptic contacts [nonsynaptic boutons (NSBs)] in the OML. Aged females had double the percentage of NSBs compared with young females, and this measure correlated positively and inversely with DNMS acquisition (number of trials to criterion) and delay performance (average accuracy), respectively. Aged compared with young females also had a lower frequency of MSBs and a lower number of synaptic contacts per MSB, and the latter variable inversely correlated with DNMS acquisition. Although proportions of NSBs, SSBs, and MSBs were similar across menses groups, compared with premenopausal monkeys, peri/postmenopausal monkeys had fewer MSBs contacting one or more segmented perforated synapses, and the abundance of this bouton subtype positively correlated with DNMS performance. These results suggest that age- and menopause-related shifts in OML synaptic subtypes may be coupled with deficits in task acquisition and recognition memory.
The phosphorylated form of histone H2A.X (-H2AX) is a well documented early, sensitive, and selective marker of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Previously, we found that excessive glutamatergic activity increased -H2AX in neurons in vitro. Here, we evaluated -H2AX formation in the adult rat brain following neuronal excitation evoked by seizure activity in vivo. We found that brief, repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS)-induced seizures (three individual seizures within 60 min) did not trigger an increase -H2AX immunostaining. In contrast, a cluster of 5-7 individual seizures evoked by kainic acid (KA) rapidly (within 30 min) induced -H2AX in multiple neuronal populations in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. This duration of seizure activity is well below threshold for induction of neuronal cell death, indicating that the -H2AX increase occurs in response to sublethal insults. Moreover, an increase in -H2AX was seen in dentate granule cells, which are resistant to cell death caused by KA-evoked seizures. With as little as a 5 min duration of status epilepticus (SE), -H2AX increased in CA1, CA3, and entorhinal cortex to a greater extent than that observed after the clusters of individual seizures, with still greater increases after 120 min of SE. Our findings provide the first direct demonstration that DNA DSB damage occurs in vivo in the brain following seizures. Furthermore, we found that the -H2AX increase caused by 120 min of SE was prevented by neuroprotective preconditioning with ECS-evoked seizures. This demonstrates that DNA DSB damage is an especially sensitive indicator of neuronal endangerment and that it is responsive to neuroprotective intervention.
Neural competition among multiple inputs can affect the refinement and maintenance of terminal fields in sensory systems. In the rat gustatory system, the chorda tympani, greater superficial petrosal, and glossopharyngeal nerves have distinct but overlapping terminal fields in the first central relay, the nucleus of the solitary tract. This overlap is largest at early postnatal ages followed by a significant refinement and pruning of the fields over a 3 week period, suggesting that competitive mechanisms underlie the pruning. Here, we manipulated the putative competitive interactions among the three nerves by sectioning the greater superficial petrosal and glossopharyngeal nerves at postnatal day 15 (P15), P25, or at adulthood, while leaving the chorda tympani nerve intact. The terminal field of the chorda tympani nerve was assessed 35 d following nerve sections, a period before the sectioned nerves functionally regenerated. Regardless of the age when the nerves were cut, the chorda tympani nerve terminal field expanded to a volume four times larger than sham controls. Terminal field density measurements revealed that the expanded terminal field was similar to P15 control rats. Thus, it appears that the chorda tympani nerve terminal field defaults to its early postnatal field size and shape when the nerves with overlapping fields are cut, and this anatomical plasticity is retained into adulthood. These findings not only demonstrate the dramatic and lifelong plasticity in the central gustatory system, but also suggest that corresponding changes in functional and taste-related behaviors will accompany injury-induced changes in brainstem circuits.
Mechanical dissociation of neurons from the central nervous system has the advantage that presynaptic boutons remain attached to the isolated neuron of interest. This allows for examination of synaptic transmission under conditions where the extracellular and postsynaptic intracellular environments can be well controlled. A vibration-based technique without the use of proteases, known as vibrodissociation, is the most popular technique for mechanical isolation. A micropipette, with the tip fire-polished to the shape of a small ball, is placed into a brain slice made from a P1-P21 rodent. The micropipette is vibrated parallel to the slice surface and lowered through the slice thickness resulting in the liberation of isolated neurons. The isolated neurons are ready for study within a few minutes of vibrodissociation. This technique has advantages over the use of primary neuronal cultures, brain slices and enzymatically isolated neurons including: rapid production of viable, relatively mature neurons suitable for electrophysiological and imaging studies; superior control of the extracellular environment free from the influence of neighboring cells; suitability for well-controlled pharmacological experiments using rapid drug application and total cell superfusion; and improved space-clamp in whole-cell recordings relative to neurons in slice or cell culture preparations. This preparation can be used to examine synaptic physiology, pharmacology, modulation and plasticity. Real-time imaging of both pre- and postsynaptic elements in the living cells and boutons is also possible using vibrodissociated neurons. Characterization of the molecular constituents of pre- and postsynaptic elements can also be achieved with immunological and imaging-based approaches.
Monoclonal antibodies have therapeutic potential for treating diseases of the central nervous system, but their accumulation in the brain is limited by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Here, we show that reducing the affinity of an antibody for the transferrin receptor (TfR) enhances receptor-mediated transcytosis of the anti-TfR antibody across the BBB into the mouse brain where it reaches therapeutically relevant concentrations. Anti-TfR antibodies that bind with high affinity to TfR remain associated with the BBB, whereas lower-affinity anti-TfR antibody variants are released from the BBB into the brain and show a broad distribution 24 hours after dosing. We designed a bispecific antibody that binds with low affinity to TfR and with high affinity to the enzyme -secretase (BACE1), which processes amyloid precursor protein into amyloid- (A) peptides including those associated with Alzheimer's disease. Compared to monospecific anti-BACE1 antibody, the bispecific antibody accumulated in the mouse brain and led to a greater reduction in brain A after a single systemic dose. TfR-facilitated transcytosis of this bispecific antibody across the BBB may enhance its potency as an anti-BACE1 therapy for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Reducing production of amyloid- (A) peptide by direct inhibition of the enzymes that process amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a central therapeutic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease. However, small-molecule inhibitors of the -secretase (BACE1) and -secretase APP processing enzymes have shown a lack of target selectivity and poor penetrance of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Here, we have developed a high-affinity, phage-derived human antibody that targets BACE1 (anti-BACE1) and is anti-amyloidogenic. Anti-BACE1 reduces endogenous BACE1 activity and A production in human cell lines expressing APP and in cultured primary neurons. Anti-BACE1 is highly selective and does not inhibit the related enzymes BACE2 or cathepsin D. Competitive binding assays and x-ray crystallography indicate that anti-BACE1 binds noncompetitively to an exosite on BACE1 and not to the catalytic site. Systemic dosing of mice and nonhuman primates with anti-BACE1 resulted in sustained reductions in peripheral A peptide concentrations. Anti-BACE1 also reduces central nervous system A concentrations in mouse and monkey, consistent with a measurable uptake of antibody across the BBB. Thus, BACE1 can be targeted in a highly selective manner through passive immunization with anti-BACE1, providing a potential approach for treating Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, therapeutic success with anti-BACE1 will depend on improving antibody uptake into the brain.
The enzyme -secretase (BACE1) remains an important potential disease-modifying target for developing drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease. However, finding selective BACE1 inhibitors that can penetrate the brain has proved challenging. In this issue of Science Translational Medicine, a pair of studies describes a new approach to inhibiting BACE1 using a human monoclonal antibody that uses receptor-mediated transcytosis to cross the blood brain barrier (Atwal et al. and Yu et al.). The authors engineer a low-affinity bispecific monoclonal antibody targeting both BACE1 and the transferrin receptor and show that this antibody enters the brain more readily and inhibits BACE1 activity more efficiently than does a monospecific antibody against BACE1 alone. These findings should stimulate attempts to use receptor-mediated transcytosis to increase brain uptake of therapeutic antibodies for a variety of brain disorders.


Retinoic acid receptor (RAR) signaling is required for morphogenesis of the ventral optic cup and closure of the choroid fissure, but the mechanisms by which this pathway regulates ventral eye development remain controversial and poorly understood. Although previous studies have implicated neural crest-derived periocular mesenchyme (POM) as the critical target of RA action in the eye, we show here that RAR signaling regulates choroid fissure closure in zebrafish by acting on both the ventral optic cup and the POM. We describe RAR-dependent regulation of eight genes in the neuroepithelial cells of the ventral retina and optic stalk and of six genes in the POM and show that these ventral retina/optic stalk and POM genes function independently of each other. Consequently, RAR signaling regulates ventral eye development through two independent, nonredundant mechanisms in different ocular tissues. Furthermore, the identification of two cohorts of genes implicated in ventral eye morphogenesis may help to elucidate the genetic basis of ocular coloboma in humans.
Prenylation is the posttranslational modification of a carboxyl-terminal cysteine residue of proteins that terminate with a CAAX motif. Following prenylation, the last three amino acids are cleaved off by the endoprotease, RAS-converting enzyme 1 (RCE1), and the prenylcysteine residue is methylated. Although it is clear that prenylation increases membrane affinity of CAAX proteins, less is known about the importance of the postprenylation processing steps. RCE1 function has been studied in a variety of tissues but not in neuronal cells. To approach this issue, we generated mice lacking Rce1 in the retina. Retinal development proceeded normally in the absence of Rce1, but photoreceptor cells failed to respond to light and subsequently degenerated in a rapid fashion. In contrast, the inner nuclear and ganglion cell layers were unaffected. We found that the multimeric rod phosphodiesterase 6 (PDE6), a prenylated protein and RCE1 substrate, was unable to be transported to the outer segments in Rce1-deficient photoreceptor cells. PDE6 present in the inner segment of Rce1-deficient photoreceptor cells was assembled and functional. Synthesis and transport of transducin, and rhodopsin kinase 1 (GRK1), also prenylated substrates of RCE1, was unaffected by Rce1 deficiency. We conclude that RCE1 is essential for the intracellular trafficking of PDE6 and survival of photoreceptor cells.


Measuring sensitivity is at the heart of psychophysics. Often, sensitivity is derived from estimates of the psychometric function. This function relates response probability to stimulus intensity. In estimating these response probabilities, most studies assume stationary observers: Responses are expected to be dependent only on the intensity of a presented stimulus and not on other factors such as stimulus sequence, duration of the experiment, or the responses on previous trials. Unfortunately, a number of factors such as learning, fatigue, or fluctuations in attention and motivation will typically result in violations of this assumption. The severity of these violations is yet unknown. We use Monte Carlo simulations to show that violations of these assumptions can result in underestimation of confidence intervals for parameters of the psychometric function. Even worse, collecting more trials does not eliminate this misestimation of confidence intervals. We present a simple adjustment of the confidence intervals that corrects for the underestimation almost independently of the number of trials and the particular type of violation.
Previous studies of cognitive, mental and/or motor processes during short-, medium- and long-term weightlessness have only been descriptive in nature, and focused on psychological aspects. Until now, objective observation of neurophysiological parameters has not been carried out--undoubtedly because the technical and methodological means have not been available--, investigations into the neurophysiological effects of weightlessness are in their infancy (Schneider et al. 2008). While imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) would be hardly applicable in space, the non-invasive near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) technique represents a method of mapping hemodynamic processes in the brain in real time that is both relatively inexpensive and that can be employed even under extreme conditions. The combination with electroencephalography (EEG) opens up the possibility of following the electrocortical processes under changing gravity conditions with a finer temporal resolution as well as with deeper localization, for instance with electrotomography (LORETA). Previous studies showed an increase of beta frequency activity under normal gravity conditions and a decrease under weightlessness conditions during a parabolic flight (Schneider et al. 2008a+b). Tilt studies revealed different changes in brain function, which let suggest, that changes in parabolic flight might reflect emotional processes rather than hemodynamic changes. However, it is still unclear whether these are effects of changed gravity or hemodynamic changes within the brain. Combining EEG/LORETA and NIRS should for the first time make it possible to map the effect of weightlessness and reduced gravity on both hemodynamic and electrophysiological processes in the brain. Initially, this is to be done as part of a feasibility study during a parabolic flight. Afterwards, it is also planned to use both techniques during medium- and long-term space flight. It can be assumed that the long-term redistribution of the blood volume and the associated increase in the supply of oxygen to the brain will lead to changes in the central nervous system that are also responsible for anaemic processes, and which can in turn reduce performance (De Santo et al. 2005), which means that they could be crucial for the success and safety of a mission (Genik et al. 2005, Ellis 2000). Depending on these results, it will be necessary to develop and employ extensive countermeasures. Initial results for the MARS500 study suggest that, in addition to their significance in the context of the cardiovascular and locomotor systems, sport and physical activity can play a part in improving neurocognitive parameters. Before this can be fully established, however, it seems necessary to learn more about the influence of changing gravity conditions on neurophysiological processes and associated neurocognitive impairment.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a technique that has been intensively investigated in the past decade as this method offers a non-invasive and safe alternative to change cortical excitability. The effects of one session of tDCS can last for several minutes, and its effects depend on polarity of stimulation, such as that cathodal stimulation induces a decrease in cortical excitability, and anodal stimulation induces an increase in cortical excitability that may last beyond the duration of stimulation. These effects have been explored in cognitive neuroscience and also clinically in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders--especially when applied over several consecutive sessions. One area that has been attracting attention of neuroscientists and clinicians is the use of tDCS for modulation of pain-related neural networks. Modulation of two main cortical areas in pain research has been explored: primary motor cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Due to the critical role of electrode montage, in this article, we show different alternatives for electrode placement for tDCS clinical trials on pain; discussing advantages and disadvantages of each method of stimulation.
Human gammaherpesviruses such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) cause lifelong infections and associated diseases, by virtue of their ability to establish latent infection. Many studies performed in the past years in murine herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68) model of infection suggested that the limited immunity generated against isolated viral components by subunit vaccines cannot counteract the multiple immune evasion strategies operated by gammaherpesviruses. Indeed, a significant inhibition of long-term latency establishment could be observed in mice vaccinated with strains of genetically modified MHV-68 defective in reactivation or establishment of latency. In this study, we focused on the effects of interferon- (IFN-) on both the lytic and latent phase of MHV-68 infection, as exerted by the constitutive release of IFN-1 by a clone of MHV-68 genetically modified to produce this cytokine (MHV-68mIFN1). Although the MHV-68mIFN1 recombinant virus exhibited in vitro replication features indistinguishable from those of the wild type MHV-68, its pathological properties were severely attenuated in vivo in immunocompetent mice and not in mice rendered genetically unresponsive to type I IFN, suggesting that a stronger immune response was primed in the presence of the cytokine. Notably, MHV-68mIFN1 attenuation did not result in a reduced level of long-term spleen latency establishment. These results prompted us to evaluate the efficacy of MHV-68mIFN1 in a prophylactic vaccination regimen aimed at inhibiting the symptoms of acute virus infection and the establishment of long-term latency after MHV-68 challenge. Our results show that mice vaccinated with MHV-68mIFN1, administered as a live-attenuated or partially inactivated (by Psoralen and UV treatment) vaccine, were protected against the challenge with wt MHV-68 from all phases of infection. The ability of MHV-68mIFN1 to produce IFN- at the site of the infection, thus efficiently stimulating the immune system in case of virus reactivation from latency, makes this recombinant virus a safer live-attenuated vaccine as compared to the previously reported latency-deficient clones.
Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) have been differentiated efficiently to neuronal cell types. However, directed differentiation of hPSCs to astrocytes and astroglial subtypes remains elusive. In this study, hPSCs were directed to nearly uniform populations of immature astrocytes (&gt;90% S100(+) and GFAP(+)) in large quantities. The immature human astrocytes exhibit similar gene expression patterns as primary astrocytes, display functional properties such as glutamate uptake and promotion of synaptogenesis, and become mature astrocytes by forming connections with blood vessels after transplantation into the mouse brain. Furthermore, hPSC-derived neuroepithelia, patterned to rostral-caudal and dorsal-ventral identities with the same morphogens used for neuronal subtype specification, generate immature astrocytes that express distinct homeodomain transcription factors and display phenotypic differences of different astroglial subtypes. These human astroglial progenitors and immature astrocytes will be useful for studying astrocytes in brain development and function, understanding the roles of astrocytes in disease processes and developing novel treatments for neurological disorders.
The detection of sound begins when energy derived from an acoustic stimulus deflects the hair bundles on top of hair cells. As hair bundles move, the viscous friction between stereocilia and the surrounding liquid poses a fundamental physical challenge to the ear's high sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity. Part of the solution to this problem lies in the active process that uses energy for frequency-selective sound amplification. Here we demonstrate that a complementary part of the solution involves the fluid-structure interaction between the liquid within the hair bundle and the stereocilia. Using force measurement on a dynamically scaled model, finite-element analysis, analytical estimation of hydrodynamic forces, stochastic simulation and high-resolution interferometric measurement of hair bundles, we characterize the origin and magnitude of the forces between individual stereocilia during small hair-bundle deflections. We find that the close apposition of stereocilia effectively immobilizes the liquid between them, which reduces the drag and suppresses the relative squeezing but not the sliding mode of stereociliary motion. The obliquely oriented tip links couple the mechanotransduction channels to this least dissipative coherent mode, whereas the elastic horizontal top connectors that stabilize the structure further reduce the drag. As measured from the distortion products associated with channel gating at physiological stimulation amplitudes of tens of nanometres, the balance of viscous and elastic forces in a hair bundle permits a relative mode of motion between adjacent stereocilia that encompasses only a fraction of a nanometre. A combination of high-resolution experiments and detailed numerical modelling of fluid-structure interactions reveals the physical principles behind the basic structural features of hair bundles and shows quantitatively how these organelles are adapted to the needs of sensitive mechanotransduction.

Deciding whether two fingerprint marks originate from the same source requires examination and comparison of their features. Many cognitive factors play a major role in such information processing. In this paper we examined the consistency (both between- and within-experts) in the analysis of latent marks, and whether the presence of a 'target' comparison print affects this analysis. Our findings showed that the context of a comparison print affected analysis of the latent mark, possibly influencing allocation of attention, visual search, and threshold for determining a 'signal'. We also found that even without the context of the comparison print there was still a lack of consistency in analysing latent marks. Not only was this reflected by inconsistency between different experts, but the same experts at different times were inconsistent with their own analysis. However, the characterization of these inconsistencies depends on the standard and definition of what constitutes inconsistent. Furthermore, these effects were not uniform; the lack of consistency varied across fingerprints and experts. We propose solutions to mediate variability in the analysis of friction ridge skin.
Huntington disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by expression of polyglutamine-expanded mutant huntingtin protein (mhtt). Most evidence indicates that soluble mhtt species, rather than insoluble aggregates, are the important mediators of HD pathogenesis. However, the differential roles of soluble monomeric and oligomeric mhtt species in HD and the mechanisms of oligomer formation are not yet understood. We have shown previously that copper interacts with and oxidizes the polyglutamine-containing N171 fragment of huntingtin. In this study we report that oxidation-dependent oligomers of huntingtin form spontaneously in cell and mouse HD models. Levels of these species are modulated by copper, hydrogen peroxide, and glutathione. Mutagenesis of all cysteine residues within N171 blocks the formation of these oligomers. In cells, levels of oligomerization-blocked mutant N171 were decreased compared with native N171. We further show that a subset of the oligomerization-blocked form of glutamine-expanded N171 huntingtin is rapidly depleted from the soluble pool compared with &quot;native &quot; mutant N171. Taken together, our data indicate that huntingtin is subject to specific oxidations that are involved in the formation of stable oligomers and that also delay removal from the soluble pool. These findings show that inhibiting formation of oxidation-dependent huntingtin oligomers, or promoting their dissolution, may have protective effects in HD by decreasing the burden of soluble mutant huntingtin.
