Our current wish list for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) includes therapies that will provide robust and sustained antiparkinsonian benefit through the day, ameliorate or prevent dyskinesia, and slow or prevent the progression of the disease. In this article, I review selected new therapies in clinical development for motor features or treatment complications of PD, and some that may slow disease progression. These include adenosine 2a (A2a) antagonists (istradefylline, preladenant, and SYN115), levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG), IPX066--an extended-release formulation of carbidopa/levodopa, XP21279--a sustained-release levodopa prodrug, ND0611--a carbidopa subcutaneous patch, safinamide--a mixed mechanism of action medication that may provide both MAO-B and glutamate inhibition, PMY50028--an oral neurotrophic factor inducer, antidyskinesia medications (AFQ056 and fipamezole), and gene therapies (AAV2-neurturin and glutamic acid decarboxylase gene transfer). Some of these therapies will never be proven efficacious and will not come to market while others may play a key role in the future treatment of PD.

There is a paucity of published literature on the different oral medications tried for X-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP). In practice, most XDP patients are tried or have been tried on medications typically used for patients with generalized dystonia. These drugs include anticholinergic agents, baclofen, clonazepam and other benzodiazepines, tetrabenazine, and clozapine. Although several articles have shown that these classes of drugs are beneficial for patients with generalized dystonia, none have been systematically studied specifically for XDP patients. We are currently conducting the first randomized, placebo-controlled trial on the use of levodopa for the symptomatic treatment of XDP. This article reviews the data on the various dystonia medications that have been used in XDP.
New trends and advances in botulinum toxin neuroscience paved the way to the better understanding of the toxin from its behavior at the bench to the clinics. As details of mechanism of action are clarified, we are ready to dispose of product myths, such as diffusion being related to the product being used. Our directions, more precisely on the important subjects such as dose targeting, will translate the science to robust clinical information. Additionally, aspects such as antibody formation, leading to treatment nonresponse, are now understood after long-term treatment series in a variety of dystonic conditions. Avenues leading to combinations of these areas of knowledge will lead to improved botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) treatment, and further explore the potential of this toxin treatment in association with other treatment modalities, particularly in spasticity and dystonia.
Sex-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP, DYT3, &quot;Lubag&quot;) is an adult-onset, progressive, debilitating movement disorder first described in Filipino males from Panay Islands in 1975. XDP manifests predominantly as torsion dystonia, later combined with or sometimes replaced with parkinsonism. Within the Island of Panay, the prevalence rate is highest in the province of Capiz, where 1:4000 men suffer from the disorder. There is a high degree of penetrance and generalization. While women often serve as carriers, XDP is not limited to men. An updated XDP Philippine registry (as of January 2010) has identified 505 cases, with 500 males and 5 females. While some report that females may carry a milder form of the disorder, in our experience, both sexes generally follow a similar progressive clinical course.
The X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP) is a severe, progressive, adult-onset, X-linked endemic disorder in Filipinos, which is characterized by dystonic movements that start in the third or fourth decade, and replaced by parkinsonism beyond the 10th year of illness. Understanding the pathophysiology of XDP and development of rational therapies will depend on observations from imaging, pathological, and genetic studies. In this paper we summarize the results of these studies on patients with XDP. The cranial magnetic resonance imaging shows hyperintense putaminal rim in both dystonic and parkinsonian stages, and atrophy of the caudate head or putamen in the parkinsonian stage. Neuropathological findings show atrophy of the caudate nucleus and putamen, with mild to severe neuronal loss and gliosis. In the neostriatum, the dystonic phase of XDP shows the involvement of striosomes and matrix sparing, while the later, i.e., parkinsonian phase, shows matrix involvement as well. In the dystonic phase, the loss of striosomal inhibitory projections lead to disinhibition of nigral dopaminergic neurons, perhaps resulting in a hyperkinetic state; while in the parkinsonian phase, severe and critical reduction of matrix-based projection may result in extranigral parkinsonism. Genetic sequencing of the XDP critical region in Xq13.1 has revealed an SVA retrotransposon insertion in an intron of TAF1. This may reduce neuron-specific expression of the TAF1 isoform in the caudate nucleus, and subsequently interfere with the transcription of many neuronal genes, including DRD2. Findings from imaging, pathology, and genetics studies are gradually shedding light on the pathophysiology of XDP, which hopefully will lead to more rational and directed therapies.
The LCOT is a self-administered test designed to assess olfactory deficits. Altogether, 525 subjects contributed to the validation. Elderly participants were well represented in this sample. In a validation study (study 1), 407 healthy and 17 anosmic volunteers between 15 and 91 years of age underwent threshold, supraliminal detection, and identification testing. Cutoff values for normosmia and hyposmia were calculated and applied in a second study in a group of patients with smell complaints and in a group of Alzheimer patients with age-matched controls. Incidence of smell deficit was estimated at 5.6% in the healthy population of study 1, and at 16% in the elderly control group of study 2. Assessment of the ability of each subtest to discriminate between groups showed that LCOT is relevant to differentiating between perception and identification deficits and between Alzheimer's and hyposmic patients.
The present paper examines the nature and function of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampal formation and the consequences of changes in its expression. The paper focuses on literature describing the role of BDNF in hippocampal development and neuroplasticity. BDNF expression is highly sensitive to developmental and environmental factors, and increased BDNF signaling enhances neurogenesis, neurite sprouting, electrophysiological activity, and other processes reflective of a general enhancement of hippocampal function. Such increases in activity may mediate beneficial effects such as enhanced learning and memory. However, the increased activity also comes at a cost: BDNF plasticity renders the hippocampus more vulnerable to hyperexcitability and/or excitotoxic damage. Exercise dramatically increases hippocampal BDNF levels and produces behavioral effects consistent with this phenomenon. In analyzing the literature regarding exercise-induced regulation of BDNF, this paper provides a theoretical model for how the potentially deleterious consequences of BDNF plasticity may be modulated by other endogenous factors. The peptide galanin may play such a role by regulating hippocampal excitability.
Alcohol consumption causes neurocognitive deficits, neuronal injury, and neurodegeneration. At the cellular level, alcohol abuse causes oxidative damage to mitochondria and cellular proteins and interlink with the progression of neuroinflammation and neurological disorders. We previously reported that alcohol inhibits glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB), leading to BBB dysfunction and neurodegeneration. In this study, we hypothesized that ethanol (EtOH)-mediated disruption in glucose uptake would deprive energy for human astrocytes and neurons inducing neurotoxicity and neuronal degeneration. EtOH may also have a direct effect on glucose uptake in neurons and astrocytes, which has not been previously described. Our results indicate that ethanol exposure decreases the uptake of D-(2-(3)H)-glucose by human astrocytes and neurons. Inhibition of glucose uptake correlates with a reduction in glucose transporter protein expression (GLUT1 in astrocytes and GLUT3 in neurons). Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), a neuroprotective agent, suppresses the effects of alcohol on glucose uptake and GLUT levels, thus reducing neurotoxicity and neuronal degeneration. These findings suggest that deprivation of glucose in brain cells contributes to neurotoxicity in alcohol abusers, and highlights ALC as a potential therapeutic agent to prevent the deleterious health conditions caused by alcohol abuse.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) plays a key role not only in processing emotions but also in monitoring performance outcome. Although the neuroanatomical substrates underlying each of the two processes have been extensively investigated, they have predominantly been probed separately and therefore a precise knowledge of the functional overlap within the multiple OFC sub-portions involved is still lacking. Here, we explore the neural dynamics mediating performance monitoring and emotional processing using direct intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings from multiple OFC sites of an epileptic patient. Neural activity was recorded during two experiments. The first task required processing of emotional faces and the second investigated action outcome evaluation based on a visual feedback on the subject's performance. Task-related neural dynamics were assessed using modulations of high frequency responses in the gamma-band (50-150Hz). Our results reveal that processing negative facial emotions as well as receiving negative feedback both elicited gamma-band responses in the lateral OFC. By contrast, the mid-OFC was selectively activated for positive feedback. Furthermore, we also found significant gamma-band deactivation in the gyrus rectus during processing of negative feedback. Our findings provide novel evidence for an intricate valence-selective interaction between the networks mediating emotion processing and performance monitoring in human OFC and support the hypothesis of a tight relationship between gamma-band activity and behavior.


The mitochondria-associated endoplasmic reticulum membrane (MAM) is a specialized subdomain of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane that regulates ER-mitochondria communications. The MAM is characterized by direct apposition to a mitochondrion, a unique lipid profile, and the expression of a unique set of proteins involved in Ca(2+) signaling, phospholipid biosynthesis, protein folding, and membrane tethering. The association of the MAM with a mitochondrion is in part cytoskeleton independent and dynamically changed by an elevation of the cytosolic Ca(2+) level. The mechanisms underlying the genesis of MAM are unclear but might involve COPI-dependent vesicular transport and soluble NSF attachment protein receptor. The MAM is recognized as a center for intermembrane transport of phospholipids and for direct Ca(2+) transmission to mitochondria that activates the tricarboxylic acid cycle. However, MAM might be also involved in the interorganelle transport of cholesterol, ceramides, ATP, and proteins as well as in proteasomal protein degradation and lipid droplet formation. Recent studies have begun to unveil the importance of interorganelle communication in the innate immune response to virus infection and in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative/neurodevelopmental disorders. Thus, drug discovery aimed at regulating ER-to-mitochondria communication may open a new avenue in treatments of human diseases.
There are great expectations for the personalized medicine approach to address the therapeutic needs of patients in the twenty-first century. Advances in human genome science and molecular innovations in neuroscience have encouraged the pharmaceutical industry to focus beyond broad spectrum population therapeutics--the driving force behind the &quot;blockbuster&quot; product concept--to personalized medicine. For central nervous system (CNS) therapeutics, repeated failures in converting scientific discoveries to clinical trial successes and regulatory approvals have precipitated a drug pipeline crisis and eroded confidence in the industry. This chapter describes how innovations in genomics and translational medicine can impact the future of neuropsychiatry and deconvolute the complexity of psychiatric diseases from symptoms biology. A targeted and consistent investment is needed to restore confidence in translating science into clinical success.
In the postgenome era, proteomics has arisen as a promising tool for more complete comprehension of diseases and for biomarker discovery. Some of these objectives have already been partly achieved for illnesses such as cancer. In the case of psychiatric conditions, however, proteomic advances have had a less profound impact. Here, we outline the necessity of improving and applying proteomic methods for biomarker discovery and validation in the field of psychiatric disorders. While proteomic-based applications in neurosciences have increased in accuracy and sensitivity over the past 10 years, the development of orthogonal validation technologies has fallen behind. These issues are discussed along with the importance of integrating systems biology approaches and combining proteomics with other research approaches. The future development of such technologies may put proteomics closer to clinical applications in psychiatry.
Biomarkers are in demand for disease diagnosis, treatment response monitoring, and development of novel therapeutics. Biomarker discovery in neuroscience is challenging due to absence of robust molecular correlates and the interpatient heterogeneity that characterizes neuropsychiatric disorders. Because of the complexity of these disorders, a panel of biomarkers derived from different platforms will be required to precisely reflect disease-related alterations. Animal models of psychiatric phenotypes as well as -omics and imaging methodologies are important tools for biomarker discovery. However, the limitations of current research concerning sample handling and collection, candidate biomarker validation, and a lack of interdisciplinary approaches need to be addressed. Ultimately, the coordinated effort of relevant stakeholders including researchers, physicians, and funding organizations together with standardization initiatives will be vital to overcome the present challenges and to advance personalized health care using sensitive and specific biomarkers.

It has long been recognized that monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors have a role in the management of Parkinson's disease (PD). The MAO-B inhibitor rasagiline has neuroprotective effects in animal models, mediated partly by its antiapoptotic activity. Rasagiline has been shown to be effective as monotherapy for early PD and as an adjunct to dopaminergic therapy. Clinical trials have also shown putative disease-modifying effects, though rasagiline's potential to alter the long-term course of PD remains controversial. Given the demonstrated benefits of rasagiline, along with its safety and tolerability profile, it has an important role to play in PD therapy.
In Parkinson's disease, type B monoamine oxidase (MAO-B) is proposed to play an important role in the pathogenesis through production of reactive oxygen species and neurotoxins from protoxicants, such as 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. In addition, inhibitors of MAO-B protect neurons in the cellular and animal models of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. However, the role of type A MAO (MAO-A) in neuronal death and neuroprotection by MAO-B inhibitors has been scarcely elucidated. This chapter presents our recent results on the involvement of MAO-A in the activation of mitochondrial death signal pathway and in the induction of prosurvival genes to prevent cell death with MAO-B inhibitors. The roles of MAO-A in the regulation of neuronal survival and death are discussed in concern to find a novel strategy to protect neurons in age-associated neurodegenerative disorders and depression.
Dystonia is a disabling movement disorder characterized by involuntary, sustained muscle contractions, with repetitive twisting movements and abnormal postures. It is clinically classified as primary, either sporadic or genetic, or secondary, following focal brain lesions. The recent past has witnessed remarkable progress in finding genes for dystonia. However, translating the findings from genetics into concrete changes for dystonic patients is not immediate, as it requires extensive exploration of the consequences of gene defects on motor behavior, protein biochemistry, and cell physiology. Thus, in the last decade, a number of animal models have been generated and, to some extent, characterized. These include distinct species, ranging from invertebrates, such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, to rodents and nonhuman primates. The mouse is the average choice of mammalian models in most laboratories, particularly when manipulations of the genome are planned. Investigations of animals provide results that do not always reproduce the clinical features of human dystonia. Indeed, most of the mouse models of inherited dystonia do not exhibit overt dystonia although they do have subtle motor abnormalities and well-characterized neurochemical and neurophysiological alterations. Conversely, spontaneous mutant models display a clear phenotype, but in some cases the origin of the mutation is unknown. In spite of such limitations and apparent contradictory evidence, there is general consensus on the notion that a useful animal model has to be judged by how reliably and effectively it can be used to explore novel aspects of pathophysiology and potential treatments. In the present work, we briefly describe the most commonly utilized models for the study of dystonia and the results obtained, in attempt to provide a comprehensive overview of the current, available models.
Parkinson's disease (PD), a common neurodegenerative disorder caused by the loss of the dopaminergic input to the basal ganglia, is commonly treated with l-DOPA. Use of this drug, however, is severely limited by the development of dystonic and choreic motor complications, or dyskinesia. This chapter describes the molecular mechanisms implicated in the emergence and manifestation of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). Particular emphasis is given to the role played in this condition by abnormalities in signal transduction at the level of the medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum, which are the principal target of l-DOPA. Recent evidence pointing to pre-synaptic dysregulation is also discussed.
Despite the frequency of seizure disorders in the human population, the genetic and physiological basis for these defects has been difficult to resolve. Although many genetic contributions to seizure susceptibility have been identified, these involve disparate biological processes, many of which are not neural specific. The large number and heterogeneous nature of the genes involved makes it difficult to understand the complex factors underlying the etiology of seizure disorders. Examining the effect known genetic mutations have on seizure susceptibility is one approach that may prove fruitful. This approach may be helpful in both understanding how different physiological processes affect seizure susceptibility and identifying novel therapeutic treatments. We review here factors contributing to seizure susceptibility in Drosophila, a genetically tractable system that provides a model for human seizure disorders. Seizure-like neuronal activities and behaviors in the fruit fly are described, as well as a set of mutations that exhibit features resembling some human epilepsies and render the fly sensitive to seizures. Especially interesting are descriptions of a novel class of mutations that are second-site mutations that act as seizure suppressors. These mutations revert epilepsy phenotypes back to the wild-type range of seizure susceptibility. The genes responsible for seizure suppression are cloned with the goal of identifying targets for lead compounds that may be developed into new antiepileptic drugs.
Pain in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) region often occurs with no overt signs of injury or inflammation. Although the etiology of TMJ-related pain may involve multiple factors, one likely risk factor is female gender or estrogen status. Evidence is reviewed from human and animal studies, supporting the proposition that estrogen status acts peripherally or centrally to influence TMJ nociceptive processing. A new model termed the &quot;TMJ pain matrix&quot; is proposed as critical for the initial integration of TMJ-related sensory signals in the lower brainstem that is both modified by estrogen status, and closely linked to endogenous pain and autonomic control pathways.
Previous studies have established the role of the medullary dorsal horn or the subnucleus caudalis of the spinal trigeminal complex, a homolog of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, in trigeminal pain processing. In addition to the medullary dorsal horn, recent studies have pointed out increased excitability and sensitization of trigeminal interpolaris and caudalis transition zone (Vi/Vc) following deep orofacial injury, involving neuron-glia-cytokine interactions. The Vi/Vc transition zone accesses rostral brain regions that are important for descending pain modulation, and somatovisceral and somatoautonomic processing and plays a unique role in coordinating trigeminal nocifensive responses.




Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy is a cerebrovasuclar disease caused by NOTCH3 mutations, usually localized to exons 3 and 4. This report describes the clinical and neuroradiological findings of 2 subjects of two unrelated Japanese families who shared a common p.Arg332Cys mutation. The subject from family A presented syncope attacks as the sole clinical presentation at the beginning of his disease course. The subject from family B showed recurrent ischemic attacks, followed by a large intracranial hemorrhage. This is the first report to describe the detailed phenotypes of patients with a rare p.Arg332Cys mutation in Japan.
We report the case of a 38-year-old woman, affected by a cutaneous form of mycosis fungoides (MF) who presented with a history of loud snoring associated with sleep apnea. A polysomnographic study confirmed the presence of severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Cranial and neck MRI revealed a neoplastic infiltration of the tongue base and the posterior pharynx wall. Upper airway neoplastic infiltration is rarely reported as a cause of OSAS and extra-cutaneous localizations of MF are uncommon. This is the first case in the literature of a patient with nocturnal polysomnogram documented OSAS caused by a mucosal involvement of MF.

Midventricular obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (MOHC) is a rare form of cardiomyopathy that was demonstrated to have caused embolic stroke in two patients. In both cases, the embolic sources of stroke were thrombi in an apical aneurysm caused by turbulent stasis of blood flow and subsequent injury of myocardial endocardium. Even without atrial fibrillation, apical aneurysm can induce emboligenic stroke in MOHC.
In two experiments, we investigated 3-month-old infants' sensitivity to first- and second-order drifting gratings. In Experiment 1 we used forced-choice preferential looking with drifting versus stationary gratings to estimate depth modulation thresholds for 3-month-old infants and a similar task for a comparison group of adults. Thresholds for infants were more adult-like for second-order than first-order gratings. In Experiment 2, 3-month-olds dishabituated to a change in first-order orientation, but not to a change in direction of first- or second-order motion. Hence, results from Experiment 1 were likely driven by the perception of flicker rather than motion. Thus, infants' sensitivity to uniform motion is slow to develop and appears to be driven initially by flicker-sensitive mechanisms. The underlying mechanisms have more mature tuning for second-order than for first-order information.


Under normal conditions, acute pain processing consists of well-characterized neuronal signaling events. When dysfunctional pain signaling occurs, pathological pain ensues. Glial activation and their released factors participate in the mediation of pathological pain. The use of cannabinoid compounds for pain relief is currently an area of great interest for both basic scientists and physicians. These compounds, bind mainly either the cannabinoid receptor subtype 1 (CB(1)R) or cannabinoid receptor subtype 2 (CB(2)R) and are able to modulate pain. Although cannabinoids were initially only thought to modulate pain via neuronal mechanisms within the central nervous system, strong evidence now supports that CB(2)R cannabinoid compounds are capable of modulating glia, (e.g. astrocytes and microglia) for pain relief. However, the mechanisms underlying cannabinoid receptor-mediated pain relief remain largely unknown. An emerging body of evidence supports that CB(2)R agonist compounds may prove to be powerful novel therapeutic candidates for the treatment of chronic pain.
Gastrointestinal (GI) hypomotility and symptoms are common in Scleroderma (SSc) patients yet so far uncorrelated. Eight SSc patients and matched controls were queried about their GI dysmotility symptoms and quality of life (QoL) and underwent anorectal motility and sensory tests. Specific scoring systems were developed for anorectal symptoms and anorectal dysmotility. We found that (1) the SSc patients showed low QoL and marked overall GI symptoms. The most common anorectal symptom was incomplete bowel movement (50%). (2) Compared to normal controls, SSc patients showed impaired anorectal pressures, sensations, and rectal compliance (P  .01 for each). (3) The anorectal motility/sensation abnormality score was robustly correlated with the total anorectal symptom score (r(s) = .78, P = .02). In conclusion, scleroderma patients have impaired anorectal motor and sensory functions, and the abnormality score of these anorectal functions is correlated with the total anorectal symptoms score. These scoring systems may assist clinicians in predicting dysmotility based on patient symptoms.
A 54 year old lady presented with lethargy and 15kg weight loss over the past year. CT scan of the head revealed left temporal lobe hypodensity with a discrete area of hemorrhage within the left mesial temporal lobe. Due to concerns about impending central herniation, lumbar puncture was not performed. MRI of the brain showed a large lesion of the left temporal lobe, extending to the left frontal lobe, and very patchy meningeal enhancement. There was a noncontiguous lesion of the right insula. A differential diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) and multifocal infiltrative glioma was entertained. MR spectroscopy demonstrated an increased choline peak at the level of the medial left temporal lobe and MR perfusion demonstrated patchy areas of hyperperfusion within the left anterior temporal lobe, both suggestive of neoplastic disease. Following open brain biopsy, pathology revealed herpes simplex virus (HSV) positive nuclei in the cortex and subcortical white matter. As both herpes simplex encephalitis and low-grade glioma demontrate MRI findings of hypointensity on T1 images and hyperintensity on T2 images, the diagnosis of herpes encephalitis can be clouded by confounding factors, especially when cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cannot be obtained.
The aim of this study was to examine if atypical parkinsonism affects the communicative ability in conversational interaction. Fifteen persons close to individuals with atypical parkinsonism answered a questionnaire, &quot;Assessment of Change in Communicative Interaction&quot; (ACCI), estimating perceived change in interactive skills compared to before the onset of the disease. The study also examined if perceived change correlated with disease duration. The results showed that at group level, the participants experienced change in many aspects of conversational interaction, particularly regarding the affected person's speech, body communication, response latency, phrase length, word finding, and ability to make themselves understood. There was no correlation between perceived change and disease duration. In conclusion, results indicated that the communicative interaction of individuals with atypical parkinsonism is significantly affected and that information elicited from significant others can help define specific problem areas or foci of concern that need to be targeted in communicative intervention or at least considered in interaction with these persons.

Several studies suggest that a two-factor model positing internalizing and externalizing factors explains the interrelationships among psychiatric disorders. However, it is unclear whether the covariation between internalizing and externalizing disorders is due to common genetic or environmental influences. We examined whether a model positing two latent factors, internalizing and externalizing, explained the interrelationships among six psychiatric disorders (major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, separation anxiety disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct disorder) in adolescents, and whether there are common genetic and environmental influences on internalizing and externalizing latent factors. Multivariate behavior genetic analyses of data from 1162 twin pairs and 426 siblings ascertained from the general population via the Colorado Center for Antisocial Drug Dependence (CADD) were conducted. We found support for a model positing two latent factors (internalizing and externalizing). These factors were moderately heritable and influenced by significant common genetic and nonshared environmental influences. These findings suggest that co-occurrence of internalizing and externalizing psychopathology in adolescents results from both genetic and environmental influences.
To gain information from complex auditory scenes, it is necessary to determine which of the many loudness, pitch, and timbre changes originate from a single source. Grouping sound into sources based on spatial information is complicated by reverberant energy bouncing off multiple surfaces and reaching the ears from directions other than the source's location. The ability to localize sounds despite these echoes has been explored with the precedence effect: Identical sounds presented from two locations with a short stimulus onset asynchrony (e.g., 1-5 ms) are perceived as a single source with a location dominated by the lead sound. Importantly, echo thresholds, the shortest onset asynchrony at which a listener reports hearing the lag sound as a separate source about half of the time, can be manipulated by presenting sound pairs in contexts. Event-related brain potentials elicited by physically identical sounds in contexts that resulted in listeners reporting either one or two sources were compared. Sound pairs perceived as two sources elicited a larger anterior negativity 100-250 ms after onset, previously termed the object-related negativity, and a larger posterior positivity 250-500 ms. These results indicate that the models of room acoustics listeners form based on recent experience with the spatiotemporal properties of sound modulate perceptual as well as later higher-level processing.
The purpose of this communication is to report the results of a study indicating that a given magnitude of interaural intensitive disparity (IID) produced a larger extent of laterality, as measured via an acoustic pointer, for stimuli centered at 4 kHz than for stimuli centered at 500 Hz. The data and their analysis, taken together, suggest that the findings reflect true across-frequency differences rather than being manifestations of response-related factors.

Learning and memory impairments occurring with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are associated with degeneration of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs). BFCNs extend their axons to the hippocampus where they bind nerve growth factor (NGF) which is retrogradely transported to the cell body. While NGF is necessary for BFCN survival and function via binding to the high-affinity receptor TrkA, its uncleaved precursor, pro-NGF has been proposed to induce neurodegeneration via binding to the p75NTR and its coreceptor sortilin. Basal forebrain TrkA and NGF are downregulated with aging while pro-NGF is increased. Given these data, the focus of this paper was to determine a mechanism for how pro-NGF accumulation may induce BFCN degeneration. Twenty-four hours after a single injection of pro-NGF into hippocampus, we found increased hippocampal p75NTR levels, decreased hippocampal TrkA levels, and cholinergic degeneration. The data suggest that the increase in p75NTR with AD may be mediated by elevated pro-NGF levels as a result of decreased cleavage, and that pro-NGF may be partially responsible for age-related degenerative changes observed in the basal forebrain. This paper is the first in vivo evidence that pro-NGF can affect BFCNs and may do so by regulating expression of p75NTR neurotrophin receptors.

The Alzheimer research community is actively pursuing novel biomarker and other biologic measures to characterize disease progression or to use as outcome measures in clinical trials. One product of these efforts has been a large literature reporting power calculations and estimates of sample size for planning future clinical trials and cohort studies with longitudinal rate of change outcome measures. Sample size estimates reported in this literature vary greatly depending on a variety of factors, including the statistical methods and model assumptions used in their calculation. We review this literature and suggest standards for reporting power calculation results. Regardless of the statistical methods used, studies consistently find that volumetric neuroimaging measures of regions of interest, such as hippocampal volume, outperform global cognitive scales traditionally used in clinical treatment trials in terms of the number of subjects required to detect a fixed percentage slowing of the rate of change observed in demented and cognitively impaired populations. However, statistical methods, model assumptions, and parameter estimates used in power calculations are often not reported in sufficient detail to be of maximum utility. We review the factors that influence sample size estimates, and discuss outstanding issues relevant to planning longitudinal studies of Alzheimer's disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease involving the decline of memory and other cognitive functions. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents a transition phase between normal aging and early AD. The degeneration patterns of the white matter across the brain in AD and MCI remain largely unclear. Here we used diffusion tensor imaging and tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) to investigate white matter changes in multiple diffusion indices (e.g., fractional anisotropy, axial, radial and mean diffusivities) in both AD and MCI patients. Compared with the normal controls, the AD patients had reduced fractional anisotropy and increased axial, radial and mean diffusivities in widespread white matter structures, including the corpus callosum and the white matter of lateral temporal cortex, the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus and the fronto-parietal regions. Similar white matter regions with reduced anisotropy were also found in MCI patients but with a much less extent than in AD. Between the AD and MCI groups, there were significant differences in the axial and mean diffusivities of the white matter tracts adjacent to the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus without anisotropy changes. Taken together, our findings based upon multiple diffusion indices (FA, axial, radial and mean diffusivities) suggest distinct degeneration behaviors of the white matter in AD and MCI.
2-(1-{6-[(2-[fluorine-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}-ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP) is the first positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging probe to visualize Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in living humans. The most unique features of FDDNP are that (1) it is the only currently available radiotracer to image neurofibrillary tangles, beside amyloid aggregates, in living humans; and (2) it is also the only radiotracer to visualize AD pathology in the hippocampal region of living humans. In this article, we discuss FDDNP's unique ability to image tau pathology in living humans. Emphasizing tau pathology imaging capability using FDDNP in AD, as well as other tauopathies, is timely and beneficial considering that (1) post mortem histopathological studies using human specimens have consistently demonstrated that neurofibrillary tangles, compared with amyloid plaques, are better correlated with the disease severity and neuronal death; and (2) recently reported clinical trial failures of disease-modifying drugs in development, based on the amyloid-cascade hypothesis, suggest that some of the basic assumptions of AD causality warrant reassessment and redirection.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a common early-onset dementia, which shows highly heterogeneous phenotypic presentations. Although an autosomal dominant transmission can be found only in about 10% cases, familial aggregation is frequently observed in FTLD. Recently, the progranulin gene (GRN) was reported to be involved in the disease pathogenesis. We describe two clinically different, apparently sporadic FTLD cases, sharing the previously described GRN mutation g.11019_11022delCACT (relative to nt1, NCBI NG_007886.1), alias Thr272fs, with a premorbid psychiatric history. Both patients are males and were in their sixties when diagnosed clinically with, respectively, the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA). In both cases, the medical history revealed the presence of bipolar spectrum disorders. Mutations in GRN are considered to be a major cause of FTLD. However, the phenotypes associated with these mutations are highly variable. Our description of two novel FTLD genetic cases confirms the high frequency of the g.11019_11022delCACT mutation in Northern Italy. On this basis, we recommend to consider the presence of this mutation as a possible cause of the disease, particularly in patients with premorbid psychiatric symptoms.
This study describes late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) in the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage, debuting with seizures in a 72 year-old woman. Prodromal AD was consistently diagnosed with four among amyloidosis and neurodegeneration biomarkers about 1 year after onset of seizures. Genetic assessment demonstrated apolipoprotein E 2/3 genotype and three intronic single nucleotide substitutions, two in presenilin 1 and one in amyloid- protein precursor genes. This case of seizures at onset of LOAD with severe signs of brain amyloidosis and neurodegeneration but with just MCI leads to a re-appraisal of the intriguing relationship between AD pathology and neuron excitability in humans.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is multi-factorial mental disorder characterized by a copious array of congruent features cumulating in disrupted memory and dysthymia. Though the mechanism remains elusive, the highly unspecific pharmaceutical, memantine, provides modest benefits for patients with moderate-to-severe AD. A greater understanding of how memantine affects cognitive function promises to facilitate the search for better therapeutics. We therefore examined cognitive flexibility of mice following 5 and 10 mg/kg memantine administration using a platform re-location water maze. Strikingly, subjects receiving memantine demonstrated memory impairment relative to controls when re-trained off drug, revealing a novel and unusual disruption of cognitive flexibility.
Cerebral amyloid- (A) deposition is a critical feature of Alzheimer's disease. A is derived from the amyloid- protein precursor (APP) via two sequential cleavages that are mediated by -secretase and the -secretase complex. Such amyloidogenic APP processing occurs in lipid raft microdomains of cell membranes and it is thought that modulating the distribution of lipids in rafts may regulate APP processing and A production. Certain ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters regulate lipid transport across cell membranes and, as recent studies reveal, within membrane microdomains. ABCA1 also regulates A metabolism in the brain although its direct impact on APP remains an open question. Here we assessed the capacity of three ABCA1 mutants (that do not promote lipid efflux) to modulate APP processing. Unexpectedly, these non-functional mutants also reduced A production similar to wild type ABCA1. ABCA1 expression did not alter APP localization in lipid rafts, and co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicated ABCA1 and APP physically interact. These data suggest that ABCA1 may regulate APP processing independent of its impact on membrane lipid homeostasis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are intertwined by mixed dementia (MD) harboring varying degrees of AD pathology in combination with cerebrovascular disease. The aim was to assess whether there is a difference in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) profile, of selected proteins, between patients with VaD and MD with subcortical vascular disease (SVD), AD, and healthy controls that could contribute in the separation of the groups. The study included 30 controls, 26 SVD patients (9 VaD and 17 MD) and 30 AD patients. The protein panel included total tau (T-tau), hyperphosphorylated tau 181 (P-tau(181)), amyloid  1-42 (A(1-42)), neurofilament light (NF-L), myelin basic protein (MBP), heart fatty acid binding protein (H-FABP), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1, -2, -3, -9, and -10), and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1 and -2). Immunochemical methods were utilized for quantification of the proteins in CSF and data analysis was performed with a multivariate discriminant algorithm. The concentrations of MBP, TIMP-1, P-tau(181), NF-L, T-tau, MMP-9, A(1-42), and MMP-2 contributed the most to the separation between SVD and AD, with a sensitivity of 89% and a specificity of 90% (AUC = 0.92). MBP and NF-L performed the best in discriminating SVD from controls, while T-tau and A(1-42) contributed the most in segregating AD from controls. The CSF biomarkers reflecting AD pathology (T-tau, P-tau(181), and A(1-42)), white matter lesions (NF-L and MBP) and matrix remodeling (MMP-9 and TIMP-1) perform well in differentiating between SVD and AD patients.
Adult neurogenesis, the production of new neurons in certain brain regions, is known to decrease with age and the loss of neurogenic potential has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), a leading cause of dementia in the elderly. Cerebrolysin (CBL) has been shown to increase neurogenesis in models of stroke and AD. CBL is composed of small peptides with activity similar to neurotrophic factors including ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), which may mediate its neurogenic effects. This study compares the effects of CBL and two peptides with corresponding to an active region of CNTF (Peptide 6 and 6A) across neurogenic brain regions in amyloid- protein precursor (APP) transgenic (tg) mice. Both CBL and Peptides 6 and 6A were able to increase the numbers of neuroblasts (DCX+ cells) and BrdU+ cells in a regionally specific manner across the subventricular zone, olfactory bulb, and hippocampus. The increased generation of new cells and cell survival in animals treated with Peptides 6 and 6A was accompanied by an increase in PCNA+ cells. In contrast, APP tg mice treated with CBL displayed reduced levels of TUNEL staining, while levels of PCNA were unaltered. Collectively these results demonstrate that while CBL and Peptides 6 and 6A all potentiate neurogenesis in the APP tg mice, their relative modes of action may differ with CBL associated with reduced apoptosis and Peptides 6 and 6A working by augmenting cell proliferation. These results are consistent with a potential therapeutic relevance for Peptides 6 and 6A in AD and other disorders characterized by neurogenic deficits.
Memory complaints are frequent in the elderly but its implications in cognition over time remain a controversial issue. Our objective was to evaluate the risk of self perceived memory complaints in the evolution for future dementia. The LADIS (Leukoaraiosis and Disability) prospective multinational European study evaluates the impact of white matter changes (WMC) on the transition of independent elderly subjects into disability. Independent elderly were enrolled due to the presence of WMC. Subjects were evaluated yearly during 3 years with a comprehensive clinical protocol and a neuropsychological battery. Dementia and subtypes of dementia were classified. Self perceived memory complaints in independent elderly were collected during the interview. MRI was performed at entry and at the end of the study. 639 subjects were included (74.1  5 years old, 55% women, 9.6  3.8 years of schooling). At end of follow-up, 90 patients were demented (vascular dementia, 54; Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD with vascular component, 34; frontotemporal dementia, 2). Using Cox regression analysis, we found that self perceived memory complaints were a strong predictor of AD and AD with vascular component during the follow-up ( = 2.7, p = 0.008; HR = 15.5, CI 95% [2.04, 117.6]), independently of other confounders, namely depressive symptoms, WMC severity, medial temporal lobe atrophy, and global cognition status at baseline. Self perceived memory complaints did not predict vascular dementia. In the LADIS study, self perceived memory complaints predicted AD but not vascular dementia in elderly subjects with WMC living independently.
The microtubule associated protein tau plays a crucial role in Alzheimer's disease and in many neurodegenerative disorders collectively known as tauopathies. Recently, tau pathology has been also documented in prion diseases although the possible molecular events linking these two proteins are still unknown. We have investigated the fate of normal cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) in primary cortical neurons overexpressing tau protein. We found that overexpression of tau reduces PrP(C) expression at the cell surface and causes its accumulation and aggregation in the cell body but does not affect its maturation and glycosylation. Trapped PrP(C) forms detergent-insoluble aggregates, mainly composed of un-glycosylated and mono-glycosylated forms of prion protein. Interestingly, co-transfection of tau gene in cortical neurons with a proteasome activity reporter, consisting of a short peptide degron fused to the carboxyl-terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP-CL1), results in down-regulation of the proteasome system, suggesting a possible mechanism that contributes to intracellular PrP(C) accumulation. These findings open a new perspective for the possible crosstalk between tau and prion proteins in the pathogenesis of tau induced-neurodegeneration.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) is a broadly expressed transmembrane protein that is often mutated in familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to its role in amyloid production, PS1 interacts with several protein partners, including the neural plakophilin-related armadillo protein (NPRAP or -catenin). Although studies have suggested that NPRAP affects cell adhesion, other data suggest that it can modulate gene expression. To investigate the transcriptional effects of NPRAP, we over-expressed NPRAP and measured gene expression using a microarray. We found that multiple genes, including BCHE, which has been linked to AD, were regulated by NPRAP. Furthermore, we showed that NPRAP nuclear translocation was required for gene regulation. Our results implicate NPRAP as a brain-specific signaling molecule with distinct roles at the cell junction and the nucleus.
Amyloid plaques in the brains are the pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid- (A), the central component of amyloid plaques, is generated from amyloid- protein precursor (APP), following - and -secretase cleavage. The molecular mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of AD is still unknown and there has been no effective treatment for AD. Clinical data showed that brain cerebral perfusion of most AD patients was reduced before memory and cognitive impairment incurred. Hypoxia is the direct consequence of hypoperfusion. Improving oxygen supply in the brain might exert potential effective influence on AD pathology. Normobaric hyperoxia (NBO), in addition to serving as a tool for enhancement of oxygen delivery, was protective in recent experimental and clinical pilot studies as well. In the present study, we evaluated the potential neuroprotective effects of NBO on behavioral deficits and neuropathology in AD. Morris water maze tests showed that NBO treatment notably improved the spatial learning and memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. Immunohistochemical and thioflavin S staining showed that NBO treatment significantly decreased A deposition and neuritic plaques formation in the cortex and hippocampus of APP/PS1 transgenic mice. Immunoblotting and ELISA assay revealed that NBO treatment reduced A production by inhibiting -secretase cleavage of APP. Our study suggests that NBO may have a potential therapeutic effect at the early stage of AD.
Increased oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A large body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction and increased reactive oxygen species occur prior to amyloid- (A) deposition. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), a component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, is well characterized as a neuroprotective antioxidant in animal models and human trials of Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease, and reduces plaque burden in APP/PS1 mice. We now show that CoQ10 reduces oxidative stress and amyloid pathology and improves behavioral performance in the Tg19959 mouse model of AD. CoQ10 treatment decreased brain levels of protein carbonyls, a marker of oxidative stress. CoQ10 treatment resulted in decreased plaque area and number in hippocampus and in overlying cortex immunostained with an A42-specific antibody. Brain A42 levels were also decreased by CoQ10 supplementation. Levels of amyloid- protein precursor (APP) -carboxyterminal fragments were decreased. Importantly, CoQ10-treated mice showed improved cognitive performance during Morris water maze testing. Our results show decreased pathology and improved behavior in transgenic AD mice treated with the naturally occurring antioxidant compound CoQ10. CoQ10 is well tolerated in humans and may be promising for therapeutic trials in AD.
Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its earliest stages becomes increasingly important as disease modifying agents are being developed. In this area of research, many clinical and neuroimaging studies focus on markers of hippocampal dysfunction. However, during the &quot;transentorhinal stage&quot; of AD, neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), related to tau protein pathology, develop in the anterior subhippocampal (perirhinal/entorhinal) cortex before the hippocampus. NFT are tightly correlated with clinical symptoms. Therefore, an accurate understanding of the behavioral correlate of transentorhinal dysfunction could critically contribute to the early diagnosis of the disease. Recent findings from studies in animals and human brain-damaged patients suggest that the anterior subhippocampal region, functionally integrated into an anterior mesiotemporal network, is involved in object based context-free memory. In this article, we evaluate the hypothesis according to which tau deposition in the anterior subhippocampal region during the earliest stages of the most common form of AD, with predominant MTL dysfunction, will lead to dysfunction of neural networks implicated in context-free memory. We challenge the view that impaired episodic memory is the hallmark of early AD. Instead, a model that integrates the localization and temporal sequence of NFT within the mesial temporal lobe (MTL) is proposed. Paralleling the development of NFT in anterior subhippocampal areas, impaired context-free, object-based, memory could be the first detectable sign in AD. In a subsequent, &quot;hippocampal&quot; stage, context-rich, episodic and spatial memory, becomes altered as well. The question as to the &quot;episodic&quot; nature of &quot;episodic memory tasks&quot; is also addressed.
Aside from being an integral protein involved in the synthesis and hydrolysis of ATP, Ecto-F1-ATPase plays a role in cholesterol homeostasis. We demonstrated the presence of autoantibodies to ecto-F1-ATPase (ASabs) in sera and cerebrospinal fluids from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Herein we show that ASabs, unlike irrelevant antibodies, can increase cellular uptake of HDL, a risk factor for the development of AD, via a mechanism involving the prototypical function of ecto-F1-ATPase: the generation of ADP due to the hydrolysis of ATP. Piceatannol, a specific inhibitor ecto-F1-ATPase, completely hindered these effects. We hypothesize that ASabs could exert a pathogenetic role in AD.
The aim of this study was to predict cognitive performance on the basis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers total tau (T-tau) and amyloid- (A) in controls and patients at various impairment levels. Previous studies have found an association of CSF T-tau levels with cognitive symptoms, but it has been difficult to relate A to cognition, and it has thus been hypothesized that A reaches a plateau level prior to cognitive symptoms. A comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests was subjected to factor analysis to yield aggregated cognitive domains. Linear regression models were performed for the total sample of the Gothenburg MCI study (n = 435) and for each level of impairment. A and T-tau accounted for a significant proportion of performance in all cognitive domains in the total sample. In controls (n = 60) and patients with subjective cognitive impairment (n = 105), A predicted a significant proportion of semantic and working memory performance. For patients with mild cognitive impairment (n = 170), T-tau had the most pronounced impact across cognitive domains, and more specifically on episodic memory, visuospatial, and speed/executive performance. For patients with dementia (n = 100), the most pronounced impacts of A were found in episodic memory and visuospatial functioning, while T-tau was substantially associated with episodic memory. Our results suggest that cognition is related to CSF biomarkers regardless of impairment level. A is associated with cognitive functions from a potentially early to a later disease phase, and T-tau is more indicative of performance in a later disease phase.
Dysregulation of histone acetylation has been implicated in the onset of age-associated memory impairment and the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Elevation of histone acetylation via administration of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors is currently being pursued as a novel therapeutic avenue to treat memory impairment linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we show that severe amyloid pathology correlates with a pronounced dysregulation of histone acetylation in the forebrain of APPPS1-21 mice. Importantly, prolonged treatment with the pan-HDAC inhibitor sodium butyrate improved associative memory in APPPS1-21 mice even when administered at a very advanced stage of pathology. The recovery of memory function correlated with elevated hippocampal histone acetylation and increased expression of genes implicated in associative learning. These data advance our understanding of the potential applicability of HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of AD and suggest that HDAC inhibitors may have beneficial effects even when administered long after the onset of disease-associated symptoms.
We review studies testing performance on tasks putatively tapping spatial memory in the Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This model exhibits age-dependent elevation of amyloid- in the hippocampal formation and elsewhere in the brain. From 49 articles in all, we reviewed Tg2576 performance on five spatial memory tasks: the reference memory version of the Morris water maze, continuous Y-maze alternation, discrete forced-choice T-maze alternation, the radial arm water maze, and the circular platform maze (Barnes maze). Proportionally, the likelihood of detecting significant impairment in Tg2576 mice (relative to age-matched controls) was found to be: highest with the use of T-maze alternation and the radial arm water maze; intermediate when using the Morris water maze and continuous Y-maze alternation; and lowest when using the circular platform maze. These results are indicative rather than conclusive, but have implications for testing cognitive function in Tg2576 mice and, potentially, other AD rodent models. The apparent sensitivity of the T-maze alternation task and reduced sensitivity of the Morris water maze task (reference memory version) are discussed. We also consider limitations and potential improvements in assessing cognitive impairment in dementia models.

Medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy is considered to be one of the most important predictors of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates whether atrophy in parietal and prefrontal areas increases the predictive value of MTL atrophy in three groups of different cognitive status. Seventy-five older adults were classified as cognitively stable (n = 38) or cognitively declining (n = 37) after three years follow-up. At follow-up, the grey matter of the MTL, inferior prefrontal cortex (IPC), and inferior parietal lobule (IPL) was delineated on MRI scans. Six years later, a dementia assessment resulted in distinguishing and separating a third group (n = 9) who can be considered as preclinical AD cases at scan time. Ordinal logistic regressions analysis showed that the left and right MTL, as well as the right IPC and IPL accurately predicted group membership. Receiver Operating Curves showed that the MTL was best in distinguishing cognitively stable from cognitively declining individuals. The accuracy of the differentiation between preclinical AD and cognitively stable participants improved when MTL and IPL volumes were combined, while differentiating preclinical AD and cognitively declined participants was accomplished most accurately by the combined volume of all three areas. We conclude that depending on the current cognitive status of an individual, adding IPL or IPC atrophy improved the accuracy of predicting conversion to AD by up to 22%. Diagnosis of preclinical AD may lead to more false positive outcomes if only the MTL atrophy is considered.
The enzyme -secretase (BACE1) is essentially involved in the production of cerebral amyloidogenic pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The measurement of BACE1 activity in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has been reported, which may render CSF measurement of BACE1 a potential biomarker candidate of AD. In order to investigate whether BACE1 protein activity is correlated with regional brain atrophy in AD, we investigated the association between CSF levels of BACE1 and MRI-assessed hippocampus volume in patients with AD (n = 30). An increase in CSF-BACE1 activity was associated with decreased left and right hippocampus volume corrected for global head volume in the AD patients. Boot-strapped regression analysis showed that increased CSF levels of BACE1 activity were associated with increased CSF concentration of total tau but not amyloid-1-42 in AD. White matter hyperintensities did not influence the results. BACE1 activity and protein levels were significantly increased in AD compared to 19 elderly healthy controls. Thus, the CSF biomarker candidate of BACE1 activity was associated with hippocampus atrophy in AD in a robust manner and may reflect neurotoxic amyloid--related processes.
The past two decades have seen an explosion in funding and research for Alzheimer's disease (AD), which has resulted in a wealth of data exploring the potential underlying processes, particularly with regard to amyloid- (A). However, to date, therapies based on this knowledge have not been forthcoming. In seeking an explanation for our current pharmacological failures, it has become clear that amyloid is only one part of a multi-factorial disease process incorporating a wealth of deleterious factors. Additionally, there is strong evidence that the initial production of A is part of the evolutionarily conserved stress response, triggered by a host of upstream factors highly altered in aging. Taken together, these observations place A in a drastically different context, with toxicity occurring secondarily to upstream deleterious factors and rendering current therapeutic strategies oversimplified. This re-conceptualization necessitates a paradigm shift in our scientific and social response to AD, placing a greater emphasis on upstream interventions and public health awareness of the measures that can be taken by most individuals to reduce the risk of AD. With the increasing prevalence of AD and the realization that disease-modifying drugs may not be available in the near future, it is the responsibility of science to better communicate the worth of preventative healthcare measures to the public.
Aging is the best-known risk factor for many disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effect of epigenetic modulation of gene expression on normal aging and in pathological conditions is still unclear, but it is likely it may explain some of the complexity that is characteristic of these processes. Caffeine is a widely consumed psychoactive drug, which is emerging as a protective agent against AD progression and in aging associated deficits. This occurs mainly through the blockade of adenosine A2A receptors, whose expression and function become aberrant throughout aging and in age-related pathologies. Here, we discuss the data supporting the effects of caffeine in AD, focusing on adenosine A2A receptors and epigenetic modulation of gene expression. In addition, we speculate on the potential of caffeine as an epigenetic modulator and the consequences it might have for preventive and therapeutic applications of caffeine in AD.
We here describe the study-design major findings from the neuropathological component of the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Aging Study (MRC CFAS). MRC CFAS is a population-representative study of aging and health including more than 18000 participants at baseline. More than 500 brain donations were accrued to date and have been subjected to comprehensive pathological assessment. This resource enables a thorough epidemiological description of the neuropathology associated with dementia in the UK. Results to date reveal a high prevalence of mixed Alzheimer and vascular pathology, a significant population who die with dementia but with a more limited pathological burden than is traditionally associated with dementia, and a group who die with a significant pathological burden yet remained cognitively intact until death. This dissociation between pathology and dementia increases with increasing age. Further studies have described the distribution and etiology of neurodegenerative disease in the population, and determined pathological correlates of cognitive impairment and dementia. Brain donation programs linked to epidemiological studies provide an invaluable resource for describing the pathological correlates of dementia in a way that is representative of the population, thereby identifying targets for and assessing the likely effect of therapeutic and preventive interventions.
In addition to its function in calcium and bone metabolism, vitamin D is neuroprotective and important for mitigating inflammation. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system, characterized by neuronal loss in many areas of the brain, and the formation of senile (neuritic) plaques, which increase in number and size over time. The goal of this project was to investigate whether vitamin D3 supplementation would affect amyloid plaque formation in amyloid- protein precursor (APP) transgenic mice that spontaneously develop amyloid plaques within 3-4 months of birth. APP mice were fed control, vitamin D3-deficient or vitamin D3-enriched diets for five months, starting immediately after weaning. At the end of the study, the animals were subjected to behavioral studies, sacrificed, and examined for bone changes and brain amyloid load, amyloid- (A) peptide levels, inflammatory changes, and nerve growth factor (NGF) content. The results obtained indicate that a vitamin D3-enriched diet correlates with a decrease in the number of amyloid plaques, a decrease in A peptides, a decrease in inflammation, and an increase in NGF in the brains of APP mice. These observations suggest that a vitamin D3-enriched diet may benefit AD patients.
Despite the profound burden of Alzheimer's disease (AD) on public health, research to understand its underlying pathology has not yet produced new therapeutic approaches to improve symptoms or halt disease progression. AD is characterized by early cognitive deficits, particularly in short-term memory, followed by a gradual decline in other cognitive functions. Functional imaging studies indicate that hippocampal and medial temporal lobe cortices are the sites of early pathology underlying the initial memory impairments. Behaviors that rely on hippocampal integrity have been the focus of extensive research using animal models and represent useful functional endpoints in pre-clinical AD research. In this review, we argue that relevant information can be derived from studying normal, aging animals performing hippocampal-sensitive tasks. Because age is the greatest risk factor for developing clinical AD, the aspects of cognitive decline occurring in normal, aging animals that resemble those seen in aging humans are reliable endpoints that can be applied to improving human therapies. Ultimately, pre-clinical studies that employ tasks sensitive to hippocampal function can be applied toward novel hypotheses in AD intervention and could provide important insights for developing early detection devices for AD patients.
Levels of tau in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are elevated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. It is believed this elevation is related to the tau pathology and neurodegeneration observed in AD, but not all tauopathies have increased CSF tau. There has been little pre-clinical work to investigate mechanisms of increased CSF tau due to the difficulty in collecting CSF samples from mice, the most commonly used pre-clinical models. We developed methods to collect CSF from mice without contamination from tau in brain tissue, which is approximately 50,000 fold more abundant in brain than CSF. Using these methods, we measured CSF tau from 3xTg, Tg4510, and Tau Alone transgenic mice. All three lines of mice showed age-dependent increases in CSF tau. They varied in phenotype from undetectable to severe tau pathology and neurodegeneration, suggesting that degenerating neurons are unlikely to be the only source of pathologic CSF tau. Overall, CSF tau levels mirrored expression levels and changes of tau in the brain, but they did not always correlate exactly. CSF tau was often more sensitive to changes in brain transgene expression and pathology. In addition, we also developed ELISA assays specific to different regions of the tau protein. We used these assays to provide evidence that CSF tau exists as fragments, with little intact C-terminus and partial loss of the N-terminus. Taken together, these assays and mouse models may be used to facilitate a deeper understanding of CSF tau in neurodegenerative disease.
Oxidative stress is a metabolic condition arising from imbalance between the production of potentially reactive oxygen species and the scavenging activities. Mitochondria are the main providers but also the main scavengers of cell oxidative stress. The role of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases is well documented. Therefore, therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage hold great promise in neurodegenerative diseases. Despite this evidence, human experience with antioxidant neuroprotectants has generally been negative with regards to the clinical progress of disease, with unclear results in biochemical assays. Here we review the antioxidant approaches performed so far in neurodegenerative diseases and the future challenges in modern medicine.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is by far the main cause of dementia in the aged population. Because the amyloid- peptide (A) is the main component of senile plaques that develop in the brain of affected patients, numerous studies aimed at preventing its production or aggregation were conducted during the past 25 years. The inhibition of A production via pharmacological inhibition of - and -secretases is, with vaccination, one of the two main current challenges aimed at curing AD. However, the fact that there exist numerous substrates of these two activities renders this approach problematic since treatments with - or -secretase inhibitors can cause deleterious effects. An alternative to the inhibition of the amyloidogenic enzymes would be to activate the -secretase processing of APP. This cleavage is performed by two members of the disintegrin family of metalloproteases (ADAM10 and ADAM17). It is noteworthy that this cleavage can be seen as doubly beneficial regarding AD since it both occurs in the middle of the A sequence and triggers the release of the neuroprotective sAPP product. However, similarly to - and -secretases, ADAM10 and ADAM17 are responsible for the cleavage of a large number of proteins, the processing of some of them being tightly associated with important physiological functions but also with severe pathologies. This review focuses on our current knowledge of the various natural or synthetic compounds able to trigger -secretase activities and on the possible ways to circumvent the deleterious side effects that would result from their broad activation.
Platelets are a major peripheral reservoir of the amyloid- protein precursor, so they have been considered as a potential biological marker of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, it is demonstrated that tau protein is also present in platelets and that the levels of oligomeric species of this protein could serve as a novel and reliable biological marker for AD. Blood samples were obtained from 15 AD patients and 10 paired-age controls and platelets were separated via differential centrifugation. The purity of platelets was determined by flow cytometry and microscopy and the presence of tau was determined by immunofluorescence and immunoblots with tau specific antibodies. Immunofuorescence and immunoblot patterns of platelets were positive for tau. Immunoblots also showed the presence of high molecular weight (HMW) variants of tau that appeared to correspond to oligomeric forms of the protein. The ratio of HMW tau respect to tau monomeric species was significantly higher in AD patients than controls. The present is the first description of the presence of tau in platelets. The analysis of different tau fractions in platelets could serve as a new biological marker for AD.
We have previously reported that the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor- (PPAR) regulates the transcription of -secretase (BACE1), a key enzyme involved in amyloid- (A) generation. Here, we aimed to investigate the role of PPAR coactivator-1 (PGC-1), which controls major metabolic functions through the co-activation of PPAR and other transcription factors. Western blotting experiments with nuclear extracts from brain cortex of AD cases and controls showed a reduction in the levels of PGC-1 in AD patients. PGC-1 overexpression in N2a neuroblastoma cells induced a decrease in the levels of secreted A and an increase in the levels of non-amyloidogenic soluble APP. The decrease in A after exogenous expression of PGC-1 was a consequence of reduced BACE1 expression and transcription, together with a decrease in BACE1 promoter activity. In addition, we detected a significant reduction in -secretase activity by measuring the levels of -carboxy terminus fragment (-CTFs) and by using a commercial assay for -secretase. In contrast, down-regulation of PGC-1 levels by transfection with PGC-1 siRNA increased BACE1 expression. These effects appeared to be dependent on PPAR, because PGC-1 did not affect A and BACE1 levels in N2a cells transfected with PPAR siRNA or in PPAR knockout fibroblasts. In conclusion, since PGC-1 appears to decrease A generation, therapeutic modulation of PGC-1 could have real potential as a treatment for AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease associated with senile amyloid- (A) plaques, neuronal death, and cognitive decline. Neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, which is notably affected by progressive neurodegeneration and A pathology, is implicated in learning and memory regulation. Human postmortem brains of AD patients and APP/PS1 double transgenic mice show increased neurodegeneration. Leptin, an adipose-derived hormone, promotes neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, but the way in which this process occurs in the AD brain is still unknown. Thus, we sought to determine if leptin stimulated the proliferation of neuronal precursors in APP/PS1 mice. We estimated the number proliferating hippocampal cells after intracerebroventricular administration of a lentiviral vector encoding leptin. After 3 months of treatment with leptin we observed an increase in the number of BrdU-positive cells in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, as shown by morphometric analysis. This increase resulted mainly from an increased proliferation of neuronal precursors. Additionally, leptin led to an attenuation of A-induced neurodegeneration, as revealed by Fluoro-Jade staining. Our results suggest that in APP/PS1 mice, leptin exerts changes resembling acute neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects. These effects could serve as the basis for the design of future treatment strategies in AD.
Studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) strongly support the hypothesis that amyloid- (A) deposition in the brain is the initiating event in the progression of AD. A peptides easily form long insoluble amyloid fibrils, which accumulate in deposits known as senile plaques. On the other hand, recent work indicated that soluble A oligomers, rather than monomers or insoluble A fibrils, might be responsible for neuronal and synaptic dysfunction in AD. Curcumin, a low molecular weight yellow-orange pigment derived from the turmeric plant, has shown therapeutic effects in transgenic mouse models of AD. However, it remains unclear whether curcumin interacts directly with the A oligomers. This study investigated any interaction between curcumin and A oligomers such as globulomer and A-derived diffusible ligand (ADDL). Globulomer was observed as a cluster of spherical structures by electron microscopic analysis, and ADDL was also detected as small spherical structures. Fluorescence analysis revealed a significant increase in the fluorescence of curcumin when reacted with both oligomers. Furthermore quartz crystal microbalance analysis showed significant frequency decreases in oligomer-immobilized electrodes following the addition of curcumin. These results strongly suggested that curcumin binds to A oligomers and to A fibrils. The association of curcumin with A oligomers may contribute to the therapeutic effect on AD. Based on these findings, curcumin could provide the basis of a novel concept in AD therapies targeting A oligomers.
Abnormal amyloid- (A) production and deposition is believed to represent one of the main causes of Alzheimer's disease (AD). -Secretase is the enzymatic complex responsible for A generation from its precursor protein. Inhibition or modulation of -secretase represents an attractive therapeutic approach. CHF5074 is a new -secretase modulator that has been shown to inhibit brain plaque deposition and to attenuate memory deficit in adult AD transgenic mice after chronic treatment. To date, it is not known whether the positive behavioral effects of this compound also occur in young transgenic mice without plaque deposition. Here, we evaluated the effects of acute and subchronic treatment with CHF5074 on contextual and recognition memory and on hippocampal synaptic plasticity in plaque-free Tg2576 mice. We found that at 5 months of age, contextual memory impairment was significantly attenuated after acute subcutaneous administration of 30 mg/kg CHF5074. At 6 months of age, recognition memory impairment was fully reversed after a 4-week oral treatment in the diet (60 mg/kg/day). These cognitive effects were associated with a reversal of long-term potentiation (LTP) impairment in the hippocampus. A significant reduction in brain intraneuronal APP/A levels and hyperphosphorylated tau, but no change in soluble or oligomeric A levels was detected in Tg2576 mice showing functional recovery following CHF5074 treatment. We conclude that the beneficial effects of CHF5074 treatment in young transgenic mice occurred at a stage that precedes plaque formation and were associated with a reduction in intraneuronal APP/A and hyperphosphorylated tau.
The most recent late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) genome-wide association study revealed genome-wide significant association of two new loci: rs744373 near BIN1 (p = 1.6  10-11) and rs597668 near EXOC3L2/BLOC1S3/MARK4 (p = 6.5  10-9). We have genotyped these variants in a large (3,287 LOAD, 4,396 controls), independent dataset comprising eleven case-control series from the USA and Europe. We performed meta-analyses of the association of these variants with LOAD and also tested for association using logistic regression adjusted by age-at-diagnosis, gender, and APOE 4 status. Meta-analysis results showed no evidence of series heterogeneity and logistic regression analysis successfully replicated the association of BIN1 (rs744373) with LOAD with an odds ratio (OR = 1.17, p = 1.1  10-4) comparable to that previously reported (OR = 1.15). The variant near EXOC3L2 (rs597668) showed only suggestive association with LOAD (p = 0.09) after correcting for the presence of the APOE 4 allele. Addition of our follow-up data to the results previously reported increased the strength of evidence for association with BIN1 (11,825 LOAD, 32,570 controls, rs744373 Fisher combined p = 3.8  10-20). We also tested for epistatic interaction between these variants and APOE 4 as well as with the previously replicated LOAD GWAS genes (CLU: rs11136000, CR1: rs3818361, and PICALM: rs3851179). No significant interactions between these genes were detected. In summary, we provide additional evidence for the variant near BIN1 (rs744373) as a LOAD risk modifier, but our results indicate that the effect of EXOC3L2 independent of APOE 4 should be studied further.
Ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (vCSF) obtained at autopsy from 230 participants in the Religious Orders Study was analyzed for alpha tocopherol (T, vitamin E) and gamma tocopherol (T) in relation to brain tissue neuropathological diagnoses (NIA-Reagan criteria); neuritic plaque density and neurofibrillary tangle state (Braak stage); and cognitive function proximate to death. Neither vCSF T nor T was related to the pathological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, but vCSF T concentration was inversely related to neuritic plaque density ( = -0.21, SE = 0.105, p = 0.04) in regression models adjusted for age, gender, education, and APOE-4. Ventricular CSF T concentration was positively associated with perceptual speed ( = 0.27, SE = 0.116, p = 0.02) whereas the T/T ratio was negatively associated with episodic memory ( = -0.037, SE = 0.017, p = 0.04). Only vCSF T, but not T, was correlated with postmortem interval (PMI). Adjustment for PMI had no effect on significance of associations between T and perceptual speed or T/T and episodic memory, but after this adjustment the T concentration was no longer significantly associated with neuritic plaques. These data suggest that vCSF T, but not T, is weakly associated with less Alzheimer's disease neuropathology, specifically neuritic plaques, and correlates with better performance on tests of perceptual speed.
Sigma-1 receptor agonists have recently attracted much attention as potential therapeutic drugs for cognitive and affective disorders, however, it is still unclear whether they act via modulation of transmitter release or activation of sigma-1 receptors in memory-related brain regions. In the present study,we have investigated the anti-amnesic and neuroprotective actions of the compound (-)-methyl (1S,2R)-2-{[1-adamantyl(methyl)amino]methyl}-1-phenylcyclopropane-carboxylate) [(-)-MR22],a selective sigma-1 receptor agonist able to protect cultured cortical neurons from amyloid toxicity. To this aim, cognitive deficits, cholinergic loss, and amyloid peptide accumulation were obtained in the rat by simultaneous injections of a selective immunotoxin and pre-aggregated amyloid peptide into the basal forebrain and the hippocampus, respectively. At about fivesix weeks post-lesion, the double-lesioned animals exhibited dramatic deficits in spatial learning and memory, whereas animals with single injections of either compound were not or only marginally affected, in spite of equally severe cholinergic loss oramyloid deposition. Administration of (-)-MR22 appeared to reverse cognitive impairments in double lesioned animals, whereas pre-treatment with the selective sigma-1 antagonist BD1047 abolished this effect. Moreover, (-)-MR22 normalized the levels of cell-associated amyloid- protein precursor (APP) in the neocortex and hippocampus, thus sustaining a non-amyloidogenic APP processing. By contrast, treatment with (-)-MR22 produced no effects whatsoever in intact animals. Thus, sigma-1 receptor agonists such as (-)-MR22 may ameliorate perturbed cognitive abilities and exert a protective action onto target neurons, holding promises as viable tools for memory enhancement and neuroprotection.
Patients with Alzheimers disease (AD) experience a brain network breakdown, reflecting disconnection at both the structural and functional system level. Resting-state (RS) functional MRI (fMRI) studies demonstrated that the regional coherence of the fMRI signal is significantly altered in patients with AD and amnestic mild cognitive impairment. Diffusion tensor (DT) MRI has made it possible to track fiber bundle projections across the brain, revealing a substantially abnormal interplay of critical white matter tracts in these conditions. The observed agreement between the results of RS fMRI and DT MRI tractography studies in healthy individuals is encouraging and offers interesting hypotheses to be tested in patients with AD, a MCI, and other dementias in order to improve our understanding of their pathobiology in vivo. In this review,we describe the major findings obtained in AD using RS fMRI and DT MRI tractography, and discuss how the relationship between structure and function of the brain networks in AD may be better understood through the application of MR-based technology. This research endeavor holds a great promise in clarifying the mechanisms of cognitive decline in complex chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
Amyloid- (A) peptides, 36-43 amino acids in length, are produced from - and -secretase cleavage of the amyloid- protein precursor (APP), and are one of the causative agents of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we show that an ELISA can detect total rodent A without interference from physiological concentrations of human A. In cultured dissociated rat cortical neurons and rat and mouse hippocampal organotypic slices, we apply the assay to measure the production of A in response to treatment with hydrogen peroxide, a known stimulator of A secretion, or human A dimer/trimer (Ad/t), fractionated from the culture medium of 7PA2 cells. Peroxide increases A secretion by about 2 fold, similar to results from previous reports that used a different assay. Of greater significance is that physiologically relevant concentrations (~250 pM) of human Ad/t increase rodent A secretion from cultured rat cortical neurons by &gt;3 fold over 4 days. Surprisingly, neither treatment with peroxide nor human Ad/t leads to accumulation of intracellular A. Human Ad/t increased &gt;2 fold the A secreted by organotypic hippocampal slices from tau knock-out mice whether or not they expressed a human tau transgene, suggesting tau plays no role in enhanced A secretion. Together, these results support an A-mediated feed-forward mechanism in AD progression.
Impaired episodic memory is currently an exclusion criterion for behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bv-FTD), although prior studies have shown that neuropsychological memory performance varies from very impaired to intact in such patients. Our study investigated i) whether this variability might be due to the admixture of true bv-FTD and phenocopy syndrome patients and ii) the neural correlates of episodic memory deficits in bvFTD. Groups of patients with true bvFTD (n = 14), phenocopy syndrome (n = 6), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 14), and healthy controls (n = 15) underwent memory testing and had MRI scanning with ratings of regional brain atrophy. Phenocopy patients did not differ to controls on memory scores or atrophy ratings. By contrast, bvFTD and AD patients were impaired on both measures in comparison to controls and more importantly, bvFTD and AD did not differ on memory scores. Atrophy patterns differed, with AD showing typical medial temporal lobe atrophy, while bvFTD patients had predominantly prefrontal cortex atrophy. In bvFTD neuropsychological memory performance correlated with frontal atrophy ratings while in AD significant correlations were found between memory and both medial temporal lobe and frontal atrophy ratings. Taken together, out data shows that bvFTD patients can show a similar degree of episodic memory impairment on neuropsychological tests to AD patients, however, the neural correlates differ. The previously variable reported memory performance in bvFTD is likely due to the inclusion of phenocopy patients, who are mostly undistinguishable from controls. These findings have implications for the diagnosis of bvFTD.
In this article, we propose that impaired efficiency of glutamatergic synaptic transmission and a compensatory reduction in inhibitory neurotransmission, a process called homeostatic disinhibition, occurs in the aging brain and more dramatically in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Homeostatic disinhibition may help understand certain features of the aging brain and AD, including: 1) the increased risk for epileptic seizures, especially in the early phase of the disease; 2) the reduced ability to generate -oscillations; and 3) the increase in neuronal activity as measured by functional MRI. Homeostatic disinhibition may be the major mechanism that activates cognitive reserve. Modulating neuronal activity may therefore be a viable therapeutic strategy in AD that can complement existing anti-amyloid strategies. Specifically, enhancing endogenous glutamatergic synaptic transmission through increased co-agonist signaling or through positive allosteric modulation of metabotropic glutamatergic receptors appears as an attractive strategy. Alternatively, further reduction of GABAergic signaling may work as well, although care has to be taken to prevent epileptic seizures.
Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) acquire Alzheimer's-like dementia (AD) and associated neuropathology earlier and at significantly greater rates than age-matched normosomic individuals. However, biological mechanisms have not been discovered and there is currently limited therapy for either DS- or AD-related dementia. Segmental trisomy 16 (Ts65Dn) mice provide a useful model for many of the degenerative changes which occur with age in DS including cognitive deficits, neuroinflammation, and degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Loss of noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons is an early event in AD and in DS, and may contribute to the neuropathology. We report that Ts65Dn mice exhibit progressive loss of norepinephrine (NE) phenotype in LC neurons. In order to determine whether LC degeneration contributes to memory loss and neurodegeneration in Ts65Dn mice, we administered the noradrenergic neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4; 2 doses of 50 mg/kg, i.p.) to Ts65Dn mice at four months of age, prior to working memory loss. At eight months of age, Ts65Dn mice treated with DSP-4 exhibited an 80% reduction in hippocampal NE, coupled with a marked increase in hippocampal neuroinflammation. Noradrenergic depletion also resulted in accelerated cholinergic neuron degeneration and a further impairment of memory function in Ts65Dn mice. In contrast, DSP-4 had minimal effects on normosomic littermates, suggesting a disease-modulated vulnerability to NE loss in the DS mouse model. These data suggest that noradrenergic degeneration may play a role in the progressive memory loss, neuroinflammation, and cholinergic loss occurring in DS individuals, providing a possible therapeutic avenue for future clinical studies.
We previously demonstrated a 20-30% reduction in cortical 5-HT2A receptor binding in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as compared to healthy subjects. Here we present a two-year follow-up of 14 patients and 12 healthy age-matched subjects. Baseline and follow-up partial volume corrected levels of 5-HT2A in four neocortical lobes and the posterior cingulate gyrus were investigated using [18F]altanserin positron emission tomography with a bolus-infusion approach. In the two-year follow-up period, 8 of 14 patients with MCI had progressed to fulfill diagnostic criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). In both patients and healthy subjects, no significant change in 5-HT2A receptor binding was found as compared to baseline values. In MCI patients, the average BPP in neocortex ranged from 1.49 to 2.45 at baseline and 1.38 to 2.29 at two-year follow-up; and in healthy subjects BPP ranged from 1.85 to 3.10 at baseline and 1.81 to 2.98 at two-year follow-up. The BPP of the patients that converted to AD during the follow-up period did not differ significantly from the patients that had not (yet) converted, neither at baseline, nor at follow-up. We conclude that the reduced levels of 5-HT2A receptor binding in MCI patients decrease only slowly and non-significantly, even in patients who convert to AD. Our finding suggests that profoundly reduced cortical 5-HT2A receptor binding is an early feature in MCI whereas the clinical progression from MCI to AD is less associated with further decrease in binding.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disorder characterized by a decreased regional cerebral blood flow (CBF). It is most likely that a reduction in CBF could displace a pathway leading to AD genesis, in so far neuron death explains a sustained reduction in the supply of oxygen, glucose, and nutrients. Nevertheless, the concept of secondary CBF deficiency cannot explain the critical stages of early memory loss while, on the other hand, the picture of progressive ischemia due to primary CBF decline sheds light on the course of AD in a most persuasive manner. The concept of primary CBF deficiency is even more strengthened by the lack of correlation between degree of dementia and amount of CBF. Vascular abnormalities, frequently observed to co-occur with AD, might play a critical role in the initiation and aggravation of AD pathology given that the elimination of amyloid- (A) through a vascular route is an important brain A clearance mechanism and its failure leads to formation of vascular amyloidosis and dense-core plaques. The goal of this review is to provide scientists comprehensive knowledge of the state-of the art influence vascular damage and reduced perfusion have on the final development of AD and to hopefully stimulate more research in this area of neuroscience.
Neurofibrillary degeneration and neuronal loss represent key pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been demonstrated that the decrease of total neuronal numbers correlates with the presence of neurofibrillary degeneration in AD brain. In order to unravel the mechanism leading to the cell death in AD, we developed a stably transfected human neuroblastoma cellular model with doxycycline-regulatable expression of AD truncated tau protein (AT tau, 151-391 4R). Cells expressing the longest tau isoform (Tau 40) were used as a control. We found that more than 80% of the total amount of AT tau and Tau 40 were phosphorylated. Strikingly, both AT tau and Tau 40 reduced the metabolic activity of the cells in a time-dependent manner (p &lt; 0.0001) suggesting that tau overexpression slows down cell proliferation. However, AT tau showed significantly higher toxicity than Tau 40 (p &lt; 0.0001), which indicates that truncation leads to a toxic gain of function. The analysis of the type of the cell death revealed the characteristic features of apoptosis such as cell shrinkage, nuclear, and DNA fragmentation. However, we did not find either the activation of executive caspase (caspase-3) or the caspase cleavage products (PARP and fodrin). These results show that posttranslationally modified truncated tau protein induces caspase-3-independent apoptosis-like programmed cell death, a phenomenon we term tauoptosis.
The mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) is involved in the release of apoptotic proteins with possible relevance in Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. Through proteomic analysis followed by Western blotting and immunohistochemical techniques, we have found that VDAC1 is overexpressed in the hippocampus from amyloidogenic AD transgenic mice models. VDAC1 was also overexpressed in postmortem brain tissue from AD patients at an advanced stage of the disease. Interestingly, amyloid- (A) soluble oligomers were able to induce upregulation of VDAC1 in a human neuroblastoma cell line, further supporting a correlation between A levels and VDAC1 expression. In hippocampal extracts from transgenic mice, a significant increase was observed in the levels of VDAC1 phosphorylated at an epitope that is susceptible to phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase-3, whose activity was also increased. The levels of hexokinase I (HXKI), which interacts with VDAC1 and affects its function, were decreased in mitochondrial samples from AD models. Since phospho-VDAC and reduced HXKI levels favors a VDAC1 conformational state more prone to the release proapoptotic factors, regulation of the function of this channel may be a promising therapeutic approach to combat AD.
It is currently accepted that there is a subset of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who show executive functioning (EF) impairments even in the earlier stages. These patients have been shown to present distinct psychiatric, behavioral, occupational, and even histopathological profiles. We assessed thirty patients with AD on two tasks of verbal memory (Logical Memory - LM, and the Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Task - RAVLT), as well as classical tests of EF. AD patients were classified into either a spared EF (SEF) group if they showed impaired performance (z &lt; -1.5 SD) in none or only one of the executive tests, or into an impaired EF (IEF) group if they showed impaired performance on two or more tasks of EF. Their performance was compared with fourteen healthy controls. SEF showed significantly more years of education than IEF, but the groups did not differ significantly on age, gender, mood symptoms, or performance on general screening tests or attentional tasks. With education as a covariate, both AD groups differed from controls on all measures of memory, but a significant difference was found between SEF and IEF patients only on the recognition phases of both logical memory (p &lt; 0.01) and RAVLT (p = 0.02). Recognition scores significantly correlated with performance on executive tasks. Early AD patients who preserve their EF seem to have an advantage in their ability to recognize information that has been previously presented over patients with impaired EF. Such advantage seems to be strongly associated with executive performance.
In patients affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD), serum copper not bound to ceruloplasmin ('free' copper) appears elevated, slightly but significantly enough to distinguish AD patients from healthy elderly subjects. In this paper we tested the hypothesis that this is also the case for individuals affected by mild cognitive impairment (MCI). A sample of 83 MCI subjects were compared with 100 elderly control subjects in terms of levels of serum copper, free copper, ceruloplasmin, apolipoprotein E4 genotype (APOE4), iron, transferrin, and total antioxidant capacity (TRAP). The groups were also compared in terms of demographic and cardiovascular risk factors. The comparison with an additional group of 105 mild to moderate AD patients was also evaluated. The possible effects of copper dysfunction on cognitive decline were evaluated by multinomial logistic regression analysis. A linear regression model was applied to define the role of metals and antioxidant dysfunction in explaining Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) variations. APOE4 and free copper differentiated the MCI group from the healthy control group. The probability of acquiring MCI increased by about 24% for each free copper unit (mol/L) increment. APOE4 and free copper differentiated the MCI group also from the AD group. APOE4 and free copper appeared associated to MMSE worsening, as did age and gender. These results suggest that free copper can help in discriminating MCI subjects from healthy controls, but not on an individual basis.
We previously reported age- and Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related increases in the activities of -secretase (BACE-1) and A-degrading enzymes including neprilysin (NEP) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the frontal cortex. We suggested that these increases were secondary to the accumulation of insoluble amyloid- (A) and a decline in soluble A. We have further tested this hypothesis by examination of frontal cortex obtained postmortem from individuals with Down's syndrome (DS), in whom AD-like neuropathological changes occur in association with early-onset dementia. We measured total soluble and insoluble (guanidine-extractable) A, BACE-1 activity, and the concentrations and activities of NEP and ACE in two independent DS cohorts: an initial, Bristol cohort (9 DS cases, 8 controls matched for age-at-death) and a validation Newcastle cohort (20 DS, 18 controls with a wider spectrum of age-at-death). In both cohorts the level of insoluble (but not soluble) A was significantly higher in DS than controls and was comparable to previously measured levels in AD. NEP protein concentration and activity were significantly increased in DS; a trend towards increased BACE-1 activity was observed in DS but did not reach statistical significance. Both NEP and BACE-1 correlated with the level of insoluble A. The concentration of ACE in DS was elevated in the pilot cohort only and ACE activity was unchanged. These findings provide strong support that BACE-1 and NEP activities, but not ACE, increase in response to the accumulation of insoluble A within the brain.
Regulatory and administrative imperatives, when paired with staff training in humanistic, verbally mediated interventions can reduce the frequency of seclusion and restraint but can be associated with increases in the frequency and severity of staff injury, with concomitant tension and apprehension in the treatment setting. Even when educational programs for staff are made available for patient-centered, therapeutic, and persuasion-based modes of de-escalation, aggression, destructiveness and self-injury may continue to occur or even increase. Administrative contingencies can lead to less reporting of such incidents by staff with consequential, adverse effects on their morale and the unit milieu. Given the neurocognitive deficits, learning disabilities and lengthy histories of inadvertent reinforcement of provocative and aggressive behavior among persons with developmental and serious psychiatric disorders, basic principles of learning are needed to teach alternatives for belligerent behavior. Examples of behavior therapies that have been documented as effective in reducing aggression and self-injury include differential reinforcement of other behavior, social skills training, teaching interaction, social learning modalities, and time out from reinforcement. These evidence-based behavioral interventions must be superimposed on optimal, diagnostically driven, and monitored pharmacotherapy. When evidence-based, person-centered, and recovery-oriented biobehavioral interventions are made available to inpatient units, favorable clinical outcomes with reductions in the use of seclusion and restraint are likely.
In terms of process, psychoanalysis is more closely related to the disciplines of the arts and humanities than those of the sciences, however much the latter have contributed to our knowledge of the mind and our discussions of technique. Will we, accordingly, assert our support for liberal arts education, at a time when it is under unprecedented attack? Neuroscience has made remarkable strides in establishing the importance of artistic and humanist training to the plasticity and connectedness of mental functioning. But these discoveries have sadly done nothing to protect the academic disciplines of the arts and humanities from budget cuts and closings. It is as if contemporary boosters of technical and scientific education had no interest in, or knew nothing about, the new knowledge of the brain that scientists are actually producing. Will psychiatrists and psychoanalysts, for the sake of the arts and the sciences, support liberal arts education, or will we distance ourselves from it, and thus abandon the well-being of the very minds we will later be trying to tend in our offices? Is it not our responsibility to speak for the importance of thriving, since surviving depends on it?

Misfolding and abnormal aggregation of proteins in the brain are implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. In the polyQ diseases, an abnormally expanded polyQ stretch triggers misfolding and aggregation of the disease-causing proteins, eventually resulting in neurodegeneration. In this paper, we introduce our therapeutic strategy against the polyQ diseases using polyQ binding peptide 1 (QBP1), a peptide that we identified by phage display screening. We showed that QBP1 specifically binds to the expanded polyQ stretch and inhibits its misfolding and aggregation, resulting in suppression of neurodegeneration in cell culture and animal models of the polyQ diseases. We further demonstrated the potential of protein transduction domains (PTDs) for in vivo delivery of QBP1. We hope that in the near future, chemical analogues of aggregation inhibitor peptides including QBP1 will be developed against protein misfolding-associated neurodegenerative diseases.

Network theory has been extensively used to model the underlying structure of biological processes. From genetics to ecology, network thinking is changing our understanding of complex systems, specifically how their internal structure determines their overall behavior. Concepts such as hubs, scale-free or small-world networks, common in the complexity literature, are now used more and more in sociology, neurosciences, as well as other anthropological fields. Even though the use of network models is nowadays so widely applied, few attempts have been carried out to enrich our understanding in the classical morphological sciences such as in comparative anatomy or physical anthropology. The purpose of this article is to introduce the usage of network tools in morphology; specifically by building anatomical networks, dealing with the most common analyses and problems, and interpreting their outcome.
This population-based study reports on the prevalence and characteristics of specific phobia (SP) and phobic fears in an elderly population. A representative population sample of Swedish 70-year-olds without dementia (N = 558) was examined using semi-structured interviews. Phobic fears included fear of animals, natural environment, specific situations, blood-injection-injury and 'other'. Mental disorders, including SP, were diagnosed according to DSM-IV. Phobic fears (71.0% vs. 37.9%) and SP (13.8% vs. 4.5%) were more common in women than in men. Among those with phobic fears, more than 80% reported onset before age 21. Of those with SP, 35.7% had another DSM-IV diagnosis compared to 8.5% of those reporting no fear. Fear of specific situations and 'other' fears were related to SP and other anxiety disorders. SP was related to lower global functioning. We conclude that specific phobia in the elderly should receive attention from health professionals as it is common and associated with a decrease in global functioning.
The electromyographic (EMG) activity of human upper airway muscles, particularly the genioglossus, has been widely measured, but the relationship between EMG activity and physical movement of the airway muscles remains unclear. We aimed to measure the motion of the soft tissues surrounding the airway during normal and loaded inspiration on the basis of the hypothesis that this motion would be affected by the addition of resistance to breathing during inspiration. Tagged MR imaging of seven healthy subjects was performed in a 3-T scanner. Tagged 8.6-mm-spaced grids were used, and complementary spatial modulation of magnetization images were acquired beginning 200 ms before inspiratory airflow. Deformation of tag line intersections was measured. The genioglossus moved anteriorly during normal and loaded inspiration, with less movement during loaded inspiration. The motion of tissues at the anterior border of the upper airway was nonuniform, with larger motions inferiorly. At the level of the soft palate, the lateral dimension of the airway decreased significantly during loaded inspiration (-0.15  0.09 and -0.48  0.09 mm during unloaded and loaded inspiration, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). When resistance to inspiratory flow was added, genioglossus motion and lateral dimensions of the airway at the level of the soft palate decreased. Our results suggest that genioglossus motion begins early to dilate the airway prior to airflow and that inspiratory loading reduces the anterior motion of the genioglossus and increases the collapse of the lateral airway walls at the level of the soft palate.
Deep tissue injury (DTI) is a severe form of pressure ulcer that originates at the bone-muscle interface. It results from mechanical damage and ischemic injury due to unrelieved pressure. Currently, there are no established clinical methods to detect the formation of DTI. Moreover, despite the many recommended methods for preventing pressure ulcers, none so far has significantly reduced the incidence of DTI. The goal of this study was to assess the effectiveness of a new electrical stimulation-based intervention, termed intermittent electrical stimulation (IES), in ameliorating the factors leading to DTI in individuals with compromised mobility and sensation. Specifically, we sought to determine whether IES-induced contractions in the gluteal muscles can 1) reduce pressure in tissue surrounding bony prominences susceptible to the development of DTI and 2) increase oxygenation in deep tissue. Experiments were conducted in individuals with spinal cord injury, and two paradigms of IES were utilized to induce contractions in the gluteus maximus muscles of the seated participants. Changes in surface pressure around the ischial tuberosities were assessed using a pressure-sensing mattress, and changes in deep tissue oxygenation were indirectly assessed using T*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques. Both IES paradigms significantly reduced pressure around the bony prominences in the buttocks by an average of 10-26% (P &lt; 0.05). Furthermore, both IES paradigms induced significant increases in T* signal intensity (SI), indicating significant increases in tissue oxygenation, which were sustained for the duration of each 10-min trial (P &lt; 0.05). Maximal increases in SI ranged from 2-3.3% (arbitrary units). Direct measurements of oxygenation in adult rats revealed that IES produces up to a 100% increase in tissue oxygenation. The results suggest that IES directly targets factors contributing to the development of DTI in people with reduced mobility and sensation and may therefore be an effective method for the prevention of deep pressure ulcers.
Understanding hetereogeneity in symptom expression across the autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is a major challenge for identifying causes and effective treatments. In 40 children and adolescents diagnosed with ASD and 37 IQ-and age-matched comparison participants (the TYP group), we found no differences in summary measures on an experimental risk-taking task. However, anxiety and IQ predicted risk-taking only in the ASD group. Risk-taking was correlated with behavioral inhibition in the ASD group and behavioral activation in the TYP group. We suggest that performance on the task was motivated by fear of failure in the ASD group and by sensitivity to reward in the TYP group. Behavioral markers of anxiety and cognitive ability may improve conceptualization of heterogeneity in ASD.
Computation and information processing are among the most fundamental notions in cognitive science. They are also among the most imprecisely discussed. Many cognitive scientists take it for granted that cognition involves computation, information processing, or both - although others disagree vehemently. Yet different cognitive scientists use 'computation' and 'information processing' to mean different things, sometimes without realizing that they do. In addition, computation and information processing are surrounded by several myths; first and foremost, that they are the same thing. In this paper, we address this unsatisfactory state of affairs by presenting a general and theory-neutral account of computation and information processing. We also apply our framework by analyzing the relations between computation and information processing on one hand and classicism, connectionism, and computational neuroscience on the other. We defend the relevance to cognitive science of both computation, at least in a generic sense, and information processing, in three important senses of the term. Our account advances several foundational debates in cognitive science by untangling some of their conceptual knots in a theory-neutral way. By leveling the playing field, we pave the way for the future resolution of the debates' empirical aspects.
Despite a wide range of available antidepressants, the effect of the treatment is often suboptimal and there is a need for more effective and better tolerated drugs. Unlike other antidepressants, agomelatine represents a new approach to depression with an innovative mechanism of action. It is an agonist of melatoninergic receptors MT1 and MT2 and a selective antagonist of 5-HT2c receptors. In this open-label 8-week study we aimed to investigate the efficacy of agomelatine on depressive symptoms in patients with major depression. Secondary endpoints were the effect of agomelatine on anhedonia. Thirty major depressive patients received a flexible dose (25-50 mg; per os, daily) of agomelatine. Depressive (Hamilton Depression Scale) and anxious (Hamilton Anxiety Scale) symptoms, anhedonia (Snaith Hamilton Rating Scale), and sleep quality (Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire) were assessed. Twenty-four patients (80%) completed 8 weeks of treatment. Significant improvements were seen at all visits on the HAM-D (p&lt;.05), HAM-A(p&lt;.01), SHAPS (p&lt;.05), LSEQ (p&lt;.05). Nine subjects (30%) were responders and 5 (17%) remitters at week 1; 18 (60%) were remitters by the end of the trial. There was no serious adverse event. No aminotrasferase elevations were noted. In line with previous studies, in which agomelatine was associated with early clinical improvement, this study also provides evidence of an early response and the findings of improvements in depression scores. Moreover, this is the first study where agomelatine was effective in the treatment of anhedonia. Additional trials are needed to delineate the place of agomelatine in the contemporary pharmacotherapy for depressive disorders.
Recent studies underscore the importance of oxygen supply in bladder cancer. Tumour growth stimulates the production of vasoactive factors to increase oxygen delivery to tissues by vasodilatation. Any vasoconstrictor mediator could impair this vasodilatation reducing the oxygen supply. 8-Iso-PGF2 alpha is a potent vasoconstrictor agent. The aim of this work is to determine 8-Iso-PGF2 alpha release in healthy bladder mucosa and in superficial bladder cancer in order to investigate a pathophysiological vasoconstrictor answer of the superficial bladder cancer. The study was conducted on a sample of 12 patients; for every subject studied 8-Iso-PGF2 alpha release was assayed in healthy bladder mucosa and in superficial bladder tumour. 8-Iso-PGF2 alpha release was significantly reduced (p less than 0.001) in superficial bladder cancer compared with healthy bladder mucosa. The inhibition of the production of a powerful vasoconstrictor such as 8-Iso-PGF2 alpha in the vascular homeostatic mechanism of bladder cancer can represent a response of the tumor tending to contrast an antagonist effect of vasodilatation and the necessary to support the oxygen supply.
A large body of work supports the proposal that transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) into nerve or spinal cord injuries can promote axonal regeneration and remyelination. Yet, some investigators have questioned whether the transplanted OECs associate with axons and form peripheral myelin, or if they recruit endogenous Schwann cells that form myelin. Olfactory bulbs from transgenic mice expressing the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) under the control of the 2-3-cyclic nucleotide 3-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) promoter were studied. CNPase is expressed in myelin-forming cells throughout their lineage. We examined CNPase expression in both in situ in the olfactory bulb and in vitro to determine if OECs express CNPase commensurate with their myelination potential. eGFP was observed in the outer nerve layer of the olfactory bulb. Dissociated OECs maintained in culture had both intense eGFP expression and CNPase immunostaining. Transplantation of OECs into transected peripheral nerve longitudinally associated with the regenerated axons. These data indicate that OECs in the outer nerve layer of the olfactory bulb of CNPase transgenic mice express CNPase. Thus, while OECs do not normally form myelin on olfactory nerve axons, their expression of CNPase is commensurate with their potential to form myelin when transplanted into injured peripheral nerve.
We compared structure and function of EDL and Soleus muscles in adult (4-6m) mice lacking both Calsequestrin (CASQ) isoforms, the main SR Ca-binding proteins. Lack of CASQ induced ultrastructural alterations in ~30% of Soleus fibers, but not in EDL. Twitch time parameters were prolonged in both muscles, although tension was not reduced. However, when stimulated for 2sec at 100hz, Soleus was able to sustain contraction, while in EDL active tension declined by 70-80%. The results presented in this paper unmask a differential effect of CASQ1&amp;2 ablation in fast versus slow fibers. CASQ is essential in EDL to provide large amount of Ca released from the SR during tetanic stimulation. In contrast, Soleus deals much better with lack of CASQ because slow fibers require lower Ca amounts and slower cycling to function properly. Nevertheless, Soleus suffers more severe structural damage, possibly because SR Ca leak is more pronounced.
At least two laboratories have independently reported the synthesis of benzofuroindole compounds having potential therapeutic implications in many disease states including those that involve smooth muscle hyperactivity. Through a series of in vitro screenings, they demonstrated the efficacy (and selectivity) of these compounds to potentiate large conductance calcium- (Ca-) activated K (BK(Ca)) channels, by far, the most characterized of all Ca-dependent K channels. Interestingly, promising benzofuroindole derivatives such as compound 7 (10H-benzo[4,5]furo[3,2-b]indole) and compound 22 (4-chloro-7-trifluoromethyl-10H-benzo[4,5]furo[3,2-b]indole-1-carboxylic acid) both exhibited high bladder (versus aorta) selectivity, making them attractive alternative treatments for bladder overactivity. In recent reports, compound 22 (LDD175 or TBIC) also showed inhibition of ileum and uterine contractions, indicating multiple target tissues, which is not surprising as BK(Ca) channels are ubiquitously expressed in the animal and human tissues. In this paper, the authors discuss the value of benzofuroindole compounds and the challenges that need to be overcome if they were considered as smooth muscle relaxants.
Stem cells have provided great hope for the treatment of a variety of human diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying stem cell pluripotency, self-renewal, and differentiation remain to be unveiled. Epigenetic regulators, including histone deacetylases (HDACs), have been shown to coordinate with cell-intrinsic transcription factors and various signaling pathways to regulate stem cell pluripotency, self-renewal, and fate determination. This paper focuses on the role of HDACs in the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells and the application of HDAC inhibitors in reprogramming somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). It promises to be an active area of future research.
To date, CNS disease and neuropsychiatric symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (NP-SLE) have been understudied compared to end-organ failure and peripheral pathology. In this review, we focus on a specific mouse model of lupus and the ways in which this model reflects some of the most common manifestations and potential mechanisms of human NP-SLE. The mouse MRL lymphoproliferation strain (a.k.a. MRL/lpr) spontaneously develops the hallmark serological markers and peripheral pathologies typifying lupus in addition to displaying the cognitive and affective dysfunction characteristic of NP-SLE, which may be among the earliest symptoms of lupus. We suggest that although NP-SLE may share common mechanisms with peripheral organ pathology in lupus, especially in the latter stages of the disease, the immunologically privileged nature of the CNS indicates that early manifestations of particularly mood disorders maybe derived from some unique mechanisms. These include altered cytokine profiles that can activate astrocytes, microglia, and alter neuronal function before dysregulation of the blood-brain barrier and development of clinical autoantibody titres.
A variety of animal models have been developed for modeling ischemic stroke. The middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model has been utilized extensively, especially in rodents. While the MCAO model provides stroke researchers with an excellent platform to investigate the disease, controversial or even paradoxical results are occasionally seen in the literature utilizing this model. Various factors exert important effects on the outcome in this stroke model, including the age and sex of the animal examined. This paper discusses emerging information on the effects of age and sex on ischemic outcomes after MCAO, with an emphasis on mouse models of stroke.
Absorption or fluorescence-based two-dimensional (2-D) optical imaging is widely employed in functional brain imaging. The image is a weighted sum of the real signal from the tissue at different depths. This weighting function is defined as &quot;depth sensitivity.&quot; Characterizing depth sensitivity and spatial resolution is important to better interpret the functional imaging data. However, due to light scattering and absorption in biological tissues, our knowledge of these is incomplete. We use Monte Carlo simulations to carry out a systematic study of spatial resolution and depth sensitivity for 2-D optical imaging methods with configurations typically encountered in functional brain imaging. We found the following: (i) the spatial resolution is &lt;200 m for NA0.2 or focal plane depth300 m. (ii) More than 97% of the signal comes from the top 500 m of the tissue. (iii) For activated columns with lateral size larger than spatial resolution, changing numerical aperature (NA) and focal plane depth does not affect depth sensitivity. (iv) For either smaller columns or large columns covered by surface vessels, increasing NA and/or focal plane depth may improve depth sensitivity at deeper layers. Our results provide valuable guidance for the optimization of optical imaging systems and data interpretation.
Objective: With the survival rate of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) surpassing 90 percent within this decade, new research is emerging in the field of late effects. A review of the research investigating the relationship of treatment regimens for ALL to specific late effect deficits, underlying mechanisms, and possible remediation is warranted to support continued studies.Methods: The clinical literature was briefly surveyed to describe the occurrence and topography of late effects, specifically neurocognitive deficits. Additionally, the preclinical literature was reviewed to uncover potential underlying mechanisms of these deficits. The advantages of using rodent models to answer these questions are outlined, as is an assessment of the limited number of rodent models of childhood cancer treatment.Results: The literature supports that childhood survivors of ALL exhibit academic difficulties and are more likely to be placed in a special education program. Behavioral evidence has highlighted impairments in the areas of attention, working memory, and processing speed, leading to a decrease in full scale IQ. Neurophysiological and preclinical evidence for these deficits has implicated white matter abnormalities and acquired brain damage resulting from specific chemotherapeutic agents commonly used during treatment.Conclusions: The exact role of chemotherapeutic agents in learning deficits remains mostly unknown. Recommendations for an improved rodent model of learning deficits in childhood cancer survivors are proposed, along with suggestions for future directions in this area of research, in hopes that forthcoming treatment regimens will reduce or eliminate these types of impairments.
HIV-1 gene transcription is controlled by the cooperation of viral and host factors which bind to specific DNA sequences within the viral promoter spanning the long terminal repeat (LTR). Previously we showed that the St. John's Wort DING phosphatase, p27SJ, suppresses HIV-1 gene transcription by binding to the viral protein Tat and preventing its nuclear import. Here, we describe the inhibitory effect of p27SJ on the phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). This inhibition leads to the suppression of the association of RNAPII with the LTR. Inhibition of binding of RNAPII to LTR by p27SJ resulted in the suppression of LTR transcription elongation and a decrease in LTR transcriptional activity. Another form of the St. John's Wort DING phosphatase, p38SJ, also suppressed binding of RNAPII to the LTR, reduced transcription elongation and was even more powerful than p27SJ in inhibiting the transcriptional activity of the LTR. Our data suggest a possible mechanism by which the p27SJ/p38SJ DING phosphatase can regulate HIV-1 LTR expression by inhibiting phosphorylation of the CTD of RNAPII and suppressing LTR transcription elongation.
The objectives of this study were to establish pure blood-nerve barrier (BNB) and blood-brain barrier (BBB)-derived pericyte cell lines of human origin and to investigate their unique properties as barrier-forming cells. Brain and peripheral nerve pericyte cell lines were established via transfection with retrovirus vectors incorporating human temperature-sensitive SV40 T antigen (tsA58) and telomerase. These cell lines expressed several pericyte markers such as -smooth muscle actin, NG2, platelet-derived growth factor receptor , whereas they did not express endothelial cell markers such as vWF and PECAM. In addition, the inulin clearance was significantly lowered in peripheral nerve microvascular endothelial cells (PnMECs) through the up-regulation of claudin-5 by soluble factors released from brain or peripheral nerve pericytes. In particular, bFGF secreted from peripheral nerve pericytes strengthened the barrier function of the BNB by increasing the expression of claudin-5. Peripheral nerve pericytes may regulate the barrier function of the BNB, because the BNB does not contain cells equivalent to astrocytes which regulate the BBB function. Furthermore, these cell lines expressed several neurotrophic factors such as NGF, BDNF, and GDNF. The secretion of these growth factors from peripheral nerve pericytes might facilitate axonal regeneration in peripheral neuropathy. Investigation of the characteristics of peripheral nerve pericytes may provide novel strategies for modifying BNB functions and promoting peripheral nerve regeneration.
The phenomenon of adult neurogenesis has been demonstrated in most mammals including humans. At least two regions of the adult brain maintain stem cells throughout life; the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle wall. Both regions continuously produce neurons that mature and become integrated into functional networks that are involved in learning and memory and odor discrimination, respectively. Apart from these well-studied regions neurogenesis has been reported in a number of other brain regions, such as amygdala and cortex. However, these studies have been contested and there is currently no well-postulated function for non-SVZ/SGZ neurogenesis. The studies of the regional localization of neurogenesis in the brain have been made possible due to several methods for detecting adult neurogenesis including; bromodeoxyuridine labeling (BrdU) together with markers of mature neurons, genetic labeling, by mouse transgenesis, or with the use of viral vectors. These techniques are already put to creative use and will be essential for the discovery of the nature of the adult neural stem cells. In this mini-review, we will discuss the localization of neural stem/progenitor cells in the brain and their implications as well as discussing the pro's and con's of stem cell labeling techniques.
Clathrin-mediated vesicle recycling in synapses is maintained by a unique set of endocytic proteins and interactions. We show that endophilin localizes in the vesicle pool at rest and in spirals at the necks of clathrin-coated pits (CCPs) during activity in lamprey synapses. Endophilin and dynamin colocalize at the base of the clathrin coat. Protein spirals composed of these proteins on lipid tubes in vitro have a pitch similar to the one observed at necks of CCPs in living synapses, and lipid tubules are thinner than those formed by dynamin alone. Tubulation efficiency and the amount of dynamin recruited to lipid tubes are dramatically increased in the presence of endophilin. Blocking the interactions of the endophilin SH3 domain in situ reduces dynamin accumulation at the neck and prevents the formation of elongated necks observed in the presence of GTPS. Therefore, endophilin recruits dynamin to a restricted part of the CCP neck, forming a complex, which promotes budding of new synaptic vesicles.
It has been recently shown that a short sublethal brain ischemia subsequent to a prolonged harmful ischemic episode may confer ischemic neuroprotection, a phenomenon termed ischemic postconditioning. Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) isoforms, NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3, are plasma membrane ionic transporters widely distributed in the brain and involved in the control of Na(+) and Ca(2+) homeostasis and in the progression of stroke damage. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of these three proteins in the postconditioning-induced neuroprotection. The NCX protein and mRNA expression was evaluated at different time points in the ischemic temporoparietal cortex of rats subjected to tMCAO alone or to tMCAO plus ischemic postconditioning. The results of this study showed that NCX3 protein and ncx3 mRNA were upregulated in those brain regions protected by postconditioning treatment. These changes in NCX3 expression were mediated by the phosphorylated form of the ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine protein kinase p-AKT, as the p-AKT inhibition prevented NCX3 upregulation. The relevant role of NCX3 during postconditioning was further confirmed by results showing that NCX3 silencing, induced by intracerebroventricular infusion of small interfering RNA (siRNA), partially reverted the postconditioning-induced neuroprotection. The results of this study support the idea that the enhancement of NCX3 expression and activity might represent a reasonable strategy to reduce the infarct extension after stroke.
We hypothesized that activation of the central histaminergic system is required for neuroprotection induced by hypoxic preconditioning. Wild-type (WT) and histidine decarboxylase knockout (HDC-KO) mice were preconditioned by 3 hours of hypoxia (8% O(2)) and, 48 hours later, subjected to 30 minutes of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, followed by 24 hours of reperfusion. Hypoxic preconditioning improved neurologic function and decreased infarct volume in WT or HDC-KO mice treated with histamine, but not in HDC-KO or WT mice treated with -fluoromethylhistidine (-FMH, an inhibitor of HDC). Laser-Doppler flowmetry analysis showed that hypoxic preconditioning ameliorated cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the periphery of the MCA territory during ischemia in WT mice but not in HDC-KO mice. Histamine decreased in the cortex of WT mice after 2, 3, and 4 hours of hypoxia, and HDC activity increased after 3 hours of hypoxia. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA and protein expressions showed a greater increase after hypoxia than those in HDC-KO or -FMH-treated WT mice. In addition, the VEGF receptor-2 antagonist SU1498 prevented the protective effect of hypoxic preconditioning in infarct volume and reversed increased peripheral CBF in WT mice. Therefore, endogenous histamine is an essential mediator of hypoxic preconditioning. It may function by enhancing hypoxia-induced VEGF expression.
We examined the mechanisms underlying the abrupt onset of the focal infarction in disseminated selective neuronal necrosis (DSNN) after temporary ischemia. Stroke-positive animals were selected according to their stroke-index score during the first 10 minutes after left carotid occlusion performed twice at a 5-hour interval. The animals were euthanized at various times after the second ischemia. Light- and electron-microscopical studies were performed chronologically on the coronal-cut surface of the cerebral cortex at the chiasmatic level, where focal infarction evolved in the maturing DSNN. We counted the number of neurons, astrocytes, and astrocytic processes (APs); measured the areas of end-feet and astrocytes; and counted the numbers of obstructed microvessels and carbon-black-suspension-perfused microvessels (CBSPm). Between 0.5 and 5 hours after ischemia, DSNN matured, with the numbers of degenerated and dead neurons increasing, and those of APs cut-ends decreasing; whereas the area of the end-feet and the numbers of obstructed microvessels increased and those of CBSPm decreased. At 12 and 24 hours after ischemia, the infarction evolved, with the area of end-feet and astrocytic number decreased; whereas the numbers of obstructed microvessels decreased and the CBSPm number increased. The focal infarction evolved by temporary microvascular obstruction because of compression by swollen end-feet.
A novel radioligand for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of serotonin 5-HT(1B) receptors, [(11)C]AZ10419369, has been recently described. In this study, the potential for quantitative analysis of [(11)C]AZ10419369 binding to central 5-HT(1B) receptors was evaluated in human subjects. PET measurements were performed after injection of [(11)C]AZ10419369 in 10 subjects. Data were analyzed with kinetic modeling and linear graphical analysis using the arterial plasma as input function, and with reference tissue models using cerebellar cortex as the reference region. Binding of [(11)C]AZ10419369 was highest in pallidum, ventral striatum, and occipital cortex and lowest in cerebellum. The percentage of unchanged radioligand in plasma was 97% to 99%, indicating that no significant amounts of radioactive metabolites were formed during the time of analysis. Time-activity curves of [(11)C]AZ10419369 could be described with both one-tissue compartment (1-TC) and two-tissue compartment (2-TC) models in the majority of subjects. The 2-TC model failed to deliver reasonable estimates of the kinetic parameters. However, stable estimates of binding potential (BP(ND)) were obtained by constraining K(1)/k(2) to the distribution volume obtained with the 1-TC model in the cerebellar cortex. BP(ND) values estimated with reference tissue models were correlated with the corresponding values obtained with kinetic modeling. The findings support the use of reference tissue models in applied clinical studies with [(11)C]AZ10419369.

This study prospectively examined the role of attributional style and perceived parental support as intrapersonal and interpersonal risk and resilience factors to increases in depressive symptoms in the face of stress with a sample of 497 middle school students. Results demonstrated that boys with a pessimistic attributional style and low or moderate levels of parental support had higher levels of depressive symptoms than boys with high levels of support under high levels of stress but not under low levels of stress. Girls with a pessimistic attributional style and low or moderate levels of perceived parental support had higher levels of depressive symptoms than those with an optimistic attributional style, regardless of the level of stress. These results highlight the need to consider more complex models with multiple moderators, such as cognitive styles and parental support, as well as gender differences, in understanding the development of depressive symptoms in early adolescence.
Acquisition of new perceptual-motor skills depends on multiple brain areas, including the striatum. However, the specific contribution of each structure to this type of learning is still poorly understood. Focusing on the striatum, we proposed (a) to replicate the finding of impaired rotary pursuit (RP) and preserved mirror tracing (MT) in Huntington's disease (HD); and (b) to further explore this putative learning dissociation with other human models of striatal dysfunction (i.e., Parkinson's disease and focal vascular damage) and two new paradigms (i.e., Geometric Figures, GF, and Control Stick, CS) of skill learning. Regardless of the etiology, participants with damage to the striatum showed impaired learning of visuomotor tracking skills (i.e., RP and GF), whereas the ability to learn skills that require motor adaptation (i.e., MT and CS) was not affected. These results suggest a task-specific involvement of the striatum in the early stages of skill learning.
The pathological left-handedness theory claims that pregnancy and birth stress events (PBSEs) are important risk factors for sinistrality, but previous studies yielded inconclusive results. The aim of the present study was to further evaluate the effect of PBSEs on multiple indicators of lateral preference (i.e., hand, foot, eye, and ear preferences), strength of lateral preferences, and overall lateral consistency in a large nonclinical sample of school-aged children. Results showed that PBSEs occurred in about one third of the sample (mainly forceps use, cesarean section, and preterm birth). The occurrence of PBSEs did not significantly affect the lateral preference, strength of lateral preference, or the overall lateral consistency measures. On average, the PBSEs accounted for only 0.36% of the variance in the outcome measures. The validity of the pathological left-handedness theory could thus not be supported in the present study.
Metastatic melanoma has a propensity for multiple intra cranial deposits. Rarely, metastatic melanoma to the pituitary gland has been reported, usually in conjunction with widespread systemic metastases. We describe a patient with metastatic melanoma to the pituitary gland as the first clinical presentation of widespread metastatic disease and review the relevant literature.
There are few syndromes of parkinsonism with dementia which can be treated. We report two patients with dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) who presented with rapidly progressive parkinsonism and cognitive dysfunction. DAVF are rare lesions resulting from abnormal connections between meningeal arteries and dural sinuses. Angiography in both patients revealed DAVF associated with multiple occlusive changes in the dural venous sinus. This report emphasizes the need for a high level of clinical suspicion to diagnose DAVF and consider it as one of the causes of rapidly progressive cognitive dysfunction in patients with parkinsonism.
We describe a 17-year-old boy with a left extraventricular temporo-mesial neurocytoma associated with cortical dysplasia causing focal pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy. He presented with a long history of medically refractory, temporal complex partial seizures. MRI showed a left temporo-mesial lesion suspect to be a low-grade tumor. Based on the pre-operative non-invasive neurophysiological studies, the patient underwent a left tailored temporal antero-mesial resection. Histopathological examination showed an extraventricular neurocytoma associated with architectural dysplasia (Type 1a) of the temporal pole. The patient was seizure-free at 2 years follow-up. Extraventricular neurocytomas must be considered in the differential diagnosis of the plethora of low-grade tumors associated with focal epilepsy that typically involve the temporal lobe, and are frequently associated with focal cortical dysplasia.

Neuroaesthetics is gaining momentum. At this early juncture, it is worth taking stock of where the field is and what lies ahead. Here, I review writings that fall under the rubric of neuroaesthetics. These writings include discussions of the parallel organizational principles of the brain and the intent and practices of artists, the description of informative anecdotes, and the emergence of experimental neuroaesthetics. I then suggest a few areas within neuroaesthetics that might be pursued profitably. Finally, I raise some challenges for the field. These challenges are not unique to neuroaesthetics. As neuroaesthetics comes of age, it might take advantage of the lessons learned from more mature domains of inquiry within cognitive neuroscience.
It is well documented that both cognitive and motor learning abilities decline with normative aging. Given that cognitive processes such as working memory are engaged during the early stages of motor learning [Anguera, J., Reuter-Lorenz, P., Willingham, D., &amp; Seidler, R. Contributions of spatial working memory to visuomotor learning. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 22(9), 1917-1930, 2010], age-related declines in motor learning may be due in part to reductions in cognitive ability. The present study examined whether age-related declines in spatial working memory (SWM) contribute to deficits in visuomotor adaptation. Young and older adult participants performed a visuomotor adaptation task that involved adapting manual aiming movements to a 30 rotation of the visual feedback display as well as an SWM task in an fMRI scanner. Young adults showed a steeper learning curve than older adults during the early adaptation period. The rate of early adaptation was correlated with SWM performance for the young, but not older, adults. Both groups showed similar brain activation patterns for the SWM task, including engagement of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and bilateral inferior parietal lobules. However, when the SWM activation was used as a limiting mask, younger adults showed neural activation that overlapped with the early adaptation period, whereas older adults did not. A partial correlation controlling for age revealed that the rate of early adaptation correlated with the amount of activation at the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that a failure to effectively engage SWM processes during learning contributes to age-related deficits in visuomotor adaptation.
Severe capacity limits, closely associated with fluid intelligence, arise in learning and use of new task rules. We used fMRI to investigate these limits in a series of multirule tasks involving different stimuli, rules, and response keys. Data were analyzed both during presentation of instructions and during later task execution. Between tasks, we manipulated the number of rules specified in task instructions, and within tasks, we manipulated the number of rules operative in each trial block. Replicating previous results, rule failures were strongly predicted by fluid intelligence and increased with the number of operative rules. In fMRI data, analyses of the instruction period showed that the bilateral inferior frontal sulcus, intraparietal sulcus, and presupplementary motor area were phasically active with presentation of each new rule. In a broader range of frontal and parietal regions, baseline activity gradually increased as successive rules were instructed. During task performance, we observed contrasting fronto-parietal patterns of sustained (block-related) and transient (trial-related) activity. Block, but not trial, activity showed effects of task complexity. We suggest that, as a new task is learned, a fronto-parietal representation of relevant rules and facts is assembled for future control of behavior. Capacity limits in learning and executing new rules, and their association with fluid intelligence, may be mediated by this load-sensitive fronto-parietal network.
During speech communication, visual information may interact with the auditory system at various processing stages. Most noteworthy, recent magnetoencephalography (MEG) data provided first evidence for early and preattentive phonetic/phonological encoding of the visual data stream--prior to its fusion with auditory phonological features [Hertrich, I., Mathiak, K., Lutzenberger, W., &amp; Ackermann, H. Time course of early audiovisual interactions during speech and non-speech central-auditory processing: An MEG study. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 21, 259-274, 2009]. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, the present follow-up study aims to further elucidate the topographic distribution of visual-phonological operations and audiovisual (AV) interactions during speech perception. Ambiguous acoustic syllables--disambiguated to /pa/ or /ta/ by the visual channel (speaking face)--served as test materials, concomitant with various control conditions (nonspeech AV signals, visual-only and acoustic-only speech, and nonspeech stimuli). (i) Visual speech yielded an AV-subadditive activation of primary auditory cortex and the anterior superior temporal gyrus (STG), whereas the posterior STG responded both to speech and nonspeech motion. (ii) The inferior frontal and the fusiform gyrus of the right hemisphere showed a strong phonetic/phonological impact (differential effects of visual /pa/ vs. /ta/) upon hemodynamic activation during presentation of speaking faces. Taken together with the previous MEG data, these results point at a dual-pathway model of visual speech information processing: On the one hand, access to the auditory system via the anterior supratemporal what&quot; path may give rise to direct activation of &quot;auditory objects.&quot; On the other hand, visual speech information seems to be represented in a right-hemisphere visual working memory, providing a potential basis for later interactions with auditory information such as the McGurk effect.
Most existing models of dopamine and learning in Parkinson disease (PD) focus on simulating the role of basal ganglia dopamine in reinforcement learning. Much data argue, however, for a critical role for prefrontal cortex (PFC) dopamine in stimulus selection in attentional learning. Here, we present a new computational model that simulates performance in multicue category learning, such as the &quot;weather prediction&quot; task. The model addresses how PD and dopamine medications affect stimulus selection processes, which mediate reinforcement learning. In this model, PFC dopamine is key for attentional learning, whereas basal ganglia dopamine, consistent with other models, is key for reinforcement and motor learning. The model assumes that competitive dynamics among PFC neurons is the neural mechanism underlying stimulus selection with limited attentional resources, whereas competitive dynamics among striatal neurons is the neural mechanism underlying action selection. According to our model, PD is associated with decreased phasic and tonic dopamine levels in both PFC and basal ganglia. We assume that dopamine medications increase dopamine levels in both the basal ganglia and PFC, which, in turn, increase tonic dopamine levels but decrease the magnitude of phasic dopamine signaling in these brain structures. Increase of tonic dopamine levels in the simulated PFC enhances attentional shifting performance. The model provides a mechanistic account for several phenomena, including (a) medicated PD patients are more impaired at multicue probabilistic category learning than unmedicated patients and (b) medicated PD patients opt out of reversal when there are alternative and redundant cue dimensions.
Growing evidence suggests that theta oscillations play a crucial role in episodic encoding. The present study evaluates whether changes in electroencephalographic theta source dynamics mediate the positive influence of semantic congruence on incidental associative learning. Here we show that memory for episodic associations (face-location) is more accurate when studied under semantically congruent contexts. However, only participants showing RT priming effect in a conceptual priming test (priming group) also gave faster responses when recollecting source information of semantically congruent faces as compared with semantically incongruent faces. This improved episodic retrieval was positively correlated with increases in theta power during the study phase mainly in the bilateral parahippocampal gyrus, left superior temporal gyrus, and left lateral posterior parietal lobe. Reconstructed signals from the estimated sources showed higher theta power for congruent than incongruent faces and also for the priming than the nonpriming group. These results are in agreement with the attention to memory model. Besides directing top-down attention to goal-relevant semantic information during encoding, the dorsal parietal lobe may also be involved in redirecting attention to bottom-up-driven memories thanks to connections between the medial-temporal and the left ventral parietal lobe. The latter function can either facilitate or interfere with encoding of face-location associations depending on whether they are preceded by semantically congruent or incongruent contexts, respectively, because only in the former condition retrieved representations related to the cue and the face are both coherent with the person identity and are both associated with the same location.
The zRalDH gene encodes an aldehyde dehydrogenase associated with the conversion of retinaldehyde (the main vitamin A metabolite) into retinoic acid and its expression is highly enriched in the song control system of adult zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Within song control nucleus HVC, zRalDH is specifically expressed in the neurons that project to area X of the striatum. It is also expressed in paraHVC, commonly considered a medial extension of HVC that is closely associated with auditory areas in the caudomedial telencephalon. Here we used in situ hybridization to generate a detailed analysis of HVC and paraHVC based on expression of zRalDH for adult zebra finches of both sexes and for males during the song-learning period. We demonstrate that the distribution of zRalDH-positive cells can be used for accurate assessments of HVC and paraHVC in adult and juvenile males. We describe marked developmental changes in the numbers of zRalDH-expressing cells in HVC and paraHVC, reaching a peak at day 50 posthatch, an effect potentially due to dynamic changes in the population of X-projecting cells in HVC. We also show that zRalDH-expressing cells in adult females, although much less numerous than in males, have a surprisingly broad distribution along the medial-to-lateral extent of HVC, but are lacking where paraHVC is found in adult males. Our study thus contributes to our understanding of the nuclear organization of the song system and the dynamics of its developmental changes during the song-learning period.
Vasopressin (VP)-, neuropeptide FF (NPFF)-, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing neurons were studied by means of single and double immunocytochemistry in the human brainstem of controls who died suddenly due to trauma and of patients who suffered from essential hypertension and died due to acute myocardial infarction, while in one case there was brain hemorrhage. In the control and hypertensive groups VP fibers and NPFF neurons and fibers were the most abundantly present in the dorsal vagal complex, especially in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Numerous VP and NPFF fibers formed synaptic-like contacts with neuronal profiles in the dorsointermediate, centrointermediate, ventrointermediate, caudointermediate, and caudal parts of the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus as well as adjacent medial and intermediate subnuclei of the solitary nucleus. VP, but not NPFF, positive fibers were found to vastly contact TH-positive neuronal profiles in A2/C2, A2, and ambiguus nucleus (Amb). The density of VP fibers in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and Amb did not differ between hypertensive patients and controls, whereas the density of NPFF fibers in hypertensives was 3.19 times lower in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus and markedly decreased in the Amb. In both groups, VP and NPFF were scarcely present in the pain pathways, suggesting that these peptides are not crucially involved in nociceptive control in human. The reduction of NPFF release within the dorsal motor nucleus and Amb could serve as a possible cause of the impairment of cardiac vagal control in hypertensive patients.
Catecholamines, such as dopamine, are evolutionarily ancient neurotransmitters that play an essential role in mediating behavior. In vertebrates, dopamine is central to the nigrostriatal motor and mesolimbic reward systems. Despite its importance, the distribution of the dopaminergic system has not been well studied in the teleost brain. The African cichlid fish Astatotilapia burtoni has become an important model system in social neuroscience and lends itself to uncovering how social decisions are implemented in the brain. To understand better where dopamine acts to regulate social behavior in this species, we have determined the distribution of putative dopaminergic cells and fibers (by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry) and dopamine receptors (by in situ hybridization for the D(1A) and D(2) dopamine receptor subtypes) throughout the forebrain and part of the mesencephalon of A. burtoni. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was evident in several regions of the fore- and midbrain, in support of putative homologies to tetrapods. Additionally, the D(1A) and D(2) receptors were identified in brain regions known to modulate social behavior in other vertebrates, including the proposed teleost homologues of the mammalian amygdalar complex, hippocampus, striatum, preoptic area, anterior hypothalamus, ventromedial hypothalamus, and ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra pars compacta. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers as well as D(1A) and D(2) receptor expression overlap almost completely in their distribution. These results significantly extend our understanding of the distribution of the dopaminergic system in the teleost brain and suggest a conserved role of dopamine in modulating behavior across vertebrates.
Bats are the only mammals capable of true powered flight. The bat wing exhibits specializations, allowing these animals to perform complicated flight maneuvers like landing upside-down, and hovering. The wing membrane contains various tactile receptors, including hair-associated Merkel receptors that might be involved in stabilizing bat flight. Here, we studied the neuronal representation of the wing membrane in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) of the anesthetized Big Brown Bat, Eptesicus fuscus, using tactile stimulation with calibrated monofilaments (von Frey hairs) while recording from multi-neuron clusters. We also measured cortical response thresholds to tactile stimulation of the wings.The body surface is mapped topographically across the surface of S1, with the head, foot, and wing being overrepresented. The orientation of the wing representation is rotated compared to the hand representaion of terrestrial mammals, confirming results from other bat species. Although different wing membrane parts derive embryologically from different body parts, including the flank (plagiopatagium), the tactile sensitivity of the entire flight membrane (0.2-1.2 mN) is remarkably close or even higher (dactylopatagium) than the average tactile sensitivity of the human fingertip.
Recent studies have demonstrated that carotenoid-based traits are under the control of testosterone (T) by up-regulation of carotenoid carriers (lipoproteins) and/or tissue-specific uptake of carotenoids. T can be converted to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and estradiol (E2), and variation in conversion rate may partly explain some contradictory findings in the literature. Moreover, most studies on the effect of T on sexual signals have focused on the male sex only, while in many species females show the same signal, albeit to a lesser extent. We studied the effects of T, DHT, and E2 treatment in male and female diamond doves Geopelia cuneata in which both sexes have an enlarged red eye ring, which is more pronounced in males. We first showed that this periorbital ring contains very high concentration of carotenoids, of which most are lutein esters. Both T and DHT were effective in enhancing hue, UV-chroma and size in both sexes, while E2 was ineffective. However, E2 dramatically increased the concentration of circulating lipoproteins. We conclude that in both sexes both color and size of the secondary sexual trait are androgen dependent. The action of androgens is independent of lipoproteins regulation. Potential mechanisms and their consequences for trade-off are discussed.
OBJECTIVE: Few studies have examined the stability of both substance use and mental health outcomes following residential drug abuse treatment for individuals with co-occurring disorders (COD). This study examines outcomes at 6 and 12 months for individuals with COD, in relationship to services received over the follow-up period. METHODS: Participants with COD (N=310) were sampled from 11 residential drug abuse treatment programs and completed in-depth assessments within 30 days of intake and at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. A path model was developed testing the relationships among treatment participation and services received, psychological status, and substance use outcomes across the two follow-up points. RESULTS: Retention for at least 90 days in residential drug treatment was associated with less inpatient mental health treatment and more mental health services received at 6 months; outpatient mental health treatment was associated with reduced substance use at 6 months. Substance use at 6 months was associated with more psychological distress at both 6 and 12 months and more inpatient mental health treatment at 12 months. CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that receipt of mental health services following residential drug abuse treatment for patients with COD is critical to improving their longer-term outcomes.
Female crickets, Gryllus bimaculatus, are attracted by the male calling song and approach singing males; a behaviour known as phonotaxis. Even tethered females walking on a trackball steer towards a computer-generated male song presented from their left or right side. High-speed video analysis showed how this auditory-evoked steering was integrated with walking. Typically all the front and middle legs showed kinematic adjustments during steering, with the trajectories tilted towards the side of acoustic stimulation. Furthermore, the average speed of the tarsi contralateral to song increased relative to the ipsilateral tarsi. Kinematic changes of the hind legs were small and may be a consequence of the front and middle leg adjustments. Although phonotactic steering generally led to stereotyped adjustments there were differences in the specific combination of kinematic changes in leg trajectories. The most reliable kinematic steering response was by the contralateral front leg, such that, during its swing phase the tarsus moved towards the side of acoustic stimulation through an increased forward rotation of the femur and an increased extension of the tibia. Relating the changes in tarsal positioning of each leg to the steering velocity of the animal indicated that typically the front and middle legs contralateral to song generated the turning forces. Phonotactic steering was integrated into forward walking without changes to the walking motor cycle.

Individuals born with a cleft lip and palate risk developing a deviant appearance and speech during childhood and sometimes also as adults. In this study, 13 young adults born with a cleft (lip and) palate, who had had deviant speech in adolescence, participated in semi-structured interviews. The core category Making sense of the cleft, comprising the two categories Shaping one's attitude to the cleft and Dealing with being different with seven subcategories, describes the processes of developing self-image in relation to the cleft. The findings are believed to be relevant for individuals born with a cleft, their parents and caregivers.
This genealogy of the ADHD subject will demonstrate that over the course of the twentieth century a new relation between power, knowledge, the body, and ethical practices of self-formation emerged around the ADHD-type in ways that are not captured by the received critical perspective. By examining the history of knowledge and practices surrounding the ADHD-type, this work will argue that the deviant subject that was located relative to external institutional moral/juridical values or standards is replaced over the course of the century by a new intelligibility of rational self-management. A further analysis of this emergent intelligibility attempts to advance the critical understanding of the increasingly prevalent ADHD phenomenon by showing how novel drug and brain imaging technologies work to link behaviors to identity, establishing new relations of power to the subject not captured by the received medicalization perspective. This work will be of interest to anybody interested in the relations among knowledge, drugs, power, and the ADHD subject.

This article briefly reports on three early contributions to the understanding of visual agnosia as a syndrome sui generis. The authors of the respective papers worked in different fields such as physiology, ophthalmology, and neurology, and, although they were not in direct contact with each other, their results converged upon a consistent view of a nervous disorder that they called psychic blindness.
This article addresses early work on partial recovery that followed small motor cortical lesions. Leyton and Sherrington (1917) studied the motor cortex in apes, hoping to learn more about the contralateral muscle representations. Then they placed small lesions within the precentral cortex, followed by a loss of the contralateral muscle twitches. The sudden loss remained for about one week, but recovery was observed and continued for weeks, up to a standstill. Sherrington and Graham Brown (1913) observed the same results in a serial, chronic experiment on a chimpanzee. The brain was sent to Monakow's Brain-Institute in Zurich for investigating the lesions and the degeneration pattern. Constantin von Monakow (1853-1930) had been a pioneer on recovery after acute lesions, coining the term &quot;diaschisis.&quot; During WWI, Graham Brown and Stewart (1916) studied a soldier in a British army hospital who suffered from a cerebral gunshot wound, localized in the sensorimotor cortex. Early and prolonged rehabilitation was successful. In 1950, Glees (1909-1999) and Cole (Oxford) placed a small motor-cortical lesion in macaque monkeys; for a few days, the monkeys had difficulties and were slow for the task. Daily training was resumed and recovery was accelerated by alimentary reward. Finally, Lashley (1890-1958) understood that handicapped patients &quot;achieved their goal with variable means.&quot; This demonstrated the value of active and prolonged rehabilitation, in addition to the (passive) recovery of function.
The stepping test is a valuable part of the neurological examination that is used to localize labyrinthine pathology. The test is known by two eponyms: the &quot;Fukuda Test&quot; in the United States and Asia and the &quot;Unterberger Test&quot; in Europe. Some controversy exists as to which name is correct. Siegfried Unterberger was an Austrian otolaryngologist who initially described the test in 1939. It was modified in 1959 by Tadashi Fukuda, a Japanese otolaryngologist, who introduced a method to better quantify the test results. Thus, the test should be called the &quot;Unterberger Test,&quot; unless Fukuda's methods for measurement are used.

Immunocytochemistry is a highly productive method in biomedical research used to identify proteins and other macromolecules in tissues and cells. Control samples are required to show label localization is correct, but the understanding and use of immunocytochemistry controls have been inconsistent. A new classification of immunocytochemical controls is proposed that will help in understanding this most important component of the experiment. The three types of controls required for immunocytochemistry are primary antibody controls that show the specificity of the primary antibody binding to the antigen, secondary antibody controls that show the label is specific to the primary antibody, and label controls that show the labeling is the result of the label added and not the result of endogenous labeling. Publications containing immunocytochemical results must give details of how these controls were performed.
Although human evolution is characterized by a vast increase in brain size, it is not clear whether or not certain regions of the brain are enlarged disproportionately in humans, or how this enlargement relates to differences in overall neural morphology. The aim of this study is to determine whether or not there are specific suites of features that distinguish the morphology of the human brain from that of apes. The study sample consists of whole brain, in vivo magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of anatomically modern humans (Homo sapiens sapiens) and five ape species (gibbons, orangutans, gorillas, chimpanzees, bonobos). Twenty-nine 3D landmarks, including surface and internal features of the brain were located on 3D MRI reconstructions of each individual using MEASURE software. Landmark coordinate data were scaled for differences in size and analyzed using Euclidean Distance Matrix Analysis (EDMA) to statistically compare the brains of each non-human ape species to the human sample. Results of analyses show both a pattern of brain morphology that is consistently different between all apes and humans, as well as patterns that differ among species. Further, both the consistent and species-specific patterns include cortical and subcortical features. The pattern that remains consistent across species indicates a morphological reorganization of 1) relationships between cortical and subcortical frontal structures, 2) expansion of the temporal lobe and location of the amygdala, and 3) expansion of the anterior parietal region. Additionally, results demonstrate that, although there is a pattern of morphology that uniquely defines the human brain, there are also patterns that uniquely differentiate human morphology from the morphology of each non-human ape species, indicating that reorganization of neural morphology occurred at the evolutionary divergence of each of these groups.
We recently reported that TNFR-associated factor (TRAF)3, a ubiquitously expressed adaptor protein, promotes mature B cell apoptosis. However, the specific function of TRAF3 in T cells has remained unclear. In this article, we report the generation and characterization of T cell-specific TRAF3(-/-) mice, in which the traf3 gene was deleted from thymocytes and T cells. Ablation of TRAF3 in the T cell lineage did not affect CD4 or CD8 T cell populations in secondary lymphoid organs or the numbers or proportions of CD4(+),CD8(+) or double-positive or double-negative thymocytes, except that the T cell-specific TRAF3(-/-) mice had a 2-fold increase in FoxP3(+) T cells. In striking contrast to mice lacking TRAF3 in B cells, the T cell TRAF3-deficient mice exhibited defective IgG1 responses to a T-dependent Ag, as well as impaired T cell-mediated immunity to infection with Listeria monocytogenes. Surprisingly, we found that TRAF3 was recruited to the TCR/CD28 signaling complex upon costimulation and that TCR/CD28-mediated proximal and distal signaling events were compromised by TRAF3 deficiency. These findings provide insights into the roles played by TRAF3 in T cell activation and T cell-mediated immunity.
Measures of brain and hippocampal volume in 40 healthy young (aged 18-30 years) and 36 healthy elderly (aged 60-83 years) subjects were compared with composite cognitive function scores in three conceptual domains: memory ability, processing speed, and general fluid intelligence. Through a series of general linear models testing the relationship between these brain measures and cognitive performance scores, a significant positive relationship between hippocampal volume and fluid intelligence ability was found in elderly subjects but not in young. No relationship between the other cognitive domains and brain or hippocampal volume was found. The findings suggest a role of hippocampal atrophy in the decline in fluid intelligence in the elderly.
Neuropsychology is poised for transformations of its concepts and methods, leveraging advances in neuroimaging, the human genome project, psychometric theory, and information technologies. It is argued that a paradigm shift toward evidence-based science and practice can be enabled by innovations, including (1) formal definition of neuropsychological concepts and tasks in cognitive ontologies; (2) creation of collaborative neuropsychological knowledgebases; and (3) design of Web-based assessment methods that permit free development, large-sample implementation, and dynamic refinement of neuropsychological tests and the constructs these aim to assess. This article considers these opportunities, highlights selected obstacles, and offers suggestions for stepwise progress toward these goals.
Biological therapeutics targeting TNF, IL-1 and IL-6 are widely used for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and a growing list of other syndromes, often with remarkable success. Now advances in neuroscience have collided with this therapeutic approach, perhaps rendering possible the development of nerve stimulators to inhibit cytokines. Action potentials transmitted in the vagus nerve culminate in the release of acetylcholine that blocks cytokine production by cells expressing acetylcholine receptors. The molecular mechanism of this cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway is attributable to signal transduction by the nicotinic alpha 7 acetylcholine receptor subunit, a regulator of the intracellular signals that control cytokine transcription and translation. Favourable preclinical data support the possibility that nerve stimulators may be added to the future therapeutic armamentarium, possibly replacing some drugs to inhibit cytokines.
The heart is a major consumer of energy and is able to utilise a wide range of substrates including lipids. Nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA) were thought to be a favoured carbon source, but their quantitative contribution is limited because of their relative histotoxicity. Circulating triacylglycerols (TAGs) in the form of chylomicrons (CMs) and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) are an alternative source of fatty acids and are now believed to be important in cardiac metabolism. However, few studies on cardiac utilisation of VLDL have been performed and the role of VLDL in cardiac energy metabolism remains unclear. Hearts utilise VLDL to generate ATP, but the oxidation rate of VLDL-TAG is relatively low under physiological conditions; however, in certain pathological states switching of energy substrates occurs and VLDL may become a major energy source for hearts. We review research regarding myocardial utilisation of VLDL and suggest possible roles of VLDL in cardiac energy metabolism: metabolic regulator and extracardiac energy storage for hearts.
Experiments with two diffusion weightings applied in direct succession in a single acquisition, so-called double- or two-wave-vector diffusion-weighting (DWV) experiments at short mixing times, have been shown to be a promising tool to estimate cell or compartment sizes, e.g. in living tissue. The basic theory for such experiments predicts that the signal decays for parallel and antiparallel wave vector orientations differ by a factor of three for small wave vectors. This seems to be surprising because in standard, single-wave-vector experiments the polarity of the diffusion weighting has no influence on the signal attenuation. Thus, the question how this difference can be understood more pictorially is often raised. In this rather educational manuscript, the phase evolution during a DWV experiment for simple geometries, e.g. diffusion between parallel, impermeable planes oriented perpendicular to the wave vectors, is considered step-by-step and demonstrates how the signal difference develops. Considering the populations of the phase distributions obtained, the factor of three between the signal decays which is predicted by the theory can be reproduced. Furthermore, the intermediate signal decay for orthogonal wave vector orientations can be derived when investigating diffusion in a box. Thus, the presented &quot;phase gymnastics&quot; approach may help to understand the signal modulation observed in DWV experiments at short mixing times.
Experiments with multiple diffusion wave vectors are known to carry more information than what is available from standard diffusion experiments. Here we consider a special case of this class of pulse sequences, the double wave vector diffusion experiment, and use the cumulant expansion of the signal to introduce the displacement correlation tensor. We discuss its physical interpretation and properties, noting in particular that its short time behavior allows determination of the surface to volume ratio of the pore space. We present a general expression for the displacement correlation tensor, and provide explicit expressions for a few model geometries. We then show that the scatter matrix characterizing the orientation distribution of an ensemble of cylinders is simply related to the displacement correlation tensor. This result is generalized to ensembles of pores with arbitrary shapes allowing a precise formulation of the influence of microstructural and ensemble anisotropy on the double wave vector diffusion signal in the Gaussian phase approximation. Finally, as a new application of the double wave vector diffusion signal, we analyze its behavior in a curving fiber, and suggest that the displacement correlation tensor may be used to estimate sub-voxel fiber curvature and deflection angle. The theoretical results are corroborated by computer simulations.

In recent decades, seizure prediction has caused a lot of research in both signal processing and the neuroscience field. The researches have tried to enhance the conventional seizure prediction algorithms such that the rate of the false alarms be appropriately small, so that seizures can be predicted according to clinical standards. To date, none of the proposed algorithms have been sufficiently adequate. In this article we show that in considering the mechanism of the generation of seizures, the prediction results may be improved. For this purpose, an algorithm based on the identification of the parameters of a physiological model of seizures is introduced. Some models of electroencephalographic (EEG) signals that can also be potentially considered as models of seizure and some developed seizure models are reviewed. As an example the model of depth-EEG signals, proposed by Wendling, is studied and is shown to be a suitable model.
Human mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are promising candidates for cell therapy of neurological diseases. However, co-transplantation of MSC with tumour cell lines has been reported to promote tumour growth. In this study, we co-transplant glioma cells together with alginate-encapsulated MSC. Immunocompetent BD-IX rats were inoculated with syngeneic BT4Ca glioma cells. Encapsulated unmodified MSC, endostatin producing (endoMSC) or cell-free alginate capsules were stereotactically implanted into the tumour bed. After 12 days, tumour volumes were significantly diminished in the MSC-treated group. The decrease in tumour volume found with endoMSC was statistically not significant, despite significantly reduced tumour vascularization. We conclude that, under syngeneic conditions in the immunocompetent animal, (1) the intracranial, orthotopic co-transplantation of MSC with glioma cells leads to a suppression in tumour growth and (2) the tumour can escape the antiangiogenic treatment with endostatin. Our finding may facilitate the clinical translation of encapsulated cell therapy.

In quiet stance, it is understood that healthy individuals control their posture primarily by a peripheral mechanism for anteroposterior sway and by a proximal mechanism for medialateral sway. The authors proposed the hypothesis that patients suffering from disease-related deficiencies, at their feet and legs, may exaggeratedly adopt proximal control mechanisms at their hip in the anteroposterior and medialateral axes. They critically reviewed the literature to test the proximal control hypothesis against published findings. The selected articles analyzed postural control mechanisms in individuals with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and in healthy controls. The data selected were kinematic and electromyographic. In the anteroposterior axis, 4 authors had previously tested the proposed hypothesis, but the findings are contrasted. In the medialateral axis, one study failed to validate the tested hypothesis. Overall, the published studies did not conform with the proximal control hypothesis. However, these studies did not specifically or deeply test such a hypothesis. The lack of results is critical because individuals suffering from peripheral disease-related deficiencies may be unstable, in part, because of a change in postural control mechanisms. For improvement of their stability and appropriate interventions, scientific explorations of the proximal control hypothesis should be investigated. Two proposals are made to move forward.
Research on the focus of attention has begun exploring the physiological changes that underlie the difference between internal and external foci of attention. However, previous electromyography studies have used dynamic tasks, making it difficult to interpret electrophysiological data. The authors analyzed how the focus of attention affects a subject's ability to perform an isometric force production task (focus was directed either at the force platform or the muscles responsible for force production). Subjects received practice without attentional focus instructions and then completed blocks of trials with an external and internal attentional focus separately. An external focus led to significantly less error overall and reduced surface electromyography activity with lower median power frequencies in the antagonist muscle, but attentional focus had no effects on the agonist muscle. Thus, an external focus of attention led to more efficient motor unit recruitment patterns (reduced cocontraction) and improved performance. Posttest surveys revealed subjects were aware of their improved performance with an external focus.
The extent to which different locomotor tasks require cognitive control is not well characterized. In this article, the authors consider the potential increase in attentional demands associated with carrying an anterior load while clearing an obstacle. Nine healthy male volunteers participated in 80 walking trials, 20 in each of 4 conditions: 1 no load condition (NL) and 3 carrying conditions (2KG, 5KG, and 10KG). Of the 20 trials in each condition, 12 included a probe reaction time (PRT) test during lead limb obstacle crossing, which was used to measure cognitive load. A load-dependent increase in PRT was observed, with PRT in the 2KG condition being significantly greater than in the NL condition, and PRT in the 5KG and 10KG conditions being significantly greater than in the 2KG condition. These results suggested that cognitive load was increased when: (a) the obstacle was occluded from vision by the load, and (b) the magnitude of load was increased.

The present study examined long-term mental health outcomes following a major disaster, including the relative risks (RR) of developing psychiatric disorders. Trauma exposure and predisaster vulnerability factors were examined as predictors of chronic psychopathology. Standardized questionnaires measuring psychological distress were completed 5 months, 14 months, 5 years, and 27 years after the disaster. Twenty seven years after the disaster, 48 (79%) survivors and a matched comparison group of 62 (78%) nondisaster-exposed controls were assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, axis I Disorders. The prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder among the survivors was 6.1%, and the risk of having a psychiatric disorder was more than 3 times higher than in the comparison group (RR = 3.44, 95% confidence interval = 1.6-7.6). Disaster exposure and general neurotic personality predicted chronic psychopathology, which was reported by 20.9% of the participants. Findings from this study suggest that increased risk of psychopathology persists 27 years after disaster. Both disaster exposure and vulnerable personality are important predictors of chronic psychopathology.
In the present study, light and electron microscopy were used to examine heat shock protein (HSP 72 kD) expression during acute methamphetamine (METH) intoxication in rats and evaluate its relationships with brain temperature and alterations in a number of other histochemical and morphological parameters. Freely moving rats received METH at the same dose (9 mg/kg, sc) but at different ambient temperatures (23 and 29C), showing a wide range of brain temperature elevations (37.6-42.5C); brains were taken for histochemical and morphological evaluations at peak of brain temperature increase. We found that acute METH intoxication induces massive and wide-spread HSP expression in neural and glial cells examined in detail in the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and hypothalamus. In each of these structures, the number of HSP-positive cells tightly correlated with brain temperature elevation. The changes in HSP immunoreactivity were also tightly related to alterations in permeability of the blood-brain barrier, acute glial activation, and brain edema assessed by albumin and GFAP immunoreactivity and measuring tissue water content, respectively. While robust and generalized HSP production normally appears to be the part of an adaptive brain response associated with METH-induced metabolic activation, activation of this protective mechanism has its natural limits and could not counteract the damaging effects of oxidative stress, high temperature, and edema--the leading factors of METH-induced neurotoxicity.
Postnatal development of the visual cortex is modulated by experience, especially during the critical period. In rats, a stable neuronal population is only acquired after this relatively prolonged period. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the most important angiogenic factor and also has strong neuroprotective, neurotrophic and neurogenic properties. Similar effects have been described for rearing in enriched environments. Our aim is to investigate the vascular and neuronal effects of combining VEGF infusion and environmental enrichment on the visual cortex during the initial days of the critical period. Results showed that a small percentage of Cleaved Caspase-3 positive cells colocalized with neuronal markers. The lesion produced by the cannula implantation resulted in decreased vascular, neuronal and Caspase-3 positive cell densities. Rearing under enriched environment was unable to reverse these effects in any group, whereas VEGF infusion alone partially corrected those effects. A higher effectiveness was reached by combining both the procedures, the most effective combination being when enriched-environment rearing was introduced only after minipump implantation. In addition to the angiogenic effect of VEGF, applied strategies also had synergic neuroprotective effects, and the combination of the two strategies had more remarkable effects than those achieved by each strategy applied individually.
In neuroscience, myosin V motor proteins have attracted attention since they are highly expressed in brain, and absence of myosin Va in man leads to a severe neurological disease called Griscelli syndrome. While in some cells myosin V is described to act as a vesicle transport motor, an additional role in exocytosis has emerged recently. In neurons, myosin V has been linked to exocytosis of secretory vesicles and recycling endosomes. Through these functions, it is implied in regulating important brain functions including the release of neuropeptides by exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles and the insertion of neurotransmitter receptors into post-synaptic membranes. This review focuses on the role of myosin V in (i) axonal transport and stimulated exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles to regulate the secretion of neuroactive substances, (ii) tethering of the endoplasmic reticulum at cerebellar synapses to permit long-term depression, (iii) recycling of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors at hippocampal synapses during long-term potentiation, and (iv) recycling of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction. Myosin V is thus discussed as an important modulator of synaptic plasticity.
Both adenosine and nitric oxide (NO) are known for their role in sleep homeostasis, with the basal forebrain (BF) wakefulness center as an important site of action. Previously, we reported a cascade of homeostatic events, wherein sleep deprivation (SD) induces the production of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-dependent NO in BF, leading to enhanced release of extracellular adenosine. In turn, increased BF adenosine leads to enhanced sleep intensity, as measured by increased non-rapid eye movement sleep EEG delta activity. However, the presence and time course of similar events in cortex has not been studied, although a frontal cortical role for the increase in non-rapid eye movement recovery sleep EEG delta power is known. Accordingly, we performed simultaneous hourly microdialysis sample collection from BF and frontal cortex (FC) during 11 h SD. We observed that both areas showed sequential increases in iNOS and NO, followed by increases in adenosine. BF increases began at 1 h SD, whereas FC increases began at 5 h SD. iNOS and Fos-double labeling indicated that iNOS induction occurred in BF and FC wake-active neurons. These data support the role of BF adenosine and NO in sleep homeostasis and indicate the temporal and spatial sequence of sleep homeostatic cascade for NO and adenosine.
The -amyloid peptide that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain derive from proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Recent evidence suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) participate in the post-transcriptional regulation of APP expression. Because gene dosage effects of the APP gene can cause genetic AD, dysregulation of the miRNA network could contribute significantly to disease. Here, we present evidence that, besides APP expression regulation, miRNAs are equally involved in the regulation of neuronal APP mRNA alternative splicing. Lack of miRNAs in post-mitotic neurons in vivo is associated with APP exons 7 and 8 inclusion, while ectopic expression of miR-124, an abundant neuronal-specific miRNA, reversed these effects in cultured neurons. Similar results were obtained by depletion of endogenous polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) in cells, a recognized miR-124 target gene. Furthermore, PTBP1 levels correlate with the presence of APP exons 7 and 8, while PTBP2 levels correlate with the skipping of these exons during neuronal differentiation. Finally, we show that miR-124 is down-regulated in AD brain. In sum, our results suggest that specific miRNAs are involved in the fine-tuning of APP alternative splicing in neurons. Since abnormal neuronal splicing of APP affects -amyloid peptide production, these results could contribute to the understanding of the implication of miRNAs in brain health and disease.
Previous studies have shown a cAMP/protein kinase A-dependent neuroprotective effect of adenosine on glutamate or re-feeding-induced apoptosis in chick retina neuronal cultures. In the present work, we have studied the effect of adenosine on the survival of retinal progenitor cells. Cultures obtained from 6-day-old (E6) or from 8-day-old (E8) chick embryos were challenged 2 h (C0) or 1 day (C1) after seeding and analyzed after 3-4 days in vitro. Surprisingly, treatment with the selective A2a adenosine receptor agonists N(6) -[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(2-methylphenyl)-ethyl]adenosine (DPMA) or 3-[4-[2-[[6-amino-9-[(2R,3R,4S,5S)-5-(ethylcarbamoyl)-3,4-dihydroxy-oxolan-2-yl]purin-2-yl]amino]ethyl]phenyl]propanoic acid (CGS21680) promoted cell death when added at E6C0 but not at E6C1 or E8C0. DPMA-induced cell death involved activation of A2a receptors and the phospholipase C/protein kinase C but not the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway, and was not correlated with early modulation of precursor cells proliferation. Regarding cyclic nucleotide responsive element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, cultures from E6 embryos behave in an opposite manner from that from E8 embryos, both in vitro and in vivo. While the phospho-CREB level was high at E6C0 cultures and could be diminished by DPMA, it was lower at E8C0 and could be increased by DPMA. Similar to what was observed in cell survival studies, CREB dephosphorylation induced by DPMA in E6C0 cultures was dependent on the Phospholipase C/protein kinase C pathway. Accordingly, cell death induced by DPMA was inhibited by okadaic acid, a phosphatase blocker. Moreover, DPMA as well as the adenosine uptake blocker nitrobenzyl mercaptopurine riboside (NBMPR) modulate cell survival and CREB phosphorylation in a population of cells in the ganglion cell layer in vivo. These data suggest that A2a adenosine receptors as well as CREB may display a novel and important function by controlling the repertoire of developing retinal neurons.
Both hypercortisolemia and hippocampal damage are features found in patients diagnosed of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and epidemiological evidence supports a role for stress as a risk factor for AD. It is known that immobilization stress is followed by accumulation of oxidative/nitrosative mediators in brain after the release of proinflammatory cytokines, nuclear factor kappa B activation, nitric oxide synthase-2 and cyclooxygenase-2 expression. Long-term exposure to elevated corticosteroid levels is known to affect the hippocampus which plays a central role in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. We therefore studied the effect of chronic immobilization stress on amyloid precursor protein/PS1 mice. Stress exposure increased AD-induced neuroinflammation characterized by astrogliosis, increased inflammatory gene transcription and lipid peroxidation. Importantly, immobilization stress did not increase the soluble or insoluble amyloid  levels suggesting that increased cortisol levels lower the threshold for a neuroinflammatory response, independently from amyloid . Since inflammation may act as a factor that contributes disease progression, the stress-inflammation relation described here may be relevant to understand the initial mechanisms in underlying the risk enhancing action of stress on AD.
Since its initial characterization over 20 years ago, there has been intense and unwavering interest in understanding the role of the transcription factor cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in nervous system physiology. Through an array of experimental approaches and model systems, researchers have begun to unravel the complex and multifaceted role of this transcription factor in such diverse processes as neurodevelopment, synaptic plasticity, and neuroprotection. Here we discuss current insights into the molecular mechanisms by which CREB couples synaptic activity to long-term changes in neuronal plasticity, which is thought to underlie learning and memory. We also discuss work showing that CREB is a critical component of the neuroprotective transcriptional network, and data indicating that CREB dysregulation contributes to an array of neuropathological conditions.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) plays a critical role during neurodevelopment, synaptic plasticity, and neurodegeneration. Cdk5 activity depends on association with neuronal proteins p35 and p25, a proteolytic product of p35. Cdk5 regulates the actin cytoskeletal dynamics that are essential for neuronal migration, neuritic growth, and synaptogenesis. However, little is known about the interaction of actin and Cdk5 and its effect on neuronal Cdk5 activity. In a previous study, we observed that Cdk5/p35 activity is negatively correlated with co-immunoprecipitated F-actin (filamentous actin) amounts in the mouse brain, and suggested that F-actin inhibits the formation of the Cdk5/p35 complex [Journal of Neuroscience (2008) vol. 28, p. 14511]. The experiments reported here were undertaken to elucidate the relationship between actin and the formation of the Cdk5/p35 complex and its activity. Instead of an F-actin-mediated inhibition, we propose that G-actin (globular actin) in the F-actin preparations is responsible for inhibiting Cdk5/p35 and Cdk5/p25 kinase activity. We found that F-actin binds to p35 but not p25 or Cdk5. We have shown that G-actin binds directly to Cdk5 without disrupting the formation of the Cdk5/p35 or Cdk5/p25 complexes. G-actin potently suppressed Cdk5/p35 and Cdk5/p25 activity when either histone H1 or purified human tau protein were used as substrates, indicating a substrate-independent inhibitory effect of G-actin on Cdk5 activity. Finally, G-actin suppressed the activity of Cdk5 immunoprecipitated from wild type and p35-deficient mouse brain, suggesting that G-actin suppresses endogenous Cdk5 activity in a p35-independent manner. Together, these results suggest a novel mechanism of actin cytoskeletal regulation of Cdk5/p35 activity.
Epigenetic mechanisms alter the structure of local chromosome domains to dynamically regulate gene expression by signalling and propagating transcriptional states. Nuclear receptors, a stimulus-inducible class of transcription factors, interact with chromatin to regulate transcription. To promote transcription, nuclear receptors interact with genomic regulatory elements that are epigenetically marked by modified histone tails, DNA methylation status, histone variants, chromatin accessibility and long-range interactions. Advances in throughput have allowed the profiling of regulatory factor activity on a genome-wide scale, with recent evidence from genomic analyses highlighting novel aspects of DNA-binding factor actions on chromatin. In the present review, the current knowledge of the mechanisms regulating nuclear receptor occupancy at cis-regulatory elements is discussed, with particular emphasis on the glucocorticoid, oestrogen and androgen receptors. Epigenetic regulation of genomic elements direct cell-specific regulatory factor binding and contribute to human variation in factor occupancy. Through regulating nuclear receptor activity, the epigenome is a critical checkpoint in nuclear receptor induced gene expression in health and disease.
Lactation results in negative energy balance in the rat leading to decreased gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release and anoestrus. Inhibited GnRH release may be a result of decreased stimulatory tone from neuropeptides critical for GnRH neuronal activity, such as kisspeptin (Kiss1) and neurokinin B (NKB). The present study aimed to identify neuronal projections from the colocalised population of Kiss1/NKB cells in the arcuate nucleus (ARH) using double-label immunohistochemistry to determine where this population may directly regulate GnRH neuronal activity. Additionally, the present study further examined lactation-induced changes in the Kiss1 system that could play a role in decreased GnRH release. The colocalised ARH Kiss1/NKB fibres projected primarily to the internal zone of the median eminence (ME) where they were in close proximity to GnRH fibres; however, few Kiss1/NKB fibres from the ARH were seen at the level of GnRH neurones in the preoptic area (POA). Arcuate Kiss1/NKB peptide levels were decreased during lactation consistent with previous mRNA data. Surprisingly, anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) Kiss1 peptide levels were increased, whereas Kiss1 mRNA levels were decreased during lactation, suggesting active inhibition of peptide release. These findings indicate ARH Kiss1/NKB and AVPV Kiss1 appear to be inhibited during lactation, which may contribute to decreased GnRH release and subsequent reproductive dysfunction. Furthermore, the absence of a strong ARH Kiss1/NKB projection to the POA suggests regulation of GnRH by this population occurs primarily at the ME level via local projections.
The medial amygdala (MeA) is an important site for the gonadal hormone control of several socio-sexual behaviours that emerge during puberty, including aggression, mating and parental behaviour. We have previously shown that rising levels of pubertal androgens increase the regional volume and mean soma size of neurones in the posterodorsal subnucleus of the MeA, the MePD. The present study aimed to determine some of the constituents of pubertal volumetric growth. Using computer-guided unbiased stereology, we compared the regional volume, mean somal volume and the overall number of neurones and glia in 45-day-old male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Half of the hamsters had completed puberty, whereas the remainder were prepubertal as a result of photoinhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Puberty significantly increased MePD regional volume and mean somal volume, as previously observed. We also compared the number of puncta immunoreactive for vesicular glutamate transporter-2 (vGlut2) and post-synaptic density 95 (PSD-95), which are both markers of glutamatergic pre- and post-synaptic specialisations, as well as glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD-65), which is a marker of GABAergic terminals. Puberty increased the number of vGlut2 and PSD-95 immunoreactive puncta by two- and three-fold, respectively, whereas the number of GAD-65 immunoreactive puncta was unchanged. These results suggest that numerous excitatory synapses are added to the MeA during puberty. More broadly, they show that the pubertal emergence of sexual behaviour is accompanied by synaptic reorganisation of a key network involved in the expression of sexual behaviour.
The hormone leptin controls food intake and body weight through its receptor in the hypothalamus, and may modulate physiological functions such as reproduction, sleep or circadian timing. In the present study, the effects of leptin on the resetting of the circadian clock, the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and on the activity of the hypocretinergic system were examined in vivo, with comparative analysis between male and female mice. A single leptin injection (5 mg/kg) at both the onset and offset of the activity period did not alter locomotion of mice housed under a 12 : 12 h light/dark cycle and did not shift the circadian behavioral rhythm of mice housed in constant darkness. By contrast, leptin potentiated the phase-shifting effect of a 30-min light-pulse on behavioural rhythms during the late subjective night, although only in females. This was accompanied by a higher induction of the clock genes Per1 and Per2 in the SCN. A 2-week chronic exposure to a physiological dose of leptin (100 g/kg per day) decreased locomotor activity, expression of hypocretin receptor 1 and 2, as well as the number of hypocretin-immunoreactive neurones only in female mice, whereas the number of c-fos-positive hypocretinergic neurones was reduced in both genders. These results highlight a dimorphic effect of leptin on the hypocretinergic system and on the response of the circadian clock to light. Leptin may thus modulate the sleep/wake cycle and circadian system beside its well-established action on food intake and regulation of body weight.
Vasopressin V1b receptor knockout (V1b/) mice were used to investigate a putative role for the V1b receptor (V1bR) in fluid regulation and in the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system (HNS) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responses to osmotic stress induced by water deprivation (WD). Male wild-type and V1b/ mice were housed in metabolic cages to allow determination of water intake and urine volume and osmolality. When provided with food and water ad lib., spontaneous urine volume and urine osmolality did not differ between genotypes. Similarly, WD for 24 h caused comparable decreases in urine volume and increases in urine osmolality irrespective of genotype. WD resulted in an increase in plasma corticosterone concentration in wild-type animals; however, this WD-induced increase in plasma corticosterone was significantly attenuated in V1b/ mice. Comparable increases in neuronal activation, indicated by increased c-fos mRNA expression, and in vasopressin mRNA expression occurred in both the supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of wild-type and V1b/ mice following WD; however, the WD-induced decrease in corticotrophin-releasing hormone mRNA expression seen in the PVN of wild-type mice was not observed in the PVN of V1b/ mice. These data suggest that, although the vasopressin V1bR is not required for normal HNS function, it is necessary for a full HPA-axis response to the osmotic stress of WD.
A large vein of Galen was diagnosed in a 9-month-old boy. This was not treated at birth, as there was no associated congestive heart failure. The patient was followed conservatively and follow-up magnetic resonance imaging showed increase in the size of the vein of Galen malformation. Subsequent cerebral angiogram demonstrated hypertrophied but thrombosed right posterior choroidal artery, suggesting spontaneous thrombosis of the arterial feeder and thus the embolization was not pursued.
MGAT5 was demonstrated to be associated to multiple sclerosis (MS) severity. We evaluated its role in progressive MS. We studied 11 SNPs mapping to MGAT5 in an Italian cohort of primary progressive or progressive-relapsing patients. The rs1257169(G) allele is associated with lower disease severity (p-value = 0.02). Adding the age of onset as covariate, another SNP, rs539588, is nominally significant. None of the SNPs survived after multiple testing correction. These results, even if suggestive of MGAT5 involvement also in progressive MS severity, require a bigger sample size to confirm and better explore the role of this locus in this rare disease course.
Sepsis is characterized by an intense inflammatory reaction with potential neurotoxic effects in the central nervous system and damage to memory and learning ability. We assessed the effects of acute low dose of MK-801 on the memory impairment, hippocampal BDNF levels and DARPP-32 expression ten days after sepsis. Under anesthesia, male Wistar rats underwent either cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) or sham. Then, the animals received either a single systemic injection of MK-801 (0.025 mg/kg) or saline solution. Ten days after CLP, the animals were submitted to the step-down inhibitory avoidance and object recognition tests. Also, the hippocampal BDNF protein levels and DARPP-32 expression were evaluated. MK-801 prevented cognitive impairment, but did not affect the hippocampal BDNF levels. DARPP-32 expression was significantly different only in the animals submitted to sepsis that received MK-801 treatment. Thus, we demonstrated that a single low dose of MK-801 prevented memory impairment without altering hippocampal DARPP-32 expression and BDNF levels.
CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Treg) transform the HIV-1 infected macrophage from a neurotoxic to a neuroprotective phenotype. This was demonstrated previously in a murine model of HIV-1 encephalitis induced by intracranial injection of HIV-1/vesicular stomatitis virus-infected bone marrow macrophages. In this report, relationships between Treg ingress of end organ tissues, notably the brain, and neuroprotection were investigated. Treg from EGFP-transgenic donor mice were expanded, labeled with indium-111, and adoptively transferred. Treg distribution was assayed by single photon emission computed tomography and immunohistochemistry. Treg readily migrated across the blood brain barrier and were retained within virus-induced neuroinflammatory sites. In non-inflamed peripheral tissues (liver and spleen) Treg were depleted. These observations demonstrate that Treg migrate to sites of inflammation where they modulate immune responses.
The following review summarizes the progress in cerebrovascular disease research published in the Journal of Neurology in the last year.
Pruritus, a common feature of animal prion diseases such as scrapie, is rarely reported in humans with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), and its anatomical background is not well defined. The present study was undertaken to carry out a methodical prospective search for the prevalence of pruritus in CJD patients and investigate its anatomical substrate by MRI. The study group included consecutive familial and sporadic CJD patients carrying the E200K PRNP mutation followed up in a longitudinal prospective study between the years 2005 and 2008. Pruritus was prospectively screened for and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) was used to correlate brain diffusion abnormalities with pruritus in CJD patients. Pruritus was present in 6/31 (19.35%) patients with familial disease (fCJD) and in none of the patients with sporadic disease (sCJD). Pruritus was a presenting symptom in one patient and evolved during the course of the disease in the other five patients. The pruritus was generalized in three patients, regional in two and localized in one patient. It was transient in one patient and continued throughout the disease in five patients. DWI showed that pruritus was significantly associated with reduced diffusion in the several areas known to be affected by CJD, but most significantly in the midbrain periaqueductal grey matter. Pruritus is relatively common in patients with familial CJD carrying the E200K mutation. Our findings point to a central origin that involves damage to the inhibitory gating mechanism for itch in the periaqueductal grey matter.
In patients with acute hydrocephalus after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), lumbar drainage is possible if the obstruction is in the subarachnoid space (communicating hydrocephalus). In case of intraventricular obstruction (obstructive hydrocephalus), ventricular drainage is the only option. A small fourth ventricle is often considered a sign of obstructive hydrocephalus. We investigated whether the absolute or relative size of the fourth ventricle can indeed distinguish between these two types of hydrocephalus. On CT-scans of 76 consecutive patients with acute headache but normal CT and CSF, we measured the cross-sectional surface of the third and fourth ventricle to obtain normal planimetric values. Subsequently we performed the same measurements on 117 consecutive SAH patients with acute hydrocephalus. These patients were divided according to the distribution of blood on CT-scan into three groups: mainly intraventricular blood (n=15), mainly subarachnoid blood (n=54) and both intraventricular and subarachnoid blood (n=48). The size of the fourth ventricle exceeded the upper limit of normal in 2 of the 6 (33%) patients with intraventricular blood but without haematocephalus, and in 15 of the 54 (28%) patients with mainly subarachnoid blood. The mean ratio between the third and fourth ventricle was 1.45 (SD 0.66) in patients with intraventricular blood and 1.42 (SD 0.91) in those with mainly subarachnoid blood. Neither fourth ventricular size nor the ratio between the third and fourth ventricles discriminates between the two groups. A small fourth ventricle does not necessarily accompany obstructive hydrocephalus and is therefore not a contraindication for lumbar drainage.
Having epilepsy has a large impact on one's well-being, but often seizure frequency and severity do not explain self-reported quality of life. We hypothesized that one's personal coping style is more important. In this study, 105 patients attending the outpatient neurological clinic at the University Medical Centre in Utrecht, the Netherlands, with a diagnosis of partial epilepsy, aged 17-80years, completed questionnaires. Demographic information, disease characteristics, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and coping styles were obtained by postal-validated HRQoL questionnaires: the EQ5D and RAND-36 and the Utrecht Coping List. A passive coping style explained 45% of the variance in the mental component of HRQoL and was more important than 'objective' seizure-related measures. Confounders such as employment, gender, and side-effects of treatment explained another 6%. Passive coping style also influenced the physical component of the HRQoL, but here seizure-related factors predominated. Overall, epilepsy patients showed a more avoiding coping style, and female patients a less active coping style and more reassuring thoughts, compared to the Dutch population. The personal coping style of patients appears to be more important than seizure-related measures in predicting mental aspects of quality of life. Coping style characteristics rather than disease characteristics should guide clinical decision-making in patients with epilepsy. Further studies should investigate the effect on HRQoL of behavioral interventions to improve coping.



The phenotypic identities and characterization of neural networks disrupted after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) in the preterm brain remain to be elucidated. Interruption of the central serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) system can lead to numerous functional deficits, many of which match those in human preterm neonates exposed to HI. How the central serotonergic network is damaged after HI and mechanisms underlying such injury are not known. We used a Postnatal Day 3 rat model of preterm HI and found parallel reductions in the 5-HT transporter expression, 5-HT levels and numbers of 5-HT-positive dorsal raphe neurons 1 week after insult. Post-HI administration of minocycline, an inhibitor of activated microglia, attenuated HI-induced damage to the serotonergic network. Minocycline effects seemed to be region specific, that is, where there was micro-glial activation and increases in tumor necrosis factor- and inter-leukin 1. The concurrent improvement in serotonergic outcomes suggests that inhibition of neuroinflammation prevented damage to the serotonergic neurons rather than affected the regulation of 5-HT or serotonin transporter. These data elucidate the mechanisms of serotonergic network injury in HI, and despite the known adverse effects associated with the use of minocycline in neonates, postinsult administration of minocycline may represent a novel approach to counter neuroinflammation and preserve the integrity of the central serotonergic network in the preterm neonate.
The brain stem provides most of the noradrenaline (NA) present in the spinal cord, which functions to both increase spinal motoneuron excitability and inhibit sensory afferent transmission to motoneurons (excitatory postsynaptic potentials; EPSPs). NA increases motoneuron excitability by facilitating calcium-mediated persistent inward currents (Ca PICs) that are crucial for sustained motoneuron firing. Spinal cord transection eliminates most NA and accordingly causes an immediate loss of PICs and emergence of exaggerated EPSPs. However, with time PICs recover, and thus the exaggerated EPSPs can then readily trigger these PICs, which in turn produce muscle spasms. Here we examined the contribution of adrenergic receptors to spasms in chronic spinal rats. Selective activation of the (1A) adrenergic receptor with the agonists methoxamine or A61603 facilitated Ca PIC and spasm activity, recorded both in vivo and in vitro. In contrast, the (2) receptor agonists clonidine and UK14303 did not facilitate Ca PICs, but did decrease the EPSPs that trigger spasms. Moreover, in the absence of agonists, spasms recorded in vivo were inhibited by the (1) receptor antagonists WB4010, prazosin, and REC15/2739, and increased by the (2) receptor antagonist RX821001, suggesting that both adrenergic receptors were endogenously active. In contrast, spasm activity recorded in the isolated in vitro cord was inhibited only by the (1) antagonists that block constitutive receptor activity (activity in the absence of NA; inverse agonists, WB4010 and prazosin) and not by the neutral antagonist REC15/2739, which only blocks conventional NA-mediated receptor activity. RX821001 had no effect in vitro even though it is an (2) receptor inverse agonist. Our results suggest that after chronic spinal cord injury Ca PICs and spasms are facilitated, in part, by constitutive activity in (1) adrenergic receptors. Additionally, peripherally derived NA (or similar ligand) activates both (1) and (2) adrenergic receptors, controlling PICs and EPSPs, respectively.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is a cluster of nuclei within the extended amygdala, a forebrain macrostructure with extensive projection to motor nuclei of the hindbrain. The subnuclei of the BST coordinate autonomic, neuroendocrine, and somato-motor functions and receive robust neuromodulatory monoaminergic afferents, including 5-HT-, noradrenaline (NA)-, and dopamine (DA)-containing terminals. In contrast to 5-HT and NA, little is known about how DA modulates neuronal activity or synaptic transmission in the BST. DA-containing afferents to the BST originate in the ventral tegmental area, the periaqueducal gray, and the retrorubral field. They form a fairly diffuse input to the dorsolateral BST with dense terminal fields in the oval (ovBST) and juxtacapsular (jxBST) nuclei. The efferent-afferent connectivity of the BST suggests that it may play a key role in motivated behaviors, consistent with recent evidence that the dorsolateral BST is a target for drugs of abuse. This study describes the effects of DA on synaptic transmission in the ovBST. Whole cell voltage clamp recordings were performed on ovBST neurons in brain slices from adult rats in the presence or absence of exogenous DA and receptor-targeted agonists and antagonists. The results showed that DA selectively and exclusively reduced inhibitory synaptic transmission in the ovBST in a dose-dependent and D2-like dopamine receptor-dependent manner. DA also modulated excitatory synaptic transmission in a dose-dependent dependent manner. However, this effect was mediated by 2-noradrenergic receptors. Thus these data reveal a double dissociation in catecholaminergic regulation of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the ovBST and may shed light on the mechanisms involved in neuropathological behaviors such as stress-induced relapse to consumption of drugs of abuse.
The anterior thalamic nuclei are assumed to support episodic memory with anterior thalamic dysfunction a core feature of diencephalic amnesia. To date, the electrophysiological characterization of this region in behaving rodents has been restricted to the anterodorsal nucleus. Here we compared single-unit spikes with population activity in the anteroventral nucleus (AV) of freely moving rats during foraging and during naturally occurring sleep. We identified AV units that synchronize their bursting activity in the 6-11 Hz range. We show for the first time in freely moving rats that a subgroup of AV neurons is strongly entrained by theta oscillations. This feature together with their firing properties and spike shape suggests they be classified as &quot;theta&quot; units. To prove the selectivity of AV theta cells for theta rhythm, we compared the relation of spiking rhythmicity to local field potentials during theta and non-theta periods. The most distinguishable non-theta oscillations in rodent anterior thalamus are sleep spindles. We therefore compared the firing properties of AV units during theta and spindle periods. We found that theta and spindle oscillations differ in their spatial distribution within AV, suggesting separate cellular sources for these oscillations. While theta-bursting neurons were related to the distribution of local field theta power, spindle amplitude was independent of the theta units' position. Slow- and fast-spiking bursting units that are selectively entrained to theta rhythm comprise 23.7% of AV neurons. Our results provide a framework for electrophysiological classification of AV neurons as part of theta limbic circuitry.
Spectral coupling between delta and beta oscillations has been related to anxiety. The authors provide preliminary evidence that frontal brain oscillatory coupling discriminates children born to socially phobic versus healthy parents, despite there being no difference in parental perceptions of their children's shyness.
This article provides the beginning neuroeconomist with an introductory overview to the different methods used in human neuroscience. It describes basic strengths and weaknesses of each technique, points to examples of how each technique has been used in neuroeconomic studies, and provides key tutorial references that contain more detailed information. In addition to this overview, the article presents a framework that organizes human neuroscience methods functionally, according to whether they provide tests of the association between brain activity and cognition or behavior, or whether they test the necessity or the sufficiency of brain activity for cognition and behavior. This framework demonstrates the utility of a multi-method research approach, since converging evidence from tests of association, necessity and sufficiency provides the strongest inference regarding brain-behavior relationships. Set against this goal of converging evidence, human neuroscience studies in neuroeconomics currently rely far too heavily on methods that test association, most notably functional MRI.
The periglomerular cells (PG) of the olfactory bulb (OB) are involved in the primary processing and the refinement of sensory information from the olfactory epithelium. The neurochemical composition of these neurons has been studied in depth in many species, and over the last decades such studies have focused mainly on the rat. The increasing use of genetic models for research into olfactory function demands a profound characterization of the mouse olfactory bulb, including the chemical composition of bulbar interneurons. Regarding both their connectivity with the olfactory nerve and their neurochemical fate, recently, two different types of PG have been identified in the mouse. In the present report, we analyze both the synaptology and the chemical composition of specific PG populations in the murine olfactory bulb, in particular, those containing the neuropeptide cholecystokinin. Our results demonstrate the existence in the mouse of non-GABAergic PG and that these establish synaptic contacts with the olfactory nerve within the glomeruli. Based on previous classifications, we propose that this population would constitute a new subtype of type 1 mouse PG. In addition, we demonstrate the partial coexistence of cholecystokinin with the calcium-binding proteins neurocalcin and parvalbumin. All these findings add further data to our knowledge of the synaptology and neurochemistry of mouse PG. The differences observed from other rodents reflect the neurochemical heterogeneity of PG in the mammalian OB.
Over a century ago, hypertrophy of astrocytes was noted as a pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) and was hypothesized to play an important role in this disease, yet the contribution of astrocytes has been largely underemphasized in the pathophysiology of CNS demyelination. Astrocytes perform many homeostatic functions within the developing and adult CNS, including enhancing formation and maintenance of the blood-brain barrier, moderating neuronal connections through the tripartite synapse, and perhaps even offering intercellular communication independently of neurons. Although there is a significant body of literature characterizing different types of MS lesions, the inflammatory demyelination in an active MS lesion is accompanied by the presence of macrophages, lymphocytes, and large reactive astrocytes. The astrocyte has long been viewed as a cell that promotes inflammation and demyelination, while also forming the glial scar, thus hindering remyelination and axon growth. Renewed interest in the astrocyte has been brought about by recent studies demonstrating that astrocytes can also function as cellular mediators of CNS myelination by promoting oligodendrocyte progenitor migration, proliferation, and differentiation. Thus, refining our knowledge of astrocytic functions in the regulation of CNS myelination may help us to better understand why remyelination fails in MS.
Tuberculous spinal arachnoiditis involving cauda equina is rare. A patient with lumbar tuberculous arachnoiditis in the absence of both vertebral and meningeal tuberculosis, which was mimicking spinal intradural extramedullary tumor is described here. Diagnosis was made based on intraoperative findings and was confirmed by histopathology. Surgical decompression along with a combination of steroid and antitubercular therapy resulted in a good outcome. At 3 months follow-up, the patient regained bladder control and was able to walk with support. Clinical features, magnetic resonance imaging, and intraoperative findings are described. Pathology and the relevant literature are discussed. Based on the patient's clinical and radiologic findings, it was believed that the patient had a conus cauda tumor and was operated on. Histologic examination of the mass revealed tuberculoma. Surgical decompression followed by antituberculosis medication resulted in good outcome. Hence tuberculous arachnoiditis should be considered in differential diagnosis of conus cauda tumors.
One of the most prolific anatomical writers of the 19th century, Hubert von Luschka made significant contributions to our knowledge of neuroanatomy. His publications and textbooks were standards for their day. However, very little is written of his life in either the English or the German literature. His name lives on eponymously in more than 20 anatomical structures, including those most relevant to the neurosurgeon, the foramina of Luschka and uncovertebral joints. In this article, the authors discuss the life and contributions of this prominent German surgeon and anatomist.

Spinal neuroglial cysts are rare. Although there are a few case reports, none describe such cysts within the sacral canal. The authors describe the case of a 29-year-old man who presented with symptoms of urinary retention over a period of several months. Imaging of his lumbar spine demonstrated the presence of an extradural cystic lesion within the sacral canal. He underwent resection of the cyst, with complete reversal of his bladder impairment. Histopathological studies confirmed the presence of a sacral neuroglial cyst.
Acupressure is a complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) treatment using fingertips to stimulate acupoints on the skin. Although suggested to improve cognitive function, acupressure has not been previously investigated with a controlled design in traumatic brain injury (TBI) survivors, who could particularly benefit from a non-pharmacological intervention for cognitive impairment. A randomized, placebo-controlled, single-blind design assessed the effects of acupressure (eight treatments over 4 weeks) on cognitive impairment and state of being following TBI, including assessment of event-related potentials (ERPs) during Stroop and auditory oddball tasks. It was hypothesized that active acupressure treatments would confer greater cognitive improvement than placebo treatments, perhaps because of enhanced relaxation response induction and resulting stress reduction. Significant treatment effects were found comparing pre- to post-treatment change between groups. During the Stroop task, the active-treatment group showed greater reduction in both P300 latency (p=0.010, partial =0.26) and amplitude (p=0.011, partial =0.26), as well as a reduced Stroop effect on accuracy (p=0.008, partial =0.21) than did the placebo group. Additionally, the active-treatment group improved more than did the placebo group on the digit span test (p=0.043, Cohen's d=0.68). Together, these results suggest an enhancement in working memory function associated with active treatments. Because acupressure emphasizes self-care and can be taught to novice individuals, it warrants further study as an adjunct treatment for TBI.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes severe disruption of cerebral electrical activity and electroencephalography (EEG) is emerging as a standard tool to monitor TBI patients in the acute period of risk for secondary injuries. However, animal studies of EEG pathology in the context of TBI are surprisingly sparse, largely because of the lack of real-time continuous EEG (cEEG) monitoring in animal TBI models. Here, we performed long-term EEG monitoring to study nonconvulsive seizures (NCS), periodic epileptiform discharges (PED), and EEG power spectra following three injury severity levels in a rat model of penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI). EEG signals were recorded continuously from bilateral hemispheres of freely behaving rats for 72h and for 2h on days 7 and 14 after the injury. We report that the incidence of NCS and PED positively correlated with the injury severity, where 13%, 39%, and 59% of the animals exhibited NCS, and 0%, 30%, and 65% of the animals exhibited PED following 5%, 10% and 12.5% PBBI, respectively. Similar correlations existed for the number of NCS and PED events and their duration. NCS and PED occurred either independently or in tandem. Longer NCS durations were associated with larger lesion volumes. Significant EEG slowing evidenced by the EEG power shift toward the  frequency band (0.5-4Hz) occurred within 2h after PBBI, which resolved over time but persisted longer after greater injury severity. In contrast, decreases in higher frequency power (i.e., 30-35Hz) remained depressed throughout 14 days. This is the first long-term cEEG study of the acute injury phase in a rat model of severe TBI, demonstrating common occurrences of clinically observed electrocortical pathology, such as NCS, PED, and cortical slowing. These EEG pathologies may serve as critical care biomarkers of brain injury, and offer clinically relevant metrics for studying acute therapeutic interventions.

The interaction between the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) and BC1 RNA has been the subject of controversy. We probed the parameters of RNA binding to FMRP in several ways. Nondenaturing agarose gel analysis showed that BC1 RNA transcripts produced by in vitro transcription contain a population of conformers, which can be modulated by preannealing. Accordingly, FMRP differentially binds to the annealed and unannealed conformer populations. Using partial RNase digestion, we demonstrate that annealed BC1 RNA contains a unique conformer that FMRP likely binds. We further demonstrate that this interaction is 100-fold weaker than that the binding of eEF-1A mRNA and FMRP, and that preannealing is not a general requirement for FMRP's interaction with RNA. In addition, binding does not require the N-terminal 204 amino acids of FMRP, methylated arginine residues and can be recapitulated by both fragile X paralogs. Altogether, our data continue to support a model in which BC1 RNA functions independently of FMRP.
Gangliosides are sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids that are most abundant in the nervous system. Heterogeneity and diversity of the structures in their carbohydrate chains are characteristic hallmarks of these lipids; so far, 188 gangliosides with different carbohydrate structures have been identified in vertebrates. The molecular structural complexity increases manifold if one considers heterogeneity in the lipophilic components. The expression levels and patterns of brain gangliosides are known to change drastically during development. In cells, gangliosides are primarily, but not exclusively, localized in the outer leaflets of plasma membranes and are integral components of cell surface microdomains with sphingomyelin and cholesterol from which they participate in cell-cell recognition, adhesion, and signal transduction. In this brief review, we discuss the structures, metabolism and functions of gangliosides.
Purpose. Determine patient-reported reasons for discontinuation with teriparatide. Methods. Patients taking teriparatide in a multicenter, prospective, and observational study were given three questionnaires: baseline, follow-up questionnaire 1 (QF1, 2 to 6 months), and follow-up questionnaire 2 (QF2, 12 months). Discontinuation reported at QF1 and QF2 was defined as &quot;early&quot; and &quot;late,&quot; respectively, and remaining patients were considered persistent. Cochran-Armitage trend test was used to identify factors associated with discontinuation. Results. Side effects, concern about improper use, injection difficulties, and several patient-perceived physician issues were associated with early discontinuation. Low patient-perceived importance of continuing treatment, side effects, difficulty paying, and low patient-perceived physician knowledge were associated with late discontinuation. The most common specific reasons selected for discontinuing treatment were &quot;concerns about treatment outweighing the benefits&quot; (n = 53) and &quot;difficulty paying&quot; (n = 47). Conclusions. Persistence with teriparatide is dependent on managing side effects, addressing financial challenges, proper training, and obtaining support from the healthcare provider.


Group III metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors modulate glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission in the basal ganglia. In this study, we examined a novel orthosteric agonist at the mGlu4 receptor, LSP1-2111, for its ability to affect L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), in a mouse model. In 6-OHDA-lesioned mice treated with L-DOPA, chronic co-administration of LSP1-2111 significantly attenuated the development of abnormal involuntary movements, which are regarded as a marker of dyskinesia. In contrast, a single injection of LSP1-2111 did not modify the expression of LID, once this condition had been established by previous administration of L-DOPA. LSP1-2111 did not affect L-DOPA-induced cAMP and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase signaling, which have been previoulsy implicated in dyskinesia. These results indicate that co-administration of LSP1-2111 may improve the efficacy of standard L-DOPA therapy by attenuating its liability for dyskinesia.

Administering items or subscales separately from the measure for which they were designed to be a part may have unintended consequences for research and practice in Parkinson's disease (PD). The current study tested the equivalence of the bradykinesia subscale when administered alone versus as a component of the full 14-item Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor examination, as well as examined the reliability and validity of the bradykinesia subscale. The study sample consisted of 112 patients with PD. Patients were randomly assigned to either the bradykinesia subscale alone group (n = 56), who were administered the bradykinesia subscale separately from the rest of the UPDRS motor examination, or the full scale group (n = 56), who were administered the UPDRS motor examination in its standard format. The two one-sided t-test (TOST) procedure was used to test for mean equivalency between the two administration groups. Additionally, reliability and validity analyses were performed. The bradykinesia subscale mean scores from the full scale group and the subscale alone group were not statistically equivalent. However, in both groups, the bradykinesia subscale had exceptional reliability and was strongly and similarly related to age, activities of daily living, disability, and other assessments of motor symptom severity. The bradykinesia subscale is a valid and reliable assessment when administered separately from the rest of the UPDRS motor examination; however, caution should be taken when comparing mean scores across studies or occasions when different administrations are used.
We demonstrate that grafted human fetal mesencephalic neurons can survive and extend axons for 22 years in the brain of a patient with Parkinson's disease (PD). In this patient, the overall survival and fiber outgrowth of the grafts were, however, relatively poor, which is consistent with the lack of significant clinical graft-induced benefit. We have compared the morphology of neurons in the 22-year old grafts with those in two younger grafts (16- and 12-year old), which were sequentially implanted in another PD patient. In the case with the 22-year-old transplant, a high proportion (up to 38%) of the grafted dopaminergic (pigment-granule containing) neurons do not express tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter and their perikarya appear atrophic. The proportion of pigmented neurons not expressing these markers is lower in the 12-16 year old grafts. Furthermore, in the 22-year-old graft, 49% of the pigmented neurons display -synuclein immunoreactivity in the cell body and 1.2% of them contain Lewy bodies. In conclusion, our results show that grafted dopaminergic neurons can survive for more than two decades. However, over time an increasing proportion of grafted neurons exhibit signs of degeneration.

The normalization of excessive glutamatergic neurotransmission through the activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptors may have therapeutic potential in a variety of psychiatric disorders, including anxiety/depression and schizophrenia. Here, we characterize the pharmacological properties of N-(4-((2-(trifluoromethyl)-3-hydroxy-4-(isobutyryl)phenoxy)methyl)benzyl)-1-methyl-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide (THIIC), a structurally novel, potent, and selective allosteric potentiator of human and rat mGlu2 receptors (EC(50) = 23 and 13 nM, respectively). THIIC produced anxiolytic-like efficacy in the rat stress-induced hyperthermia assay and the mouse stress-induced elevation of cerebellar cGMP and marble-burying assays. THIIC also produced robust activity in three assays that detect antidepressant-like activity, including the mouse forced-swim test, the rat differential reinforcement of low rate 72-s assay, and the rat dominant-submissive test, with a maximal response similar to that of imipramine. Effects of THIIC in the forced-swim test and marble burying were deleted in mGlu2 receptor null mice. Analysis of sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) showed that THIIC had a sleep-promoting profile with increased non-rapid eye movement (REM) and decreased REM sleep. THIIC also decreased the dark phase increase in extracellular histamine in the medial prefrontal cortex and decreased levels of the histamine metabolite tele-methylhistamine (t-MeHA) in rat cerebrospinal fluid. Collectively, these results indicate that the novel mGlu2-positive allosteric modulator THIIC has robust activity in models used to predict anxiolytic/antidepressant efficacy, substantiating, at least with this molecule, differentiation in the biological impact of mGlu2 potentiation versus mGlu2/3 orthosteric agonism. In addition, we provide evidence that sleep EEG and CSF t-MeHA might function as viable biomarker approaches to facilitate the translational development of THIIC and other mGlu2 potentiators.
Inhibition of phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) promotes cyclic nucleotide signaling, increases striatal activation, and decreases behavioral activity. Enhanced cyclic nucleotide signaling is a well established route to producing changes in gene expression. We hypothesized that chronic suppression of PDE10A activity would have significant effects on gene expression in the striatum. A comparison of the expression profile of PDE10A knockout (KO) mice and wild-type mice after chronic PDE10A inhibition revealed altered expression of 19 overlapping genes with few significant changes outside the striatum or after administration of a PDE10A inhibitor to KO animals. Chronic inhibition of PDE10A produced up-regulation of mRNAs encoding genes that included prodynorphin, synaptotagmin10, phosphodiesterase 1C, glutamate decarboxylase 1, and diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase and a down-regulation of mRNAs encoding choline acetyltransferase and Kv1.6, suggesting long-term suppression of the PDE10A enzyme is consistent with altered striatal excitability and potential utility as a antipsychotic therapy. In addition, up-regulation of mRNAs encoding histone 3 (H3) and down-regulation of histone deacetylase 4, follistatin, and claspin mRNAs suggests activation of molecular cascades capable of neuroprotection. We used lentiviral delivery of cAMP response element (CRE)-luciferase reporter constructs into the striatum and live animal imaging of 2-{4-[-pyridin-4-yl-1-(2,2,2-trifluoro-ethyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-yl]-phenoxymethyl}-quinoline succinic acid (TP-10)-induced luciferase activity to further demonstrate PDE10 inhibition results in CRE-mediated transcription. Consistent with potential neuroprotective cascades, we also demonstrate phosphorylation of mitogen- and stress-activated kinase 1 and H3 in vivo after TP-10 treatment. The observed changes in signaling and gene expression are predicted to provide neuroprotective effects in models of Huntington's disease.
H(3) antagonists increase the release of brain histamine, acetylcholine, noradrenaline, and dopamine, neurotransmitters that are known to modulate cognitive processes. The ability to release brain histamine supports the effect on attention and vigilance, but histamine also modulates other cognitive domains such as short-term and long-term memory. A number of H(3) antagonists, including 1-{3-[3-(4-chlorophenyl)propoxy]propyl}piperidine hydrochloride (BF2.649), (1R,3R)-N-ethyl-3-fluoro-3-[3-fluoro-4-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmethyl)phenyl]cyclobutane-1-carboxamide (PF-03654746), 6-[(3-cyclobutyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepin-7-yl)oxy]-N-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxamide hydrochloride (GSK189254), MK-0249 (structure not yet disclosed), JNJ-17216498 (structure not yet disclosed), and ABT-288 (structure not yet disclosed), have advanced to the clinical area for the potential treatment of human cognitive disorders. H(3) antagonists exhibited wake-promoting effects in humans and efficacy in narcoleptic patients, indicating target engagement, but some of them were not efficacious in patients suffering from attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and schizophrenic patients. Preclinical studies have also shown that H(3) antagonists activate intracellular signaling pathways that may improve cognitive efficacy and disease-modifying effects in Alzheimer's disease. Ongoing clinical studies will be able to determine the utility of H(3) antagonists for the treatment of cognitive disorders in humans.
Data from rat models for alcohol preference and histidine decarboxylase knockout (HDC KO) mice suggest that brain histamine regulates alcohol-related behaviors. Histamine levels are higher in alcohol-preferring than in alcohol-nonpreferring rat brains, and expression of histamine H(3) receptor (H(3)R) is different in key areas for addictive behavior. H(3)R inverse agonists decrease alcohol responding in one alcohol-preferring rat line. Conditioned place preference induced by alcohol is stronger in HDC KO mice than in control mice. The HDC KO mice display a weaker stimulatory response to acute alcohol than the wild-type (WT) mice. In male inbred C57BL/6 mice the H(3)R antagonist ciproxifan inhibits ethanol-evoked stimulation of locomotor activity. Ciproxifan also potentiates the ethanol reward, but does not alone result in the development of place preference. At least in one rat model developed to study alcohol sensitivity high histamine levels are characteristic of the alcohol-insensitive rat line, and lowering brain histamine with a HDC inhibitor increases alcohol sensitivity in the tilting plane test. However, the motor skills of HDC KO mice do not seem to differ from those of the WT mice. Current evidence suggests that the histaminergic system is involved in the regulation of place preference behavior triggered by alcohol, possibly through an interaction with the mesolimbic dopamine system. Histamine may also interact with dopamine in the regulation of the cortico-striato-pallido-thalamo-cortical motor pathway and cerebellar mechanisms, which may be important in different motor behaviors beyond alcohol-induced motor disturbances. H(3)R ligands may have significant effects on alcohol addiction.
Histamine H(3) receptors (H(3)Rs), distributed within the brain, the spinal cord, and on specific types of primary sensory neurons, can modulate pain transmission by several mechanisms. In the skin, H(3)Rs are found on certain A fibers, and on keratinocytes and Merkel cells, as well as on deep dermal, peptidergic A fibers terminating on deep dermal blood vessels. Activation of H(3)Rs on the latter in the skin, heart, lung, and dura mater reduces calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P release, leading to anti-inflammatory (but not antinociceptive) actions. However, activation of H(3)Rs on the spinal terminals of these sensory fibers reduces nociceptive responding to low-intensity mechanical stimuli and inflammatory stimuli such as formalin. These findings suggest that H(3)R agonists might be useful analgesics, but these drugs have not been tested in clinically relevant pain models. Paradoxically, H(3) antagonists/inverse agonists have also been reported to attenuate several types of pain responses, including phase II responses to formalin. In the periaqueductal gray (an important pain regulatory center), the H(3) inverse agonist thioperamide releases neuronal histamine and mimics histamine's biphasic modulatory effects in thermal nociceptive tests. Newer H(3) inverse agonists with potent, selective, and brain-penetrating properties show efficacy in several neuropathic and arthritis pain models, but the sites and mechanisms for these actions remain poorly understood.
Spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by cerebellar atrophy and progressive ataxia and is classified into 31 types by the genetic locus. Recently, missense mutations of PRKCG genes that code protein kinase C (PKC) have been identified as a causal gene of SCA14. To explore the molecular mechanism of SCA14 pathogenesis, we investigated how mutant PKC causes the neurodegeneration of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) by expressing mutant PKC-GFP in cell lines and primary cultured PCs. Mutant PKC was susceptible to aggregation in the cytoplasm, which led to an impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system and apoptosis. Furthermore, mutant PKC induced improper dendritic development of cultured PCs in an aggregation-independent manner. Stimulation-induced translocation of mutant PKC in PC dendrites was prominently attenuated by the reduced mobility of oligomerized mutant PKC, which resulted in attenuated signal transduction and the improper morphology of PC dendrites. These findings suggested that the oligomerization and aggregation of mutant PKC caused improper dendritic development and apoptosis of PCs, which led to cerebellar dysfunction and SCA14 pathogenesis. We screened the chemicals that improved these cellular dysfunctions and identified several compounds, including trehalose and Congo red, which could be novel therapeutics for SCA14.
We investigated the physiological role of the vesicular Ca2+/H+ antiport in rapid synaptic transmission using the Torpedo electric organ (a modified neuromuscular system). By inhibiting V-type H+-transporting ATPase (V-ATPase), bafilomycin A1 dissipates the H+ gradient of synaptic vesicles, thereby abolishing the Ca2+/H+ antiport driving force. In electrophysiology experiments, bafilomycin A1 significantly prolonged the duration of the evoked electroplaque potential. A biochemical assay for acetylcholine (ACh) release showed that the effect of bafilomycin A1 was presynaptic. Indeed, bafilomycin A1 increased the amount of radio-labelled ACh released in response to paired-pulse stimulation. Bafilomycin A1 also enhanced Ca2+-dependent ACh release from isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes). The bafilomycin-induced electroplaque potential lengthening did not arise from cholinesterase inhibition, since eserine (which also prolonged the electroplaque potential) strongly decreased evoked ACh release. Bafilomycin A1 augmented the amount of calcium accumulating in nerve terminals following a short tetanic stimulation and delayed subsequent calcium extrusion. By reducing stimulation-dependent calcium accumulation in synaptic vesicles, bafilomycin A1 diminished the corresponding depletion of vesicular ACh, as tested using both intact tissue and isolated synaptic vesicles. Strontium ions inhibit the vesicular Ca2+/H+ antiport, while activating transmitter release at concentrations one order of magnitude higher than Ca2+ does. In the presence of Sr2+ the time course of the electroplaque potential was also prolonged but, unlike bafilomycin A1, Sr2+ enhanced facilitation in paired-pulse experiments. It is therefore proposed that the vesicular Ca2+/H+ antiport function is to shorten 'phasic' transmitter release, allowing the synapse to transmit briefer impulses and so to work at higher frequencies.
Although the neuromuscular system of C. elegans has been studied intensively, little is known about the properties of muscle action potentials (APs). By combining mutant analyses with in vivo electrophysiological recording techniques and Ca2+ imaging, we have established the fundamental properties and molecular determinants of body-wall muscle APs. We show that, unlike mammalian skeletal muscle APs, C. elegans muscle APs occur in spontaneous trains, do not require the function of postsynaptic receptors, and are all-or-none overshooting events, rather than graded potentials as has been previously reported. Furthermore, we show that muscle APs depend on Ca2+ entry through the L-type Ca2+ channel EGL-19 with a contribution from the T-type Ca2+ channel CCA-1. Both the Shaker K+ channel SHK-1 and the Ca2+/Cl-gated K+ channel SLO-2 play important roles in controlling the speed of membrane repolarization, the amplitude of afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and the pattern of AP firing; SLO-2 is also important in setting the resting membrane potential. Finally, AP-elicited elevations of [Ca2+]i require both EGL-19 and the ryanodine receptor UNC-68. Thus, like mammalian skeletal muscle, C. elegans body-wall myocytes generate all-or-none APs, which evoke Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), although the specific ion channels used for AP upstroke and repolarization differ.
Maternal insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) play a pivotal role in modulating fetal growth via their actions on both the mother and the placenta. Circulating IGFs influence maternal tissue growth and metabolism, thereby regulating nutrient availability for the growth of the conceptus. Maternal IGFs also regulate placental morphogenesis, substrate transport and hormone secretion, all of which influence fetal growth either via indirect effects on maternal substrate availability, or through direct effects on the placenta and its capacity to supply nutrients to the fetus. The extent to which IGFs influence the mother and/or placenta are dependent on the species and maternal factors, including age and nutrition. As altered fetal growth is associated with increased perinatal morbidity and mortality and a greater risk of developing degenerative diseases in adult life, understanding the role of maternal IGFs during pregnancy is essential in order to identify mechanisms underlying altered fetal growth and offspring programming.
Corticogeniculate neurones make more synapses in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) than retinal ganglion cells, yet we know relatively little about the functions of corticogeniculate feedback for visual processing. In primates, feedforward projections from the retina to the LGN and from the LGN to primary visual cortex are organized into anatomically and physiologically distinct parallel pathways. Recent work demonstrates a close relationship between these parallel streams of feedforward projections and the corticogeniculate feedback pathway. Here, we review the evidence for stream-specific feedback in the primate and consider the implications of parallel streams of feedback for vision.
Despite the increasing use of alert animals for studies aimed at understanding visual processing in the cerebral cortex, relatively little attention has been focused on quantifying the response properties of neurons that provide input to the cortex. Here, we examine the response properties of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus in the alert macaque monkey and compare these responses to those in the anaesthetized animal. Compared to the anaesthetized animal, we show that magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the alert animal respond to visual stimuli with significantly higher firing rates. This increase in responsiveness is not accompanied by a change in the shape of neuronal contrast response functions or the strength of centresurround antagonism; however, it is accompanied by an increased ability of neurons to follow stimuli drifting at higher spatial and temporal frequencies.
While sensory and motor systems have attracted most of the research effort in the field neuroprosthetics, little attention has been devoted to higher order cortical processes. Here, we propose a first step in the direction of applying neural decoding to the study and manipulation of visuospatial attention, an endogenous process at the interface between sensory and motor functions. To this aim, we investigate whether the offline activity of a population of non-human primate frontal eye field neurons (FEF) in response to an endogenous cue can be readout on a trial by trial basis to provide a precise description of the cue's attributes, namely, its location and identity, but also the allocation of attention following its interpretation. Using a linear decoder, we reach up to 86% correct predictions for the different decoded variables, including the spatial allocation of endogenous attention. We show that the decoding performance drops on incorrect trials, indicating that cue encoding participates to the animal's behavioral performance. Last, we show that the temporal resolution of the decoding influences readout performance. These results are a strong indication of the feasibility of the readout of endogenous variables by standard decoding algorithms, on a suboptimal dataset. However, its validity remains to be proved in a real-time situation.
Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCIs) have become a large research field that include challenges mainly in neuroscience, signal processing, machine learning and user interface. A non-invasive BCI can allow the direct communication between humans and computers by analyzing electrical brain activity, recorded at the surface of the scalp with electroencephalography. The main purpose for BCIs is to enable communication for people with severe disabilities. Spelling is one of the first BCI application, it corresponds to the main communication mean for people who are unable to speak. While spelling can be the most basic application it remains a benchmark for communication applications and one challenge in the BCI community for some patients. This paper proposes a review of the current main strategies, and their limitations, for spelling words. It includes recent BCIs based on P300, steady-state visual evoked potentials and motor imagery. By considering some challenges in BCI spellers and virtual keyboards, some pragmatic issues are pointed out to eliminate false hopes about BCI for both disabled and healthy people.
Networks can represent a large number of systems. Recent advances in the domain of networks have been transferred to the field of neuroscience. For example, the graph model has been used in neuroscience research as a methodological tool to examine brain networks organization, topology and complex dynamics, as well as a framework to test the structure-function hypothesis using neuroimaging data. In the current work we propose a graph-theoretical framework to represent anatomical, functional and neuropsychological assessment instruments information. On the one hand, interrelationships between anatomic elements constitute an anatomical graph. On the other hand, a functional graph contains several cognitive functions and their more elementary cognitive processes. Finally, the neuropsychological assessment instruments graph includes several neuropsychological tests and scales linked with their different sub-tests and variables. The two last graphs are connected by relations of type &quot;explore&quot; linking a particular instrument with the cognitive function it explores. We applied this framework to a sample of patients with focal brain damage. Each patient was related to: (i) the cerebral entities injured (assessed with structural neuroimaging data) and (ii) the neusopsychological assessment tests carried out (weight by performance). Our model offers a suitable platform to visualize patients' relevant information, facilitating the representation, standardization and sharing of clinical data. At the same time, the integration of a large number of patients in this framework will make possible to explore relations between anatomy (injured entities) and function (performance in different tests assessing different cognitive functions) and the use of neurocomputational tools for graph analysis may help diagnostic and contribute to the comprehension of neural bases of cognitive functions.
In the rat olfactory bulb (OB), fast oscillations of the local field potential (LFP) are observed during the respiratory cycle. Gamma-range oscillations (40-90 Hz) occur at the end of inspiration, followed by beta-range oscillations (15-30 Hz) during exhalation. These oscillations are highly stereotypical, and their frequencies are stable under various conditions. In this study, we investigate the effect of stimulus intensity on activity in the OB. Using a double-cannulation protocol, we showed that although the frequency of the LFP oscillation does depend on the respiratory cycle phase, it is relatively independent of the intensity of odorant stimulation. In contrast, we found that the individual firing rate of mitral OB cells dramatically changed with the intensity of the stimulation. This suggests that OB fast oscillation parameters, particularly frequency, are fully determined by intrinsic OB network parameters. To test this hypothesis, we explored a model of the OB where fast oscillations are generated by the interplay between excitatory mitral/tufted cells and inhibitory granule cells with graded inhibition. We found that our model has two distinct activity regimes depending on the amount of noise. In a low-noise regime, the model displays oscillation in the beta range with a stable frequency across a wide range of excitatory inputs. In a high-noise regime, the model displays oscillatory dynamics with irregular cell discharges and fast oscillations, similar to what is observed during gamma oscillations but without stability of the oscillation frequency with respect to the network external input. Simulations of the full model and theoretical studies of the network's linear response show that the characteristics of the low-noise regime are induced by non-linearities in the model, notably, the saturation of graded inhibition. Finally, we discuss how this model can account for the experimentally observed stability of the oscillatory regimes.




Semaphorins are ligands of plexins, and the plexin-semaphorin signaling system is widely involved in many neuronal events including axon guidance, cell migration, axon pruning, and synaptic plasticity. The plexin A2 gene (PLXNA2) has been reported to be associated with schizophrenia. This finding prompted us to examine the possible association between the semaphorin 3D gene (SEMA3D) and schizophrenia in a Japanese population. We genotyped 9 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of SEMA3D including a non-synonymous variation, Lys701Gln (rs7800072), in a sample of 506 patients with schizophrenia and 941 healthy control subjects. The Gln701 allele showed a significant protective effect against the development of schizophrenia (p=0.0069, odds ratio=0.76, 95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.93). Furthermore, the haplotype-based analyses revealed a significant association. The four-marker analysis (rs2190208-rs1029564-rs17159614-rs12176601), in particular, not including the Lys701Gln, revealed a highly significant association (p=0.00001, global permutation), suggesting that there may be other functional polymorphisms within SEMA3D. Our findings provide strong evidence that SEMA3D confers susceptibility to schizophrenia, which could contribute to the neurodevelopmental impairments in the disorder.


Animal and human studies indicate that cannabidiol (CBD), a major constituent of cannabis, has anxiolytic properties. However, no study to date has investigated the effects of this compound on human pathological anxiety and its underlying brain mechanisms. The aim of the present study was to investigate this in patients with generalized social anxiety disorder (SAD) using functional neuroimaging. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) at rest was measured twice using (99m)Tc-ECD SPECT in 10 treatment-nave patients with SAD. In the first session, subjects were given an oral dose of CBD (400mg) or placebo, in a double-blind procedure. In the second session, the same procedure was performed using the drug that had not been administered in the previous session. Within-subject between-condition rCBF comparisons were performed using statistical parametric mapping. Relative to placebo, CBD was associated with significantly decreased subjective anxiety (p&lt;0.001), reduced ECD uptake in the left parahippocampal gyrus, hippocampus, and inferior temporal gyrus (p&lt;0.001, uncorrected), and increased ECD uptake in the right posterior cingulate gyrus (p&lt;0.001, uncorrected). These results suggest that CBD reduces anxiety in SAD and that this is related to its effects on activity in limbic and paralimbic brain areas.
The putative presence of the cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB(2)-R) in the central nervous system is still a matter of debate. Although first described in peripheral and immune tissues, evidence suggesting the existence of CB(2)-Rs in glial cells and even neurons has been made available more recently. By taking advantage of newly designed CB(2)-R mRNA riboprobes, we have demonstrated by in situ hybridization and PCR the existence of CB2-R transcripts in a variety of brain areas of the primate Macaca fascicularis, including the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, as well as in the external and internal divisions of the globus pallidus, both pallidal segments showing the highest abundance of CB(2)-R transcripts. In this regard, the presence of the messenger coding CB(2)-Rs within the pallidal complex highlights their consideration as potential targets for the treatment of movement disorders of basal ganglia origin.
The paired-click paradigm (PCP) is widely used to study sensory habituation or gating in a number of psychiatric and neurological conditions. The classic paradigm does not control for attentional factors. In order to assess the influences of incorporating attentional control measures we administered the auditory PCP (S1-S2) in three different attention (passive, auditory attention to S2, visual attention to a concurrent continuous performance task [CPT]) conditions to a group of chronic, medicated schizophrenia patients (N=12) and a group of healthy subjects (N=15) to evaluate the effects of attention on sensory gating measures. A significant effect of attention on S1 amplitudes was shown for P50 in both groups, and N100 or P200 in schizophrenia patients. Attention status had a significant effect on S2 amplitudes for N100 and P200, and N100 and P200 gating ratios. Despite the effect of attention on S1 P50 amplitudes there was no effect on the gating ratio. In terms of group differences, visual attention to the concurrent CPT during the paired-click sensory gating task significantly enhanced the detection of deficient gating of the N100 and P200 components in schizophrenia patients. The data support the continued utilization of the passive gating paradigm for examining P50 gating but strongly suggest that for studies examining gating of the N100 or P200 components, a visual distraction paradigm may enhance the detection of abnormal gating in schizophrenia patients.
Following a diagnosis of breast cancer women experience considerable distress and often present with elevated symptoms of depression. A woman's relationship with her oncologist, and particularly trust in the physician, might influence depressive symptoms, as well as emotional and cognitive reactions to medical decisions made concerning treatment. To assess these relationships, women currently undergoing treatment for breast cancer (n = 40) and women who had previously been treated for breast cancer (n = 74) were asked about (1) trust in their physician, (2) who they blamed for negative events during treatment, (3) who made the treatment decisions, (4) regret, and (5) depressive symptoms. As well, community participants (n = 146) without breast cancer were asked about trust in their physician, levels of depression, and questions regarding blame if they hypothetically had breast cancer. Depression was greatest among women in treatment, and trust in physician was greatest among women posttreatment. However, trust in physician was neither related to depressive symptoms, decision making, nor responsibility for presence of metastases/relapse. Paradoxically, greater trust in physician was related to increased blame of the doctor for other negative events that had occurred. Furthermore, depressive scores were higher among women who blamed their doctor for negative events in comparison to women who ascribed blame to no one. As well, individuals who blamed themselves for negative events reported greater regret than individuals who blamed no one. Thus, though a woman may not hold her physician directly responsible for health outcomes, this relationship may be important to consider in other aspects of her psychological well-being.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease in which disability progresses over time. Progressive forms of MS have a poor prognosis, are associated with greater levels of disability and, unfortunately, are unresponsive to current treatments. Here, we have reviewed the management of 100 patients with MS. The majority of these patients had progressive disease, Expanded Disability Status Scale scores &gt;6, and extensive medical complications. A significant number of patients in this cohort were also treated with MS disease-modifying agents that lack efficacy in patients with progressive disease. Although these drugs are relatively safe, their use here is significantly costly to the healthcare system, with limited benefit to patients. We suggest that these drugs be discontinued in these patients and resources be directed toward symptomatic treatment, rehabilitation needs, and management of medical complications until drugs with proven efficacy become available.
Limited evidence shows that time-limited residential treatment (RT) is beneficial for homeless people with serious mental illness. The Department of Veterans Affairs has established 11 specialty programs for homeless female veterans. We present data comparing 1-year clinical outcomes in a group of veterans who did and did not receive at least 30 days of RT. Clients of the Homeless Women Veterans Programs were invited to participate in a follow-up study. They were interviewed every 3 months for 1 year. Those who received at least 30 days of RT in the 3 months after program entry (RT group) were compared with other program participants (no or &lt;30 days RT [NRT] group) on measures of community functioning, psychiatric symptoms, and drug and alcohol use during the follow-up. The RT group had better outcomes on employment, social support, housing status, and psychiatric symptoms. They also had significantly increased use of drugs and alcohol compared with the NRT group. Data suggest that RT may have a beneficial effect on mental health outcomes in homeless women. This study, in conjunction with others, suggests that provision of stable housing may be an important element of recovery for homeless women with psychiatric problems, excluding substance use.
Robotic technologies have profoundly affected the identification of fundamental properties of brain function. This success is attributable to robots being able to control the position of or forces applied to limbs, and their inherent ability to easily, objectively, and reliably quantify sensorimotor behavior. Our general hypothesis is that these same attributes make robotic technologies ideal for clinically assessing sensory, motor, and cognitive impairments in stroke and other neurological disorders. Further, they provide opportunities for novel therapeutic strategies. The present opinionated review describes how robotic technologies combined with virtual/augmented reality systems can support a broad range of behavioral tasks to objectively quantify brain function. This information could potentially be used to provide more accurate diagnostic and prognostic information than is available from current clinical assessment techniques. The review also highlights the potential benefits of robots to provide upper-limb therapy. Although the capital cost of these technologies is substantial, it pales in comparison with the potential cost reductions to the overall healthcare system that improved assessment and therapeutic interventions offer.
A middle aged woman, having a history of diastolic hypertension and sinus bradycardia since one year ago, was referred to our center with a sudden occipital headache after shouting. To evaluate the cause of headache the brain MRI was performed reporting a slight cerebellar tonsillar herniation of about one centimeter below the foramen magnum. After the patient was diagnosed to have type I Chiari malformation, a surgery procedure was done and the symptoms were recovered after that.Type I Chiari malformation is a disease mostly caused by congenital displacement of cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum. The most common symptom is headache, rarely reported with hypertension or sinus bradycardia.
In natural cycles of attempted conception, stress has been shown to predict lower conception rates. The objective of this article is to determine whether stress affects the outcome of assisted reproductive technology (ART) as well. In addition, this article analyzes the effect that psychosocial interventions targeting the reduction of stress have on ART outcomes. This review examined available PubMed articles published in the past 15 years, and 28 articles were included. Looking specifically at numbers of women studied, stress appears to negatively affect ART outcome; interventions targeting stress reduction appear beneficial. Because stress appears to negatively affect ART outcome, and psychosocial interventions do not have detrimental effects, screening for stress should occur and some type of intervention considered during the ART process.

Molecular therapeutics for treating epidermal growth factor receptor-(EGFR-) expressing cancers are a specific method for treating cancers compared to general cell loss with standard cytotoxic therapeutics. However, the finding that resistance to such therapy is common in clinical trials now dampens the initial enthusiasm over this targeted treatment. Yet an improved molecular understanding of other receptor tyrosine kinases known to be active in cancer has revealed a rich network of cross-talk between receptor pathways with a key finding of common downstream signaling pathways. Such cross talk may represent a key mechanism for resistance to EGFR-directed therapy. Here we review the interplay between EGFR and Met and the type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-1R) tyrosine kinases, as well as their contribution to anti-EGFR therapeutic resistance in the context of squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, a tumor known to be primarily driven by EGFR-related oncogenic signals.
Oxidative stressors such as hydrogen peroxide control the activation of many interconnected signaling systems and are implicated in neurodegenerative disease etiology. Application of hydrogen peroxide to PC12 cells activated multiple tyrosine kinases (c-Src, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and Pyk2) and the serine-threonine kinase ERK1/2. Peroxide-induced ERK1/2 activation was sensitive to intracellular calcium chelation and EGFR and c-Src kinase inhibition. Acute application and removal of peroxide allowed ERK1/2 activity levels to rapidly subside to basal serum-deprived levels. Using this protocol, we demonstrated that ERK1/2 activation tachyphylaxis developed upon repeated peroxide exposures. This tachyphylaxis was independent of c-Src/Pyk2 tyrosine phosphorylation but was associated with a progressive reduction of peroxide-induced EGFR tyrosine phosphorylation, EGFR interaction with growth factor receptor binding protein 2, and a redistribution of EGFR from the plasma membrane to the cytoplasm. Our data indicates that components of peroxide-induced ERK1/2 cascades are differentially affected by repeated exposures, indicating that oxidative signaling may be contextually variable.
Recent evidence from neuroscience suggests that creativity is developed early in life and that the greatest improvements in creativity can be expected during this time. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the creative development of children depending on their level of expertise and attention processes. Moreover, the significance of general and specific attention components and special training effects in the development of specific and non-specific creative thinking remain unclear. Thus, skilled (team handball) and non-skilled children (n = 120) aged 7, 10, and 13 completed two divergent thinking tasks (specific/non-specific) and two attention tasks (specific/non-specific) in a cross-sectional design. It is evident that general and sport-specific creativity have similar paths of development. Skilled players with high attention scores performed better than skilled players with low attention scores, in accordance with specific creative thinking abilities. In contrast, and in accordance with general creative thinking abilities, non-skilled players with less attentional skills outperformed non-skilled players.
Since their discovery in 2006, induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells have swept the scientific world with excitement and possibilities. There have been many efforts to create them and differentiate them along desired pathways, but the field that may benefit the most from therapeutic iPS cells is neurology. Since stem cells are scarce in the nervous system, most damage due to injury or disease is permanent. If iPS cells could be differentiated into the appropriate nervous system cells, they could provide a way to treat nervous system damage through cell replacement therapy. In this review, we will discuss the possibilities of iPS cells and their use in the treatment of peripheral nerve injury.
This study was aimed to analyse and compare the bioenergetics and oxidative status of mitochondria isolated from liver, heart and brain of ovariectomized rat females treated with 17-estradiol (E2) and/or tamoxifen (TAM). E2 and/or TAM did not alter significantly the respiratory chain of the three types of mitochondria. However, TAM significantly decreased the phosphorylation efficiency of liver mitochondria while E2 significantly decreased the phosphorylation efficiency of heart mitochondria. E2 also significantly decreased the capacity of heart and liver mitochondria to accumulate Ca(2+) this effect being attenuated in liver mitochondria isolated from E2+TAM-treated rat females. TAM treatment increased the ratio of glutathione to glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) of liver mitochondria. Brain mitochondria from TAM- and E2+TAM-treated females showed a significantly lower GSH/GSSG ratio. However, heart mitochondria from TAM- and E2+TAM-treated females presented a significant decrease in GSSG and an increase in GSH/GSSG ratio. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances levels were significantly decreased in liver mitochondria isolated from E2+TAM-treated females. Finally, E2 and/or TAM treatment significantly decreased the levels of hydrogen peroxide produced by brain mitochondria energized with glutamate/malate. These results indicate that E2 and/or TAM have tissue-specific effects suggesting that TAM and hormonal replacement therapies may have some side effects that should be carefully considered.
As neurologists, we increasingly rely on imaging studies to help us diagnose acute stroke. This unusual case is a reminder that even sophisticated imaging techniques can have false negatives and emphasizes the importance of the clinical exam.
Methylmercury (MeHg), an environmental toxicant primarily found in fish and seafood, poses a dilemma to both consumers and regulatory authorities, given the nutritional benefits of fish consumption versus the possible adverse neurological damage. Several studies have shown that MeHg toxicity is influenced by a number of biochemical factors, such as glutathione (GSH), fatty acids, vitamins, and essential elements, but the cellular mechanisms underlying these complex interactions have not yet been fully elucidated. The objective of this paper is to outline the cellular response to dietary nutrients, as well as to describe the neurotoxic exposures to MeHg. In order to determine the cellular mechanism(s) of toxicity, the effect of pretreatment with biochemical factors (e.g., N-acetyl cysteine, (NAC); diethyl maleate, (DEM); docosahexaenoic acid, (DHA); selenomethionine, SeM; Trolox) and MeHg treatment on intercellular antioxidant status, MeHg content, and other endpoints was evaluated. This paper emphasizes that the protection against oxidative stress offered by these biochemical factors is among one of the major mechanisms responsible for conferring neuroprotection. It is therefore critical to ascertain the cellular mechanisms associated with various dietary nutrients as well as to determine the potential effects of neurotoxic exposures for accurately assessing the risks and benefits associated with fish consumption.
Oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease. Low levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) are important for maintenance of neuronal function, though elevated levels lead to neuronal cell death. A complex series of events including excitotoxicity, Ca(2+) overload, and mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to oxidative stress-mediated neurodegeneration. As expected, many antioxidants like phytochemicals and vitamins are known to reduce oxidative toxicity. Additionally, growing evidence indicates that neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and estrogens significantly prevent neuronal damage caused by oxidative stress. Here, we review and discuss recent studies addressing the protective mechanisms of neurotrophic factors and estrogen within this system.
Oxidative stress and apoptosis are frequently cited to explain neuronal cell damage in various neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson' s disease. Brassinosteroids (BRs) are phytosterols recognized to promote stress tolerance of vegetables via modulation of the antioxidative enzyme cascade. However, their antioxidative effects on mammalian neuronal cells have never been examined so far. We analyzed the ability of 24-epibrassinolide (24-Epi), a natural BR, to protect neuronal PC12 cells from 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium- (MPP(+)-) induced oxidative stress and consequent apoptosis in dopaminergic neurons. Our results demonstrate that 24-Epi reduces the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and modulates superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase activities. Finally, we determined that the antioxidative properties of 24-Epi lead to the inhibition of MPP(+)-induced apoptosis by reducing DNA fragmentation as well as the Bax/Bcl-2 protein ratio and cleaved caspase-3. This is the first time that the potent antioxidant and neuroprotective role of 24-Epi has been shown in a mammalian neuronal cell line.
A mouse- and human-brain-abundant, nuclear factor (NF)-B-regulated, micro RNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is an important modulator of the innate immune response and inflammatory signaling in specific immunological and brain cell types. Levels of miRNA-146a are induced in human brain cells challenged with at least five different species of single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA neurotrophic viruses, suggesting a broad role for miRNA-146a in the brain's innate immune response and antiviral immunity. Upregulated miRNA-146a is also observed in pro-inflammatory cytokine-, A42 peptide- and neurotoxic metal-induced, oxidatively stressed human neuronal-glial primary cell cocultures, in murine scrapie and in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. In AD, miRNA-146a levels are found to progressively increase with disease severity and co-localize to brain regions enriched in inflammatory neuropathology. This study provides evidence of upregulation of miRNA-146a in extremely rare (incidence 1-10 per 100 million) human prion-based neurodegenerative disorders, including sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) and Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS). The findings suggest that an upregulated miRNA-146a may be integral to innate immune or inflammatory brain cell responses in prion-mediated infections and to progressive and irreversible neurodegeneration of both the murine and human brain.
Organohalogen compounds such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE) are global environmental pollutants and highly persistent, bioaccumulative chemicals that produce adverse effects in humans and wildlife. Because of the widespread use of these organohalogens in household items and consumer products, indoor contamination is a significant source of human exposure, especially for children. One significant concern with regard to health effects associated with exposure to organohalogens is endocrine disruption. Toxicological studies on organohalogen pollutants primarily focused on sex steroid and thyroid hormone actions, and findings have largely shaped the way one envisions their disruptive effects occurring. Organohalogens exert additional effects on other systems including other complex endocrine systems that may be disregulated at various levels of organization. Over the last 20 years evidence has mounted in favor of a critical role of nitric oxide (NO) in numerous functions ranging from neuroendocrine functions to learning and memory. With its participation in multiple systems and action at several levels of integration, NO signaling has a pervasive influence on nervous and endocrine functions. Like blockers of NO synthesis, PCBs and PBDEs produce multifaceted effects on physiological systems. Based on this unique set of converging information it is proposed that organohalogen actions occur, in part, by hijacking processes associated with this ubiquitous bioactive molecule. The current review examines the emerging evidence for NO involvement in selected organohalogen actions and includes recent progress from our laboratory that adds to our current understanding of the actions of organohalogens within hypothalamic neuroendocrine circuits. The thyroid, vasopressin, and reproductive systems as well as processes associated with long-term potentiation were selected as sample targets of organohalogens that rely on regulation by NO. Information is provided about other toxicants with demonstrated interference of NO signaling. Our focus on the convergence between NO system and organohalogen toxicity offers a novel approach to understanding endocrine and neuroendocrine disruption that is particularly problematic for developing organisms. This new working model is proposed as a way to encourage future study in elucidating common mechanisms of action that are selected with a better operational understanding of the systems affected.
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDC) are molecules that interfere with endocrine signaling pathways and produce adverse consequences on animal and human physiology, such as infertility or behavioral alterations. Some EDC act through binding to androgen or/and estrogen receptors primarily operating through a genomic mechanism regulating gene expression. This mechanism of action may induce profound developmental adverse effects, and the major targets of the EDC action are the gene products, i.e., mRNAs inducing the synthesis of various peptidic molecules, which include neuropeptides and enzymes related to neurotransmitters syntheses. Available immunohistochemical data on some of the systems that are affected by EDC in lower and higher vertebrates are detailed in this review.
Environmental chemicals that act as endocrine disruptors do not appear to pose a risk to human reproduction; however, their effects on the central nervous systems are less well understood. Animal studies suggested that maternal exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDC) produced changes in rearing behavior, locomotion, anxiety, and learning/memory in offspring, as well as neuronal abnormalities. Some investigations suggested that EDC exert effects on central monoaminergic neurons, especially dopaminergic neurons. Our data demonstrated that EDC attenuate the development of dopaminergic neurons, which might be involved in developmental disorders. Perinatal exposure to EDC might affect neuronal plasticity in the hippocampus, thereby potentially modulating neuronal development, leading to impaired cognitive and memory functions. Endocrine disruptors also attenuate gender differences in brain development. For example, the locus ceruleus is larger in female rats than in males, but treatments with bisphenol-A (BPA) enlarge this region in males. Some reports indicated that EDC induce hypothyroidism, which might be evidenced as abnormal brain development. Endocrine disruptors might also affect mature neurons, resulting in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. The current review focused on alterations in the brain induced by EDC, specifically on the possible involvement of EDC in brain development and neurodegeneration.
Sex steroids and thyroid hormones play a key role in the development of the central nervous system. The critical role of these hormonal systems may explain the sensitivity of the hypothalamus, the cerebral cortex, and the hippocampus to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDC). This review examines the evidence for endocrine disruption of glial-neuronal functions in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex. Focus was placed on two well-studied EDC, the insecticide dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB). DDT is involved in neuroendocrine disruption of the reproductive axis, whereas polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) interact with both the thyroid hormone- and sex steroid-dependent systems and disturb the neuroendocrine control of reproduction and development of hippocampus and cortex. These results highlight the impact of EDC on the developing nervous system and the need for more research in this area.
Skin is highly accessible and valuable organ, which holds promise to accelerate the understanding of future medical innovation in association with skin transplantation, engineering, and wound healing. In skin transplantation biology, multistage and multifocal damages occur in both grafted donor and perilesional host skin and need to be repaired properly for the engraftment and maintenance of characteristic skin architecture. These local events are more unlikely to be regulated by the host immunity, because human skin transplantation has accomplished the donor skin engraftment onto the immunocompromised or immunosuppressive animals. Recent studies have emerged the importance of -smooth muscle actin- (SMA-) positive myofibroblasts, via stage- and cell-specific contribution of TGF, PDGF, ET-1, CCN-2 signalling pathways, and mastocyte-derived mediators (e.g., histamine and tryptase), for the functional reorganisation of the grafted skin. Moreover, particular cell lineages from bone marrow (BM) cells have been shown to harbour the diferentiation capacity into multiple skin cell phenotypes, including epidermal keratinocytes and dermal endothelial cells and pericytes, undercontrolled by chemokines or cytokines. From a dermatological viewpoint, we review the recent update of cell-type- and molecular-specific action associated with reconstitution of the grafted skin and also focus on the novel application of BM transplantation medicine in genetic skin diseases.
The head impulse test can be used to measure peripheral vestibular function of all six semicircular canals. Traditionally, vertical canal function is measured by rotating the head from a starting neutral position (forward facing) about a diagonal plane that bisects the sagittal and coronal planes. These types of head rotations elicit eye movements with large vertical and torsional (about the line of sight) angular velocity components. Three-dimensional (3D: horizontal, vertical and torsional) eye measurement techniques are needed to measure these velocity components. We wanted to determine whether 2D measurements coupled to a modified head impulse test are sufficient to measure function of all six canals. In this study we measured individual canal function in patients (n=5) with peripheral unilateral hypofunction and control subjects (n=4) using the traditional head impulse test and the 'gold standard' 3D (dual-coil) scleral search coil technique. We compared these results with those from our 2D modified head impulse test using the 2D coil technique (single-coil). We show that both techniques detect similar levels of asymmetrical function in patients and are equally accurate in isolating canals with hypofunction. We conclude that 2D eye measurement techniques, such as video pupil-tracking, can be used to test all six canals.
Signal processing in the vestibular system is influenced by the intrinsic physiological properties of neurons that differ in neurotransmitters and circuit connections. Do membrane and firing properties differ across functionally distinct cell types? This study examines the intrinsic physiology of neurons in the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) and nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH) which express different neurotransmitters and have distinct axonal projections. NPH neurons expressing fluorescent proteins in glutamatergic, glycinergic, or GABAergic neurons were targeted for whole-cell patch recordings in brainstem slices obtained from transgenic mouse lines (YFP-16, GlyT2, and GIN). Recordings from MVN neurons projecting to the spinal cord, reticular formation, or oculomotor nucleus were obtained by targeting fluorescent neurons retrogradely labeled from tracer injections. Intrinsic physiological properties of identified neurons exhibited continuous variations but tended to differ between functionally defined cell types. Within the NPH, YFP-16 neurons had the narrowest action potentials and highest evoked firing rates and expressed high levels of Kv3.3 proteins, which speed repolarization. MVN neurons projecting to the spinal cord and oculomotor nucleus had similar action potential waveforms, but oculomotor-projecting neurons had higher intrinsic gains than those projecting to the spinal cord. These results indicate that intrinsic membrane properties are differentially tuned in MVN and NPH neurons subserving different functions.

Healthy sleep habits entail not only sleeping for a sufficient period (quantity) but also regularity of the sleep cycle and getting sound sleep (quality). University students often have erratic schedules that cause irregular sleep patterns even though sleep durations remain relatively constant. This study compared the physical and mental health of 90 male university students with different sleep habits. We created sleep habit scales using the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Neuroscience life habits inventory (TMIN-LHI; Miyashita, 1994) by performing a factor analysis and classifying sleeping habits based on regularity, quality, and quantity. Four types of sleep habits were identified by cluster analysis; good sleep was characterized by regular and high quality sleep but of relatively short sleep duration; long sleep was regular and relatively long but of low quality; short sleep was of high quality but short and irregular, while poor sleep was irregular, of low quality, and relatively long. The good sleep group had a significantly lower average waist circumference, and lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The long and poor sleep groups, which both had low quality sleep, scored lower than the national standard on the mental component summary (MCS) calculated from the Social Functioning-36 (SF-36) short-form health survey. Furthermore, the average MCS score of the poor sleep group was significantly lower than that of any other sleep habit group. Subjects with poor sleep also scored lowest on the Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS). In addition, the short and poor sleep groups were prone to glucose or lipid metabolism disorders. Maintaining good physical and mental health without sound sleep and a regular sleep cycle is difficult, even if sleeping hours are kept constant. Therefore, we included the assessment of regularity and quality in addition to hours of sleep in order to develop appropriate sleep guidelines for improved physical and mental health.
Huntington's disease is a progressive, fatal, neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene, which encodes an abnormally long polyglutamine repeat in the huntingtin protein. Huntington's disease has served as a model for the study of other more common neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These disorders all share features including: delayed onset; selective neuronal vulnerability, despite widespread expression of disease-related proteins during the whole lifetime; abnormal protein processing and aggregation; and cellular toxic effects involving both cell autonomous and cell-cell interaction mechanisms. Pathogenic pathways of Huntington's disease are beginning to be unravelled, offering targets for treatments. Additionally, predictive genetic testing and findings of neuroimaging studies show that, as in some other neurodegenerative disorders, neurodegeneration in affected individuals begins many years before onset of diagnosable signs and symptoms of Huntington's disease, and it is accompanied by subtle cognitive, motor, and psychiatric changes (so-called prodromal disease). Thus, Huntington's disease is also emerging as a model for strategies to develop therapeutic interventions, not only to slow progression of manifest disease but also to delay, or ideally prevent, its onset.

This study examined the prevalence of cognitive impairment and its association with depressive symptoms and self-reported cognitive complaints in Danish outpatients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Fifty-seven consecutive female SLE-outpatients were examined with a comprehensive neuropsychological test-battery, a 20-item self-administered Perceived Deficits Questionnaire (PDQ) and a self-rated depression scale (Major Depression Inventory). Twenty-two patients (38.5%) were classified as cognitively impaired, mostly with deficits in executive functions and attention. Among cognitively impaired patients only 18.2% had significantly higher PDQ scores than the normal range. PDQ scores were highly correlated to depressive symptoms (r = 0.67, p &lt; 0.001). Only two neuropsychological tests were significantly correlated with subjective cognitive complaints. When these variables and self-rated depression score were entered into a regression model both depression score and Symbol Digit Modalities Test performances were significantly associated with the PDQ score. In conclusion, cognitive impairments were common in this group of (mild) SLE outpatients, but the level of significant subjective cognitive complaints was low even among patients with cognitive impairment. Affective status may influence subjective experience of cognitive functions even more than cognitive functioning itself, and absence of subjective cognitive complaints did not exclude the presence of cognitive impairments.
Perceptions of sensation and pain in healthy people are believed to be the net result of sensory input and descending modulation from brainstem and cortical regions depending on emotional and cognitive factors. Here, the influence of attention on neural activity in the spinal cord during thermal sensory stimulation of the hand was investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging by systematically varying the participants' attention focus across and within repeated studies. Attention states included (1) attention to the stimulus by rating the sensation and (2) attention away from the stimulus by performing various mental tasks of watching a movie and identifying characters, detecting the direction of coherently moving dots within a randomly moving visual field and answering mentally-challenging questions. Functional MRI results spanning the cervical spinal cord and brainstem consistently demonstrated that the attention state had a significant influence on the activity detected in the cervical spinal cord, as well as in brainstem regions involved with the descending analgesia system. These findings have important implications for the detection and study of pain, and improved characterization of the effects of injury or disease.

We measured changes in gene expression, induced by aging and caloric restriction (CR), in three hippocampal subregions. When analysis included all regions, aging was associated with expression of genes linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammation, and stress responses, and in some cases, expression was reversed by CR. An age-related increase in ubiquintination was observed, including increased expression of ubiquitin conjugating enzyme genes and cytosolic ubiquitin immunoreactivity. CR decreased cytosolic ubiquitin and upregulated deubiquitinating genes. Region specific analyses indicated that CA1 was more susceptible to aging stress, exhibiting a greater number of altered genes relative to CA3 and the dentate gyrus (DG), and an enrichment of genes related to the immune response and apoptosis. CA3 and the DG were more responsive to CR, exhibiting marked changes in the total number of genes across diet conditions, reversal of age-related changes in p53 signaling, glucocorticoid receptor signaling, and enrichment of genes related to cell survival and neurotrophic signaling. Finally, CR differentially influenced genes for synaptic plasticity in CA1 and CA3. It is concluded that regional disparity in response to aging and CR relates to differences in vulnerability to stressors, the availability of neurotrophic, and cell survival mechanisms, and differences in cell function.
The hair samples of Ferdinand II of Aragon (1467-1496), King of Naples, whose mummy is preserved in the Basilica of San Domenico Maggiore in Naples, showed a high content of mercury, with a value of 827ppm. Furthermore, examination using a stereomicroscope and a scanning electron microscope (SEM) of head and pubic hairs of Ferdinand II, revealed a lice infestation. The reasons for the massive presence of the mercury in the king's hair are discussed and contemporary literature regarding the use of this metal in medical therapies and in cosmetic practices is analysed. As a result, the high value of mercury in the hair of Ferdinand II can be attributed to antipediculosis therapy, applied as a topic medicament. This case represents an important finding for the history of medicine, because demonstrates that in the Renaissance mercury was applied locally not only to treat syphilis, as well attested by direct and indirect sources, but also to prevent or eliminate lice infestation.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal progressive neurodegenerative disorder with autosomal dominant inheritance. In humans mutated huntingtin (htt) induces a preferential loss of medium spiny neurons (MSN) of the striatum and causes motor, cognitive and emotional deficits. One of the proposed cellular mechanism underlying medium spiny neurons degeneration is excitotoxic pathways mediated by glutamate receptors. The hypothesis proposed is restoration of medium spiny neurons in Huntington's disease using neural progenitor cell implantation and attenuation of glutamate mediated excitotoxicity using a partial glutamate antagonist - Memantine. Memantine can block the NMDA receptors and will prevent excess calcium influx into the neurons decreases the vulnerability of medium spiny neurons to glutamate mediated excitotoxicity. Neural progenitor cell implantation can enhance endogenous neurogenesis process replacing the degenerated medium spiny neurons in the striatum. This has immense significance in the management of Huntington's disease.
Whilst the parallels between drug and food craving are receiving increasing attention, the recently elucidated complex physiology of the hypothalamic appetite regulatory centres has been largely overlooked in the efforts to understand drug craving which is one of the most refractory and problematic aspects of drug and behavioural addictions. Important conceptual gains could be made by researchers from both appetite and addiction neuroscience if they were to have an improved understanding of each others' disciplines. It is well known in addiction medicine that the use of many substances is elevated in opiate dependency. There is voluminous evidence of very high rates of drug use in opiate agonist maintained patients, and the real possibility exists that opiate agonist therapy therefore increases drug craving. Conversely, opiate antagonist therapy with naloxone or naltrexone has been shown to reduce most chemical and behavioural addictions, and naltrexone is now being developed together with bupropion as the anti-obesity drug &quot;Contrave&quot;. Hypothalamic melanocortins, particularly -MSH, are known to constitute the main brake to consumptive behaviour of food. There is a well described antagonism between melanocortins and opioids at many loci including the hypothalamus. Administration of exogenous opiates is known to both suppress -MSH and to stimulate hedonic food consumption. Opiate maintenance programs are associated with weight gain. As monoamines, opioids and cannabinoids are known to be involved in appetite regulation, and as endorphin opioids are known to be perturbed in other addictions, further exploration of the hypothalamic appetite regulatory centre would appear to be an obvious, albeit presently largely overlooked, locus in which to study drug and other craving mechanisms.
We introduce an automated and probabilistic method for subject-specific segmentation of sheet-like fiber tracts. In addition to clustering of trajectories into anatomically meaningful bundles, the method provides statistics of diffusion measures by establishing point correspondences on the estimated medial representation of each bundle. We also introduce a new approach for medial surface generation of sheet-like fiber bundles in order too initialize the proposed clustering algorithm. Applying the new method to a population study of brain aging on 24 subjects demonstrates the capabilities and strengths of the algorithm in identifying and visualizing spatial patterns of group differences.
Fiber clustering is a prerequisite step towards tract-based analysis of white mater integrity via diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in various clinical neuroscience applications. Many methods reported in the literature used geometric or anatomic information for fiber clustering. This paper proposes a novel method that uses functional coherence as the criterion to guide the clustering of fibers derived from DTI tractography. Specifically, we represent the functional identity of a white matter fiber by two resting state fMRI (rsfMRI) time series extracted from the two gray matter voxels to which the fiber connects. Then, the functional coherence or similarity between two white matter fibers is defined as their rsfMRI time series' correlations, and the data-driven affinity propagation (AP) algorithm is used to cluster fibers into bundles. At current stage, we use the corpus callosum (CC) fibers that are the largest fiber bundle in the brain as an example. Experimental results show that the proposed fiber clustering method can achieve meaningful bundles that are reasonably consistent across different brains, and part of the clustered bundles was validated via the benchmark data provided by task-based fMRI data.
DTI tractography allows unprecedented understanding of brain neural connectivity in-vivo by capturing water diffusion patterns in brain white-matter microstructures. However, tractography algorithms often output hundreds of thousands of fibers, rendering the computation needed for subsequent data analysis intractable. A remedy is to group the fibers into bundles using fiber clustering techniques. Most existing fiber clustering methods, however, rely on fiber geometrical information only by viewing fibers as curves in the 3D Euclidean space. The important neuroanatomical aspect of the fibers is mostly ignored. In this paper, neuroanatomical information is encapsulated in a feature vector called the associativity vector, which functions as the &quot;fingerprint&quot; for each fiber and depicts the connectivity of the fiber with respect to individual anatomies. Using the associativity vectors of fibers, we model the fibers as observations sampled from multivariate Gaussian mixtures in the feature space. An expectation-maximization clustering approach is then employed to group the fibers into 16 major bundles. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method groups the fibers into anatomically meaningful bundles, which are highly consistent across subjects.

Methylene Blue (MB), following its introduction to biology in the 19th century by Ehrlich, has found uses in various areas of medicine and biology. At present, MB is the first line of treatment in methemoglobinemias, is used frequently in the treatment of ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy, and is routinely employed as a diagnostic tool in surgical procedures. Furthermore, recent studies suggest that MB has beneficial effects in Alzheimer's disease and memory improvement. Although the modulation of the cGMP pathway is considered the most significant effect of MB, mediating its pharmacological actions, recent studies indicate that it has multiple cellular and molecular targets. In the majority of cases, biological effects and clinical applications of MB are dictated by its unique physicochemical properties including its planar structure, redox chemistry, ionic charges, and light spectrum characteristics. In this review article, these physicochemical features and the actions of MB on multiple cellular and molecular targets are discussed with regard to their relevance to the nervous system.
The history of the representations of the brain is broadly the history of the brain itself, since observations and ideas which concern it are closely linked, and are even depending on each other. These representations are images, but are also materials produced by manipulating, cutting, fixing the brain; they are also the descriptions of these objects. The interpretations, structured by the representations, ultimately organize the knowledge.



The growing use of brain imaging technology and the developing of cognitive neuroscience pose unaccustomed challenges to legal systems. Until now, the fields of Law much affected are the civil and criminal law and procedure, but the constitutional dimension of &quot;neurolaw&quot; cannot be easily underestimated. As the capacity to investigate and to trace brain mechanisms and functional neural activities increases, it becomes urgent the recognition and definition of the unalienable rights and fundamental values in respect of this new techno-scientific power, that must be protected and safeguard at &quot;constitutional level&quot; of norms such as: human dignity, personal identity, authenticity and the pursuit of individual &quot;happiness&quot;. As the same as for the law regulating research and experimentation on human genome adopted in the past years, one may also argue if the above mentioned fundamental principles of &quot;neurolaw&quot; must be fixed and disciplined also at European and International level.
As new technology becomes available and is used for educational purposes, educators often take existing training and simply transcribe it into the new technological medium. However, when technology drives e-learning rather than the learner and the learning, and when it uses designs and approaches that were not originally built for e-learning, then often technology does not enhance the learning (it may even be detrimental to it). The success of e-learning depends on it being 'brain friendly', on engaging the learners from an understanding of how the cognitive system works. This enables educators to optimize learning by achieving correct mental representations that will be remembered and applied in practice. Such technology enhanced learning (TEL) involves developing and using novel approaches grounded in cognitive neuroscience; for example, gaming and simulations that distort realism rather than emphasizing visual fidelity and realism, making videos interactive, training for 'error recovery' rather than for 'error reduction', and a whole range of practical ways that result in effective TEL. These are a result of e-learning that is built to fit and support the cognitive system, and therefore optimize the learning.
Medical errors are an inevitable outcome of the human cognitive system working within the environment and demands of practicing medicine. Training can play a pivotal role in minimizing error, but the prevailing training is not as effective because it directly focuses on error reduction. Based on an understanding of cognitive architecture and how the brain processes information, a new approach is suggested: focusing training on error recovery. This entails specific training in error detection and error mitigation. Such training will not only enable better responses when errors occur, but it is also a more effective way to achieve error reduction. The suggested design for error recovery training is to begin with detecting errors in others. Starting off with highly visible and even exaggerated errors, and advancing to more challenging detections and finally requiring to detect errors within oneself rather than in others. The error mitigation training starts with providing the learners with the correct remedial actions (after they have detected the error). With training, the learners are required to select the appropriate actions within multiple choice alternatives, and eventually are required to generate the appropriate remedial responses themselves. These can be used for instruction as well as for assessment purposes. Time pressure, distractions, competitions and other elements are included so as to make the training more challenging and interactive.
To date, the major role of HPV16E6 in cancer has been considered to be its ability to inhibit the p53 tumor-suppressor protein, thereby thwarting p53-mediated cytotoxic responses to cellular stress signals. Here, we show that HPV16E6-dependent c-fos oncogenic protein expression contributes to AP-1 complex formation under oxidative stress in SiHa cells (HPV16-positive squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix). In addition, we examined the role of HPV16E6 in TGF--induced c-fos expression and found that the c-fos protein expression induced by TGF- is HPV16E6 dependent. Thus, our results provide the first evidence that HPV16E6 contributes to AP-1 complex formation after both ligand-dependent and independent EGFR activation, suggesting a new therapeutic approach to the treatment of HPV-associated tumors.
Primitive neuroectodermal tumors are a group of rare, aggressive, and highly malignant embryonal tumors of unknown etiology of the central and peripheral nervous systems. It is a term for a group of small round cell tumors thought to be derived from fetal neuroectodermal precursor cells. Primitive neuroectodermal tumor is usually described as a tumor of children younger than 15 years and is very rare in adults. The article presents a short literature review and a rare case of a primary primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the central nervous system diagnosed in a 51-year-old woman.
In a series of five experiments, we studied the effect of a visual suffix on the retention in short-term visual memory of both individual visual features and objects involving the binding of two features. Experiments 1A, 1B, and 2 involved suffixes consisting of features external to the to-be-remembered set and revealed a modest but equivalent disruption on individual and bound feature conditions. Experiments 3A and 3B involved suffixes comprising features that could potentially have formed part of the to-be-remembered set (but did not on that trial). Both experiments showed greater disruption of retention for objects comprising bound features than for their individual features. The results are interpreted as differentiating two components of suffix interference, one affecting memory for features and bindings equally, the other affecting memory for bindings. The general component is tentatively identified with the attentional cost of operating a filter to prevent the suffix from entering visual working memory, whereas the specific component is attributed to the particular fragility of bound representations when the filter fails.
When autobiographical memories are elicited with word cues, personal events from middle childhood to early adulthood are overrepresented compared to events from other periods. It is, however, unclear whether these memories are also associated with greater recollection. In this online study, we examined whether autobiographical memories from adolescence and early adulthood are recollected more than memories from other lifetime periods. Participants rated personal events that were elicited with cue words on reliving or vividness. Consistent with previous studies, most memories came from the period in which the participants were between 6 and 20 years old. The memories from this period were not relived more or recalled more vividly than memories from other lifetime periods, suggesting that they do not involve more recollection. Recent events had higher levels of reliving and vividness than remote events, and older adults reported a stronger recollective experience than younger adults.
Decision-making is an intricate subject in neuroscience. It is often argued that laboratorial research is not capable of dealing with the necessary complexity to study the issue. Whereas philosophers in general neglect the physiological features that constitute the main aspects of thought and behaviour, I advocate that cutting-edge neuroscientific experiments can offer us a framework to explain human behaviour in its relationship with will, self-control, inhibition, emotion and reasoning. It is my contention that self-control mechanisms can modulate more basic stimuli. Assuming the aforementioned standpoints, I show the physiological mechanisms underlying social assessment and decision-making. I also establish a difference between veridical and adaptive decision-making, useful to create experimental designs that can better mimic the complexity of our day-by-day decisions in more ecologically relevant laboratorial research. Moreover, I analyse some experiments in order to develop an epistemological reflection about the necessary neural mechanisms to social assessment and decision-making.
The question whether human beings have free will has been debated by philosophers and theologians for thousands of years. More recently, neuroscientists have applied novel concepts and tools in neuroscience to address this question. We submit that human beings do have free will and the physiological substrate for its exercise is contained within neural networks. We discuss the potential neurobiology of free will by exploring volitionally initiated motor activity and the behavioural-response to a stimulus-response paradigm. We also submit that the exercise of free will can be affected in patients with the certain neurological disorders such as the behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia. Clinicopathological correlation in patients with this disorder provides an opportunity to further elucidate the neural substrate for this fundamental human attribute. We also discuss the clinical correlates of the loss of free will in this population, which is a source of significant distress to patients, significant others and care givers.
Human brain is a highly evolved coordinating mechanism in the species Homo sapiens. It is only in the last 100 years that extensive knowledge of the intricate structure and complex functioning of the human brain has been acquired, though a lot is yet to be known. However, from the beginning of civilisation, people have been conscious of a 'mind' which has been considered the origin of all scientific and cultural development. Philosophers have discussed at length the various attributes of consciousness. At the same time, most of the philosophical or scientific frameworks have directly or indirectly implied mind-body duality. It is now imperative that we develop an integrated approach to understand the interconnection between mind and consciousness on one hand and brain on the other. This paper begins with the proposition that the structure of the brain is analogous, at least to certain extent, to that of the computer system. Of course, it is much more sophisticated and complex. The second proposition is that the Chomskyean concept of 'mental organs' is a good working hypothesis that tries to characterise this complexity in terms of an innate cognitive framework. By following this dual approach, brain as a data processing system and brain as a superstructure of intricately linked mental organs, we can move toward a better understanding of 'mind' within the framework of empirical science. The one 'mental organ' studied extensively in Chomskyean terms is 'language faculty' which is unique in its relation to brain, mind and consciousness.
Philosophers and psychologists have long tried to understand people's irrational behaviour through concepts such as weakness of will, compulsion and addiction. The scientific basis of the project has been greatly enhanced by advances in cognitive psychology and neuroscience. However, some philosophers have also been critical of the more general conclusions drawn by the scientists. This is especially true when scientific researchers start making claims that go to philosophical issues, such as free will and responsibility. Conversely, some scientists have been critical of philosophical approaches for not understanding the results of recent research. I examined some of the recent history of scientific claims about addiction, and the rise of the claims from scientists to have shown that addiction is a brain disease and that addictive behaviour is compulsive. Given the well-confirmed evidence that addicts can modulate their behaviour in response to rewards, punishments and context, it is clear that according to normal definitions of compulsivity the behaviour of addicts is not typically compulsive, suggesting that neuroscientists are making an error in their interpretation of data. Since philosophers have expertise in making distinctions between different kinds of action and categorising them as free, weak-willed and compulsive, we will achieve a better interpretation of the neuroscience of addiction when taking this philosophical work into account. Conversely, given the status of science in the modern world, philosophers have to grapple with the latest neuroscientific discoveries and show the compatibility of their philosophical theories with the data for their approaches to maintain credibility.
In the current climate of dramatic advances in the neurosciences, it has been widely assumed that the diagnosis of mental disorder is a matter exclusively for value-free science. Starting from a detailed case history, this paper describes how, to the contrary, values come into the diagnosis of mental disorders, directly through the criteria at the heart of psychiatry's most scientifically grounded classification, the American Psychiatric Association's DSM (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual). Various possible interpretations of the prominence of values in psychiatric diagnosis are outlined. Drawing on work in the Oxford analytic tradition of philosophy, it is shown that, properly understood, the prominence of psychiatric diagnostic values reflects the necessary engagement of psychiatry with the diversity of individual human values. This interpretation opens up psychiatric diagnostic assessment to the resources of a new skills-based approach to working with complex and conflicting values (also derived from analytic philosophy) called 'values-based practice.' Developments in values-based practice in training, policy and research in mental health are briefly outlined. The paper concludes with an indication of how the integration of values-based with evidence-based approaches provides the basis for psychiatric practice in the twenty-first century that is both science-based and person-centred.
Brain, Mind and Consciousness are the research concerns of psychiatrists, psychologists, neurologists, cognitive neuroscientists and philosophers. All of them are working in different and important ways to understand the workings of the brain, the mysteries of the mind and to grasp that elusive concept called consciousness. Although they are all justified in forwarding their respective researches, it is also necessary to integrate these diverse appearing understandings and try and get a comprehensive perspective that is, hopefully, more than the sum of their parts. There is also the need to understand what each one is doing, and by the other, to understand each other's basic and fundamental ideological and foundational underpinnings. This must be followed by a comprehensive and critical dialogue between the respective disciplines. Moreover, the concept of mind and consciousness in Indian thought needs careful delineation and critical/evidential enquiry to make it internationally relevant. The brain-mind dyad must be understood, with brain as the structural correlate of the mind, and mind as the functional correlate of the brain. To understand human experience, we need a triad of external environment, internal environment and a consciousness that makes sense of both. We need to evolve a consensus on the definition of consciousness, for which a working definition in the form of a Consciousness Tetrad of Default, Aware, Operational and Evolved Consciousness is presented. It is equally necessary to understand the connection between physical changes in the brain and mental operations, and thereby untangle and comprehend the lattice of mental operations. Interdisciplinary work and knowledge sharing, in an atmosphere of healthy give and take of ideas, and with a view to understand the significance of each other's work, and also to critically evaluate the present corpus of knowledge from these diverse appearing fields, and then carry forward from there in a spirit of cooperative but evidential and critical enquiry - this is the goal for this monograph, and the work to follow.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a human disease of bone marrow failure, leukemia, squamous cell carcinoma, and developmental anomalies, including hypogonadism and infertility. Bone marrow transplants improve hematopoietic phenotypes but do not prevent other cancers. FA arises from mutation in any of the 15 FANC genes that cooperate to repair double stranded DNA breaks by homologous recombination. Zebrafish has a single ortholog of each human FANC gene and unexpectedly, mutations in at least two of them (fancl and fancd1(brca2)) lead to female-to-male sex reversal. Investigations show that, as in human, zebrafish fanc genes are required for genome stability and for suppressing apoptosis in tissue culture cells, in embryos treated with DNA damaging agents, and in meiotic germ cells. The sex reversal phenotype requires the action of Tp53 (p53), an activator of apoptosis. These results suggest that in normal sex determination, zebrafish oocytes passing through meiosis signal the gonadal soma to maintain expression of aromatase, an enzyme that converts androgen to estrogen, thereby feminizing the gonad and the individual. According to this model, normal male and female zebrafish differ in genetic factors that control the strength of the late meiotic oocyte-derived signal, probably by regulating the number of meiotic oocytes, which environmental factors can also alter. Transcripts from fancd1(brca2) localize at the animal pole of the zebrafish oocyte cytoplasm and are required for normal oocyte nuclear architecture, for normal embryonic development, and for preventing ovarian tumors. Embryonic DNA repair and sex reversal phenotypes provide assays for the screening of small molecule libraries for therapeutic substances for FA.
This chapter provides an overview of the aquaculture system and the husbandry methods used at the Zebrafish International Resource Center (ZIRC). ZIRC employs a recirculating water system with mechanical and biological filtration for its main facility, and a flow-through water system for its quarantine room. I describe basic husbandry methods for breeding, rearing larvae, and feeding and the extensive in-house health surveillance for the biosafety of the fish population. Whereas the description of these procedures is merely an overview and only the most essential methods are included, it offers several starting points to set up, refine, or troubleshoot other fish facilities.
The zebrafish has been one of the primary study species utilized in developmental biology. However, it is also gaining increasing amount of interest in other disciplines of biology including behavioral neuroscience; the numerous genetic tools developed and the large amount of genetic information accumulated for this species by now make it an excellent tool for the analysis of the mechanisms of complex central nervous system characteristics. Although several studies have investigated the biological and genetic underpinnings of associative learning (and memory), given the complexity of these phenomena, much remains to be discovered. In the past, the zebrafish has been employed particularly successfully in screening applications where a large number of mutations or drug effects had to be analyzed. Briefly, the practical simplicity and system complexity of the zebrafish may make this species an excellent tool also for the analysis of the mechanisms of associative learning. Screening, however, requires appropriate phenotypical (in this case behavioral) paradigms. A step in this direction is the characterization of learning abilities of zebrafish. The number of studies focused on cognitive and/or mnemonic characteristics of zebrafish is orders of magnitude smaller than those with rats or mice, but recently zebrafish has also started to be utilized in this research. The current chapter reviews these most recent developments. It also discusses certain unique features of zebrafish that must be taken into account when designing an associative learning task and how these tasks may be made high throughput.
The life and operation of cells involve many physiological processes that take place over fast timescales of milliseconds to minutes. Genetically encoded technologies for driving or suppressing specific fast physiological processes in intact cells, perhaps embedded within intact tissues in living organisms, are critical for the ability to understand how these physiological processes contribute to emergent cellular and organismal functions and behaviors. Such &quot;synthetic physiology&quot; tools are often incredibly complex molecular machines, in part because they must operate at high speeds, without causing side effects. We here explore how synthetic physiology molecules can be identified and deployed in cells, and how the physiology of these molecules in cellular contexts can be assessed and optimized. For concreteness, we discuss these methods in the context of the &quot;optogenetic&quot; light-gated ion channels and pumps that we have developed over the past few years as synthetic physiology tools and widely disseminated for use in neuroscience for probing the role of specific brain cell types in neural computations, behaviors, and pathologies. We anticipate that some of the insights revealed here may be of general value for the field of synthetic physiology, as they raise issues that will be of importance for the development and use of high-performance, high-speed, side-effect free physiological control tools in heterologous expression systems.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors can be used to locally or systemically enhance or silence gene expression. They are relatively nonimmunogenic and can transduce dividing and nondividing cells, and different rAAV serotypes may transduce diverse cell types. Therefore, rAAV vectors are excellent tools to study the function of neuropeptides in local brain areas. In this chapter, we describe a protocol to produce high-titer, in vivo grade, rAAV vector stocks. The protocol includes an Iodixanol gradient, an anion exchange column and a desalting/concentration step and can be used for every serotype. In addition, a short protocol for rAAV injections into the brain and directions on how to detect and localize transduced cells are given.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) represents multiple barriers for drug delivery from the circulation. Peptides potentially useful to treat maladies of the brain are especially limited in their ability to cross the BBB due to several shortcomings. Specific delivery strategies have been conceived to outwit the BBB to target neuropeptides into the brain. It should be noted, however, that no unified method is possible for true brain-targeting of these fascinating biomolecules due to their structural features, properties, and intricate interplays among factors governing their entrance into and retention within the brain. In most brain-targeting prodrug approaches, a lipophilic and bioreversible moiety(ies) is covalently attached to the peptide that results in the complete loss of the innate biological activity of the parent peptide (prodrugs are inactive per definition) but significantly improves brain uptake and metabolic stability in the plasma and the interstitial fluid. Once the peptide prodrug has crossed the BBB, specific enzymes liberate the parent agent from its prodrug in the brain. To illustrate the applicability of the prodrug strategy for brain delivery of small neuropeptides, pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH(2), [Glu(2)TRH], a thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue with a vast array of central activities, was chosen as an example. An ester prodrug provided significantly improved brain delivery compared to the unmodified parent peptide. The synthesis, in vitro and in vivo evaluations of this prodrug as specific examples are given for typical exploratory prodrug validation.
A major barrier to entry of neuropeptides into the brain is low bioavailability and presence of the blood-brain barrier. Intranasal delivery of neuropeptides provides a potentially promising alternative to other routes of administration, since a direct pathway exists between the olfactory neuroepithelium and the brain. Use of the rat as an animal model in nose to brain delivery of neuropeptides allows for several advantages, including a large surface area within the nasal cavity dedicated to olfactory epithelium and robust neuronal pathways extending to and from most areas of the brain from the nose via the olfactory cortex. A major disadvantage to using rats for nose to brain delivery is the difficulty in selectively targeting the posterior olfactory epithelium (which facilitates delivery to the brain) over the more anterior respiratory epithelium (which facilitates delivery to the lungs and secondarily to the peripheral blood) in the nasal cavity. We have developed a novel delivery system that consists of surgically implanting stainless-steel cannulas in the dorsal aspect of the nasal cavity overlying the olfactory neuroepithelium, thereby allowing neuropeptide compounds to bypass the respiratory epithelium.
Electrophysiological recording techniques have been widely applied to study the functional role of neuropeptides. The present chapter focuses on the very often used techniques including whole-cell patch-clamp recording, sharp electrode intracellular recording, and extracellular field potential recording in slice preparation as well as in vivo animal recording.
Neuropeptide-plasma membrane interactions in the absence of a corresponding specific receptor may result in neuropeptide translocation into the cell. Translocation across the plasma membrane may represent a previously unknown mechanism by which neuropeptides can signal information to the cell interior. We introduce here two complementary optical methods with single-molecule sensitivity, fluorescence imaging with avalanche photodiode detectors (APD imaging) and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), and demonstrate how they may be applied for the analysis of neuropeptide ability to penetrate into live cells in real time. APD imaging enables us to visualize fluorescently labeled neuropeptide molecules at very low, physiologically relevant concentrations, whereas FCS enables us to characterize quantitatively their concentration and diffusion properties in different cellular compartments. Application of these methodologies for the analysis of the endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin A (Dyn A), a ligand for the kappa-opioid receptor (KOP), demonstrated that this neuropeptide may translocate across the plasma membrane of living cells and enter the cellular interior without binding to its cognate receptor.
Analysis of real-time movements of peptidergic vesicles in live neurons provides insight into molecular mechanism(s) supporting the activity-dependent secretion of neurotrophins and neuropeptides. We examined the effect of overexpression of exogenous peptides comprising of the cytoplasmic tail sequence of vesicular carboxypeptidase E (CPE), proposed to be involved in the mechanism of trafficking of peptidergic secretory vesicles, in live hippocampal neurons. E16 rat hippocampal neurons were transfected with the peptidergic vesicle markers, CPE C-terminally tagged with red or green fluorescent protein, or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) tagged with green fluorescent protein, and grown on dishes specialized for real-time live cell visualization. Movements of peptidergic vesicles were imaged in a temperature-controlled chamber on a confocal inverted microscope and analyzed with respect to their velocity, displacement distance, and processivity.
We know neuropeptides now for over 40 years as chemical signals in the brain. The discovery of neuropeptides is founded on groundbreaking research in physiology, endocrinology, and biochemistry during the last century and has been built on three seminal notions: (1) peptide hormones are chemical signals in the endocrine system; (2) neurosecretion of peptides is a general principle in the nervous system; and (3) the nervous system is responsive to peptide signals. These historical lines have contributed to how neuropeptides can be defined today: &quot;Neuropeptides are small proteinaceous substances produced and released by neurons through the regulated secretory route and acting on neural substrates.&quot; Thus, neuropeptides are the most diverse class of signaling molecules in the brain engaged in many physiological functions. According to this definition almost 70 genes can be distinguished in the mammalian genome, encoding neuropeptide precursors and a multitude of bioactive neuropeptides. In addition, among cytokines, peptide hormones, and growth factors there are several subfamilies of peptides displaying most of the hallmarks of neuropeptides, for example neural chemokines, cerebellins, neurexophilins, and granins. All classical neuropeptides as well as putative neuropeptides from the latter families are presented as a resource.
Microarray-based assays have significantly expanded their scope and range of applications over the last 10 years, and--at least for gene expression--can be considered mainstream applications. High-throughput, microarray-based gene expression studies have proven particularly useful in the study of neurodegenerative diseases, for which they have provided key insights in understanding disease pathogenesis, regional and cellular specificity, and identification of therapeutic targets. Even though many experimental steps are currently performed in specialized core facilities, the key steps of a microarray study--experimental design, and data analysis and interpretation--are performed by the primary investigator. Knowledge of the issues related to these key steps is essential to properly perform and interpret a microarray experiment and constitutes the main focus of the present chapter. The basic analytical steps are covered, and annotated R code for the analysis of a published dataset is provided.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder caused by progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal area of the brain. The decrease in dopamine (DA) neurotransmitter levels in the striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta is a neurochemistry hallmark of PD. Therefore, determination of dopamine and its metabolites levels in biological samples provides an important key to understanding the neurochemistry profile of PD. This chapter describes the use of reversed-phase HPLC with electrochemical detection (ECD) for simultaneously measuring monoamine neurotransmitters, including dopamine and its metabolites, norepinephrine as well as serotonin and its metabolite. ECD provides an ultrasensitive measurement, which detects at the picogram level. One run for each sample finishes within 18 min, shows clear chromatographic peaks and a complete separation, and produces excellent precision and reproducibility. Once set up, HPLC-ECD is economic and efficient for analyzing a large number of samples. This method has been broadly used for analyzing a variety of biological samples, such as cerebrospinal fluids, plasma, microdialysis elutes, tissues, and cultured cells. In recent days, it has been reported to be able to detect the dopamine level in a single drosophila head.
Emerging evidence suggests that synaptic dysfunction occurs prior to neuronal loss in neurodegenerative diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Therefore, monitoring synaptic activity during early stages of neurodegeneration may provide valuable information for the development of diagnostic and/or therapeutic strategies. Here, we describe an electrophysiological method routinely applied in our laboratory for investigating synaptic activity of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), the synaptic connection between motoneurons and skeletal muscles. Using conventional intracellular sharp electrodes, both spontaneous synaptic activity (miniature end-plate potentials) and evoked synaptic activity (end-plate potentials) can be readily recorded in acutely isolated nerve-muscle preparations. This method can also be adapted to various simulation protocols for studying short-term plasticity of neuromuscular synapses.
Alzheimer's disease, the most common neurodegenerative disease, is characterized by a progressive loss of synapses and accumulation of amyloid-beta (A) peptides in the brain. Previous studies demonstrated that acute increase in synaptic activity in cultured hippocampal slices and mouse brains (Cirrito et al. Neuron 48: 913-922, 2005; Kamenetz et al. Neuron 37: 925-937, 2003) enhanced secretion of A. Since synaptic activity promotes A secretion, it could also affect the trafficking and processing of its precursor, the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Here, we describe a method to investigate the effect of acute synaptic activation on APP trafficking within dendrites.
Recent discoveries have brought mitochondria functions in focus of the neuroscience research community and greatly stimulated the demand for approaches to study mitochondria dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases. Many mouse disease models have been generated, but studying mitochondria isolated from individual mouse brain regions is a challenge because of small amount of the available brain tissue. Conventional techniques for isolation and purification of mitochondria from mouse brain subregions, such as ventral midbrain, hippocampus, or striatum, require pooling brain tissue from six to nine animals for a single mitochondrial preparation. Working with pooled tissue significantly decreases the quality of data because of the time required to dissect several brains. It also greatly increases the labor intensity and the cost of experiments as several animals are required per single data point. We describe a method for isolation of brain mitochondria from mouse striata or other 7-12 mg brain samples. The method utilizes a refrigerated table-top microtube centrifuge, and produces research grade quality mitochondria in amounts sufficient for performing multiple enzymatic and functional assays, thereby eliminating the necessity for pooling mouse brain tissue. We also include a method of measuring ADP-ATP exchange rate as a function of mitochondrial membrane potential (m) in small amounts of isolated mitochondria, adapted to a plate reader format.
Changes in intracellular calcium concentration play a major role both in signal transduction and in cell death. In particular, mitochondrial Ca2+ overload is critically important as a determinant of irreversible cell injury. When accumulated above a threshold, matrix Ca2+ triggers opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP), initiating ATP depletion and cell death via necrosis or by promoting cytochrome c release and initiating the apoptotic cascade. Measurement of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake capacity (or the threshold for mPTP opening) is, therefore, important for understanding the mechanisms of pathophysiology in a variety of disease models and also for testing neuro- or cardioprotective drugs. We have, therefore, devised an approach that delivers Ca2+ directly to the matrix of mitochondria independently of uptake and therefore independently of potential (m) that allows direct study both of the Ca2+ efflux pathway and of the specific sensitivity of mPTP to Ca2+. This is achieved using the photolytic release of Ca2+ by flash photolysis of caged Ca2+ using compounds, such as o-nitrophenyl EGTA, introduced into the cell as the acetoxymethyl (AM) ester (NP-EGTA, AM). This method can be used in both intact and permeabilized cells.
Protein aggregates/inclusions are pathological hallmarks of a wide spectrum of neurodegenerative -diseases. These aggregates have different shapes, sizes, distribution, and protein composition, which are unique features used for pathological diagnosis. The aggregates per se are also used as molecular targets for designing therapeutic approaches. Detection of these aggregates is generally achieved by using immunostaining methods, most often by immunohistochemistry. In clinical and pathologic practice, the neurologic tissues to be examined are generally fixed with formalin and processed to paraffin-embedded tissue blocks. These treatments result in covalent cross-linking of the protein molecules and preserve the tissue morphology, but dramatically mask the antigens, making it often difficult to detect the aggregates. Therefore, removal of the cross-linking of antigens is a critical step for effective detection of these aggregates. In this chapter, we discuss and present immunostaining methods with a focus on the effectiveness of antigen-retrieval methods. In our experience, a treatment of tissues at 125C for 20 min represents a relatively ideal antigen-retrieval method not only preserving the tissue morphology, but also providing efficient antigen retrieval. Using this method, we successfully detected some protein aggregates that escaped detection when other antigen-retrieval methods were employed.
Neurodegenerative disorders, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntington's (HD), Parkinson's (PD) and Alzheimer's diseases (AD), are characterized by the loss of structure and function of specific neuronal circuitry in the brain. As a result of this loss, behavioral symptoms occur progressively. Understanding the causes of neurodegeneration is fundamental for the development of new therapeutic targets. For this purpose, several animal models of neurodegenerative disorders have been generated and characterized. During the characterization, behavioral science plays a crucial role by identifying specific symptoms in these animal models of human disorders. Later on, it also allows scientists to verify the efficacy of new treatments. This chapter describes some of the standard tests used to assess behavioral symptoms present in mouse models of neurodegenerative disorders. A list of procedures is provided to evaluate motor skills for the study of ALS, HD, and PD models, and to evaluate spatial learning and memory for the study of AD models.
Ischemic stroke is among the leading causes of mortality and long-term disability in the western world. Despite enormous research activities in the last decades, current therapeutic options for acute stroke patients are still very limited. Reliable and realistic in vivo animal models represent sine qua non for -successful translation from bench to bedside. To date, several animal models of focal and global cerebral ischemia have been developed to mimic the clinical situation in humans as accurately as possible. This chapter focuses on models of focal cerebral ischemia, in particular on the most commonly used model: the intraluminal filament model of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The main objective is to provide a detailed instruction manual for researchers interested in learning this technique.
In recent years, the rapid advances in human genetics have identified many genes that are responsible for inherited diseases. In the effort to understand pathogenic pathways and develop therapeutics, researchers have developed genetic animal models as critical tools for the purpose of neurodegenerative disease study. In this overview chapter, we do not intend to cover all the transgenic models for particular diseases, their phenotypical analyses, and their specific usage in this research field. Instead, we outline methods of genetic manipulation and their usage in disease modeling, explain the underlying principles of these methods, and compare the advantages and pitfalls to these different transgenic methods.
The great potential of induced pluripotent cells (iPS) cells is that it allows the possibility of deriving pluripotent stem cells from any human patient. Generation of patient-derived stem cells serves as a great source for developing cell replacement therapies and also for creating human cellular model systems of specific diseases or disorders. This is only of benefit if there are well-established differentiation assay systems to generate the cell types of interest. This chapter describes robust and well-characterized protocols for differentiating iPS cells to neural progenitors, neurons, glia and neural crest cells. These established assays can be applied to iPS cell lines derived from patients with neurodegenerative disorders to study cellular mechanisms associated with neurodegeneration as well as investigating the regenerative potential of patient derived stem cells.
Many experimental animal models of human neurodegenerative diseases have been developed to understand the events leading toward neuronal dysfunction and death. However, definitive comprehension of the molecular and cellular mechanisms in these animal models is problematic because of the complexity of the intact nervous tissue. Primary neuronal cultures prepared from rodent nervous tissues represent a powerful tool not only to study the individual contribution of different cell types (such as neurons or glia) to disease progression, but also to investigate the role of neuron-glia interactions during development and pathogenesis of disease. Here, we describe a method to isolate and culture neurons and astrocytes from the mouse cerebral cortex, and we also present a practical application for transfection and subsequent immunofluorescence.
The application of electron microscopic immunolabeling techniques to the identification and analysis of degenerating processes in neural tissue has greatly enhanced the ability of researchers to examine apoptosis and other degenerative disease mechanisms. This is particularly true for the early stages of such mechanisms. Traditionally, degenerating processes could only be identified at the ultrastructural level after significant cellular atrophy had occurred, when subcellular detail was obscured and synaptic relationships altered. Using immunocytochemical labeling procedures, degenerating neural and glial processes are first identified through the use of antibodies directed against a variety of degenerative markers, such as proapoptotic effectors (i.e., cytoplasmic cytochrome c), pathological components (i.e., beta amyloid deposits), or inflammatory agents (i.e., Iba1). Both the subcellular distribution of the marker within the process and the relationship of the labeled process to surrounding elements can then be carefully characterized. The information obtained can be further refined through the use of dual immunolabeling, which can provide additional data on the phenotype of the degenerating process and inputs to the process.
Mitochondria are key regulators of cellular death. The mitochondrial membranes contain essential enzyme complexes for maintaining metabolic homeostasis and meeting the energy requirements of the cell (Tait and Green, Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 11:621-632, 2010 and Galluzzi et al., Apoptosis 12:803-813, 2007). Thus, any perturbation of outer or inner mitochondrial membranes can lead to disruptions in the normal fluxes of key ions and metabolic proteins (i.e., ADP/ATP exchange), leading to eventual cellular death. In addition to maintaining cellular viability, mitochondria play a critical role in the initiation of programmed cell death. As initiators of the cell death process, key mitochondrial proteins [Cytochrome C (Cyt C) one of the most well-studied among them] are released from the intermembrane space during early cell death events eventually leading to caspase activation. Release of Cyt C is a crucial step during cellular death (Tait and Green, Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 11:621-632, 2010). Therefore, the measurement of Cyt C release can give vital information about cell death signaling. Immunolabeling against Cyt C can give an easy readout of mitochondrial integrity as well, allowing for simultaneous identification of mitochondrial viability (and/or damage) and initiation of intracellular death processes. In this chapter, we use Cyt C as a dual marker of mitochondrial integrity and cell death and review several protocols to measure Cyt C localization into intact mitochondria and its release into the cytosol. The goal is to offer an array of assays that, combined, provide both qualitative and quantitative analysis of the relationship between mitochondrial viability and activation of an intracellular cell death process. Immunofluorescence, Western blot, and ELISA measurements of Cyt C as are discussed in detail.
Neurodegenerative disorders are common diseases that afflict our society with tremendous medical and financial burdens. As a whole, neurodegeneration strikes individuals of all ages, but becomes increasingly frequent with age, coming to affect a very large share of our elderly population. Due to the very complex nature of these diseases, which often result from combined genetic and environmental pathogenic factors, the scientific community that researches the causes and the therapy of neurodegeneration faces remarkable challenges, requiring constant technological advancements. This book describes a collection of experimental protocols used to study various aspects of neurodegeneration. In this introduction, we provide an overview of the field and the comprehensive technological approaches required to advance the knowledge in the pathogenesis and cure of neurodegeneration. Then, we introduce the general topics addressed herein with a brief description of each chapter.
Hsp60 (also called Cpn60) is a chaperonin with essential functions for cell physiology and survival. Additionally, its involvement in the pathogenesis of a number of diseases (e.g., some autoimmune disorders and cancer) is becoming evident with new research. For example, the distribution and levels of Hsp60 in cells and tissues have been found altered in many pathologic conditions, and the significance of these alterations is being investigated in a number of laboratories. The aim of this ongoing research is to determine the meaning of these Hsp60 alterations with regard to pathogenetic mechanisms, diagnosis, classification of lesions, and assessing of prognosis and response to treatment. Hsp60 occurs in the mitochondria, i.e., its typical residence according to classic knowledge, and also in other locales, such as the cytosol, the cell membrane, the intercellular space, and biological fluids (e.g., blood and cerebrospinal fluid). Detection and quantitative determinations in all these locations are becoming essential components of laboratory pathology in clinics and research. Consequently, immunohistochemistry targeting Hsp60 is also becoming essential for pathologists and researchers interested in disorders involving this chaperonin. In this chapter, we briefly summarize some recent discoveries on the participation of Hsp60 in the pathogenesis of human diseases and describe in detail how to perform immunohistochemical reactions for detecting the chaperonin, determining its location, and measuring its levels of expression.
The advent of high-field MRI systems has allowed implementation of BOLD fMRI on small animals. Increased magnetic field improves the signal-to-noise ratio and thus allows improvement of spatial resolution. However, it also increases susceptibility artefacts in the commonly acquired gradient echo images. The problem is particularly challenging in songbirds due to the presence of numerous air cavities in the skull of birds. This problem can be solved by using spin echo BOLD fMRI. In this chapter, we describe how to use this technique in zebra finches, a small songbird of 15-25 g extensively studied in behavioural neurosciences of birdsong. The protocol implements auditory stimuli.
Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) relies on contrasts that are due to the shortening of the T (1) relaxation time of tissue water protons that become exposed to paramagnetic manganese ions. In experimental animals, the technique combines the high spatial resolution achievable by MRI with the biological information gathered by tissue-specific or functionally induced accumulations of manganese. After in vivo administration, manganese ions may enter cells via voltage-gated calcium channels. In the nervous system, manganese ions are actively transported along the axon. Based on these properties, MEMRI is increasingly used to delineate neuroanatomical structures, assess differences in functional brain activity, and unravel neuronal connectivities in both healthy animals and models of neurological disorders. Because of the cellular toxicity of manganese, a major challenge for a successful MEMRI study is to achieve the lowest possible dose for a particular biological question. Moreover, the interpretation of MEMRI findings requires a profound knowledge of the behavior of manganese in complex organ systems under physiological and pathological conditions. Starting with an overview of manganese pharmacokinetics and mechanisms of toxicity, this chapter covers experimental methods and protocols for applications in neuroscience.
Protein-protein interaction is a widely existing phenomenon and is essential for almost all biological processes, extending from the formation of cellular macromolecular structures and enzymatic complexes to the regulation of signal transduction pathways. Proteins interact with each other through the dynamic associations between modular protein domains within different cellular compartments and with distinct temporal dynamics. Disrupting protein interactions has emerged as an effective way to specifically modulate certain signaling pathways. Tat-tagged peptide mimics are a recently developed experimental tool that is used to disrupt specific interactions between protein complexes. TAT, an 11-amino acid protein transduction domain from HIV Tat protein, is tagged to peptides that mimic the functional fragment of protein interaction domains, and facilitates the delivery of peptides into cells to disrupt the associated protein both competitively and selectively. Here we provide a technical description on the utilization of Tat-tagged peptide mimics as a tool to disrupt protein interaction in cultured neurons and in the rat brain.
Embryoid body (EB) formation is a traditional method of inducing differentiation of pluripotent stem cells (PSCs). It is a routine in vitro test of pluripotency as well as the first stage in many differentiation protocols targeted toward the production of a specific lineage or cellular population, as in neural differentiation (see Chapters 29 and 30). The induction of differentiation via EB formation is fairly straightforward. However, depending on the specific PSC culture conditions - substrate, feeders, medium, and eventual cell type of interest - various methods are applied in order to most routinely obtain healthy EB cultures.
This chapter will describe the most common immunocytochemical method utilized in the stem cell field - using fluorescently tagged secondary antibodies to detect a primary antibody that is bound to an epitope on a molecule of interest. Secondary antibodies recognize the heavy chain of the primary antibody's isotype. Generally, these methods employ an incubation period of the sample with the primary antibody, a series of washes to remove unbound primary antibody, a secondary incubation period of the sample with the fluorescently conjugated secondary antibody, followed by washes and preparation for microscopy.
This protocol describes the culture of human pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) under feeder-free conditions in a commercially available, chemically defined, growth medium, using Matrigel as a substrate and the enzyme solution Accutase for single-cell passaging. This system is strikingly different from traditional PSC culture, where the cells are co-cultured with feeder cells and in medium containing serum replacement. PSCs cultured in this new system have a different morphology than those cultured on feeder cells but retain their characteristic pluripotency. This feeder-free PSC culture system is conceptually similar to feeder-free systems that use mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF)-conditioned medium (MEF-CM) and Matrigel substratum. Instead of MEF-CM, a very complex and undefined medium, this new system uses StemPro SFM, a chemically defined medium that permits enzymatic passaging with Accutase to disaggregate the colonies into single cells. Accutase passaging has been used in conjunction with Stempro in our hands for 20+ passages without detectable karyotypic abnormalities. We will also review techniques for adapting cultures previously grown on MEFs, routine passaging of the cells, and cryopreservation.
Culturing human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) requires a significant commitment of time and resources. It takes weeks to establish a culture, and the cultures require daily attention. Once hESC cultures are established, they can, with skill and the methods described, be kept in continuous culture for many years. hESC lines were originally derived using very similar culture medium and conditions as those developed for the derivation and culture of mouse ESC lines. However, these methods were suboptimal for hESCs and have evolved considerably in the years since the first hESC lines were derived. Compared with mouse ESCs, hESCs are very difficult to culture - they grow slowly, and most importantly, since we have no equivalent assays for germline competence, we cannot assume that the cells that we have in our culture dishes are either stable or pluripotent. This makes it far more critical to assay the cells frequently using the characterization methods, such as karyotyping, immunocytochemistry, gene expression analysis, and flow cytometry, provided in this manual.
This chapter provides a method for reprogramming human dermal fibroblasts into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) using three lentiviruses containing cDNAs for OCT4 and SOX2, KLF4 and C-MYC, and NANOG and LIN28, respectively. Lentiviral vectors are based on the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and provide an effective means for the delivery, integration, and expression of exogenous genes in mammalian cells. Lentiviruses are attractive gene delivery vehicles as they are able to infect both proliferating and nonproliferating cells. Lentiviruses stably integrate into the genome without incurring cellular toxicity and can maintain sustained transgene expression during prolonged host cell proliferation and differentiation. In this protocol, we describe how to prepare lentiviruses, stably transduce human fibroblasts, and identify bona fide iPSC colonies based on morphological similarity to human embryonic stem cell (ESC) colonies and live-cell immunological staining using cell-surface markers of human PSCs such as Tra-1-60 and Tra-1-81.
The developing nervous system is particularly susceptible to toxicants, and exposure during development may result in long-lasting neurological impairments. The damage can range from subtle to severe, and it may impose substantial burdens on affected individuals, their families, and society. Given the little information available on developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) and the growing number of chemicals that need to be tested, new testing strategies and approaches are necessary to identify developmental neurotoxic agents with speed, reliability, and respect for animal welfare. So far, there are no validated alternative methods for DNT testing. Recently, neural stem/progenitor cells have been proposed as relevant models for alternative DNT testing. In this chapter, we provide detailed protocols for culturing neural stem cells (NSCs), in vitro experimental models, including primary cultures of rat and human embryonic NSCs, rat and mouse adult NSCs, as well as the mouse NSC line C17.2 that we have implemented and successfully used for neurotoxicity studies.
Neuropeptides are essential for cell-cell communication in the nervous and endocrine systems. Production of active neuropeptides requires proteolytic processing of proneuropeptide precursors in secretory vesicles that produce, store, and release neuropeptides that regulate physiological functions. This review describes research strategies utilizing chemical biology combined with protease gene knockout and expression to demonstrate the key role of cathepsin L for production of neuropeptides in secretory vesicles. Cathepsin L was discovered using activity-based probes and mass spectrometry to identify proenkephalin cleaving activity as cathepsin L. Significantly, in vivo protease gene knockout and expression approaches illustrate the key role of cathepsin L for neuropeptide production. Notably, cathepsin L is colocalized with neuropeptide secretory vesicles, the major site of proteolytic processing of proneuropeptides to generate active neuropeptides. Cathepsin L participates in producing opioid neuropeptides consisting of enkephalin, -endorphin, and dynorphin, as well as in generating the POMC-derived peptide hormones ACTH and -MSH. In addition, NPY, CCK, and catestatin neuropeptides utilize cathepsin L for their biosynthesis. The role of cathepsin L for neuropeptide production indicates its unique biological role in secretory vesicles, which contrasts with its role in lysosomes for protein degradation. Interesting evaluations of protease gene knockout studies in mice that lack cathepsin L compared to the PC1/3 and PC2 (PC, prohormone convertase) indicate the significant role of cathepsin L in neuropeptide production. Thus, dual cathepsin L and prohormone convertase protease pathways participate in neuropeptide production. These recent new findings indicate cathepsin L as a novel 'proprotein convertase' for production of neuropeptides that mediate cell-cell communication in health and disease.
Cell migration is a fundamental process that controls morphogenesis and inflammation. Its deregulation causes or is part of many diseases, including autoimmune syndromes, chronic inflammation, mental retardation, and cancer. Cell migration is an integral part of the cell biology, embryology, immunology, and neuroscience fields; as such, it has benefited from quantum leaps in molecular biology, biochemistry, and imaging techniques, and the emergence of the genomic and proteomic era. Combinations of these techniques have revealed new and exciting insights that explain how cells adhere and move, how the migration of multiple cells are coordinated and regulated, and how the cells interact with neighboring cells and/or react to changes in their microenvironment. This introduction provides a primer of the molecular and cellular insights, particularly the signaling networks, which control the migration of individual cells as well as collective migrations. The rest of the chapters are devoted to describe in detail some of the most salient technical advances that have illuminated the field of cell migration in recent years.
Claudins are integral proteins of the TJ. Each epithelia in the organism expresses a unique set of claudins that determines the degree of sealing of the paracellular pathway and the ionic selectivity of the tissue. TJs are dynamic structures whose organization and composition change in response to alterations in the environment as well as under physiological and pathological conditions. Changes in claudin expression and subcellular distribution can be analyzed in western blot and immunofluorescence experiments, employing a wide array of available specific antibodies against claudins. In this chapter, we describe in detail protocols used for western blot and immunofluorescence detection of claudins in epithelial cell lines and in various tissue samples.
Lipid domains of the plasma membrane were originally described as a cell matrix insoluble in cold -nonionic detergents and enriched in glycosphingolipids. Because of these biochemical properties, these membrane domains were termed detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) or detergent-insoluble -glycolipid-enriched (DIG) membranes. Membrane rafts and caveolae are two types of lipid domains that share these properties, as well as structural/functional dependence on membrane cholesterol. Membrane rafts and caveolae are believed to act as signaling platforms for ligand-activated receptors, thereby contributing to the regulation of receptor function. Here we describe a simple method to assess the association of GPCRs with detergent resistant membranes in native brain tissue and cultured cells.
Cyclic AMP governs many fundamental signaling events in eukaryotic cells. Although cAMP signaling has been a major research focus for a long time, recent technological developments are revealing novel aspects of this paradigmatic pathway. In this chapter, we give an overview over current fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based sensors for detection of cAMP dynamics, and their application in monitoring local, compartmentalized cAMP signals within living cells. A basic step-by-step protocol is given for conducting a FRET experiment in primary cells with a unimolecular cAMP sensor, which can easily be adapted to a user's specific requirements.
The radioligand binding assay is a relatively simple but powerful tool for studying G protein-coupled receptors. There are three basic types of radioligand binding experiments: (1) saturation experiments from which the affinity of the radioligand for the receptor and the binding site density can be determined; (2) inhibition experiments from which the affinity of a competing, unlabeled compound for the receptor can be determined; and (3) kinetic experiments from which the forward and reverse rate constants for radioligand binding can be determined. Detailed methods for typical radioligand binding assays for G protein-coupled receptors in membranes and intact cells are presented for these types of experiments. Detailed procedures for analysis of the data obtained from these experiments are also given.
The development of a cell-based system that allows the integration of a gene of interest (GOI), such as a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), into a specific site on the genome, has made the generation of mammalian cell lines able to express such proteins easy and efficient. Flp-In stable cell lines are isogenic and hence protein expression is constant across a population of cells. A useful addition to the Flp-In system (Flp-In T-Rex) allows this expression to be controlled by the addition of a small molecule inducer to the cell culture medium. Stable cell lines generated as described here can be used to great advantage in the study of receptor pharmacology signalling and oligomerisation.
Biochemical or pharmacological studies of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are widely conducted in transfected mammalian cells. A variety of commercially available systems allow the generation of stable cell-lines in which expression of the recombinant receptor can be induced on addition of a defined chemical to the culture medium, which operates as a control switch for the transcription of the cloned sequence. Such systems offer the possibility to induce graded levels of receptor expression in the experimental model, or to induce an abrupt downregulation of receptor expression during the maintenance of the cell-line. This chapter provides an overview of the different systems available and provides methods for the generation and validation of stably transfected cell-lines expressing the GPCR of choice.
Lentiviral vectors have evolved over the last decade as powerful, reliable, and safe tools for stable gene transfer in a wide variety of mammalian cells. Contrary to other vectors derived from oncoretroviruses, they allow for stable gene delivery into most nondividing primary cells. In particular, lentivectors (LVs) derived from HIV-1 have gradually evolved to display many desirable features aimed at increasing both their safety and their versatility. This is why lentiviral vectors are becoming the most useful and promising tools for genetic engineering, to generate cells that can be used for research, diagnosis, and therapy. This chapter describes protocols and guidelines, for production and titration of LVs, which can be implemented in a research laboratory setting, with an emphasis on standardization in order to improve transposability of results between laboratories. We also discuss latest designs in LV technology.
Mutation of the CFTR chloride channel was identified as the genetic basis of cystic fibrosis over 20 years ago; however, correlation of the pathophysiological changes occurring in CF lung disease with the mutation of a chloride channel is ongoing. The failure of innate lung defense in CF, and the subsequent cyclical microbial colonization of airways, explains the gross anatomical changes that occur in CF pathophysiology. However, ongoing research is focused on how the lack of the CFTR channel explains the failure of innate lung defense. Hydration status of the mucus blanket is key to understanding this link, and this series of chapters details the recent progress that has been made in understanding the interplay between ion transport activity and innate lung defense, and the initiation of CF lung pathophysiology.
The capacity for self-renewal and the multilineage potential of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) offer a therapeutic promise for regenerative medicine. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that play a key regulatory role during differentiation both at the level of posttranslational modulation and epigenetic control. Studies on MSCs have just begun to identify miRNA profiles in MSC and differentiated MSC. While several methods are available for miRNA exploration, microarrays and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) are the most common. Since there are several microarray and qPCR platforms available for miRNA detection, it is valuable to explore how these methods compare. We used the NCode Multi-Species miRNA microarray (Invitrogen) and the TaqMan Human microRNA array (Applied Biosystems) to compare microRNA expression in undifferentiated MSCs and MSCs differentiated into early osteoblasts. We show that while there is a somewhat low correlation between these two methods, there is a subset of miRNA measurements that did correlate.
The activation of NF-B has been implicated in various forms of cancer. Thereafter, targeting NF-B has been suggested for cancer therapy. Instant and accurate tools to monitor NF-B activation are necessary for such drug screening. Currently, there are various assays available to study NF-B activation in vitro, however, techniques involving the imaging of NF-B in vivo models remains limited. Male NF-B-RE-luc (Oslo) mice from Xenogen Corporation (Alameda, California) provide a great model for studying and imaging anticancer drugs that target NF-B signaling. In addition, the bioluminescent (LPTA) animal model DBA/1, BALB/C-Tg (NF-B-RE-luc (Oslo)), carries a transgene containing three NF-B response element sites from the Igk light chain promoter and modified firefly luciferase cDNA (Promega pGL-3). The reporter is inducible during inflammatory processes triggered by LPS and TNF-. This model provides for the rapid study of transcriptional regulation of the NF-B gene and the treatment of inflammatory diseases and cancer. Therefore, in this chapter, we will provide step-by-step methods on utilizing the NF-B-RE-luc animal model. In addition, we will provide notes on effective compound administration and imaging strategies that have been proven effective in previous studies.
Neurotoxin-based rodent models of Parkinson's disease (PD) are widely used for pre-clinical evaluation of novel therapeutics for PD and have provided insights into mechanisms underlying motor dysfunction and nigrostriatal degeneration in PD. Predominantly, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies in such models have focused on alterations in T(2) water (1)H relaxation or (1)H MR spectroscopy (MRS), whilst potential morphological changes and their relationship to histological or behavioural outcomes have not been fully investigated. Identification of MR signal changes that are significantly related to behavioural and histological outcomes in pre-clinical PD models may identify useful non-invasive surrogate markers of nigrostriatal degeneration in vivo. Development of such in vivo imaging-based biomarkers may provide a simple, efficient and comprehensive means to study lesion progression and therapeutic interventions in rodent models of PD, which may also have translational value.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has had an essential role in furthering our understanding of brain physiology and function. fMRI techniques are nowadays widely applied in neuroscience research, as well as in translational and clinical studies. The use of animal models in fMRI studies has been fundamental in helping elucidate the mechanisms of cerebral blood-flow regulation, and in the exploration of basic neuroscience questions, such as the mechanisms of perception, behavior, and cognition. Because animals are inherently non-compliant, most fMRI performed to date have required the use of anesthesia, which interferes with brain function and compromises interpretability and applicability of results to our understanding of human brain function. An alternative approach that eliminates the need for anesthesia involves training the animal to tolerate physical restraint during the data acquisition. In the present chapter, we review these two different approaches to obtaining fMRI data from animal models, with a specific focus on the acquisition of longitudinal data from the same subjects.
Methods for quantitative imaging of the brain are presented and compared. Highly precise and accurate mapping of the absolute water content and distribution, as presented here, requires a significant number of corrections and also involves mapping of other MR parameters. Here, either T(1) and T(2)(*) or T(2) is mapped, and several corrections involving the measurement of temperature, transmit and receive B(1) inhomogeneities and signal extrapolation to zero TE are applied. Information about the water content of the whole brain can be acquired in clinically acceptable measurement times (10 or 20 min). Since water content is highly regulated in the healthy brain, pathological changes can be easily identified and their evolution or correlation with other manifestations of the disease investigated. In addition to voxel-based total water content, information about the different environments of water can be gleaned from qMRI. The myelin water fraction can be extracted from the fit of very high-SNR multiple-echo T(2) decay curves with a superposition of a large number of exponentials. Diseases involving de- or dysmyelination can be investigated and lead to novel observations regarding the water compartmentalisation in tissue, despite the limited spatial coverage. In conclusion, quantitative MRI is emerging as an unparalleled tool for the study of the normal and diseased brain, replacing the customary time-space environment of the sequential mixed-contrast MRI with a multi-NMR-parametric space in which tissue microscopy is increasingly revealed.
One of the greatest challenges to study the structure, function, and molecules in the living brain is that it is enclosed within the skull and difficult to access. Although biopsies are feasible, they are invasive, could lead to functional impairments, and in any case will only provide a small regional sample that is not necessarily reflecting the entire brain. Since the beginning of the twentieth century, in vivo imaging has gradually, and steadily, matured into non-invasive techniques that enable the repeated investigation of the structural, functional, cellular, and molecular composition of the brain. Not only is this information of great importance to scientists aiming to understand how the brain works, but these techniques are also essential to physicians who use imaging to diagnose and treat disease. The current book is a collection of 29 cutting-edge methods and protocols that are used in the current field of neuroimaging.
Cell-based microarrays have been used for a wide variety of assays including gain-of-function, loss-of-function and compound screening. Many of these assays have employed fluorescent proteins as reporters. These fluorescent reporter proteins can be monitored in living cells but have low sensitivity of detection compared to enzymatic reporters. Here we have described a novel transcriptional reporter assay using the alkaline phosphatase reporter enzyme and a fluorescent substrate (ELF-97) to screen for gain-of-function mutations in the type-I cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PRKG1). We have identified a constitutively active mutant of this enzyme in which a conserved Glu at position 81 was mutated to Lys.
The blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is one of the functional barriers sheltering the nervous system from circulating blood. It is very important to understand the cellular properties of endothelial cells of endoneurial origin because these cells constitute the bulk of the BNB. This chapter describes a standard protocol for isolating the endothelial cells forming the BNB. In addition, methods for confirming some of the barrier properties of isolated endothelial cells are also described.
The choroid plexus (CP) of the blood-CSF barrier (BCSFB) displays fundamentally different properties than blood-brain barrier (BBB). With brisk blood flow (10  brain) and highly permeable capillaries, the human CP provides the CNS with a high turnover rate of fluid (400,000 L/day) containing micronutrients, peptides, and hormones for neuronal networks. Renal-like basement membranes in microvessel walls and underneath the epithelium filter large proteins such as ferritin and immunoglobulins. Type IV collagen (3, 4, and 5) in the subepithelial basement membrane confers kidney-like permselectivity. As in the glomerulus, so also in CP, the basolateral membrane utrophin A and colocalized dystrophin impart structural stability, transmembrane signaling, and ion/water homeostasis. Extensive infoldings of the plasma-facing basal labyrinth together with lush microvilli at the CSF-facing membrane afford surface area, as great as that at BBB, for epithelial solute and water exchange. CSF formation occurs by basolateral carrier-mediated uptake of Na+, Cl-, and HCO3-, followed by apical release via ion channel conductance and osmotic flow of water through AQP1 channels. Transcellular epithelial active transport and secretion are energized and channeled via a highly dense organelle network of mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi; bleb formation occurs at the CSF surface. Claudin-2 in tight junctions helps to modulate the lower electrical resistance and greater permeability in CP than at BBB. Still, ratio analyses of influx coefficients (Kin) for radiolabeled solutes indicate that paracellular diffusion of small nonelectrolytes (e.g., urea and mannitol) through tight junctions is restricted; molecular sieving is proportional to solute size. Protein/peptide movement across BCSFB is greatly limited, occurring by paracellular leaks through incomplete tight junctions and low-capacity transcellular pinocytosis/exocytosis. Steady-state concentration ratios, CSF/plasma, ranging from 0.003 for IgG to 0.80 for urea, provide insight on plasma solute penetrability, barrier permeability, and CSF sink action to clear substances from CNS.
Differentiation procedures leading to osteogenic and chondrogenic differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have been established and well upgraded over the past decade. Novel cell-culture conditions, signaling inducers, and chemical modifications of cellular environment have been found and optimized for use as steering or supporting modules in ESC differentiation. While most of the novel studies of osteoblasts or chondrocytes differentiated from ESCs deal with their regenerative potential, the &quot;childhood diseases&quot; of basic differentiation have not yet been quite solved. Purification procedures are still facing a lack of exclusive markers for osteogenic progenitors and a collateral development of other cell types at the end points of differentiation that possibly lead to teratomas. This chapter discusses the role of novel markers and inducers in osteogenic and chondrogenic differentiation, their effect on signaling pathways, particularly on that of Wnt/beta-catenin, and the time-specific manner of their action. We present an improved osteogenic differentiation protocol based on the hanging drop method and a time-optimized use of 1,25-(OH)(2) vitamin D(3), all-trans retinoic acid, and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2) with an end point efficiency increased up to 90% and a protocol for chondrogenic differentiation, which employs BMP-2 and transforming growth factor 1 as chondrogenic inducers, with 60% chondrogenic end point efficiency.
Mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) were first derived and cultured almost 30 years ago and ever since have been valuable tools for creating knockout mice and for studying early mammalian development. More recently (1998), human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have been derived from blastocysts, and numerous methods have evolved to culture hESCs in vitro in both complex and defined media. hESCs are especially important at this time as they could potentially be used to treat degenerative diseases and to access the toxicity of new drugs and environmental chemicals. For both human and mouse ESCs, fibroblast feeder layers are often used at some phase in the culturing protocol. The feeders - often mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mEFs) - provide a substrate that increases plating efficiency, helps maintain pluripotency, and facilitates survival and growth of the stem cells. Various protocols for culturing embryonic stem cells from both species are available with newer trends moving toward feeder-free and serum-free culture. The purpose of this chapter is to provide basic protocol information on the isolation of mouse embryonic fibroblasts and establishment of feeder layers, the culture of mESCs on both mEFs and on gelatin in serum-containing medium, and the culture of hESCs in defined media on both mEFs (hESC culture medium) and Matrigel (mTeSR). These basic protocols are intended for researchers wanting to develop stem cell research in their labs. These protocols have been tested in our laboratory and work well. They can be modified and adapted for any relevant user's particular purpose.
Recent years have witnessed an explosion of research on the role of epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation and histone protein acetylation and phosphorylation, in neuroscience. These changes exert control over gene expression and have been shown to play important roles in a variety of neural processes, including learning and memory. We and others have also recently shown that epigenetic changes may contribute to neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. Western blot analysis with antibodies raised against specific histone modifications is a relatively simple technique able to reveal the type, location, and degree of histone posttranslational modifications produced by an experimental manipulation. Here we provide a step-by-step protocol for isolating histone proteins from tissue and measuring these posttranslational modifications.
RNA in situ hybridization is a powerful technique for examining gene expression in specific cell populations. This method is particularly useful in the central nervous system with its high cellular diversity and dynamic gene expression regulation associated with development, plasticity, neuronal activity, aging, and disease. Standard quantitative techniques such as Western blotting and real-time PCR allow the detection of altered gene or protein expression but provide no information about their cellular source or possible alterations in expression patterns. Here, we describe a step-by-step RNA in situ hybridization method on adult and embryonic brain sections for quantitative neuroscience. We include fully detailed protocols for RNase-free material preparation, perfusion, fixation, sectioning, selection of expressed sequence tag cDNA clones, linearization of cDNA, synthesis of digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes (riboprobes), in situ hybridization on floating and mounted sections, nonradioactive immunohistochemical detection of riboprobes for light and fluorescence microscopy, and double labeling. We also include useful information about quality-control steps, key online sites, commercially available products, stock solutions, and storage. Finally, we provide examples of the utility of this approach in understanding the neuropathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. With virtually all genomic coding sequences cloned or being cloned into cDNA plasmids, this technique has become highly accessible to explore gene expression profiles at the cellular and brain region level.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease and cause of dementia. Significant strides toward understanding and developing therapies for AD have been supported by the use of transgenic mouse models of AD. Over the last two decades, a number of mouse models have been created to recapitulate the major neuropathological hallmarks of the disease, namely amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. These mice recapitulate many, although not all, of the key features of AD, and have been widely used in AD research. At the present time, there are numerous types of transgenic mice available for the study of AD, many of which have been characterized to some extent in terms of neuronal, neuropathological, and/or behavioral abnormalities. This repository of transgenic mice offers a wealth of opportunity to investigate the cellular mechanisms underlying AD, and the choice of mouse model for research should be guided by the specific questions to be answered. We provide here some considerations for selecting a mouse model of AD best suited to particular lines of investigation.
The cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -secretase produces A peptides, which are prominent features in Alzheimer's disease and have been extensively studied. By contrast, APP intracellular domain (AICD), also a product of this cleavage event, has received little or no investigative attention. A major reason for this is that AICD is generally not detected in tissue lysates and, therefore, is neglected as a non-relevant product of APP metabolism. However, recent studies have shown that AICD regulates a number of important cellular events. Furthermore, we found that contrary to previous assertions, AICD can be detected in brain lysates using Western blotting if an antigen retrieval protocol is employed. Here we describe the protocol for AICD detection and note the biological relevance of AICD in physiological and pathological conditions.
Since its original description in 1906 by Dr Alois Alzheimer, amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles have remained the hypothetical cause of Alzheimer's disease. However, plaque burden poorly predicts cognitive status in humans, which led several groups to investigate the possibility that soluble species of amyloid-beta (A) peptides could be playing an important pathological function in the aging brain. Through a multistep fractionation protocol, we identified a 56 kDa oligomer of A, termed A*56, the amount of which correlates with cognitive impairment. Here, we describe our biochemical approach to isolate this oligomeric A species in brain tissue of transgenic mouse models of AD.
The toll of multiple and prolonged deployments on families has become clearer in recent years as military families have seen an increase in childhood anxiety, parental psychological distress, and marital discord. Families overcoming under stress (FOCUS), a family-centered evidence-informed resiliency training program developed at University of California, Los Angeles and Harvard Medical School, is being implemented at military installations through an initiative from Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. The research foundation for FOCUS includes evidence-based preventive interventions that were adapted to meet the specific needs of military families facing combat operational stress associated with wartime deployments. Using a family narrative approach, FOCUS includes a customized approach utilizing core intervention components, including psychoeducation, emotional regulation skills, goal setting and problem solving skills, traumatic stress reminder management techniques, and family communication skills. The purpose of this study is to describe the development and implementation of FOCUS for military families. A case example is also presented.
The voltage-gated sodium channel (SCN) alpha subunits are large proteins with central roles in the generation of action potentials. They consist of approximately 2,000 amino acids encoded by 24-27 exons. Previous evolutionary studies have been unable to reconcile the proposed gene duplication schemes with the species distribution and molecular phylogeny of the genes. We have carefully annotated the complete SCN gene sequences, correcting numerous database errors, for a broad range of vertebrate species and analyzed their phylogenetic relationships. We have also compared the chromosomal positions of the SCN genes relative to adjacent gene families. Our studies show that the ancestor of the vertebrates probably had a single sodium channel gene with two characteristic AT-AC introns, the second of which is unique to vertebrate SCN genes. This ancestral gene, located close to a HOX gene cluster, was quadrupled along with HOX in the two rounds of basal vertebrate tetraploidizations to generate the ancestors of the four channels SCN1A, SCN4A, SCN5A, and SCN8A. The third tetraploidization in the teleost fish ancestor doubled this set of genes and all eight are still present in at least three of four investigated teleost fish genomes. In tetrapods, the gene family expanded by local duplications before the radiation of amniotes, generating the cluster SCN5A, SCN10A, and SCN11A on one chromosome and the cluster SCN1A, SCN2A, SCN3A, and SCN9A on a different chromosome. In eutherian mammals, a tenth gene, SCN7A, arose in a local duplication in the SCN1A gene cluster. The SCN7A gene has undergone rapid evolution and has lost the ability to cause action potentials-instead, it functions as a sodium sensor. The three genes in the SCN5A cluster were translocated from the HOX-bearing chromosome in a mammalian ancestor along with several adjacent genes. This evolutionary scenario is supported by the adjacent TGF- receptor superfamily (comprised of five distinct families) and the cysteine-serine-rich nuclear protein gene family as well as the HOX clusters. The independent expansions of the SCN repertoires in tetrapods and teleosts suggest that the functional diversification may differ between the two lineages.
Oxidative/nitrosative stress plays a crucial role in Parkinson's disease (PD) by triggering mitochondrial dysfunction. Nitrosative stress is mediated by reactive species such as peroxynitrite (PN) which could damage biomolecules thereby impinging on the cellular machinery. We observed that PN (0-1000 M) inhibited brain mitochondrial complex I (CI) activity in a dose-dependent manner with concomitant tyrosine nitration of proteins. We also observed that exposure to PN at low concentrations (62.5-125 M) significantly decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential and affected the mitochondrial integrity at higher doses (500-750 M) as indicated by the mitochondrial swelling experiment. Therefore, it could be surmised that compounds that prevent such mitochondrial damage might have therapeutic value in neurological conditions such as PD. We previously showed that curcumin could detoxify PN and protect against CI inhibition and protein nitration. However, the therapeutic potential of curcumin is constrained by limited bioavailability. To address this issue and obtain improved antioxidants, three bioconjugates of curcumin (Di-demethylenated piperoyl, di-valinoyl and di-glutamoyl esters) were generated and tested against PN-mediated nitrosative stress and mitochondrial damage. We found that among the bioconjugates, the glutamoyl diester of curcumin showed improved protection against PN-dependent CI inhibition and protein nitration compared to other conjugates. Di-glutamoyl curcumin protected dopaminergic neurons against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-mediated neuronal death. These effects were improved compared to curcumin alone suggesting that di-glutamoyl curcumin could be a better neuroprotective agent in neurodegenerative diseases such as PD.
Diabetes exacerbates neuronal injury mediated through neurotransmitters deregulation in cerebral cortex. Our study analyzed the neuroprotective effect of curcumin to prevent cortical dysfunction associated with diabetes. Our study revealed decreased gene expression of muscarinic M1, insulin receptor, SOD, choline acetyl transferase and increased gene expression of muscarinic M3, 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, acetylcholine esterase and GLUT3 in cerebral cortex of diabetic rats. Curcumin and insulin treatment reversed this altered parameters to near control. Immunohistochemistry studies of muscarinic M1 and M3 confirmed the gene expression at protein level. Decreased novel arm entry of diabetic rats in Y-maze test, improved in treatment group. These results suggest that cholinergic dysfunction, impaired glucose transport and oxidative stress contributes to learning and memory deficits in diabetes and further suggest that antioxidant curcumin has potential therapeutic role in preventing and/or delaying the diabetic complications associated with brain.
Hydrocephalus is a pathological accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the cerebral ventricles that constitutes a significant cause of neurological morbidity and mortality. Surgical treatment involving shunt placement is associated with a high failure rate and complications due to infection, motivating the development of alternative, non-surgical therapies. Here, we investigated the role in hydrocephalus of water channel aquaporin-1 (AQP1), which is expressed at the apical membrane of choroid plexus epithelium and is believed to facilitate CSF production. AQP1 expression and subcellular localization were studied in a kaolin-induced hydrocephalus model in mice and the effect AQP1 deficiency on the severity of hydrocephalus was determined. While total choroidal AQP1 protein was not significantly altered in hydrocephalus, ~50% of AQP1 protein was redistributed from the apical membrane to intracellular vesicles. We found that the ventricular size in AQP1-deficient mice was smaller than in wild-type mice, both at baseline and following hydrocephalus. The reduced plasma membrane AQP1 localization following kaolin-induced hydrocephalus, which involves endocytosis, may be a compensatory mechanism to reduce CSF secretion. The reduced ventricular size in AQP1-deficient mice following kaolin-induced hydrocephalus suggests AQP1 inhibition or down-regulation as a potential adjunctive treatment for hydrocephalus.
Axonal regeneration in the central nervous system is prevented, in part, by inhibitory proteins expressed by myelin, including myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). Although injury to the corticospinal tract can result in permanent disability, little is known regarding the mechanisms by which MAG affects cortical neurons. Here, we demonstrate that cortical neurons plated on MAG expressing CHO cells, exhibit a striking reduction in process outgrowth. Interestingly, none of the receptors previously implicated in MAG signaling, including the p75 neurotrophin receptor or gangliosides, contributed significantly to MAG-mediated inhibition. However, blocking the small GTPase Rho or its downstream effector kinase, ROCK, partially reversed the effects of MAG on the neurons. In addition, we identified the lipid phosphatase PTEN as a mediator of MAG's inhibitory effects on neurite outgrowth. Knockdown or gene deletion of PTEN or overexpression of activated AKT in cortical neurons resulted in significant, although partial, rescue of neurite outgrowth on MAG-CHO cells. Moreover, MAG decreased the levels of phospho-Akt, suggesting that it activates PTEN in the neurons. Taken together, these results suggest a novel pathway activated by MAG in cortical neurons involving the PTEN/PI3K/AKT axis.
To establish and maintain their polarized morphology, neurons employ active transport driven by cytoskeletal motor proteins to sort cargo between axons and dendrites. These motors can move in a specific direction over either microtubules (kinesins, dynein) or actin filaments (myosins). The basic traffic rules governing polarized transport on the neuronal cytoskeleton have long remained unclear, but recent work has revealed several fundamental sorting principles based on differences in the cytoskeletal organization in axons versus dendrites. We will highlight the basic characteristics of the neuronal cytoskeleton and review existing evidence for microtubule and actin based traffic rules in polarized neuronal transport. We will propose a model in which polarized sorting of cargo is established by recruiting or activating the proper subset of motor proteins, which are subsequently guided to specific directions by the polarized organization of the neuronal cytoskeleton.
A common variant (rs4712652) adjacent to the prolactin gene was recently associated with obesity using a genome-wide association study. The aim of this study was to replicate the association between rs4712652 and obesity and further examine if rs4712652 is associated with fat percentage and adiponectin levels in a population based Scandinavian cohort. rs4712652 was genotyped in 4879 participants (mean BMI 26.54.5 kg/m(2)) from the population-based PPP-Botnia Study and related to BMI, fat percentage and adiponectin levels. We found that the risk A allele of rs4712652 is associated with increased BMI and fat percentage in males (P=0.0047 and P=0.025, respectively), but not in females (P=0.98, P=0.45). Male A allele carriers have a higher risk of being overweight with an OR of 1.16 (P=0.025). While there was a significant negative correlation between adiponectin levels and fat percentage (r=-0.36; P=0.039) in male carriers of the protective GG genotype, this correlation was lost in male carriers of the risk rs4712652 A allele (P=0.33). Thus, the common SNP rs4712652 near the PRL gene seems to affect body fat and adiposity in a sex-specific fashion. It remains to be shown whether this is mediated by different prolactin concentrations or differences in tissue sensitivity to prolactin.
Prostaglandins (PGs) are important factors in the physiology of human parturition and the control of uterine contractility. We have characterized the expression of 15 genes from all stages of the PG pathway in human pregnant and non-pregnant (NP) myometrium and in other uterine tissues at delivery, and the results show patterns indicative of different capacities for PG synthesis and catabolism in each tissue. In placenta, the PG synthase expression profile favours production of PGD, PGE and PGF, with high levels of PG transporters and catabolic PG dehydrogenase suggesting rapid PG turnover. Choriodecidua is primed for PGE, PGF and PGD production and high PG turnover, whereas amnion expresses genes for PGE synthesis with low levels of PG transporters and dehydrogenase. In umbilical cord, PGI synthase is highly expressed. In pregnant myometrium, PGI, PGD and PGF synthases are highly expressed, whereas PG dehydrogenase is underexpressed. Myometrium from women with spontaneous or induced labour had higher expression of the PGH synthase PTGS2 than tissue from women not-in-labour. Myometrium from NP women had lower levels of PG synthases and higher levels of PG dehydrogenase than pregnant myometrium. Discriminant function analysis showed that expression of selected genes in myometrium could distinguish groups of women with different modes of labour from each other and from NP women. In cultured myometrial cells, there was a dose-dependent stimulatory effect of interleukin 1 and tumour necrosis factor  on PTGS2, PTGES and AKR1B1 (PGF synthase) expression.
GABA (-aminobutyric acid), the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system is also present in the pancreatic islet  cells where it may function as a paracrine molecule and perhaps as an immunomodulator of lymphocytes infiltrating the pancreatic islet. We examined CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from diabetes prone (DR(lyp/lyp)) or resistant (DR(+/+)) congenic biobreeding (BB) rats for expression of GABA(A) channels. Our results show that BB rat CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells express 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 3, 1, , 1 and 2 GABA(A) channel subunits. In CD8(+) T cells from DR(lyp/lyp) animals the subunits were significantly upregulated relative to expression levels in the CD8(+) T cells from DR(+/+) rats as well as from CD4(+) T cells from both DR(lyp/lyp) and DR(+/+) rats. Functional channels were formed in the T cells and physiological concentrations of GABA (100 nM) decreased T cell proliferation. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that GABA in the islets of Langerhans may diminish inflammation by inhibition of activated T lymphocytes.
SHP-1 plays an important role for the regulation of signaling from various hematopoietic cell receptors. In this study, we examined IL-3-induced cell proliferation and IL-3 depletion-induced apoptosis in bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMC) established from motheaten (me) that lack SHP-1 expression, viable motheaten (me(v)) expressing phosphatase-deficient SHP-1, and wild-type (WT) mice. When BMMC were stimulated with IL-3, increased ERK activation was evident in resting state and sustained in me-BMMC relative to WT-BMMC. ERK is known to be involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and apoptosis in some cells. In accordance with sustained ERK activation, apoptosis was decreased in me- and me(v)-BMMC compared with WT-BMMC. In contrast to the predicted role of ERK as a pro-survival molecule, IL-3-induced cell proliferation was much lower in me- and me(v)-BMMC than WT-BMMC. Stimulation with lower concentration of IL-3 or addition of PD98059, a MEK inhibitor, to the culture resulted in the suppression of decreased apoptosis and cell proliferation in me- and me(v)-BMMC. Collectively, these results suggest that SHP-1 positively regulates IL-3-dependent mast cell proliferation and apoptosis by inhibiting ERK activity through its phosphatase activity. Furthermore, our results indicate that ERK would act as a negative regulator for cell proliferation and induce apoptosis when its activity is highly increased.
The German Multicenter EPO Stroke Trial, which investigated safety and efficacy of erythropoietin (EPO) treatment in ischemic stroke, was formally declared a negative study. Exploratory subgroup analysis, however, revealed that patients not receiving thrombolysis most likely benefited from EPO during clinical recovery, a result demonstrated in the findings of the Gttingen EPO Stroke Study. The present work investigated whether the positive signal on clinical outcome in this patient subgroup was mirrored by respective poststroke biomarker profiles. All patients of the German Multicenter EPO Stroke Trial nonqualifying for thrombolysis were included if they (a) were treated per protocol and (b) had at least two of the five follow-up blood samples for circulating damage markers drawn (n = 163). The glial markers S100B and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and the neuronal marker ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH-L1) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum on d 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 poststroke. All biomarkers increased poststroke. Overall, EPO-treated patients had significantly lower concentrations (area under the curve) over 7 d of observation, as reflected by the composite score of all three markers (Cronbach  = 0.811) and by UCH-L1. S100B and GFAP showed a similar tendency. To conclude, serum biomarker profiles, as an outcome measure of brain damage, corroborate an advantageous effect of EPO in ischemic stroke. In particular, reduction in the neuronal damage marker UCH-L1 may reflect neuroprotection by EPO.
Rubrobacter xylanophilus is the only actinobacterium known to accumulate the organic solute mannosylglycerate (MG); moreover, the accumulation of MG is constitutive. The key enzyme for MG synthesis, catalysing the conversion of GDP-mannose (GDP-Man) and D-3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) into the phosphorylated intermediate mannosyl-3-phosphoglycerate and GDP, was purified from R. xylanophilus cell extracts and the corresponding gene was expressed in E. coli. Despite the related solute glucosylglycerate (GG) having never been detected in R. xylanophilus, the cell extracts and the pure recombinant mannosyl-3-phosphoglycerate synthase (MpgS) could also synthesize glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate (GPG), the precursor of GG, in agreement with the higher homology of the novel MpgS towards GPG-synthesizing mycobacterial glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate synthases (GpgS) than towards MpgSs from hyper/thermophiles, known to accumulate MG under salt or thermal stress. To understand the specificity and substrate ambiguity of this novel enzyme, we determined the crystal structure of the unliganded MpgS and of its complexes with the nucleotide and sugar donors, at 2.2, 2.8 and 2.5  resolution respectively. The first three-dimensional structures of a protein from this extremely gamma-radiation-resistant thermophile here reported show that MpgS (GT81 family) contains a GT-A like fold and clearly explain its nucleotide and sugar-donor specificity. In the GDP-Man complex, a flexible loop ((254) RQNRHQ(259) ), located close to the active site moves towards the incoming sugar moiety, providing the ligands for both magnesium ion co-ordination and sugar binding. A triple mutant of R. xylanophilus MpgS, mimicking the (206) PLAGE(210) loop stabilizing hydrogen bond network observed for mycobacterial GpgSs, reduces significantly the affinity to GDP-Man, implicating this loop in the sugar-donor discrimination.
623* acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on dopaminergic neurons are important targets for drugs to treat nicotine addiction and Parkinson's disease. However, it has not been possible to efficiently express functional 623* AChRs in oocytes or transfected cells. 6/3 subunit chimeras permit expression of functional AChRs and reveal that parts of the 6 M1 transmembrane domain and large cytoplasmic domain impair assembly. Concatameric subunits permit assembly of functional 623* AChRs with defined subunit compositions and subunit orders. Assembly of accessory subunits is limiting in formation of mature AChRs. A single linker between the 3 accessory subunit and an 4 or 6 subunit is sufficient to permit assembly of complex 3-(42)(62) or 3-(62)(42) AChRs. Concatameric pentamers such as 3-6-2-4-2 have been functionally characterized. 623* AChRs are sensitive to activation by drugs used for smoking cessation therapy (nicotine, varenicline, and cytisine) and by sazetidine. All these are partial agonists. (62)(42)3 AChRs are most sensitive to agonists. (62)3 AChRs have the greatest Ca+ permeability. (42)(62)3 AChRs are most efficiently transported to the cell surface, whereas (62)3 AChRs are the least efficiently transported. Dopaminergic neurons may have special chaperones for assembling accessory subunits with 6 subunits and for transporting (62)3 AChRs to the cell surface. Concatameric pentamers and pentamers formed from combinations of trimers, dimers, and monomers exhibit similar properties, indicating that the linkers between subunits do not alter their functional properties. For the first time, these concatamers allow analysis of functional properties of 623* AChRs. These concatamers should enable selection of drugs specific for 623* AChRs.
Genomic studies have identified a D398N variation in the 5 subunit of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) that increases risk of nicotine dependence and lung cancer. (42)5 AChRs are a significant brain presynaptic subtype in brain. Their high sensitivity to activation by nicotine and high Ca+ permeability give them substantial functional impact. 34* and 32* AChRs are predominant postsynaptic AChRs in the autonomic nervous system, but rare in brain. The amino acid 398 of 5 is located in the large cytoplasmic domain near the amphipathic  helix preceding the M4 transmembrane domain. These helices have been shown to influence AChR conductance by forming portals to the central channel. We report that 5 Asn 398 lowers Ca+ permeability and increases short-term desensitization in (42)5 but not in (34)5 or (32)5 AChRs. This suggests that a positive allosteric modulator would augment nicotine replacement therapy for those with this risk variant. 5 D398N variation does not alter sensitivity to activation. The high sensitivity to activation and desensitization of (42)5 AChRs by nicotine results in a narrow concentration range in which activation and desensitization curves overlap. This region centers on 0.2 M nicotine, a concentration typically sustained in smokers. This concentration would desensitize 60% of these AChRs and permit smoldering activation of the remainder. The low sensitivity to activation and desensitization of (34)5 AChRs by nicotine results in a broad region of overlap centered near 10 M. Thus, at the nicotine concentrations in smokers, negligible activation or desensitization of this subtype would occur.
While the research community has accepted the value of rodent models as informative research platforms, there is less awareness of the utility of other small vertebrate and invertebrate animal models. Neuroscience is increasingly turning to smaller, non-rodent models to understand mechanisms related to neuropsychiatric disorders. Although they can never replace clinical research, there is much to be learnt from 'small brains'. In particular, these species can offer flexible genetic 'tool kits' that can be used to explore the expression and function of candidate genes in different brain regions. Very small animals also offer efficiencies with respect to high-throughput screening programs. This review provides a concise overview of the utility of models based on worm, fruit fly, honeybee and zebrafish. Although these species may have small brains, they offer the neuropsychiatric research community opportunities to explore some of the most important research questions in our field.
Antisense-induced exon skipping can restore the open reading frame, and thus correct the dystrophin deficiency that causes Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), a lethal muscle wasting condition. Successful proof-of-principle in preclinical models has led to human clinical trials. However, it is still not known what percentage of dystrophin-positive fibers and what level of expression is necessary for functional improvement. This study directly address these key questions in the mdx mouse model of DMD. To achieve a significant variation in dystrophin expression, we locally administered into tibialis anterior muscles various doses of a phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer (PMO) designed to skip the mutated exon 23 from the mRNA of murine dystrophin. We found a highly significant correlation between the number of dystrophin-positive fibers and resistance to contraction-induced injury, with a minimum of 20% of dystrophin-positive fibers required for meaningful improvement. Furthermore, our results also indicate that a relatively low level of dystrophin expression in muscle fibers may have significant clinical benefits. In contrast, improvements in muscle force were not correlated with either the number of positive fibers or total dystrophin levels, which highlight the need to conduct appropriate functional assessments in preclinical testing using the mdx mouse.




The commonest cause of pathological tremor is essential tremor (ET). However, it has proved difficult to identify genetic mutations causing ET, particularly because other causes of tremor continue to be misdiagnosed as ET. Whether subjects with dystonia or Parkinson's disease (PD) carry an increased genetic risk of developing ET, or vice versa, is controversial. In addition, the notion of a separate disorder of benign tremulous parkinsonism (BTP) has been debated. This article gives a selective viewpoint on some areas of uncertainty and controversy in tremor.

Background. Recent studies have shown that OCT-measured retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) values may represent a marker for axonal damage in the anterior visual pathway of optic neuritis (ON) and multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. The goal of this study was to determine the link between RNFL values and initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation in patients with acute ON. Methods. Fifty patients who experienced ON as a clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) were followed for a mean period of 34 months with OCT testing. RNFL values in affected (ON) eyes and clinically unaffected (non-ON) eyes were compared between patients with MRI evidence of white matter lesions and those with normal baseline MRI findings, over a two year period. Findings. Twenty-one patients (42%) developed clinically definite MS (CDMS) during the study. After two years, temporal RNFL values were thinner (P = .07) in ON patients with MRI lesions at baseline, but the results were not significant. Conclusions. There is no association between RNFL values and baseline MRI status in ON patients at risk for future CDMS over a two year period.
Optic neuritis (ON) is an inflammatory optic nerve injury, which is strongly associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). Axonal damage in the optic nerve manifests as retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) deficits, which can be readily quantified with optical coherence tomography (OCT). The RNFL represents the most proximal region of the afferent visual pathway; and, as such, is a unique region of the central nervous system (CNS) because it lacks myelin. Changes in retinal integrity can be correlated with reliable and quantifiable visual outcomes to provide a structural-functional paradigm of CNS injury. Because the eye provides a unique &quot;view&quot; into the effects of CNS inflammation, the ON &quot;system model&quot; may provide greater understanding about disease mechanisms, which underpin disability in MS. This review addresses the applications of OCT in study of ON patients, with specific reference to the published reports to date. The future role of OCT is discussed, both in terms of the potential gains and certain challenges associated with this evolving technology.

Previous studies suggested that activity-dependent conduction block (CB) contributes to weakness in multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). Obtaining more robust evidence for activity-dependent CB is important because it may be a novel target for treatment strategies. We performed nerve conduction studies in 22 nerve segments of 19 MMN patients, before and immediately after 60 seconds of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) of the relevant muscle. We employed supramaximal electrical stimulation, excluded nerves with marked axonal loss, and adopted criteria for activity-dependent CB. Per segment, the segmental area ratio [area proximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP)/area distal CMAP] was calculated and, per nerve, total area ratio (area CMAP at Erb's point/area distal CMAP) was obtained. MVC induced no changes in mean area ratios and induced no activity-dependent CB. In segments with CB before MVC, the MVC induced increased duration prolongation. In MMN, MVC induced temporal dispersion but no activity-dependent CB.

Neural circuits display a heightened sensitivity to external stimuli during well-established windows in early postnatal life. After the end of these critical periods, brain plasticity dramatically wanes. The visual system is one of the paradigmatic models for studying experience-dependent plasticity. Here we show that food restriction can be used as a strategy to restore plasticity in the adult visual cortex of rats. A short period of food restriction in adulthood is able both to reinstate ocular dominance plasticity and promote recovery from amblyopia. These effects are accompanied by a reduction of intracortical inhibition without modulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression or extracellular matrix structure. Our results suggest that food restriction could be investigated as a potential way of modulating plasticity.
A reliable method for recording evoked synaptic events in identified neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans would greatly accelerate our understanding of its nervous system at the molecular, cellular and network levels. Here we describe a method for recording synaptic currents and potentials from identified neurons in nearly intact worms. Dissection and exposure of postsynaptic neurons is facilitated by microfabricated agar substrates, and ChannelRhodopsin-2 is used to stimulate presynaptic neurons. We used the method to analyse functional connectivity between a polymodal nociceptor and a command neuron that initiates a stochastic escape behaviour. We find that escape probability mirrors the time course of synaptic current in the command neuron. Moreover, synaptic input increases smoothly as stimulus strength is increased, suggesting that the overall input-output function of the connection is graded. We propose a model in which the energetic cost of escape behaviours in C. elegans is tuned to the intensity of the threat.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and gates non-selective cation channels. The origins of glutamate receptors are not well understood as they differ structurally and functionally from simple bacterial ligand-gated ion channels. Here we report the discovery of an ionotropic glutamate receptor that combines the typical eukaryotic domain architecture with the 'TXVGYG' signature sequence of the selectivity filter found in K(+) channels. This receptor exhibits functional properties intermediate between bacterial and eukaryotic glutamate-gated ion channels, suggesting a link in the evolution of ionotropic glutamate receptors.
Species are endowed with unique sensory capabilities that are encoded by divergent neural circuits. One potential explanation for how divergent circuits have evolved is that conserved extrinsic signals are differentially interpreted by developing neurons of different species to yield unique patterns of axonal connections. Although nerve growth factor (NGF) controls survival, maturation and axonal projections of nociceptors of different vertebrates, whether the NGF signal is differentially transduced in different species to yield unique features of nociceptor circuits is unclear. We identified a species-specific signaling module induced by NGF and mediated by a rapidly evolving Hox transcription factor, Hoxd1. NGF promoted robust expression of Hoxd1 in mice, but not chickens, both in vivo and in vitro. Mice lacking Hoxd1 displayed altered nociceptor circuitry that resembles that normally found in chicks. Conversely, ectopic expression of Hoxd1 in developing chick nociceptors promoted a pattern of axonal projections reminiscent of the mouse. Thus, conserved growth factors control divergent neuronal transcriptional events that mediate interspecies differences in neural circuits and the behaviors that they control.
The surface area of human primary visual cortex (V1) varies substantially between individuals for unknown reasons. We found that this variability was strongly and negatively correlated with the magnitude of two common visual illusions, where two physically identical objects appear different in size as a result of their context. Because such illusions dissociate conscious perception from physical stimulation, our findings indicate that the surface area of V1 predicts variability in conscious experience.
Using real-time gene expression imaging and behavioral analysis, we found that the perinatal photoperiod has lasting effects on the circadian rhythms expressed by clock neurons as well as on mouse behavior, and sets the responsiveness of the biological clock to subsequent changes in photoperiod. These developmental gene  environment interactions tune circadian clock responses to subsequent seasonal photoperiods and may contribute to the influence of season on neurobehavioral disorders in humans.
Locomotor movements are coordinated by a network of neurons that produces sequential muscle activation. Different motoneurons need to be recruited in an orderly manner to generate movement with appropriate speed and force. However, the mechanisms governing recruitment order have not been fully clarified. Using an in vitro juvenile/adult zebrafish brainstem-spinal cord preparation, we found that motoneurons were organized into four pools with specific topographic locations and were incrementally recruited to produce swimming at different frequencies. The threshold of recruitment was not dictated by the input resistance of motoneurons, but was instead set by a combination of specific biophysical properties and the strength of the synaptic currents. Our results provide insights into the cellular and synaptic computations governing recruitment of motoneurons during locomotion.
Neurons in cortical sensory regions receive modality-specific information through synapses that are located on their dendrites. Recently, the use of two-photon microscopy combined with whole-cell recordings has helped to identify visually evoked dendritic calcium signals in mouse visual cortical neurons in vivo. The calcium signals are restricted to small dendritic domains ('hotspots') and they represent visual synaptic inputs that are highly tuned for orientation and direction. This protocol describes the experimental procedures for the recording and the analysis of these visually evoked dendritic calcium signals. The key points of this method include delivery of fluorescent calcium indicators through the recording patch pipette, selection of an appropriate optical plane with many dendrites, hyperpolarization of the membrane potential and two-photon imaging. The whole protocol can be completed in 5-6 h, including 1-2 h of two-photon calcium imaging in combination with stable whole-cell recordings.
Epilepsy is the third most common chronic brain disorder, and is characterized by an enduring predisposition to generate seizures. Despite progress in pharmacological and surgical treatments of epilepsy, relatively little is known about the processes leading to the generation of individual seizures, and about the mechanisms whereby a healthy brain is rendered epileptic. These gaps in our knowledge hamper the development of better preventive treatments and cures for the approximately 30% of epilepsy cases that prove resistant to current therapies. Here, we focus on the rapidly growing body of evidence that supports the involvement of inflammatory mediators-released by brain cells and peripheral immune cells-in both the origin of individual seizures and the epileptogenic process. We first describe aspects of brain inflammation and immunity, before exploring the evidence from clinical and experimental studies for a relationship between inflammation and epilepsy. Subsequently, we discuss how seizures cause inflammation, and whether such inflammation, in turn, influences the occurrence and severity of seizures, and seizure-related neuronal death. Further insight into the complex role of inflammation in the generation and exacerbation of epilepsy should yield new molecular targets for the design of antiepileptic drugs, which might not only inhibit the symptoms of this disorder, but also prevent or abrogate disease pathogenesis.

A broad body of experimental work has demonstrated that apparently spontaneous brain activity is not random. At the level of large-scale neural systems, as measured with functional MRI (fMRI), this ongoing activity reflects the organization of a series of highly coherent functional networks. These so-called resting-state networks (RSNs) closely relate to the underlying anatomical connectivity but cannot be understood in those terms alone. Here we review three large-scale neural system models of primate neocortex that emphasize the key contributions of local dynamics, signal transmission delays and noise to the emerging RSNs. We propose that the formation and dissolution of resting-state patterns reflects the exploration of possible functional network configurations around a stable anatomical skeleton.
The synaptic tagging and capture hypothesis of protein synthesis-dependent long-term potentiation asserts that the induction of synaptic potentiation creates only the potential for a lasting change in synaptic efficacy, but not the commitment to such a change. Other neural activity, before or after induction, can also determine whether persistent change occurs. Recent findings, leading us to revise the original hypothesis, indicate that the induction of a local, synapse-specific 'tagged' state and the expression of long-term potentiation are dissociable. Additional observations suggest that there are major differences in the mechanisms of functional and structural plasticity. These advances call for a revised theory that incorporates the specific molecular and structural processes involved. Addressing the physiological relevance of previous in vitro findings, new behavioural studies have experimentally translated the hypothesis to learning and the consolidation of newly formed memories.
The partial agonist profile of novel antipsychotics such as aripiprazole has hardly been demonstrated in biochemical assays on animal tissues. As it is established that responses induced by dopamine D receptor agonists are increased in models of dopaminergic sensitization, this paradigm was used in order to facilitate the detection of the partial agonist properties of aripiprazole. At variance with all other partial and full agonists tested, the partial agonist properties of aripiprazole were not revealed in guanosine 5-O-(-[S]thiotriphosphate ([S]GTPS) binding assays on striatal membranes from haloperidol-treated rats. Hence,aripiprazole behaved as an antagonist, efficiently inhibiting the functional response to dopamine. Similarly, in behavioural assays, aripiprazole dose-dependently inhibited the stereotypies elicited by apomorphine. However, at variance with haloperidol, repeated administrations of aripiprazole(3 weeks) at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg did not induce any up-regulation or hyperfunctionality of the dopamine D receptors in the striatum. These data highlight the putative involvement of other pharmacological targets for aripiprazole that would support in the prevention of secondary effects commonly associated with the blockade of striatal dopamine D receptors. Hence, in additional experiments, aripiprazole was found to efficiently promote [S]GTPS binding in hippocampal membranes through the activation of 5-HT(A) receptors. Further experiments investigating the second messenger cascades should be performed so as to establish the functional properties of aripiprazole and understand the mechanism underlying the prevention of dopamine receptor regulation in spite of the observed antagonism.
Use of prediction rules may reduce the number of patients with acute headache undergoing a CT scan and lumbar puncture to rule in or rule out subarachnoid haemorrhage from a ruptured aneurysm. A Canadian study group that studied patients admitted to emergency departments from tertiary centres shows preliminary evidence that is theoretically promising. However, before such rules can be implemented they require prospective validation in the same and other health care systems and a cost-effectiveness analysis that balances the risks of missed instances of subarachnoid haemorrhage versus the risk of radiation-induced cancer. External validation particularly holds true for the Dutch health care system, where most of these patients are initially seen by a general practitioner.
Ergodicity can be assumed when the structure of data is consistent across individuals and time. Neural network approaches do not frequently test for ergodicity in data which holds important consequences for data integration and intepretation. To demonstrate this problem, we present several network models in healthy and clinical samples where there exists considerable heterogeneity across individuals. We offer suggestions for the analysis, interpretation, and reporting of neural network data. The goal is to arrive at an understanding of the sources of non-ergodicity and approaches for valid network modeling in neuroscience.
Sensory stimuli are generally encoded by the activity of thousands of neurons in parallel. Coding theories dealing with such high-dimensional representations face hard numerical problems. One of them is the computation of expected values according to the underlying probability distributions. Direct computations are generally avoided also because of the high numerical precision required. Here, a numerical trick is described that overcomes the problem of numerical precision, thereby providing a simple alternative to indirect methods based on stochastic sampling (Monte-Carlo methods).
Neuronal inter-spike intervals (ISIs) have previously been described as Poisson, Gamma, inverse Gaussian or other unimodal distributions. We analyzed ISIs of rhythmic and arrhythmic neuronal spike trains in cerebellum recorded from freely behaving rats, and found that their distributions can be described as the summation or integration of multiple Gaussian distributions. The ISIs of rhythmic cerebellar Purkinje cells have a main Gaussian peak at a basic firing interval and exponentially reduced peaks at multiples of this firing period. ISIs of arrhythmic Purkinje cells can be modeled as the integration of multiple Gaussian distributions centered at continuous intervals with exponentially reduced peak amplitudes. The sources of variability are directly related to the relative timing of action potentials between neighboring cells since we show that irregularities of discharge in one cell are associated with the previous history of its discharge in time relative to another cell. Through relative phase analyses, we demonstrate that the shape and the mathematical form of the ISI distributions in cerebellum are direct result of dynamic interactions in the nearby neuronal network, in addition to intrinsic firing properties. The analysis in this paper provides a unified description of cerebellar inter-spike interval distributions which deviate from the usual Poisson assumptions. Our results suggest the existence of an intrinsic rhythmicity in cells exhibiting arrhythmic spike trains in cerebellum, and may identify an important source of variability in neuronal firing patterns that is relevant to the mechanism of neural computation in cerebellum.

Stimulus reconstruction or decoding methods provide an important tool for understanding how sensory and motor information is represented in neural activity. We discuss Bayesian decoding methods based on an encoding generalized linear model (GLM) that accurately describes how stimuli are transformed into the spike trains of a group of neurons. The form of the GLM likelihood ensures that the posterior distribution over the stimuli that caused an observed set of spike trains is log concave so long as the prior is. This allows the maximum a posteriori (MAP) stimulus estimate to be obtained using efficient optimization algorithms. Unfortunately, the MAP estimate can have a relatively large average error when the posterior is highly nongaussian. Here we compare several Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms that allow for the calculation of general Bayesian estimators involving posterior expectations (conditional on model parameters). An efficient version of the hybrid Monte Carlo (HMC) algorithm was significantly superior to other MCMC methods for gaussian priors. When the prior distribution has sharp edges and corners, on the other hand, the &quot;hit-and-run&quot; algorithm performed better than other MCMC methods. Using these algorithms, we show that for this latter class of priors, the posterior mean estimate can have a considerably lower average error than MAP, whereas for gaussian priors, the two estimators have roughly equal efficiency. We also address the application of MCMC methods for extracting nonmarginal properties of the posterior distribution. For example, by using MCMC to calculate the mutual information between the stimulus and response, we verify the validity of a computationally efficient Laplace approximation to this quantity for gaussian priors in a wide range of model parameters; this makes direct model-based computation of the mutual information tractable even in the case of large observed neural populations, where methods based on binning the spike train fail. Finally, we consider the effect of uncertainty in the GLM parameters on the posterior estimators.
One of the central problems in systems neuroscience is to understand how neural spike trains convey sensory information. Decoding methods, which provide an explicit means for reading out the information contained in neural spike responses, offer a powerful set of tools for studying the neural coding problem. Here we develop several decoding methods based on point-process neural encoding models, or forward models that predict spike responses to stimuli. These models have concave log-likelihood functions, which allow efficient maximum-likelihood model fitting and stimulus decoding. We present several applications of the encoding model framework to the problem of decoding stimulus information from population spike responses: (1) a tractable algorithm for computing the maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate of the stimulus, the most probable stimulus to have generated an observed single- or multiple-neuron spike train response, given some prior distribution over the stimulus; (2) a gaussian approximation to the posterior stimulus distribution that can be used to quantify the fidelity with which various stimulus features are encoded; (3) an efficient method for estimating the mutual information between the stimulus and the spike trains emitted by a neural population; and (4) a framework for the detection of change-point times (the time at which the stimulus undergoes a change in mean or variance) by marginalizing over the posterior stimulus distribution. We provide several examples illustrating the performance of these estimators with simulated and real neural data.
Neurons in the Primary Motor Cortex (MI) are known to form functional ensembles with one another in order to produce voluntary movement. Neural network changes during skill learning are thought to be involved in improved fluency and accuracy of motor tasks. Unforced errors during skilled tasks provide an avenue to study network connections related to motor learning. In order to investigate network activity in MI, microwires were implanted in the MI of cats trained to perform a reaching task. Spike trains from eight groups of simultaneously recorded cells (95 neurons in total) were acquired. A point process generalized linear model (GLM) was developed to assess simultaneously recorded cells for functional connectivity during reaching attempts where unforced errors or no errors were made. Whilst the same groups of neurons were often functionally connected regardless of trial success, functional connectivity between neurons was significantly different at fine time scales when the outcome of task performance changed. Furthermore, connections were shown to be significantly more robust across multiple latencies during successful trials of task performance. The results of this study indicate that reach-related neurons in MI form dynamic spiking dependencies whose temporal features are highly sensitive to unforced movement errors.
Theta oscillations are thought to play a critical role in neuronal information processing, especially in the hippocampal region, where their presence is particularly salient. A detailed description of theta dynamics in this region has revealed not only a consortium of layer-specific theta dipoles, but also within-layer differences in the expression of theta. This complex and articulated arrangement of current flows is reflected in the way neuronal firing is modulated in time. Several models have proposed that these different theta modulators flexibly coordinate hippocampal regions, to support associative memory formation and retrieval. Here, we summarily review different approaches related to this issue and we describe a mechanism, based on experimental and simulation results, for memory retrieval in CA3 involving theta modulation.
Throughout life, activity-dependent changes in neuronal connection strength enable the brain to refine neural circuits and learn based on experience. In line with predictions made by Hebb, synapse strength can be modified depending on the millisecond timing of action potential firing (STDP). The sign of synaptic plasticity depends on the spike order of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons. Ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors, such as NMDA receptors and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, are intimately involved in setting the rules for synaptic strengthening and weakening. In addition, timing rules for STDP within synapses are not fixed. They can be altered by activation of ionotropic receptors located at, or close to, synapses. Here, we will highlight studies that uncovered how network actions control and modulate timing rules for STDP by activating presynaptic ionotropic receptors. Furthermore, we will discuss how interaction between different types of ionotropic receptors may create &quot;timing&quot; windows during which particular timing rules lead to synaptic changes.
Schizophrenia is a brain disorder associated with cognitive deficits that severely affect the patients' capacity for daily functioning. Whereas our understanding of its pathophysiology is limited, postmortem studies suggest that schizophrenia is associated with deficits of GABA-mediated synaptic transmission. A major role of GABA-mediated transmission may be producing synchronized network oscillations which are currently hypothesized to be essential for normal cognitive function. Therefore, cognitive deficits in schizophrenia may result from a GABA synapse dysfunction that disturbs neural synchrony. Here, we highlight recent studies further suggesting alterations of GABA transmission and network oscillations in schizophrenia. We also review current models for the mechanisms of GABA-mediated synchronization of neural activity, focusing on parvalbumin-positive GABA neurons, which are altered in schizophrenia and whose function has been strongly linked to the production of neural synchrony. Alterations of GABA signaling that impair gamma oscillations and, as a result, cognitive function suggest paths for novel therapeutic interventions.
The K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 plays a crucial role in the functional development of GABA(A)-mediated responses rendering GABA hyperpolarizing in adult neurons. We have previously shown that BDNF upregulates KCC2 in immature neurons through the transcription factor Egr4. The effect of BDNF on Egr4 and KCC2 was shown to be dependent on the activation of ERK1/2. Here we demonstrate that the trophic factor neurturin can also trigger Egr4 expression and upregulate KCC2 in an ERK1/2-dependent manner. These results show that Egr4 is an important component in the mechanism for trophic factor-mediated upregulation of KCC2 in immature neurons involving the activation of specific intracellular pathways common to BDNF and Neurturin.
Astrocytes have the ability to modulate neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission by the release of gliotransmitters. The importance of ATP released downstream of the activation of Gq-coupled receptors has been well established, but the mechanisms by which this release is regulated are unclear. The current work reveals that the elevation of diacylglycerol (DAG) in astrocytes induces vesicular ATP release. Unexpectedly, DAG-induced ATP release was found to be independent of PKC activation, but dependent upon activation of a C1 domain-containing protein. Astrocytes express the C1 domain-containing protein Munc13-1, which has been implicated in neuronal transmitter release, and RNAi-targeted downregulation of Munc13-1 inhibits astrocytic ATP release. These studies demonstrate that elevations of DAG induce the exocytotic release of ATP in astrocytes, likely via a Munc13-1-dependent mechanism.
The incidence of seizures is particularly high in the early ages of life. The immaturity of inhibitory systems, such as GABA, during normal brain development and its further dysregulation under pathological conditions that predispose to seizures have been speculated to play a major role in facilitating seizures. Seizures can further impair or disrupt GABA(A) signaling by reshuffling the subunit composition of its receptors or causing aberrant reappearance of depolarizing or hyperpolarizing GABA(A) receptor currents. Such effects may not result in epileptogenesis as frequently as they do in adults. Given the central role of GABA(A) signaling in brain function and development, perturbation of its physiological role may interfere with neuronal morphology, differentiation, and connectivity, manifesting as cognitive or neurodevelopmental deficits. The current GABAergic antiepileptic drugs, while often effective for adults, are not always capable of stopping seizures and preventing their sequelae in neonates. Recent studies have explored the therapeutic potential of chloride cotransporter inhibitors, such as bumetanide, as adjunctive therapies of neonatal seizures. However, more needs to be known so as to develop therapies capable of stopping seizures while preserving the age- and sex-appropriate development of the brain.
During the last decade, we have gained much insight into the mechanisms that open and close a sensitive period of plasticity in the visual cortex. This brings the hope that novel treatments can be developed for brain injuries requiring renewed plasticity potential and neurodevelopmental brain disorders caused by defective synaptic plasticity. One of the central mechanisms responsible for opening the sensitive period is the maturation of inhibitory innervation. Many molecular and cellular events have been identified that drive this developmental process, including signaling through BDNF and IGF-1, transcriptional control by OTX2, maturation of the extracellular matrix, and GABA-regulated inhibitory synapse formation. The mechanisms through which the development of inhibitory innervation triggers and potentially closes the sensitive period may involve plasticity of inhibitory inputs or permissive regulation of excitatory synapse plasticity. Here, we discuss the current state of knowledge in the field and open questions to be addressed.
-aminobutyric acid (GABA) acting on Cl(-)-permeable ionotropic type A (GABA(A)) receptors (GABA(A)R) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult central nervous system of vertebrates. In immature brain structures, GABA exerts depolarizing effects mostly contributing to the expression of spontaneous activities that are instructive for the construction of neural networks but GABA also acts as a potent trophic factor. In the present paper, we concentrate on brainstem and spinal motoneurons that are largely targeted by GABAergic interneurons, and we bring together data on the switch from excitatory to inhibitory effects of GABA, on the maturation of the GABAergic system and GABA(A)R subunits. We finally discuss the role of GABA and its GABA(A)R in immature hypoglossal motoneurons of the spastic (SPA) mouse, a model of human hyperekplexic syndrome.
Disturbance of sensory input during development can have disastrous effects on the development of sensory cortical areas. To examine how moderate perturbations of hearing can impact the development of primary auditory cortex, we examined markers of excitatory synapses in mice who lacked prestin, a protein responsible for somatic electromotility of cochlear outer hair cells. While auditory brain stem responses of these mice show an approximately 40 dB increase in threshold, we found that loss of prestin produced no changes in spine density or morphological characteristics on apical dendrites of cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons. PSD-95 immunostaining also showed no changes in overall excitatory synapse density. Surprisingly, behavioral assessments of auditory function using the acoustic startle response showed only modest changes in prestin KO animals. These results suggest that moderate developmental hearing deficits produce minor changes in the excitatory connectivity of layer 5 neurons of primary auditory cortex and surprisingly mild auditory behavioral deficits in the startle response.
One major goal in Neuroscience is the development of strategies promoting neural plasticity in the adult central nervous system, when functional recovery from brain disease and injury is limited. New evidence has underscored a pivotal role for cortical inhibitory circuitries in regulating plasticity both during development and in adulthood. This paper summarizes recent findings showing that the inhibition-excitation balance controls adult brain plasticity and is at the core of the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders like autism, Down syndrome, and Rett syndrome.


Attachment theory is a very influential general concept of human social and emotional development, which emphasizes the role of early mother-infant interactions for infant's adaptive behavioural and stress copying strategies, personality organization and mental health. Individuals with disrupted development of secure attachment to mother/primary caregiver are at higher risk of developing mental disorders. This theory consists of the complex developmental psycho-neurobiological model of attachment and emerges from principles of psychoanalysis, evolutionary biology, cognitive-developmental psychology, ethology, physiology and control systems theory. The progress of modern neuroscience enables interpretation of neurobiological aspects of the theory as multi-level neural interactions and functional development of important neural structures, effects of neuromediattors, hormones and essential neurobiological processes including emotional, cognitive, social interactions and the special key role of mentalizing. It has multiple neurobiological, neuroendocrine, neurophysiological, ethological, genetic, developmental, psychological, psychotherapeutic and neuropsychiatric consequences and is a prototype of complex neuroscientific concept as interpretation of modern integrated neuroscience.

Environment influences brain development, neurogenesis and, possibly, vulnerability to neurodegenerative disease. We retrospectively examined the brains of aged rhesus monkeys reared during early life in either small cages or larger, &quot;standard-sized&quot; cages; all monkeys were subsequently maintained in standard-sized cages during adulthood. Aged monkeys reared in smaller cages exhibited significantly greater -amyloid plaque deposition in the neocortex and a significant reduction in synaptophysin immunolabeling in cortical regions compared to aged monkeys reared in standard-sized cages (p&lt;0.001 and p&lt;0.05, respectively). These findings suggest that early environment may influence brain structure and vulnerability to neurodegenerative changes in late life.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is involved in the risk to develop sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since impaired central acetylcholine (ACh) function is a hallmark of AD, apoE may influence ACh function by modulating muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs). To test this hypothesis, mAChR binding was measured in mice lacking apoE and wild type C57BL/6J mice. Mice were also tested on the pre-pulse inhibition, delay eyeblink classical conditioning, and 5-choice serial reaction time tasks (5-SRTT), which are all modulated by ACh transmission. Mice were also given scopolamine to challenge central mAChR function. Compared to wild type mice, mice lacking apoE had reduced number of cortical and hippocampal mAChRs. Scopolamine had a small effect on delay eyeblink classical conditioning in wild type mice but a large effect in mice lacking apoE. Mice lacking apoE were also unable to acquire performance on the 5-SRTT. These results support a role for apoE in ACh function and suggest that modulation of cortical and hippocampal mAChRs might contribute to genotype differences in scopolamine sensitivity and task acquisition. Impaired apoE functioning may result in cholinergic deficits that contribute to the cognitive impairments seen in AD.
Pharmaceutical treatments are being developed to correct specific behavioural and morphological aspects of neurodevelopmental disorders such as mental retardation. Fragile X syndrome is an X-linked mental retardation with abnormal dendritic protrusions from neurons in the brain. Increased signalling via excitatory metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) pathways is hypothesised to contribute to this disorder. Targeting these receptors has shown improvements in both behaviour and morphology with the Fmr1-KO mouse model for the syndrome. It is not known whether similar changes occur in excitatory synaptic activity following treatment with mGluR antagonists. We tested the effects of prolonged mGluR blockade on excitatory synaptic activity at three developmental time points in hippocampal slices. We observed a rescue effect of the antagonist MPEP upon spontaneous EPSC amplitude and charge at 2 weeks but not 1 week or 8-10 weeks of development. These data support the role of mGluR antagonist treatment for functional synaptic correction at an early developmental stage in a model for fragile X syndrome.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expansion of the polyglutamine (polyQ) repeat in exon-1 in the Huntingtin gene (HTT). This results in misfolding and accumulation of the huntingtin (htt) protein, forming nuclear and cytoplasmic inclusions. HD is associated with dysregulation of gene expression as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. We hypothesized that by improving transcriptional regulation of genes necessary for energy metabolism, the HD motor phenotype would also improve. We therefore examined the protective effects of nicotinamide (NAM), a well-characterized water-soluble B vitamin that is an inhibitor of sirtuin1/class III NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase (HDAC). In this study, both mini-osmotic pumps and drinking water deliveries were tested at 250 mg NAM/kg/day, using the B6.HDR6/1 transgenic mouse model. Results were similar for both modes of delivery, and there was no evidence of toxicity. We found that NAM treatment increased mRNA levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1), the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis. Protein levels of BDNF were also significantly increased. In addition, NAM treatment increased PGC-1 activation in HD mice, pointing to a possible mode of action as a therapeutic. Critically, NAM treatment was able to improve motor deficits associated with the HD phenotype, tested as time courses of open field, rotarod, and balance beam activities. These improvements were substantial, despite the fact that NAM did not appear to reduce htt aggregation, or to prevent late-stage weight loss. Our study therefore concludes that NAM or similar drugs may be beneficial in clinical treatment of the motor dysfunctions of HD, while additional therapeutic approaches must be added to combat the aggregation phenotype and overall physiological decline.
Bursts and oscillatory modulations in firing rate are hallmark features of abnormal neuronal activity in the parkinsonian Globus Pallidus internus (GPi). Although often implicated together in the pathophysiology of parkinsonian signs, little is known about how burst discharges and oscillatory firing (OF) relate to each other. To investigate this question, extracellular single-unit neuronal activity was recorded from 132 GPi cells in 14 Parkinson's disease patients. We found that burst firing was equally prevalent in OF and non-oscillatory firing (NOF) cells (p&gt;0.5). More than half of the cells were characterized by either aperiodic bursty activity or OF, but not both. OF and NOF cells had statistically-indistinguishable levels of mean burstiness (p=0.8). Even when bursting and OF co-existed in individual cells, levels of burstiness and oscillatory power were seldom correlated across time. Interestingly, however, the few OF cells with spectral peaks between 8-13 Hz (-range) were substantially burstier than other cells (p&lt;0.01) and showed an unique burst morphology and stronger temporal correlations between oscillatory power and burstiness. We conclude that independent mechanisms may underlie the burst discharges and OF typical of most neurons in the parkinsonian GPi.
Huntington disease (HD) is caused by an expansion of CAG repeat in the Huntingtin gene. Patients demonstrate a triad of motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. A transgenic rat model (tgHD rats) carrying 51 CAG repeats demonstrate progressive striatal degeneration and polyglutamine aggregates in limbic structures. In this model, emotional function has only been investigated through anxiety studies. Our aim was to extend knowledge on emotional and motivational function in symptomatic tgHD rats. We subjected tgHD and wild-type rats to behavioral protocols testing motor, emotional, and motivational abilities. From 11 to 15 months of age, animals were tested in emotional perception of sucrose using taste reactivity, acquisition, extinction, and re-acquisition of discriminative Pavlovian fear conditioning as well as reactivity to changes in reinforcement values in a runway Pavlovian approach task. Motor tests detected the symptomatic status of tgHD animals from 11 months of age. In comparison to wild types, transgenic animals exhibited emotional blunting of hedonic perception for intermediate sucrose concentration. Moreover, we found emotional alterations with better learning and re-acquisition of discriminative fear conditioning due to a higher level of conditioned fear to aversive stimuli, and hyper-reactivity to a negative hedonic shift in reinforcement value interpreted in term of greater frustration. Neuropathological assessment in the same animals showed a selective shrinkage of the central nucleus of the amygdala. Our results showing emotional blunting and hypersensitivity to negative emotional situations in symptomatic tgHD animals extend the face validity of this model regarding neuropsychiatric symptoms as seen in manifest HD patients, and suggest that some of these symptoms may be related to amygdala dysfunction.
Adolescence is a time of developmental changes and reorganization in the brain and stress systems, thus, adolescents may be more vulnerable than adults to the effects of chronic mild stressors. Most studies, however, have not directly compared stress experienced in adolescence to the same stress experience in adulthood. In the present study, adolescent (n=46) and adult (n=48) male rats underwent 16 days of social instability stress (daily 1h isolation and change of cage partners) or were non-stress controls. Rats were then tested on the strength of acquired contextual and cued fear conditioning, as well as extinction learning, beginning either the day after the stress procedure or 3 weeks later. No difference was found among the groups during the Training Phase of conditioning. Irrespective of the time between the social stress experience and fear conditioning, rats stressed in adolescence had decreased context and cue memory, and cue generalization compared to control rats, as measured by the percentage of time spent freezing in tests. Social instability stress in adulthood had no effect on any measure of fear conditioning. The results support the hypothesis that adolescence is a time of heightened vulnerability to stressors.
The discovery of mirror neurons in macaque has led to a resurrection of motor theories of speech perception. Although the majority of lesion and functional imaging studies have associated perception with the temporal lobes, it has also been proposed that the 'human mirror system', which prominently includes Broca's area, is the neurophysiological substrate of speech perception. Although numerous studies have demonstrated a tight link between sensory and motor speech processes, few have directly assessed the critical prediction of mirror neuron theories of speech perception, namely that damage to the human mirror system should cause severe deficits in speech perception. The present study measured speech perception abilities of patients with lesions involving motor regions in the left posterior frontal lobe and/or inferior parietal lobule (i.e., the proposed human 'mirror system'). Performance was at or near ceiling in patients with fronto-parietal lesions. It is only when the lesion encroaches on auditory regions in the temporal lobe that perceptual deficits are evident. This suggests that 'mirror system' damage does not disrupt speech perception, but rather that auditory systems are the primary substrate for speech perception.
In the human brain the monoaminooxidase-B enzyme or MAO-B is highly abundant in astrocytes. As astrocyte activity and, consequently, the activity of the MAO-B enzyme, is up-regulated in neuroinflammatory processes, radiolabelled analogues of deprenyl may serve as an imaging biomarker in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's disease. In the present study [(11)C]-L-deprenyl, the PET radioligand version of L-deprenyl or selegiline, a selective irreversible MAO-B inhibitor was used in whole hemisphere autoradiographic experiments in human brain sections in order to test the radioligand's binding to the MAO-B enzyme in human brain tissue, with an eye on exploring the radioligand's applicability as a molecular imaging biomarker in human PET studies, with special regard to diagnostic detection of reactive astrogliosis. Whole hemisphere brain sections obtained from Alzheimer patients and from age matched control subjects were examined. In control brains the binding of [(11)C]-L-deprenyl was the highest in the hippocampus, in the basal ganglia, the thalamus, the substantia nigra, the corpus geniculatum laterale, the nucleus accumbens and the periventricular grey matter. In Alzheimer brains significantly higher binding was observed in the temporal lobes and the white matter. Furthermore, in the Alzheimer brains in the hippocampus, temporal lobe and white matter the binding negatively correlated with Braak stages. The highest binding was observed in Braak I-II, whereas it decreased with increasing Braak grades. The increased regional binding in Alzheimer brains coincided with the presence of an increased number of activated astrocytes, as demonstrated by correlative immunohistochemical studies with GFAP in adjacent brain slices. Deprenyl itself as well as the MAO-B antagonist rasagiline did effectively block the binding of the radioligand, whereas the MAO-A antagonist pirlindole did not affect it. Compounds with high affinity for the PBR system did not block the radioligand binding either, providing evidence for the specificity of [(11)C]-L-deprenyl for the MAO-B enzyme. In conclusion, the present observations indicate that [(11)C]-L-deprenyl may be a promising and selective imaging biomarker of increased MAO-B activity in the human brain and can therefore serve as a prospective PET tracer targeting neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration.
Since a substantial proportion of smokers have comorbid mood disorders, the smoking cessation aid varenicline might occasionally be prescribed to patients who are simultaneously treated with antidepressants. Given that varenicline is a selective nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist and not a substrate or inhibitor of drug metabolizing enzymes, pharmacokinetic interactions with various classes of antidepressants are highly unlikely. It is, however, conceivable that varenicline may have a pharmacodynamic effect on antidepressant-evoked increases in central monoamine release. Interactions resulting in excessive transmitter release could cause adverse events such as serotonin syndrome, while attenuation of monoamine release could impact the clinical efficacy of antidepressants. To investigate this we examined whether varenicline administration modulates the effects of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline and the monoamine oxidase inhibitor clorgyline, given alone and combined, on extracellular concentrations of the monoamines serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine in rat brain by microdialysis. Given the important role attributed to cortical monoamine release in serotonin syndrome as well as antidepressant activity, the effects on extracellular monoamine concentrations were measured in the medial prefrontal cortex. Responses to maximally effective doses of sertraline or clorgyline and of sertraline plus clorgyline were the same in the absence as in the presence of a relatively high dose of varenicline, which by itself had no significant effect on cortical monoamine release. This is consistent with the binding profile of varenicline that has insufficient affinity for receptors, enzymes, or transporters to inhibit or potentiate the pharmacologic effects of antidepressants. Since varenicline neither diminished nor potentiated sertraline- or clorgyline-induced increases in neurotransmitter levels, combining varenicline with serotonergic antidepressants is unlikely to cause excessive serotonin release or to attenuate antidepressant efficacy via effects on cortical serotonin, dopamine or norepinephrine release.
Hyoscyamus species is one of the four plants used in Ayurveda for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Since Hyoscyamus niger was found to contain negligible levels of L-DOPA, we evaluated neuroprotective potential, if any, of characterized petroleum ether and aqueous methanol extracts of its seeds in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of PD in mice. Air dried authenticated H. niger seeds were sequentially extracted using petroleum ether and aqueous methanol and were characterized employing HPLC-electrochemistry and LCMS. Parkinsonian mice were treated daily twice with the extracts (125-500 mg/kg, p.o.) for two days and motor functions and striatal dopamine levels were assayed. Administration of the aqueous methanol extract (containing 0.03% w/w of L-DOPA), but not petroleum ether extract, significantly attenuated motor disabilities (akinesia, catalepsy and reduced swim score) and striatal dopamine loss in MPTP treated mice. Since the extract caused significant inhibition of monoamine oxidase activity and attenuated 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (OH) generation in isolated mitochondria, it is possible that the methanolic extract of Hyoscyamus niger seeds protects against parkinsonism in mice by means of its ability to inhibit increased OH generated in the mitochondria.
In the present study we examined the effects of cocaine seizure kindling on the expression of NMDA receptors and levels of extracellular glutamate in mouse brain. Quantitative autoradiography did not reveal any changes in binding of [H] MK-801 to NMDA receptors in several brain regions. Likewise, in situ hybridization and Western blotting revealed no alteration in expression of the NMDA receptor subunits, NR1 and NR2B. Basal overflow of glutamate in the ventral hippocampus determined by microdialysis in freely moving animals also did not differ between cocaine-kindled and control groups. Perfusion with the selective excitatory amino acid transporter inhibitor, pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tPDC, 0.6 mM), increased glutamate overflow confirming transport inhibition. Importantly, KCl-evoked glutamate overflow under tPDC perfusion was significantly higher in cocaine-kindled mice than in control mice. These data suggest that enhancement of depolarization stimulated glutamate release may be one of the mechanisms underlying the development of increased seizure susceptibility after cocaine kindling.
Neuronal apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases is correlated with inflammatory reactions. The beneficial or detrimental role of apoptosis in neuroinflammation is unclear. In this study, we injected -amyloid peptide into the rat cortex for induction of neuroinflammation in hippocampus. We observed an increase in TNF- as an inflammatory cytokine and caspase3 and TUNEL-positive cells as apoptotic marker. As far as ability of TNF- to induce apoptosis or activate NF-k, the question is what will happen if the balance between two pathways is disturbed by inhibition of apoptosis. Using caspase inhibitors, we inhibited apoptosis and assessed NF-k, Hsp 70 (a hallmark of cancer), cmyc (proto-oncogene) and p53 (tumor suppressor protein). There was an unexpected decrease in NF-k while Hsp70 and cmyc upregulated and p53 decreased. These results imply that inhibition of apoptosis due to increased susceptibility to abnormal mitosis may not provide a reliable strategy for treatment of neuroinflammatory diseases.
In the present study, alterations of the General GABA and GABA(A) receptors in the hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epileptic rats and the therapeutic application of Bacopa monnieri and its active component Bacoside-A were investigated. Bacopa monnieri (Linn.) is a herbaceous plant belonging to the family Scrophulariaceae. Hippocampus is the major region of the brain belonging to the limbic system and plays an important role in epileptogenesis, memory and learning. Scatchard analysis of [H]GABA and [H]bicuculline in the hippocampus of the epileptic rat showed significant decrease in B(max) (P &lt; 0.001) compared to control. Real Time PCR amplification of GABA(A) receptor sub-units such as GABA(A), GABA(A) GABA(A), and GAD were down regulated (P &lt; 0.001) in the hippocampus of the epileptic rats compared to control. GABA(A) subunit was up regulated. Epileptic rats have deficit in the radial arm and Y maze performance. Bacopa monnieri and Bacoside-A treatment reverses all these changes near to control. Our results suggest that decreased GABA receptors in the hippocampus have an important role in epilepsy associated behavioral deficit, Bacopa monnieri and Bacoside-A have clinical significance in the management of epilepsy.










Hormones play a major role in regulating behavior and physiology, and their efficacy is often dependent on the temporal pattern in which they are secreted. Significant insights into the mechanisms underlying rhythmic hormone secretion have been gained from transgenic rodent models, suggesting that many of the body's rhythmic functions are regulated by a coordinated network of central and peripheral circadian pacemakers. Some neuroendocrine rhythms are driven by transcriptional-posttranslational feedback circuits comprising 'core clock genes', while others represent a cyclic cascade of neuroendocrine events. This review focuses on recent data from the rhesus macaque, a non-human primate model with high clinical translation potential. With primary emphasis on adrenal and gonadal steroids, it illustrates the rhythmic nature of hormone secretion, and discusses the impact that fluctuating hormone levels have on the accuracy of clinical diagnoses and on the design of effective hormone replacement therapies in the elderly. In addition, this minireview raises awareness of the rhythmic expression patterns shown by many genes, and discusses how this could impact interpretation of data obtained from gene profiling studies, especially from nocturnal rodents.
Sexual differentiation of the brain is a crucial developmental process that enables the lifelong expression of sexually dimorphic behaviors, including those necessary for successful reproduction. During a perinatal sensitive period, gonadal hormones defeminize and masculinize the male brain, and a lack of gonadal steroids allows for feminization in the female. This hormonally-induced differentiation permanently alters neural structures, creating highly dimorphic brain regions; however, the mechanism by which hormones exert their long-lasting effects are still largely unknown. Epigenetic processes such as DNA methylation and histone modifications serve as an interface for environmental stimuli to exert control over the genome. These modifications have the capacity to activate or repress gene expression, thereby shaping the developmental outcomes of cells, circuits, and structures in the brain. Sex differences in methylation, methyl-binding proteins, and chromatin modifications indicate that epigenetic mechanism may be important for sexual differentiation of the brain. The data outlined in this review provide evidence that gonadal hormones in the neonatal brain influence epigenetic processes such as DNA methylation and histone acetylation, but also emphasize the primitive status of our current understanding of epigenetics and sexual differentiation and the brain.
Background/Aims: The steroid hormones, including estradiol (E) and progesterone, act in the brain to regulate female reproductive behavior and physiology. These hormones mediate many of their biological effects by binding to their respective intracellular receptors. The receptors for estrogens (ER) and progestins (PR) interact with nuclear receptor coactivators to initiate transcription of steroid-responsive genes. Work from our laboratory and others reveals that nuclear receptor coactivators, including steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) and SRC-2, function in brain to modulate ER-mediated induction of the PR gene and hormone-dependent behaviors. In order for steroid receptors and coactivators to function together, both must be expressed in the same cells. Methods: Triple-label immunofluorescence was used to determine if E-induced PR cells also express SRC-1 or SRC-2 in reproductively relevant brain regions of the female mouse. Results: The majority of E-induced PR cells in the medial preoptic area (61%), ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (63%) and arcuate nucleus (76%) coexpressed both SRC-1 and SRC-2. A smaller proportion of PR cells expressed either SRC-1 or SRC-2, while a few PR cells expressed neither coactivator. In addition, compared to control animals, 17-estradiol benzoate (EB) treatment increased SRC-1 levels in the arcuate nucleus, but not the medial preoptic area or the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. EB did not alter SRC-2 expression in any of the three brain regions analyzed. Conclusions: Taken together, the present findings identify a population of cells in which steroid receptors and nuclear receptor coactivators may interact to modulate steroid sensitivity in brain and regulate hormone-dependent behaviors in female mice. Given that cell culture studies reveal that SRC-1 and SRC-2 can mediate distinct steroid-signaling pathways, the present findings suggest that steroids can produce a variety of complex responses in these specialized brain cells.
The perinatal environment plays an important role in programming many aspects of physiology and behavior including metabolism, body weight set point, energy balance regulation and predisposition to mental health-related disorders such as anxiety, depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Maternal health and nutritional status heavily influence the early environment and have a long-term impact on critical central pathways, including the melanocortinergic, serotonergic system and dopaminergic systems. Evidence from a variety of animal models including rodents and nonhuman primates indicates that exposure to maternal high-fat diet (HFD) consumption programs offspring for increased risk of adult obesity. Hyperphagia and increased preference for fatty and sugary foods are implicated as mechanisms for the increased obesity risk. The effects of maternal HFD consumption on energy expenditure are unclear, and future studies need to address the impact of perinatal HFD exposure on this important component of energy balance regulation. Recent evidence from animal models also indicates that maternal HFD consumption increases the risk of offspring developing mental health-related disorders such as anxiety. Potential mechanisms for perinatal HFD programming of neural pathways include circulating factors, such as hormones (leptin, insulin), nutrients (fatty acids, triglycerides and glucose) and inflammatory cytokines. As maternal HFD consumption and obesity are common and rapidly increasing, we speculate that future generations will be at increased risk for both metabolic and mental health disorders. Thus, it is critical that future studies identify therapeutic strategies that are effective at preventing maternal HFD-induced malprogramming.



The frequency profiles and time courses of oscillatory changes when reading words are not fully understood, although there have been many reports that oscillatory dynamics reflect local brain function. In order to clarify oscillatory dynamics, we investigated the frequency and spatiotemporal distributions of neuromagnetic activities during silent reading of words in 23 healthy subjects. Individual data were divided into the following frequency bands: theta (5-8 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz), beta (13-25 Hz), low gamma (25-50 Hz), and high gamma (50-100 Hz), and were analyzed by synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM). The time window was consecutively moved in steps of 50 ms. Group analysis was performed to delineate common areas of brain activation. A transient power increase in the theta band occurred first in the bilateral occipital cortices, and then rapidly propagated to the left temporo-occipital areas, left inferior and middle frontal gyri, bilateral medial prefrontal cortices, and finally to the left anterior temporal cortices, which possibly reflects a serial cognitive process. This serial propagation of the transient power increase in the theta band was followed by sustained power decreases in the alpha, beta and low gamma bands. These results suggest that the transient power increase in the theta bands may be associated with priming and propagation of local activities, while sustained power decreases in the alpha, beta and low gamma bands reflect parallel neural processes related to silent reading words. Our results showed a relationship between frequency bands of oscillatory changes and locations. This may have implications in the relationship between frequency bands and functions.
A highly important question in visual neuroscience is to identify where in the visual system information from different processing channels is integrated to form the complex scenery we perceive. A common view to this question is that information is processed hierarchically because small and selective receptive fields in lower visual areas melt into larger receptive fields in specialized higher visual areas. However, a higher order area in which all incoming signals ultimately converge has not yet been identified. Rather, modulation of subthreshold influences from outside the classical receptive field related to contextual integration occurs already in early visual areas. So far it is unclear how these influences are mediated (Gilbert, 1998; Angelucci and Bullier, 2003; Gilbert and Sigman, 2007). In the present study, we show that feedback connections from a higher motion processing area critically influence the integration of subthreshold global motion cues in early visual areas. Global motion cues are theoretically not discernible for a local motion detector in V1, however, imprints of pattern motion have been observed in this area (Guo et al., 2004; Schmidt et al., 2006). By combining reversible thermal deactivation and optical imaging of intrinsic signals we demonstrate that feedback signals from the posteromedial suprasylvian sulcus are critical for the discrimination between global and local motions already in early visual areas. These results suggest that global features of the visual scenery are fed back to lower visual processing units in order to facilitate the integration of local cues into a global construct.
A fundamental tenet in the field of developmental neuroscience is that brain maturation generally proceeds from posterior/inferior to anterior/superior. This pattern is thought to underlie the similar timing of cognitive development in related domains, with the dorsal frontal cortices-important for decision making and cognitive control-the last to fully mature. While this caudal to rostral wave of structural development was first qualitatively described for white matter in classical postmortem studies, and has been discussed frequently in the developmental neuroimaging literature and in the popular press, it has never been formally demonstrated continuously and quantitatively across the whole brain with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Here we use diffusion imaging to map developmental changes in the white matter in 32 typically-developing individuals age 5-28 years. We then employ a novel meta-statistic that is sensitive to the timing of this developmental trajectory, and use this integrated strategy to both confirm these long-postulated broad regional gradients in the timing of white matter maturation in vivo, and demonstrate a surprisingly smooth transition in the timing of white matter maturational peaks along a caudal-rostral arc in this cross-sectional sample. These results provide further support for the notion of continued plasticity in these regions well into adulthood, and may provide a new approach for the investigation of neurodevelopmental disorders that could alter the timing of this typical developmental sequence.
Cast shadows can be salient depth cues in three-dimensional (3D) vision. Using a motion illusion in which a ball is perceived to roll in depth on the bottom or to flow in the front plane depending on the slope of the trajectory of its cast shadow, we investigated cortical mechanisms underlying 3D vision based on cast shadows using fMRI techniques. When modified versions of the original illusion, in which the slope of the shadow trajectory (shadow slope) was changed in 5 steps from the same one as the ball trajectory to the horizontal, were presented to participants, their perceived ball trajectory shifted gradually from rolling on the bottom to floating in the front plane as the change of the shadow slope. This observation suggests that the perception of the ball trajectory in this illusion is strongly affected by the motion of the cast shadow. In the fMRI study, cortical activity during observation of the movies of the illusion was investigated. We found that the bilateral posterior-occipital sulcus (POS) and right ventral precuneus showed activation related to the perception of the ball trajectory induced by the cast shadows in the illusion. Of these areas, it was suggested that the right POS may be involved in the inferring of the ball trajectory by the given spatial relation between the ball and the shadow. Our present results suggest that the posterior portion of the medial parietal cortex may be involved in 3D vision by cast shadows.
Behavioral data have shown that attractive faces are better remembered but the neural mechanisms of this effect are largely unknown. To investigate this issue, female participants were scanned with event-related functional MRI (fMRI) while rating the attractiveness of male faces. Memory for the faces was tested after fMRI scanning and was used to identify successful encoding activity (subsequent memory paradigm). As expected, attractive faces were remembered better than other faces. The study yielded three main fMRI findings. First, activity in the right orbitofrontal cortex increased linearly as a function of attractiveness ratings. Second, activity in the left hippocampus increased as a function of subsequent memory (subsequent misses&lt;low confidence hits&lt;high confidence hits). Third, functional connectivity between these orbitofrontal and hippocampal regions was stronger during the encoding of attractive than neutral or unattractive faces. These results suggest that better memory for attractive faces reflects greater interaction between a region associated with reward, the orbitofrontal cortex, and a region associated with successful memory encoding, the hippocampus.
The advent of mammalian gene engineering and genetically modified mouse models has led to renewed interest in developing resources for referencing and quantitative analysis of mouse brain anatomy. In this study, we used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) for quantitative characterization of anatomical phenotypes in the developing mouse brain. As an anatomical reference for neuroscience research using mouse models, this paper presents DTI based atlases of ex vivo C57BL/6 mouse brains at several developmental stages. The atlas complements existing histology and MRI-based atlases by providing users access to three-dimensional, high-resolution images of the developing mouse brain, with distinct tissue contrasts and segmentations of major gray matter and white matter structures. The usefulness of the atlas and database was demonstrated by quantitative measurements of the development of major gray matter and white matter structures. Population average images of the mouse brain at several postnatal stages were created using large deformation diffeomorphic metric mapping and their anatomical variations were quantitatively characterized. The atlas and database enhance our ability to examine the neuroanatomy in normal or genetically engineered mouse strains and mouse models of neurological diseases.
Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has provided a novel approach for examining interhemispheric interaction, demonstrating a high degree of functional connectivity between homotopic regions in opposite hemispheres. However, heterotopic resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) remains relatively uncharacterized. In the present study, we examine non-homotopic regions, characterizing heterotopic RSFC and comparing it to intrahemispheric RSFC, to examine the impact of hemispheric separation on the integration and segregation of processing in the brain. Resting-state fMRI scans were acquired from 59 healthy participants to examine inter-regional correlations in spontaneous low frequency fluctuations in BOLD signal. Using a probabilistic atlas, we correlated probability-weighted time series from 112 regions (56 per hemisphere) distributed throughout the entire cerebrum. We compared RSFC for pairings of non-homologous regions located in different hemispheres (heterotopic connectivity) to RSFC for the same pairings when located within hemisphere (intrahemispheric connectivity). For positive connections, connectivity strength was greater within each hemisphere, consistent with integrated intrahemispheric processing. However, for negative connections, RSFC strength was greater between the hemispheres, consistent with segregated interhemispheric processing. These patterns were particularly notable for connections involving frontal and heteromodal regions. The distribution of positive and negative connectivity was nearly identical within and between the hemispheres, though we demonstrated detailed regional variation in distribution. We discuss implications for leading models of interhemispheric interaction. The future application of our analyses may provide important insight into impaired interhemispheric processing in clinical and aging populations.
Traumatic brain injuries (TBI) potentially induced by blast waves from detonations result in significant diagnostic problems. It may be assumed that several mechanisms contribute to the injury. This study is an attempt to characterize the presumed components of the blast induced TBI. Our experimental models include a blast tube in which an anesthetized rat can be exposed to controlled detonations of explosives that result in a pressure wave with a magnitude between 130 and 260 kPa. In this model, the animal is fixed with a metal net to avoid head acceleration forces. The second model is a controlled penetration of a 2mm thick needle. In the third model the animal is subjected to a high-speed sagittal rotation angular acceleration. Immunohistochemical labeling for amyloid precursor protein revealed signs of diffuse axonal injury (DAI) in the penetration and rotation models. Signs of punctuate inflammation were observed after focal and rotation injury. Exposure in the blast tube did not induce DAI or detectable cell death, but functional changes. Affymetrix Gene arrays showed changes in the expression in a large number of gene families including cell death, inflammation and neurotransmitters in the hippocampus after both acceleration and penetration injuries. Exposure to the primary blast wave induced limited shifts in gene expression in the hippocampus. The most interesting findings were a downregulation of genes involved in neurogenesis and synaptic transmission. These experiments indicate that rotational acceleration may be a critical factor for DAI and other acute changes after blast TBI. The further exploration of the mechanisms of blast TBI will have to include a search for long-term effects.

Of the intracranial epidermoids, interhemispheric epidermoids are extremely rare and only about 19 cases have been reported. This is a retrospective study of 15 patients with interhemispheric epidermoids surgically treated over a 13-year period. The age at the time of presentation varied between 17 and 45 years and there were 9 males. The presenting feature was seizures (focal with secondary generalization) in 12 patients, hemiparesis in 5 and features of raised intracranial pressure in 3. On computerized tomography scan the lesions were hypodense in the interhemispheric region. On magnetic resonance imaging, the lesions were located in the interhemispheric region with heterogenous signal intensities. Restricted diffusion was evident on diffusion-weighted images and apparent diffusion co-efficient images. All the lesions were predominantly located in the anterior interhemispheric region, with either basal or parietal extension along the interhemispheric fissure. Eleven patients underwent frontal or fronto-parietal craniotomies, 3 underwent bifrontal craniotomies and 1 patient underwent supra-orbital craniotomy and endoscopic procedure. Total excision could be achieved in 11 patients; near-total, in 3; and partial excision, in 1 patient. Follow-up was available in 10 patients. Three patients had recurrence of lesion at 5, 8 and 10 years, respectively.


A 74-year-old woman presented with central nervous system (CNS) lymphomatoid granulomatosis (LYG) that spontaneously regressed and then regrew shortly thereafter. Initial magnetic resonance imaging studies showed a well demarcated, round, enhanced lesion with perifocal edema in the left temporal lobe. The enhanced lesion and perifocal edema had drastically regressed without treatment at follow-up examination. Two months later, the lesion reappeared and was larger, so was completely removed via left fronto-temporal craniotomy. The histological diagnosis was CNS LYG. CNS LYG should be considered in the differential diagnosis of spontaneously regressing brain tumors.
Based on the data reported in the National Institute of Science and Technology Policy 2010, Japan is ranked in fourth place in the world in terms of the numbers of the articles in the fields of clinical medicine. However, there had not been any objective data regarding the numbers of publications by neurosurgeons. As it is important for neurosurgeons to realize the extent of academic contributions by the neurosurgeons in different countries, the numbers of publications in the major journals by the members of the Japan Neurosurgical Society and those from neurosurgical institutions around the world were analyzed using both the biomedical literature database PubMed and the publication database &quot;ISI Web of Knowledge.&quot; Parts of the results were presented in the 69th Annual Meeting of the Japan Neurosurgical Society. As to the number of neurosurgical publications in English from the top 9 countries, the US has been consistently in first place and Japan in second. However, the number of publications from Japan has been decreasing since 2000. With regards to the &quot;top 8 journals&quot; such as the Lancet and the Journal of the American Medical Association, the number of first-author publications by Japanese neurosurgeons increased in the late 1980s and had been 2-9 articles per year until recently. In the &quot;top 12 neuroscience journals&quot; which include Stroke, Neuro-Oncology, Cancer Research, and others, Japan had been in the third next to the US and UK till 2004, but Germany surpassed Japan in 2005. In the &quot;top 6 clinical journals&quot; such as the Journal of Neurosurgery and Neurosurgery, the US has been consistently keeping first place and Japan second place since 1977. Searches using the key word elucidated that Japanese neurosurgeons are greatly contributing in the field of &quot;aneurysm.&quot; Regarding the number of publications per neurosurgeon, Canada and UK are in the forefront and Japan is down to eighth place. Japanese neurosurgeons have been contributing greatly next to the Americans to the field of clinical neurosurgery and neuroscience by publishing in English. However, the number of publications by Japanese neurosurgeons has been declining since 2000. The Japan Neurosurgical Society must come up with countermeasures to address this problem.

One of the giants of neurological surgery left us over a decade ago. Charles George Drake died September 15, 1998 in London, Ontario after an extended bout with lung cancer. Although he will always be identified with taking posterior fossa aneurysm surgery from the realm of the daring to the domain of the routine, his contributions were much broader. Clinical neurosciences have been blessed in the past century by the life and works of Drake. In the neurosurgical world, the achievements of Drake are very well known and have been well recorded. Unfortunately, in the past decade since his passing, only one paper has been published about him and his contributions to neurosurgery. This is a historical paper regarding Charles George Drake that attempts to (1) remember Drake as a pioneer; (2) to evaluate lessons that we have learned from him; and (3) to address the question 'What made him great?'. As per Drake's teachings, this paper is meant to articulate the unique perspectives Charlie provided with respect to how we learn our craft, maintain the integrity of reporting, and implement suggestions as to how we may progress into the future. In conclusion, it is our hope that this paper will bring to life the unique character of Drake and his unprecedented blend of genius, creativity, technical skill, introspection, and ever-present humility for all international neurosurgeons to appreciate.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a progressive inflammatory and demyelinating disease that affects more than 2.5 million people worldwide every year. Current therapies use mostly disease-modifying drugs, focusing on blocking and regulating systemic functions and the central nervous system (CNS) infiltration of immune cells; however, these therapies only attenuate or delay MS symptoms, but are not effective in halting the disease progression. More recent evidence indicated that regulation of inflammation within the CNS might be a better way to approach the treatment of the disease and microglia, the resident immune cells, may be a promising target of therapeutic studies. Microglia activation classically accompanies MS development, and regulation of microglia function changes the outcome of the disease. In this paper, we review the contributions of microglia to MS pathogenesis and discuss microglial functions in antigen presentation, cytokine release, and phagocytosis. We describe data both from animal and human studies. The significant impact of the timing, intensity, and differentiation fate of activated microglia is discussed, as they can modulate MS outcomes and potentially be critically modified for future therapeutic studies.
Involvement of the cervical spine is common in rheumatoid arthritis. Clinical presentation can be variable, and symptoms may be due to neck pain or compressive myeloradiculopathy. We discuss the pathology, grading systems, clinical presentation, indications for surgery and surgical management of cervical myelopathy related to rheumatoid arthritis in this paper. We describe our surgical technique and results. We recommend early consultation for surgical management when involvement of the cervical spine is suspected in rheumatoid arthritis. Even patients with advanced cervical myelopathy should be discussed for surgical treatment, since in our experience improvement in function after surgery is common.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease affecting particularly motor neurons for which no cure or effective treatment is available. Although the cause of ALS remains unknown, accumulative evidence suggests an autoimmune mechanism of pathogenesis. In this paper, we will summarize the current research related to autoimmunity in the sporadic form of ALS and discuss the potential underlying pathogenic mechanisms and perspectives. Presented data supports the view that humoral immune responses against motor nerve terminals can initiate a series of physiological changes leading to alteration of calcium homeostasis. In turn, loss of calcium homeostasis may induce neuronal death through apoptotic signaling pathways. Additional approaches identifying specific molecular features of this hypothesis are required, which will hopefully allow us to develop techniques of early diagnosis and effective therapies.
A post-marketing surveillance program was implemented to monitor the safety and open label efficacy of natalizumab since its launch in Sweden August 2006. Patients are registered in the Swedish multiple sclerosis (MS)-registry that has a nationwide coverage using a standardized follow-up that includes EDSS, MSSS, SDMT, MSIS-29, and recording of adverse events (AEs). As of 31 January, 2010, 1,115 patients had been included, of which 363 were treated  24 months. Dropout rate was 10%, mainly due to planned pregnancy. Serious AEs were rare, but included three cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), none of which had received previous immunosuppressive therapy. All analyzed clinical outcome parameters showed significant improvements compared to baseline for patients exceeding 24 months of treatment. Our results demonstrate good general tolerability and sustained efficacy of natalizumab for patients with severe MS, though the risk of PML remains a concern.
Natalizumab has been demonstrated to be highly effective in reducing measures of disease activity, such as clinical relapse rate, and gadolinium (Gd)-enhancing and new or enlarging T2 lesions appearance in patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Up to date, no data on the effect of natalizumab on cortical pathology have been published. We studied the efficacy of natalizumab in preventing the accumulation of new cortical lesions (CL) in 35 RRMS patients treated for 1 year. While confirming the high impact of natalizumab in reducing the relapse rate (&gt;90%, 85% relapse-free patients) and white matter (WM) pathology (80% patients free from new T2 WM lesions, 97% patients free from new T1 Gd-enhancing lesions), we found that this monoclonal antibody was highly effective in reducing the appearance of new CL (86% patients free from new CL). Our findings indicate a relevant activity of natalizumab against cortical inflammation in RRMS.

Analogs of benztropines (BZTs) are potent inhibitors of the dopamine transporter (DAT) but are less effective than cocaine as behavioral stimulants. As a result, there have been efforts to evaluate these compounds as leads for potential medication for cocaine addiction. Here we use computational modeling together with site-directed mutagenesis to characterize the binding site for BZTs in DAT. Docking into molecular models based on the structure of the bacterial homolog LeuT supported a BZT binding site that overlaps with the substrate-binding pocket. In agreement, mutations of residues within the pocket, including(2) Val152(3.46) to Ala or Ile, Ser422(8.60) to Ala and Asn157(3.51) to Cys or Ala, resulted in decreased affinity for BZT and the analog JHW007, as assessed in [(3)H]dopamine uptake inhibition assays and/or [(3)H]CFT competition binding assay. A putative polar interaction of one of the phenyl ring fluorine substituents in JHW007 with Asn157(3.51) was used as a criterion for determining likely binding poses and establish a structural context for the mutagenesis findings. The analysis positioned the other fluorine-substituted phenyl ring of JHW007 in close proximity to Ala479(10.51)/Ala480(10.52) in transmembrane segment (TM) 10. The lack of such an interaction for BZT led to a more tilted orientation, as compared to JHW007, bringing one of the phenyl rings even closer to Ala479(10.51)/Ala480(10.52). Mutation of Ala479(10.51) and Ala480(10.52) to valines supported these predictions with a larger decrease in the affinity for BZT than for JHW007. Summarized, our data suggest that BZTs display a classical competitive binding mode with binding sites overlapping those of cocaine and dopamine.

Ligands acting at the same receptor can differentially activate distinct signal transduction pathways, which in turn, can have diverse functional consequences. Further, receptors expressed in different tissues may utilize intracellular signaling proteins in response to a ligand differently as well. The mu opioid receptor (MOR), which mediates many of the pharmacological actions of opiate therapeutics, is also subject to differential signaling in response to diverse agonists. To study the effect of diverse agonists on MOR signaling, we examined the effects of chronic opiate treatment on two distinct physiological endpoints, antinociceptive tolerance and physical dependence, in mice lacking the intracellular regulatory molecule, arrestin2. While arrestin2 knockout (arr2-KO) mice do not become tolerant to the antinociceptive effects of chronic morphine in a hot plate test, tolerance develops to the same degree in both wild type and arr2-KO mice following chronic infusion with methadone, fentanyl, and oxycodone. Studies here also assess the severity of withdrawal signs precipitated by naloxone following chronic infusions at three different doses of each opiate agonist. While there are no differences in withdrawal responses between genotypes at the highest dose of morphine tested (48 mg/kg/day), the arr2-KO mice display several less severe withdrawal responses when the infusion dose is lowered (12 or 24 mg/kg/day). Chronic infusion of methadone, fentanyl, and oxycodone all lead to equivalent naloxone-precipitated withdrawal responses in both genotypes at all doses tested. These results lend further evidence that distinct agonists can differentially impact on opioid-mediated responses in vivo in a arrestin2-dependent manner.
Neuronal and glial glutamate transporters limit the action of excitatory amino acids after their release during synaptic transmission. Recent structural and functional investigations have revealed much about the transport and conducting mechanisms of members of the sodium-coupled symporter family responsible for glutamate clearance in the nervous system. In this review we summarize emerging views on the general structure, binding sites for substrates and coupled ions, and transport mechanisms of mammalian glutamate transporters, integrating results from a large body of work on carrier structure-function relationships with several crystal structures obtained for the archaeal ortholog, Glt(Ph).
The availability of crystal structures for the ligand binding domains of ionotropic glutamate receptors, combined with their key role in synaptic function in the normal and diseased brain, offers a unique selection of targets for pharmaceutical research compared to other drug targets for which the atomic structure of the ligand binding site is not known. Currently only a few antagonist structures have been solved, and these reveal ligand specific conformational changes that hinder rational drug design. Here we report high resolution crystal structures for three kainate receptor GluK1 antagonist complexes which reveal new and unexpected modes of binding, highlighting the continued need for experimentally determined receptor-ligand complexes.


Interferon-, currently used for the treatment of hepatitis C, is associated with a substantially elevated risk of depression. However, not everyone who takes this drug becomes depressed, so it is important to understand what particular factors may make some individuals more 'at risk' of developing depression than others. Currently there is no consensus as to why interferon-induced depression occurs and the range of putative risk factors is wide and diverse. The identification of risk factors prior to treatment may allow identification of patients who will become depressed on interferon, allowing the possibility of improved treatment support and rates of treatment adherence. Here, we consolidate and review the literature on risk factors, and we discuss the potential confounds within the research examined in order to better isolate the risk factors that may be important in the development of depression in these patients and which might help predict patients likely to become depressed on treatment. We suggest that interactions between psychobehavioral, genetic, and biological risk factors are of particular importance in the occurrence of depression in patients with hepatitis C taking interferon-.



Growing clinical evidence in support of the efficacy and safety of sleep deprivation (SD), and its biological mechanisms of action suggest that this technique can now be included among the first-line antidepressant treatment strategies for mood disorders. SD targets the broadly defined depressive syndrome, and can be administered according to several different treatment schedules: total versus partial, single versus repeated, alone or combined with antidepressant drugs, mood stabilizers, or other chronotherapeutic techniques, such as light therapy and sleep phase advance. The present review focuses on clinical evidence about the place of SD in therapy, its indications, dosage and timing of the therapeutic wake, interactions with other treatments, precautions and contraindications, adverse reactions, mechanism of action, and comparative efficacy, with the aim of providing the clinical psychiatrist with an updated, concise guide to its application.


Components of the brain reward system, i.e. the mesolimbic dopamine, laterodorsal cholinergic and ghrelin signaling systems, have been implicated in alcohol reward in preclinical studies. Genetic variants of these systems have previously been linked to alcohol dependence. Here, we genotyped 31 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs): 1 SNP in the dopamine D receptor (DRD2) gene, 20 SNPs in 5 different nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit (CHRN*) genes, and 10 SNPs in the genes encoding pro-ghrelin (GHRL) and its receptor (GHSR), in a pilot study of type 1 alcoholics (n = 84) and healthy controls (n = 32). These individuals were characterized using the Temperament and Character Inventory. None of the SNPs were associated with risk of alcohol dependence in this population. The GG genotype of SNP rs13261190 in the CHRNB3 was associated with increased novelty seeking, while SNPs of the ghrelin signaling system were associated with decreased self-directedness (AA of rs495225, GHSR) and alterations in self-transcendence (AA of both rs42451 and rs35680, GHRL). In conclusion, this pilot study suggests that reward-related genes are associated with altered personality scores in type 1 alcohol dependence, which warrants future studies of these associations in larger study samples.


Spatial Span subtest of the Wechsler Memory Scale has been viewed as an indicator of working memory and visuospatial processing. The current study examined the impact of cognitive impairment and its severity on Spatial Span performance. A neuropsychological battery including Spatial Span was administered to 538 individuals (65-89) who were grouped by consensus into Alzheimer's disease, Vascular Dementia, Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment, Non-Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment and cognitively normal. Increase in level of impairment resulted in a decrease in Spatial Span Total Score. A weak relationship between age and Spatial Span Total Score was found. Spatial Span Forward remains relatively stable regardless of level of impairment. Spatial Span Backward was more sensitive to severity. No significant differences were found between individuals diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and those with Vascular Dementia suggesting similar deficit patterns in the cognitive abilities measured by the Spatial Span. Mild Cognitive Impairment groups and normals did not differ suggesting visuospatial processes are not affected early in the dementing process.
The intensity of aphasia therapy has been a key clinical question. The aim of this case-series study was to compare the outcome of intensive and non-intensive therapy in the relearning of words for people with aphasia. Eight participants took part in a study comparing the intensity of delivery of the therapy. Participants received two courses of the same therapy (each lasting 10 sessions) delivered either intensively or non-intensively. Therapy consisted of confrontation naming with progressive phonemic and orthographic cues. Post-therapy assessments were carried out immediately after the study and one month later. Performance was also monitored during each therapy session. Immediately post-therapy, both types of therapy had improved naming accuracy considerably and there was no significant difference between the two interventions. One month later, seven out of eight participants showed a small yet significant difference in naming accuracy, favouring non-intensive over intense therapy. There were no differences in the learning patterns during the therapy sessions between the intensive and non-intensive therapies. For the majority of people with aphasia post-stroke, both intense and non-intense therapy for anomia leads to improved naming performance. Retention at one-month post therapy is relatively superior after non-intensive therapy.
Neuroimmunological factors may modulate brain functions and are important to understand the molecular basis of cognition. The tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) is known to induce neurodegenerative changes in the basal ganglia, but the cognitive effects of these changes are not understood. Since the basal ganglia are neurobiologically heterogeneous, different cognitive functions mediated by basal ganglia-prefrontal loops (response inhibition and error processing) may not necessarily be uniformly affected. Response inhibition and error processing functions were examined using event-related potentials (ERPs) and subjects (N=71) were genotyped for the functional TNF- -308GA polymorphism. We show a double-dissociated effect of the functional TNF- -308GA polymorphism on response inhibition and error processing. While response inhibition functions were more effective in the AA/AG genotype group, error monitoring functions are adversely affected in this genotype group. In the GG genotype group, the pattern of results was vice versa. The results refine the view of the effects of TNF- on cognitive functions.
Over the last years, increasing evidence has fuelled the hypothesis that Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a condition of altered brain functional connectivity. The great majority of these empirical studies relies on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) which has a relatively poor temporal resolution. Only a handful of studies has examined networks emerging from dynamic coherence at the millisecond resolution and there are no investigations of coherence at the lowest frequencies in the power spectrum-which has recently been shown to reflect long-range cortico-cortical connections. Here we used electroencephalography (EEG) to assess dynamic brain connectivity in ASD focusing in the low-frequency (delta) range. We found that connectivity patterns were distinct in ASD and control populations and reflected a double dissociation: ASD subjects lacked long-range connections, with a most prominent deficit in fronto-occipital connections. Conversely, individuals with ASD showed increased short-range connections in lateral-frontal electrodes. This effect between categories showed a consistent parametric dependency: as ASD severity increased, short-range coherence was more pronounced and long-range coherence decreased. Theoretical arguments have been proposed arguing that distinct patterns of connectivity may result in networks with different efficiency in transmission of information. We show that the networks in ASD subjects have less Clustering coefficient, greater Characteristic Path Length than controls - indicating that the topology of the network departs from small-world behaviour - and greater modularity. Together these results show that delta-band coherence reveal qualitative and quantitative aspects associated with ASD pathology.
Optic ataxia, following dorsal stream lesions, is characterised by impaired visuomotor guidance. Recent studies have found concurrent perceptual deficits, but it is unclear whether these are functionally related to the visuomotor symptoms. We studied the ability of a well-documented patient (IG) with bilateral optic ataxia to react to sudden target jumps by correcting ongoing reaches or by explicitly reporting the jump direction. IG showed deficient reach corrections, especially for target jumps to the visual periphery, and was similarly slow to discriminate the same jumps perceptually. Across six test conditions, in which the retinal locations of target jumps were varied, her perceptual slowing mirrored her reaching deficit precisely. These findings confirm perceptual impairments after dorsal stream lesions, and imply a shared functional basis with the classical visuomotor symptoms of optic ataxia. Additionally, we show that the online correction deficit is determined dually by the retinal location to which the reach must be diverted, and the location to which it is initially directed. We suggest that this deficit, and its perceptual counterpart, can be traced to a slowed contralesional orienting of attention in optic ataxia.
Visual deficits in early and high level processing nodes have been documented in Parkinson's disease (PD). Non-motor high level visual integration deficits in PD seem to have a cortical basis independently of a low level retinal contribution. It is however an open question whether sensory and visual attention deficits can be separated in PD. Here, we have explicitly separated visual and attentional disease related patterns of performance, by using bias free staircase procedures measuring psychophysical contrast sensitivity across visual space under covert attention conditions with distinct types of cues (valid, neutral and invalid). This further enabled the analysis of patterns of dorsal-ventral (up-down) and physiological inter-hemispheric asymmetries. We have found that under these carefully controlled covert attention conditions PD subjects show impaired psychophysical performance enhancement by valid attentional cues. Interestingly, PD patients also show paradoxically increased visual homogeneity of spatial performance profiles, suggesting flattening of high level modulation of spatial attention. Finally we have found impaired higher level attentional modulation of contrast sensitivity in the visual periphery, where mechanisms of covert attention are at higher demands. These findings demonstrate a specific loss of attentional mechanisms in PD and a pathological redistribution of spatial mechanisms of covert attention.
Punishing violators of social norms when there is personal cost is known as altruistic punishment. We tested patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with and without impulsive-compulsive behaviours (ICBs) and matched control subjects, on and off their regular dopamine replacement therapy on a task, in which the patients decided whether or not to invest a sum of money with a trustee. The sum was then quadrupled and the trustee could decide whether or not to return a portion of the investment. Participants could punish the trustee after they were informed of the trustee's decision. We found that PD patients without ICBs on or off medication punished more often than controls, whereas PD patients with ICBs punished more than controls on medication, but similar to controls off medication. These results suggest a role for dopamine in altruistic punishment decisions in PD patients with impulsive compulsive behaviour.







Continued gambling to recover losses--'loss chasing'--is a prominent feature of social and pathological gambling. However, little is known about the neuromodulators that influence this behavior. In three separate experiments, we investigated the role of serotonin activity, D(2)/D(3) receptor activity, and beta-adrenoceptor activity on the loss chasing of age and IQ-matched healthy adults randomized to treatment or an appropriate control/placebo. In Experiment 1, participants consumed amino-acid drinks that did or did not contain the serotonin precursor, tryptophan. In Experiment 2, participants received a single 176 g dose of the D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist, pramipexole, or placebo. In Experiment 3, participants received a single 80 mg dose of the beta-adrenoceptor blocker, propranolol, or placebo. Following treatment, participants completed a computerized loss-chasing game. Mood and heart rate were measured at baseline and following treatment. Tryptophan depletion significantly reduced the number of decisions made to chase losses, and the number of consecutive decisions to chase, in the absence of marked changes in mood. By contrast, pramipexole significantly increased the value of losses chased and diminished the value of losses surrendered. Propranolol markedly reduced heart rate, but produced no significant changes in loss-chasing behavior. Loss chasing can be thought of as an aversively motivated escape behavior controlled, in part, by the marginal value of continued gambling relative to the value of already accumulated losses. Serotonin and dopamine appear to play dissociable roles in the tendency of individuals to gamble to recover, or to seek to 'escape' from, previous losses. Serotonergic activity seems to promote the availability of loss chasing as a behavioral option, whereas D(2)/D(3) receptor activity produces complex changes in the value of losses judged worth chasing. Sympathetic arousal, at least as mediated by beta-adrenoceptors, does not play a major role in laboratory-based loss-chasing choices.
In humans, relapse to maladaptive eating habits during dieting is often provoked by stress. In rats, the anxiogenic drug yohimbine, which causes stress-like responses in both humans and nonhumans, reinstates food seeking in a relapse model. In this study, we examined the role of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) dopamine D1-family receptors, previously implicated in stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking, in yohimbine-induced reinstatement of food seeking. We trained food-restricted rats to lever press for 35% high-fat pellets every other day (9-15 sessions, 3 h each); pellet delivery was accompanied by a discrete tone-light cue. We then extinguished operant responding for 10-16 days by removing the pellets. Subsequently, we examined the effect of yohimbine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) on reinstatement of food seeking and Fos (a neuronal activity marker) induction in mPFC. We then examined the effect of systemic injections of the D1-family receptor antagonist SCH23390 (10 g/kg, s.c.) on yohimbine-induced reinstatement and Fos induction, and that of mPFC SCH23390 (0.5 and 1.0 g/side) injections on this reinstatement. Yohimbine-induced reinstatement was associated with strong Fos induction in the dorsal mPFC and with weaker Fos induction in the ventral mPFC. Systemic SCH23390 injections blocked both yohimbine-induced reinstatement and mPFC Fos induction. Dorsal, but not ventral, mPFC injections of SCH23390 decreased yohimbine-induced reinstatement of food seeking. In addition, dorsal mPFC SCH23390 injections decreased pellet-priming-induced reinstatement, but had no effect on ongoing high-fat pellet self-administration or discrete-cue-induced reinstatement. Results indicate a critical role of dorsal mPFC dopamine D1-family receptors in stress-induced relapse to palatable food seeking, as well as relapse induced by acute re-exposure to food taste, texture, and smell.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is one of the most effective therapies for depression and has beneficial motor effects in parkinsonian patients. However, little is known about the mechanisms of therapeutic action of ECT for either condition. The aim of this work was to explore the impact of ECT on dopaminergic function in the striatum of non-human primates. Rhesus monkeys underwent a course of six ECT treatments under a human clinical protocol. Longitudinal effects on the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system were studied over 6 weeks using the in vivo capabilities of positron emission tomography (PET). PET scans were performed prior to the onset of ECT treatments and at 24-48 h, 8-10 days, and 6 weeks after the final ECT treatment. Early increases in dopamine transporter and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 binding returned to baseline levels by 6 weeks post-ECT. Transient increases in D1 receptor binding were also observed, whereas the binding potential to D2 receptors was unaltered. The increase in dopaminergic neurotransmission suggested by our results may account in part for the therapeutic effect of ECT in mood disorders and Parkinson's disease.
The cannabinoid CB(1) receptor-mediated modulation of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) release from inhibitory interneurons is important for the integrity of hippocampal-dependent spatial memory. Although adenosine A(1) receptors have a central role in fine-tuning excitatory transmission in the hippocampus, A(1) receptors localized in GABAergic cells do not directly influence GABA release. CB(1) and A(1) receptors are the main targets for the effects of two of the most heavily consumed psychoactive substances worldwide: (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, a CB(1) receptor agonist) and caffeine (an adenosine receptor antagonist). We first tested the hypothesis that an A(1)-CB(1) interaction influences GABA and glutamate release in the hippocampus. We found that A(1) receptor activation attenuated the CB(1)-mediated inhibition of GABA and glutamate release and this interaction was manifested at the level of G-protein activation. Using in vivo and in vitro approaches, we then investigated the functional implications of the adenosine-cannabinoid interplay that may arise following chronic caffeine consumption. Chronic administration of caffeine in mice (intraperitoneally, 3 mg/kg/day, for 15 days, &gt;12 h before trials) led to an A(1)-mediated enhancement of the CB(1)-dependent acute disruptive effects of THC on a short-term spatial memory task, despite inducing a reduction in cortical and hippocampal CB(1) receptor number and an attenuation of CB(1) coupling with G protein. A(1) receptor levels were increased following chronic caffeine administration. This study shows that A(1) receptors exert a negative modulatory effect on CB(1)-mediated inhibition of GABA and glutamate release, and provides the first evidence of chronic caffeine-induced alterations on the cannabinoid system in the cortex and hippocampus, with functional implications in spatial memory.
Metabolic function is integrally related to an individual's susceptibility to, and progression of, disease. Selective breeding for intrinsic treadmill running in rats has produced distinct lines of high- or low-capacity runners (HCR and LCR, respectively) that exhibit numerous physiological differences. To date, the role of intrinsic aerobic capacity on behavior and stress response in these rats has not been addressed and was the focus of these studies. HCR and LCR rats did not differ in their locomotor response to novelty or behavior in the light/dark box. In contrast, immobility in the forced swim test was higher in LCR rats compared with HCR rats, regardless of desipramine treatment. Although both HCR and LCR rats responded to cat odor with decreased exploration and increased risk assessment, HCR rats showed greater contextual conditioning to cat odor. HCR rats exhibited higher expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone in the central nucleus of the amygdala, as well as heavier adrenal and thymus weight. Corticosterone was comparable among HCR and LCR rats at light/dark transitions, and in response to unavoidable cat odor. HCR rats, however, exhibited a greater corticosterone response following the light/dark box. These experiments show that the LCR phenotype associates with decreased risk assessment in response to salient danger signals and passive coping. In contrast, HCR rats show a more naturalistic strategy in that they employ active coping and a more vigilant and cautious response to environmental novelty and salient danger signals. Within this context, we propose that intrinsic aerobic capacity is a central feature mechanistically linking complex metabolic disease and behavior.
The use of stimulant drugs for the treatment of children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most widespread pharmacological interventions in child psychiatry and behavioral pediatrics. This treatment is well grounded on controlled studies showing efficacy of low oral doses of methylphenidate and amphetamine in reducing the behavioral symptoms of the disorder as reported by parents and teachers, both for the cognitive (inattention and impulsivity) and non-cognitive (hyperactivity) domains. Our main aim is to review the objectively measured cognitive effects that accompany the subjectively assessed clinical responses to stimulant medications. Recently, methods from the cognitive neurosciences have been used to provide information about brain processes that underlie the cognitive deficits of ADHD and the cognitive effects of stimulant medications. We will review some key findings from the recent literature, and then offer interpretations of the progress that has been made over the past decade in understanding the cognitive effects of stimulant medication on individuals with ADHD.
Neurophysiological experiments in primates, alongside neuropsychological and functional magnetic resonance investigations in humans, have significantly enhanced our understanding of the neural architecture of decision making. In this review, I consider the more limited database of experiments that have investigated how dopamine and serotonin activity influences the choices of human adults. These include those experiments that have involved the administration of drugs to healthy controls, experiments that have tested genotypic influences upon dopamine and serotonin function, and, finally, some of those experiments that have examined the effects of drugs on the decision making of clinical samples. Pharmacological experiments in humans are few in number and face considerable methodological challenges in terms of drug specificity, uncertainties about pre- vs post-synaptic modes of action, and interactions with baseline cognitive performance. However, the available data are broadly consistent with current computational models of dopamine function in decision making and highlight the dissociable roles of dopamine receptor systems in the learning about outcomes that underpins value-based decision making. Moreover, genotypic influences on (interacting) prefrontal and striatal dopamine activity are associated with changes in choice behavior that might be relevant to understanding exploratory behaviors and vulnerability to addictive disorders. Manipulations of serotonin in laboratory tests of decision making in human participants have provided less consistent results, but the information gathered to date indicates a role for serotonin in learning about bad decision outcomes, non-normative aspects of risk-seeking behavior, and social choices involving affiliation and notions of fairness. Finally, I suggest that the role played by serotonin in the regulation of cognitive biases, and representation of context in learning, point toward a role in the cortically mediated cognitive appraisal of reinforcers when selecting between actions, potentially accounting for its influence upon the processing salient aversive outcomes and social choice.
Although schizophrenia is an illness that has been historically characterized by the presence of positive symptomatology, decades of research highlight the importance of cognitive deficits in this disorder. This review proposes that the theoretical model of cognitive control, which is based on contemporary cognitive neuroscience, provides a unifying theory for the cognitive and neural abnormalities underlying higher cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. To support this model, we outline converging evidence from multiple modalities (eg, structural and functional neuroimaging, pharmacological data, and animal models) and samples (eg, clinical high risk, genetic high risk, first episode, and chronic subjects) to emphasize how dysfunction in cognitive control mechanisms supported by the prefrontal cortex contribute to the pathophysiology of higher cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Our model provides a theoretical link between cellular abnormalities (eg, reductions in dentritic spines, interneuronal dysfunction), functional disturbances in local circuit function (eg, gamma abnormalities), altered inter-regional cortical connectivity, a range of higher cognitive deficits, and symptom presentation (eg, disorganization) in the disorder. Finally, we discuss recent advances in the neuropharmacology of cognition and how they can inform a targeted approach to the development of effective therapies for this disabling aspect of schizophrenia.
Investigating how different pharmacological compounds may enhance learning, memory, and higher-order cognitive functions in laboratory animals is the first critical step toward the development of cognitive enhancers that may be used to ameliorate impairments in these functions in patients suffering from neuropsychiatric disorders. Rather than focus on one aspect of cognition, or class of drug, in this review we provide a broad overview of how distinct classes of pharmacological compounds may enhance different types of memory and executive functioning, particularly those mediated by the prefrontal cortex. These include recognition memory, attention, working memory, and different components of behavioral flexibility. A key emphasis is placed on comparing and contrasting the effects of certain drugs on different cognitive and mnemonic functions, highlighting methodological issues associated with this type of research, tasks used to investigate these functions, and avenues for future research. Viewed collectively, studies of the neuropharmacological basis of cognition in rodents and non-human primates have identified targets that will hopefully open new avenues for the treatment of cognitive disabilities in persons affected by mental disorders.
Many of the individual differences in cognition, motivation, and learning-and the disruption of these processes in neurological conditions-are influenced by genetic factors. We provide an integrative synthesis across human and animal studies, focusing on a recent spate of evidence implicating a role for genes controlling dopaminergic function in frontostriatal circuitry, including COMT, DARPP-32, DAT1, DRD2, and DRD4. These genetic effects are interpreted within theoretical frameworks developed in the context of the broader cognitive and computational neuroscience literature, constrained by data from pharmacological, neuroimaging, electrophysiological, and patient studies. In this framework, genes modulate the efficacy of particular neural computations, and effects of genetic variation are revealed by assays designed to be maximally sensitive to these computations. We discuss the merits and caveats of this approach and outline a number of novel candidate genes of interest for future study.
Although placebos have long been considered a nuisance in clinical research, today they represent an active and productive field of research and, because of the involvement of many mechanisms, the study of the placebo effect can actually be viewed as a melting pot of concepts and ideas for neuroscience. Indeed, there exists not a single but many placebo effects, with different mechanisms and in different systems, medical conditions, and therapeutic interventions. For example, brain mechanisms of expectation, anxiety, and reward are all involved, as well as a variety of learning phenomena, such as Pavlovian conditioning, cognitive, and social learning. There is also some experimental evidence of different genetic variants in placebo responsiveness. The most productive models to better understand the neurobiology of the placebo effect are pain and Parkinson's disease. In these medical conditions, the neural networks that are involved have been identified: that is, the opioidergic-cholecystokinergic-dopaminergic modulatory network in pain and part of the basal ganglia circuitry in Parkinson's disease. Important clinical implications emerge from these recent advances in placebo research. First, as the placebo effect is basically a psychosocial context effect, these data indicate that different social stimuli, such as words and rituals of the therapeutic act, may change the chemistry and circuitry of the patient's brain. Second, the mechanisms that are activated by placebos are the same as those activated by drugs, which suggests a cognitive/affective interference with drug action. Third, if prefrontal functioning is impaired, placebo responses are reduced or totally lacking, as occurs in dementia of the Alzheimer's type.
In this review, we consider affective cognition, responses to emotional stimuli occurring in the context of cognitive evaluation. In particular, we discuss emotion categorization, biasing of memory and attention, as well as social/moral emotion. We discuss limited neuropsychological evidence suggesting that affective cognition depends critically on the amygdala, ventromedial frontal cortex, and the connections between them. We then consider neuroimaging studies of affective cognition in healthy volunteers, which have led to the development of more sophisticated neural models of these processes. Disturbances of affective cognition are a core and specific feature of mood disorders, and we discuss the evidence supporting this claim, both from behavioral and neuroimaging perspectives. Serotonin is considered to be a key neurotransmitter involved in depression, and there is a considerable body of research exploring whether serotonin may mediate disturbances of affective cognition. The final section presents an overview of this literature and considers implications for understanding the pathophysiology of mood disorder as well as developing and evaluating new treatment strategies.

The vestibular system is a sophisticated human control system. Accurate processing of sensory input about rapid head and postural motion is critical. Not surprisingly, the body uses multiple, partially redundant sensory inputs and motor outputs, combined with a very competent central repair capability. The system as a whole can adapt to substantial peripheral vestibular dysfunction. The Achilles' heel of the vestibular system is a relative inability to repair central vestibular dysfunction.
A debate exists concerning whether a mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) can cause permanent brain-based residuals. This debate is examined by reviewing meta-analytic studies that found no significant effect sizes between large samples of patients with and without MTBI at three months post-accident. In contrast, research studies with MTBI patients have captured cognitive deficits corroborated by positive neuroimaging, which supports the viewpoint that brain-based postconcussive disorders likely exist in a small minority of individuals. Ongoing hurdles that likely contribute to this debate are identified. This includes the lack of agreed upon definitions; substantial differences exist between the ICD-10 definition for Postconcussion Syndrome and the DSM-IV-TR definition for Postconcussional Disorder. Confining the debate to brain-based versus psychologically-based viewpoints results in a false dichotomy. Instead, a more refined sub-classification of the postconcussive complex is proposed that captures different constellations across the physical, emotional, and cognitive symptoms complex. Moreover, this diagnostic framework attempts to expand discipline-based approaches with a patient-based understanding.
Neuroimaging at all stages of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) provides information about gross brain pathology. In this review, post-mortem TBI cases are matched to neuroimaging findings from TBI survivors to demonstrate the close correlation between observable pathology with in vivo neuroimaging to the underlying neuropathology. An emphasis of this review focuses on neuroimaging identification of trauma induced cortical and white matter degeneration along with hydrocephalus ex vacuo expansion of the ventricular system as the injured brain exhibits atrophic changes. The role of hippocampal atrophy and thalamic injury along with the vulnerability of the corpus callosum in TBI are also reviewed. The aim of this review is to provide pathological confirmation of observable neuroimaging abnormalities that relate directly to trauma-induced effects of the injury.
Oxytocin is a potent inducer of penile erection when injected into the central nervous system. In male rats, the most sensitive brain area for the pro-erectile effect of oxytocin is the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. This nucleus and surrounding regions contain the cell bodies of all oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas and the spinal cord. This review shows that oxytocin induces penile erection also when injected in some of these areas (e.g., ventral tegmental area, ventral subiculum of the hippocampus, posteromedial cortical nucleus of the amygdala and thoraco-lumbar spinal cord). Microinjection studies combined with intra-cerebral microdialysis and double immuno-fluorescence studies suggest that oxytocin in these areas activates directly or indirectly (mainly through glutamic acid) mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons. Dopamine released in the nucleus accumbens in turn activates neural pathways leading to the activation of incerto-hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons in the paraventricular nucleus. This activates not only oxytocinergic neurons projecting to the spinal cord and mediating penile erection, but also those projecting to the above extra-hypothalamic areas, modulating directly or indirectly (through glutamic acid) the activity of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons controlling motivation and reward. Together these neural pathways may constitute a complex hypothetical circuit, which plays a role not only in the consummatory phase of sexual activity (erectile function and copulation), but also in the motivational and rewarding aspects of the anticipatory phase of sexual behaviour.
It is always difficult to interpret null results. But as a research method, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has so many degrees of freedom that null results are often dismissed as meaningless. We feel that this may be unnecessary, if not counterproductive. Null results seem to inherently fulfill an important role in brain mapping. In fact, without null results, neuroimaging as an enterprise would not make sense. We argue that null results are similarly important in TMS research. By itself, neuroimaging research leaves room for doubt concerning whether or not an activated region is actually necessary for intact task performance. Interference methods such as TMS can therefore complement brain research by testing the functional relevance of that region. However, if then only positive TMS results are taken seriously, the brain interference paradigm seems less informative than promised. But how can null results inform us if they only constitute absence of evidence? We suggest that three main arguments contravene interpretation of null results in TMS. These we call the localization argument, the neural efficacy argument, and the power argument. We proceed to discuss in turn how, and under which conditions, each of these arguments may be nuanced. These considerations lead us to value null results along a gradient of meaningfulness, rather than a dichotomy. This perspective may open up a new range of TMS applications, where research questions about the lack of functional relevance of a particular brain region become valid. In this context we make specific recommendations on experimentation and interpretation. We propose that it is often not only meaningful to interpret null results, but also useful to make such findings available to the community, especially now that improved methods and an expanded knowledge base make null results more interpretable than they have been in the past.
Converging evidence suggests that deficits in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) functioning are implicated in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). This is highlighted by research investigating cortical inhibition (CI), a process whereby GABAergic interneurons selectively attenuate pyramidal neurons. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigms evaluate this marker of neuronal inhibitory activity in the cortex. This review will examine the neuroanatomic and neurophysiological evidence from neuroimaging, molecular, treatment, and TMS studies linking dysfunctional GABAergic neurotransmission to MDD.
For some cancer survivors chemotherapy treatment is associated with lasting cognitive impairment, long after treatment cessation. Several candidate mechanisms have been suggested, yet clinical research has been unable to clearly tease apart these hypotheses. Rodent research has allowed a systematic study of these underlying mechanisms in the absence of potential patient confounds. Herein, this research is reviewed with emphasis on the role of the blood-brain barrier, neurogenesis, oxidative stress, white matter, immune system/(neuro) inflammation, HPA axis, blood flow, and cancer in chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment. Furthermore, potential pharmacotherapy and behavioral intervention strategies are reviewed. This paper ends with methodological considerations in study of chemotherapy and cognition.
This study was designed to evaluate the global scientific output of acupuncture research in the Science Citation Index-Expanded and to assess the tendencies and research performances of leading countries/territories and institutes. Articles referring to acupuncture were assessed by distribution of document types, languages, journals, subject categories, source countries, and source institutes. Results showed that 15 languages were represented in articles from 65 countries/territories. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine published the most articles, followed by American Journal of Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture &amp; Electro-Therapeutics Research which were listed in category of integrative &amp; complementary medicine. In the study period of 1991-2009, USA was the top producing country, followed by China (mainland) with a sharply growth trend. In 2009, publication of China (mainland) ranked top one in the world. In addition, an acupuncture research trend was found in two phases in terms of the increase of number of SCI-expanded journals' articles. Among the acupuncture research, pain control has been the most prevalent direction of study, and brain imaging is attracting the most recent attention.
Strategies for managing the nervous system are numerous while methods of evaluating the nervous system are limited. Given the physiological importance of neurotransmitters as signaling molecules in the nervous system, the measurement of neurotransmitters has significant potential as a clinical tool. Of all the biological fluids that can be utilized, urinary neurotransmitter testing, due to its stability, sensitivity, and non-invasiveness, is the desired method to analyze nervous system function. Increasing use of this technology in a clinical setting demands a review of its feasibility, utility, and clinical value. We review the current body of literature pertaining to the mechanism of neurotransmitter transport across the blood-brain barrier as well as neurotransmitter filtration and excretion by the kidneys. In addition, this review summarizes the historical use of urinary neurotransmitter assessment to diagnose pheochromocytoma. Early research also correlated urinary assessment of neurotransmitters to various clinical symptoms and treatments of which we present research only for depression, ADHD, and inflammation because of the abundant amount of research in these areas. Finally, we review the limitations and challenges of urinary neurotransmitter testing. Taken together, evidence suggests that neurotransmitters excreted in the urine may have a place in clinical practice as a biomarker of nervous system function to effectively assess disturbances and monitor treatment efficacy.
The present review describes and analyzes several recent papers in which the processes of preparation, evaluation and changing a cue's predictive value on a trial-by-trial basis conform a cycle that permits behavior to be constantly updated. This approach is an extension of Joaquin Fuster's proposal of a &quot;perception-action&quot; cycle in which executive networks are constantly updated as a function of the trials' outcome. The presented results can also be considered in relation to the computational Bayesian brain framework proposed by Friston (2009). The present approach is based on human electrophysiological studies of Posner's central cue paradigm, which provides the possibility to dissociate the following processing steps: (i) preparation for certain stimuli, (ii) evaluation of the validity or invalidity of the preparatory state, and (iii) the feedback cycling of the information extracted from one trial to the next. This trial-by-trial learning would be a potential basis for organism adaptation.
Female mammals have long been neglected in biomedical research. The NIH mandated enrollment of women in human clinical trials in 1993, but no similar initiatives exist to foster research on female animals. We reviewed sex bias in research on mammals in 10 biological fields for 2009 and their historical precedents. Male bias was evident in 8 disciplines and most prominent in neuroscience, with single-sex studies of male animals outnumbering those of females 5.5 to 1. In the past half-century, male bias in non-human studies has increased while declining in human studies. Studies of both sexes frequently fail to analyze results by sex. Underrepresentation of females in animal models of disease is also commonplace, and our understanding of female biology is compromised by these deficiencies. The majority of articles in several journals are conducted on rats and mice to the exclusion of other useful animal models. The belief that non-human female mammals are intrinsically more variable than males and too troublesome for routine inclusion in research protocols is without foundation. We recommend that when only one sex is studied, this should be indicated in article titles, and that funding agencies favor proposals that investigate both sexes and analyze data by sex.
The current systematic review and meta-analysis provides an extended and comprehensive overview of the associations between neurocognitive and social cognitive functioning and different types of functional outcome. Literature searches were conducted in MEDLINE and PsycINFO and reference lists from identified articles to retrieve relevant studies on cross-sectional associations between neurocognition, social cognition and functional outcome in individuals with non-affective psychosis. Of 285 studies identified, 52 studies comprising 2692 subjects met all inclusion criteria. Pearson correlations between cognition and outcome, demographic data, sample sizes and potential moderator variables were extracted. Forty-eight independent meta-analyses, on associations between 12 a priori identified neurocognitive and social cognitive domains and 4 domains of functional outcome yielded a number of 25 significant mean correlations. Overall, social cognition was more strongly associated with community functioning than neurocognition, with the strongest associations being between theory of mind and functional outcomes. However, as three-quarters of variance in outcome were left unexplained, cognitive remediation approaches need to be combined with therapies targeting other factors impacting on outcome.
Though the most recognizable symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are motor-related, many patients also suffer from debilitating affective symptoms that deleteriously influence quality of life. Dopamine (DA) loss is likely involved in the onset of depression and anxiety in PD. However, these symptoms are not reliably improved by DA replacement therapy with l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). In fact, preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that l-DOPA treatment may worsen affect. Though the neurobiological mechanisms remain unclear, recent research contends that l-DOPA further perturbs the function of the norepinephrine and serotonin systems, already affected by PD pathology, which have been intimately linked to the development and expression of anxiety and depression. As such, this review provides an overview of the clinical characteristics of affective disorders in PD, examines the utility of animal models for the study of anxiety and depression in PD, and finally, discusses potential mechanisms by which DA loss and subsequent l-DOPA therapy influence monoamine function and concomitant affective symptoms.
Anhedonia is a core symptom of major depressive disorder (MDD), the neurobiological mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. Despite decades of speculation regarding the role of dopamine (DA) in anhedonic symptoms, empirical evidence has remained elusive, with frequent reports of contradictory findings. In the present review, we argue that this has resulted from an underspecified definition of anhedonia, which has failed to dissociate between consummatory and motivational aspects of reward behavior. Given substantial preclinical evidence that DA is involved primarily in motivational aspects of reward, we suggest that a refined definition of anhedonia that distinguishes between deficits in pleasure and motivation is essential for the purposes of identifying its neurobiological substrates. Moreover, bridging the gap between preclinical and clinical models of anhedonia may require moving away from the conceptualization of anhedonia as a steady-state, mood-like phenomena. Consequently, we introduce the term &quot;decisional anhedonia&quot; to address the influence of anhedonia on reward decision-making. These proposed modifications to the theoretical definition of anhedonia have implications for research, assessment and treatment of MDD.
Neuroscience is one of the most heavily experimental fields of biological and medical research. As such, statistical approaches have traditionally focused on testing specific predictions based upon well-focused hypotheses. However, neuroscience data are often derived from repeated measurements and stimulus type presentations with a limited number of subjects, some of which may have incomplete data per subject. Here we provide an introduction to a group of diverse and powerful statistical approaches, which we term the '5 Ms', which have been successfully used in other fields of biological research facing similar constraints. Specifically, we detail how M1: meta-analysis can combine, reconcile, and analyse between- and within-study results, M2: mixed-effects modelling is beneficial through replacing statistical tests involving pseudoreplication, M3: multiple imputation may be used to account for the biases caused by missing data arising from incomplete experimental protocols, and M4: model averaging from information-theoretic approaches allows to discriminate among alternative functional hypotheses. We also provide a brief introduction to Bayesian statistics using M5: Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). Taken together, these approaches provide neuroscientists with a robust statistical toolbox containing elements that alleviate some of the analytical constraints generated by limited sample sizes, repeated subject use, and incomplete replicates of experimental manipulation.
The use of addictive drugs can have profound short- and long-term consequences on social behaviors. Similarly, social experiences and the presence or absence of social attachments during early development and throughout life can greatly influence drug intake and the susceptibility to drug abuse. The following review details this reciprocal interaction, focusing on common drugs of abuse (e.g., psychostimulants, opiates, alcohol and nicotine) and social behaviors (e.g., maternal, sexual, play, aggressive and bonding behaviors). The neural mechanisms underlying this interaction are discussed, with a particular emphasis on the involvement of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has become a mainstay of cognitive neuroscience, thus facing new challenges due to its widespread application on behaviorally silent areas. In this review we will summarize the main technical and methodological considerations that are necessary when using TMS in cognitive neuroscience, based on a corpus of studies and technical improvements that has become available in most recent years. Although TMS has been applied only relatively recently on a large scale to the study of higher functions, a range of protocols that elucidate how this technique can be used to investigate a variety of issues is already available, such as single pulse, paired pulse, dual-site, repetitive and theta burst TMS. Finally, we will touch on recent promising approaches that provide powerful new insights about causal interactions among brain regions (i.e., TMS with other neuroimaging techniques) and will enable researchers to enhance the functional resolution of TMS (i.e., state-dependent TMS). We will end by briefly summarizing and discussing the implications of the newest safety guidelines.
Within neuroscience and biobehavioral research, the pig (Sus scrofus) is increasingly being acknowledged as a valuable large animal species. Compared to the rodent brain, the pig brain more closely resembles the human brain in terms of both anatomy and biochemistry, which associates the pig with a higher translational value. Several brain disorders have been fully or partially modeled in the pig and this has further spurred an interest in having access to behavioral tasks for pigs, and in particular to cognitive tasks. Cognitive testing of pigs has been conducted for several years by a small group of farm animal welfare researchers, but it has only recently received interest in the wider neuroscience community. Several behavioral tasks have successfully been adapted to the pig, and valuable results have been produced. However, most tasks have only been established at a single research facility, and would benefit from further validation. This review presents the cognitive tasks that have been developed for pigs, their validation, and their current use.
Repetitive and stereotyped behavior is a prominent element of both animal and human behavior. Similar behavior is seen across species, in diverse neuropsychiatric disorders and in key phases of typical development. This raises the question whether these similar classes of behavior are caused by similar neurobiological mechanisms or whether they are neurobiologically unique? In this paper we discuss fundamental animal research and translational models. Imbalances in corticostriatal function often result in repetitive behavior, where different classes of behavior appear to be supported by similar neural mechanisms. Although the exact nature of these imbalances are not yet fully understood, synthesizing the literature in this area provides a framework for studying the neurobiological systems involved in repetitive behavior.
In young, typically developing children, repetitive behavior similar to that in certain neuropsychiatric syndromes is common. Whereas this behavior is adaptive in typical development, in many disorders it forms a core component of symptoms and causes prominent impairment in the daily life of affected individuals. Understanding the neurobiological mechanisms involved repetitive behavior will improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of developmental neuropsychiatric disorders, stimulating novel approaches to these conditions. However, studies on the neurobiology of human repetitive behavior have often been limited to distinct conditions and generalization has been hindered by inconsistent terminology. In this paper, we synthesize the 'disorder-driven' literature, building on findings from fundamental animal research and translational models. These findings suggest a model for classifying repetitive behavior by its neuroanatomical correlates.
In the present study, the effects of morphine treatment upon reduction of memory consolidation by post-training administration of the non-selective cannabinoid CB(1)/CB(2) receptor agonist, WIN55,212-2, into the dorsal hippocampus (intra-CA1) have been investigated in rats. Step-through inhibitory avoidance apparatus was used to test memory retrieval, which was made of two white and dark compartments. In training day, electric shocks were delivered to the grid floor of the dark compartment. On the test day, the animal was placed in the white compartment and allowed to enter the dark compartment. The latency with which the animal crossed into the dark compartment was recorded as memory retrieval. Morphine was injected subcutaneously (S.C.), once daily for three days, followed by a five day morphine-free period before training. Bilateral post-training intra-CA1 infusions of WIN55,212-2 (0.25 and 0.5 g/rat) shortened the step-through latency, which suggested impaired memory consolidation. The deleterious effect of WIN55,212-2 (0.5 g/rat) was prevented in rats previously injected with morphine (10 mg/kg/day  3 days, S.C.). Prevention of the WIN55,212-2-induced amnesic-like effect was counteracted by the mu-receptor antagonist, naloxone, and the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, sulpiride, but not by the D(1) receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, when administered prior to each morphine injection. The results have suggested that subchronic morphine treatment may cause mu-opioid and D(2) receptor sensitization, which in turn prevents impairment of memory consolidation induced by WIN55,212-2.








Management of patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms (IIAs) who require valve replacement remains a challenge. Although there is potential risk of aneurysmal rupture associated with cardiac surgery, there have been few reported ruptures of IIAs during the perioperative period of valve replacement. We present a unique patient who suffered intracerebral hemorrhage due to rupture of an IIA 2 weeks after mitral valve replacement. This unique aneurysm is fed by 2 adjacent branches of the left middle cerebral arteries. Direct clipping of the aneurysm was successfully performed using 2 clips with preservation of the parent arteries. This case demonstrates that although it is rare, rupture of an untreated IIA might occur during the perioperative period of cardiac surgery. For patient safety, definitive treatment of unruptured IIAs is recommended before cardiac surgery, especially when long-term anticoagulation is needed after surgery.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) has been reported to be associated with endocrinopathies, such as amenorrhea, galactorrhea, and diabetes mellitus. However, its association with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is extremely rare. We herein report an adult case of NMO with SIADH in a female Chinese patient. The patient was aquaporin-4 antibody positive, and her hypothalamic dysfunction may have been related to the development of SIADH.
We present the case of an 80-year-old female with acute right fronto-parietal stroke and an interesting neurological sign on clinical examination; the arm levitation sign. We discuss the imaging correlates of this sign and hypothesize on the possible functional etiology of the sign. We also discuss in brief, the possibility of neuronal misconnections causing the sign and the resultant problems with rehabilitation when patients have this sign.
We describe a patient who presented with a pure topographical disorientation after a stroke involving the right mesial occipito-temporal cortex. He could not point to external unseen landmarks or draw a map of his city, while he could recognize landmarks, and judge the distance, and describe the route between pairs of landmarks of the same city. He underwent standardized cognitive tests, and 6 tasks were used to assess a topographical orientation route-survey. This study provides evidence that topographical disorientation can be subdivided into very specific components. The results suggest that one of these components might refer to the processing of an allocentric map separable from the representation of route knowledge.
Lesions of the brachial plexus may arise for various reasons. Metastatic carcinoma involving the non-ipsilateral brachial plexus is a relatively rare condition. This report presents the case of a 56-year-old woman with brachial plexus carcinoma metastasized from non-ipsilateral breast cancer. After admission, minute examinations were arranged, which gave support to the previous diagnosis. Extended resection of the tumor mass in- and outside the foramen was performed. One month after the operation, the sensation of the left upper extremity began to recover gradually. Due to multi-organ failure, she died 2 months post-surgery. This case underscores the need for appropriate diagnosis of brachial plexus abnormalities. In addition to the common causes, it should be noted that brachial plexus abnormalities could even occur on the contralateral side.






The evaluation of physical, psychological, social, and occupational factors are recommended in patients with discogenic sciatica. Surgical discectomy may be considered in selected patients with sciatica due to lumbar disc herniations that fail to resolve with conservative management for at least 6-8 weeks, or in patients with cauda equina syndrome. An appropriate pre-operative work up including neuroimaging is necessary. Surgery has been shown to be highly effective; shortening the time to recovery by around 50% compared to nonsurgical treatment. Whether one specific surgical procedure is better than other remains uncertain. Methodological limitations of studies evaluating the efficacy of percutaneous methods prevent ultimate conclusions. Post-operative complications occur in 1-3% of cases. If patients are appropriately selected, failures happen in less than 10% of cases. The most common modes of failure include recurrent disc herniation and fibrosis. Failed back surgery syndrome is also a challenge for spinal surgeons.
Defining intractable epilepsy is essential not only to identify up to 40% of patients refractory to pharmacological management, but also to facilitate selection and comparison of such patients for research purposes. The ideal definition still eludes us. Multiple factors including number of antiepileptic drug (AED) failures, seizure frequency and duration of unresponsiveness, etiology, and epilepsy syndromes are considered in formulating the definition of pharmaco-resistant epilepsy. Most definitions used in the literature agree on the number of AED failures, which seem to be 2 or 3, however, the seizure frequency and time factor are varied. The International League Against Epilepsy proposed a definition of drug-resistant epilepsy as a failure of adequate trials of 2 tolerated and appropriately chosen and used AED schedules. This for now, could provide an operational definition for clinical and research settings. However, with emergence of new data and novel treatments the criteria for intractability may change.
Noise can play a constructive role in the detection of weak signals in various kinds of peripheral receptors and neurons. What the mechanism underlying the effect of noise is remains unclear. Here, the perforated patch-clamp technique was used on isolated cells from chronic compression of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) model. Our data provided new insight indicating that, under conditions without external signals, noise can enhance subthreshold oscillations, which was observed in a certain type of neurons with high-frequency (20-100 Hz) intrinsic resonance from injured DRG neurons. The occurrence of subthreshold oscillation considerably decreased the threshold potential for generating repetitive firing. The above effects of noise can be abolished by blocking the persistent sodium current (I(Na, P)). Utilizing a mathematical neuron model we further simulated the effect of noise on subthreshold oscillation and firing, and also found that noise can enhance the electrical activity through autonomous stochastic resonance. Accordingly, we propose a new concept of the effects of noise on neural intrinsic activity, which suggests that noise may be an important factor for modulating the excitability of neurons and generation of chronic pain signals.
A prospective study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of neurophysiological monitoring (NPM) techniques in the detection of ischemic changes that may be seen during endovascular treatment of cerebral aneurysms. Sixty three patients underwent NPM during first-stage endovascular treatment of cerebral aneurysms. The endovascular procedures included coil embolization (26 patients), balloon-remodeling coiling (16 patients), stent-assisted coiling (ten patients), balloon-stent-assisted coiling (nine patients), and balloon test occlusion (two patients). NPM included electroencephalography, somatosensory evoked potentials, and brain stem auditory evoked potentials, depending on the location of the aneurysm and its associated vascular territory. NPM changes were seen in three patients (4.8%), and the procedures were altered immediately. No neurological changes were found postendovascularly. Ten patients demonstrated abnormal angiographic findings without concurrent NPM changes, of which five patients developed visual disturbance or hemiparesis. It is concluded that NPM is a valuable monitoring tool for endovascular treatment of cerebral aneurysms.
Korbinian Brodmann is best remembered for his classification of cortical areas based on cytoarchitecture. He was influenced by such greats as Alzheimer, Vogt, Edinger, Nissl, and Weigert. Although first presented in 1903, Brodmann's &quot;mapping&quot; continues to be the lingua franca of cortical localization and his writings on this topic have become neurological classics. Many of his areas have gone on to be associated with various nervous functions such as hearing (areas 41 and 42) and vision (areas 17 and 18). Few textbooks of neurology, neuroanatomy, or neurosurgery fail to mention the important maps produced by Brodmann that are still used today. The present article discusses the life and influence of Korbinian Brodmann on our understanding of the human brain.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a well-established tool in clinical practice and research on human neurological disorders. Translational MRI research utilizing rodent models of central nervous system (CNS) diseases is becoming popular with the increased availability of dedicated small animal MRI systems. Projects utilizing this technology typically fall into one of two categories: 1) true &quot;pre-clinical&quot; studies involving the use of MRI as a noninvasive disease monitoring tool which serves as a biomarker for selected aspects of the disease and 2) studies investigating the pathomechanism of known human MRI findings in CNS disease models. Most small animal MRI systems operate at 4.7-11.7 Tesla field strengths. Although the higher field strength clearly results in a higher signal-to-noise ratio, which enables higher resolution acquisition, a variety of artifacts and limitations related to the specific absorption rate represent significant challenges in these experiments. In addition to standard T1-, T2-, and T2*-weighted MRI methods, all of the currently available advanced MRI techniques have been utilized in experimental animals, including diffusion, perfusion, and susceptibility weighted imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, chemical shift imaging, heteronuclear imaging, and (1)H or (31)P MR spectroscopy. Selected MRI techniques are also exclusively utilized in experimental research, including manganese-enhanced MRI, and cell-specific/molecular imaging techniques utilizing negative contrast materials. In this review, we describe technical and practical aspects of small animal MRI and provide examples of different MRI techniques in anatomical imaging and tract tracing as well as several models of neurological disorders, including inflammatory, neurodegenerative, vascular, and traumatic brain and spinal cord injury models, and neoplastic diseases.
Methylmercury (MeHg) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are widespread environmental pollutants commonly found as contaminants in the same food sources. Even though their neurotoxic effects are established, the mechanisms of action are not fully understood. In the present study, we have used the mouse hippocampal neuronal cell line HT22 to investigate the mechanisms of neuronal death induced by MeHg, PCB 153, and PCB 126, alone or in combination. All chemicals induced cell death with morphological changes compatible with either apoptosis or necrosis. Mitochondrial functions were impaired as shown by the significant decrease in mitochondrial Ca+ uptake capacity and ATP levels. MeHg, but not the PCBs, induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and release of cytochrome c into the cytosol. Also, pre-treatment with the antioxidant MnTBAP was protective only against cell death induced by MeHg. While caspase activation was absent, the Ca+-dependent proteases calpains were activated after exposure to MeHg or the selected PCBs. Furthermore, lysosomal disruption was observed in the exposed cells. Accordingly, pre-treatment with the calpain specific inhibitor PD150606 and/or the cathepsin D inhibitor Pepstatin protected against the cytotoxicity of MeHg and PCBs, and the protection was significantly enhanced when the two inhibitors were combined. Simultaneous exposures to lower doses of MeHg and PCBs suggested mostly antagonistic interactions. Taken together, these data indicate that MeHg and PCBs induce caspase-independent cell death via parallel activation of calpains and lysosomal proteases, and that in this model oxidative stress does not play a major role in PCB toxicity.
Cigarette smoking condensate (CSC) contains oxidant compounds able to generate superoxide. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of the exposure to CSC on: (1) free radical production, (2) the gene expression of the antioxidant enzymes Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), Mn superoxide dismutase (SOD2), Glutathione Peroxidase (GPx), and catalase (CAT), and (3) cell survival in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. The results showed that exposure (24h) to different concentrations (10-150g/ml) of CSC caused a dose dependent cell injury that was coupled to the maximal increase of free radical production. These events were prevented by the addition to the incubation medium of the scavenger Vitamin E (50M). Furthermore, CSC exposure caused a reduction of the gene expression of the antioxidant enzymes SOD1, SOD2, GPx, and CAT that was counteracted by Vitamin E (50M). These results suggest that CSC exposure can induce a free radical overcharge that may be responsible for the inhibition of antioxidant enzymes expression and cell injury in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. In fact the scavenger vitamin E can block both cell injury and inhibition of SOD1, SOD2, GPx, and CAT induced by CSC exposure.
In a prospective study, patients with a radiologically proven brain tumour underwent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) prior to definitive diagnosis and treatment. Twenty-eight patients with a histologically proven glioblastoma or metastasis were included in the study. Following the definition of regions of interest, DTI metrics [mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA)] were calculated for the tumour volume and the surrounding region of peritumoral oedema. These metrics were then subjected to logistic regression to investigate their ability to discriminate between glioblastomas and cerebral metastases. A cross-validation was performed to investigate the ability of the model to predict tumour. The logistic regression analysis correctly distinguished glioblastoma in 15 of 16 cases (93.8%) and metastasis in 11 of 12 cases (91.7%). Cross-validation resulted in the model correctly predicting 14 of 16 (87.5%) glioblastomas and 10 of 12 (83.3%) metastases studied. MD was significantly higher (p=0.02) and FA was significantly lower (p=0.04) within the oedema surrounding metastases than within the oedema around glioblastomas. MD was significantly higher (p=0.02) within the tumour volume of the glioblastomas. Our results demonstrate that, when DTI metrics from the tumour volume and surrounding peritumoral oedema are studied in combination, glioblastoma can be reliably discriminated from cerebral metastases.
The main purpose of this descriptive field study was to explore music listening habits and preferred listening levels with portable music players (PMPs). We were also interested in seeing whether any exposure differences could be observed between the sexes. Data were collected during 12 hours at Stockholm Central Station, where people passing by were invited to measure their preferred PMP listening level by using a KEMAR manikin. People were also asked to answer a questionnaire about their listening habits. In all, 60 persons (41 men and 19 women) took part in the questionnaire study and 61 preferred PMP levels to be measured. Forty-one of these sound level measurements were valid to be reported after consideration was taken to acceptable measuring conditions. The women (31 years) and the men (33 years) started to use PMPs on a regular basis in their early 20s. Ear canal headphones/ear buds were the preferred headphone types. Fifty-seven percent of the whole study population used their PMP on a daily basis. The measured LAeq60 sec levels corrected for free field ranged between 73 and 102 dB, with a mean value of 83 dB. Sound levels for different types of headphones are also presented. The results of this study indicate that there are two groups of listeners: people who listen less frequently and at lower, safer sound levels, and people with excessive listening habits that may indeed damage their hearing sensory organ in time.
ArachnoServer (www.arachnoserver.org) is a manually curated database providing information on the sequence, structure and biological activity of protein toxins from spider venoms. These proteins are of interest to a wide range of biologists due to their diverse applications in medicine, neuroscience, pharmacology, drug discovery and agriculture. ArachnoServer currently manages 1078 protein sequences, 759 nucleic acid sequences and 56 protein structures. Key features of ArachnoServer include a molecular target ontology designed specifically for venom toxins, current and historic taxonomic information and a powerful advanced search interface. The following significant improvements have been implemented in version 2.0: (i) the average and monoisotopic molecular masses of both the reduced and oxidized form of each mature toxin are provided; (ii) the advanced search feature now enables searches on the basis of toxin mass, external database accession numbers and publication date in ArachnoServer; (iii) toxins can now be browsed on the basis of their phyletic specificity; (iv) rapid BLAST searches based on the mature toxin sequence can be performed directly from the toxin card; (v) private silos can be requested from research groups engaged in venoms-based research, enabling them to easily manage and securely store data during the process of toxin discovery; and (vi) a detailed user manual is now available.
The complex of the yeast Lsm1p-7p proteins with Pat1p is an important mRNA decay factor that is involved in translational shutdown of deadenylated mRNAs and thus prepares these mRNAs for degradation. While the Lsm proteins are highly conserved, there is no unique mammalian homolog of Pat1p. To identify proteins that interact with human LSm1, we developed a novel immunoprecipitation technique that yields virtually pure immunocomplexes. Mass-spec analysis therefore identifies mostly true positives, avoiding tedious functional screening. The method unambiguously identified the Pat1p homolog in HeLa cells, Pat1b. When targeted to a reporter mRNA, Pat1b represses gene expression by inducing deadenylation of the mRNAs. This demonstrates that Pat1b, unlike yPat1p, acts as an mRNA-specific deadenylation factor, highlighting the emerging importance of deadenylation in the mRNA regulation of higher eukaryotes.

The rise in infantile autism, learning problems, cognitive decline with age, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's diseases and the SIDS epidemic, has a common cause in the rising dietary deficit in Omega-3 brain-food. This paper suggests that aside from the wider concept of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and pervasive developmental disorders (PDD), the rise in infantile autism (IA) in the last decade is the effect of deficient brain-food (Omega-3). The consequent delay of development, prolongs the 2nd regressive event in infancy to pruning of the centre in the Medial Frontal Lobe System that connects hippocampus and singulum. With a consequently defective supplementary motor area (SMA), the Delayed Response Function is affected leading to persistent psychosis. Post-pubertal episodic psychoses are associated with acute reduction of excitation, a risk of breakdown of circuitry, insufficient fill-in mechanisms, and silent spots. An acute psychosis occurs if the silent spots compromise SMA. Only two brain areas have continuous neurogenesis, indicating their important functions: the Hippocampus and Olfactory Bulb that belongs to the lateral frontal lobe system essential to survival. Concerned with necessity of action in response to the environment, it relies upon short-term memory and acute feedback mechanisms influenced by emotion and motivation from the external world. In contrast, the medial frontal lobe network is controlled by feed-forward predictive mechanisms related to storage of information The Delayed Response Function is mastered at 7 months, when 2nd event occurs with pruning of axons and dendrites. An abolished or defective delayed response function seriously incapacitates an individual: a defective &quot;social brain&quot; with an inability for conscious action and to communicate, predominates in IA. There is a near lack of speech, despite normal vision and hearing in the minority without marked adversity in pregnancy, at delivery or in infancy. The recent rise in IA despite no rise in adversity signifies a rising deficiency in brain-food. This is suggested by a changing clinical picture: no Mental Retardation in an IA majority. Deficit in olfaction is pathognomonic in schizophrenia since 30 yrs and distinguishes the Asperger syndrome. If brain-food deficiency alone sufficiently prolongs pruning to cause absent activity in SMA in infancy, less mentally retarded IA from other causes might be observed. Deficit in brain-food was evident in the Sudden Infant Death Syndrome: birthweight averaged 200-300g lower than sibs, Omega-3 levels in brainstem were lower than controls. Only 20% SIDS died in first hypoxic episode, suggesting such episodes are more frequent than we imagined. Children with learning-behaviour problems have similarly depressed birthweight. A general deficiency in omega-3 contributes to the lacking reduction in Schizophrenia, despite early puberty predominates. Olfactory bulb is first affected in the Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Cognitive decline with age, hippocampal dysfunctions rises markedly irrespective of disease, but the major mental illnesses and Infantile Autism in particular, benefit from &quot;brainfood&quot; that might also prevent a development of these disorders. To secure optimal brain function in the coming generations, there is a need to change the diet now from its emphasis on protein for body growth to food for the brain. This means there is a need to increase fish and sea food consumption.
Consumption of a high-fat and/or high-cholesterol diet can have detrimental effects on the brain. In the present study, dietary treatment with saturated fats, trans fats, or cholesterol to middle-aged Fischer 344 rats resulted in alterations to serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels, organ weights, and hippocampal morphology. Previously, we demonstrated that a 10% hydrogenated coconut oil and 2% cholesterol diet resulted in worse performance on the 12-day water radial arm maze, increased cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and decreased dendritic microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) staining in the hippocampus. The diets administered herein were used to examine components from the previous diet and further examine their effects on hippocampal morphology. Specifically, neuronal morphology, dendritic integrity, fatty acid metabolism, microgliosis, and blood vessel structure in the hippocampus and/or adjacent structures were explored. Our results indicate alterations to peripheral and neural systems following each of the diets.


An unregulated neuroinflammation accompanies numerous chronic and acute neurodegenerative disorders and it is postulated that such a neuroinflammatory component likely exacerbates disease progression. A key player in brain inflammation is the microglial cell; a vital soluble factor synthesized by activated microglial cells is the key cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-). Additionally, microglial cells release IL-1/, reactive oxygen species (ROS), such as superoxide (O(2) (-)) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) like nitric oxide (NO). Nitric oxide reactive oxygen species can undergo various forms of interactions in cells whereby the synthesis of RNS / ROS intermediates are generated that can damage cell membranes. The presence of oxidative damaged cells is implicated with the abnormal cellular activity in brain or in the spinal cord, and is a classical feature of neurodegenerative disorders. To aid characterize this process, a quantitative analysis of nitrite generation was undertaken on agents developed to lower TNF- levels in cell culture. Nitrite is a stable end product of nitric oxide metabolism and, thereby, acts as a surrogate measure of the highly unstable nitric oxide. Utilizing a RAW 264.7 cellular model of lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation that induces high levels of TNF- protein accompanied by a robust generation of nitrite, the properties of a series of thalidomide-based TNF- synthesis inhibitors were evaluated to reduce the levels of both. Specific analogues of thalidomide effectively suppressed the generation of both TNF- and nitrite at well-tolerated doses.
MRI has achieved widespread use for preplanning neuroscience procedures for non-human primate studies. However, orienting imaging studies in stereotaxic space has relied primarily on using a stereotaxic frame or co-registering fiducial markers with the neuroimaging. In this study, we present a simple approach in which the MRI dataset is aligned to the bony landmarks that define the Frankfurt stereotaxic baseline plane, without the need for a stereotaxic frame or additional external fiducials. To facilitate localizing the bony landmarks (infraorbital margin, external bony auditory meatus) on the MRI scans additional imaging landmarks (mid ocular plane, temporomandibular joint) are discussed that provide supplementary and readily visible points of reference. The frameless MRI stereotaxic technique was evaluated in 8 rhesus macaque monkeys using 3D fast gradient echo MRI images with 0.7mm isotropic resolution. 1) Difference in stereotaxic coordinates of fiducial markers was compared between a traditional stereotaxic frame and the frameless MRI technique (n=2). 2) Differences in stereotaxic coordinates for cerebral regions were compared between the frameless MRI technique and MRI obtained with the animal positioned in a MRI-compatible stereotaxic frame (n=4). 3) The frameless MRI technique was further refined to prescribe electrode penetrations within a dural recording chamber in stereotaxic coordinates relative to the electrode microdrive. Differences in MRI coordinates were compared with the electrode microdrive (n=3). Mean localization of fiducial markers differed by 1.6 +/- 0.6 mm between the frameless MRI technique and a traditional stereotaxic frame. Between the frameless technique and an MRI-compatible stereotaxic frame, localization of cerebral anatomy differed by 2.8 +/- 2.2 mm with the primary source of error being a pitch-up rotation in the sagittal plane. This localization difference was reduced to 0.5 +/- 0.6 mm when this rotation was removed. Frameless MRI coordinates for electrode tracts within the dural recording chamber were within 0.5mm +/- 0.2 mm of the electrode microdrive readings. This simple technique provides the ability to accurately plan surgery and neurophysiological recordings in an individual animal, and to define the location of cerebral anatomy and electrode or injection tracts using publically available software, and without the need for dedicated MRI-compatible localization hardware. The reduced need for deep anesthesia (a necessity with traditional stereotaxic frames) makes the technique more amenable for functional MRI studies. Since each animal provides the bony landmarks to define their own stereotaxic space, this technique is readily applicable to other species.
The advent of functional neuroimaging techniques has allowed to address the question of the role of the brain in a new light, being now able to record brain activity under different kinds of perceptual, cognitive or motor paradigms. Two exponentially emerging fields, i.e. social and affective neurosciences, converge on topics such as brain processing of emotional information issued by the congeners. As any social interaction obbeys a motivational dimension of interattraction, it is therefore important to study the role of the brain in specific functional contexts. In this paper we show how the emergence of a new field crystallized around the study of brain circuits involved in sexual affiliation has helped providing important results to understand the brain's role in social motivated interactions. Specifically, these studies show for this involvement a central physiological component and its cortical representation that seems to be essential for social interactions with motivational component.
Intermittent exotropia is a common oculomotor anomaly where one eye intermittently deviates outwards. Patients with this type of strabismus are often not aware of the exodeviation and do not usually experience diplopia. In this review, we discuss what is known about the cortical mechanisms which achieve single vision during exodeviation in this condition, and highlight some outstanding questions.

Choroideremia is an X-linked, progressive photoreceptor degeneration disorder due to mutations in CHM. In addition to an atrophy of the outer retina, affected individuals present with a characteristic atrophy of the choroid. To search for a canine model, we screened the CHM gene of 37 dogs (22 breeds) with various forms of retinal dystrophies. We found 21 variations in 13 breeds (17 detected in only one breed and 4 shared by two or more) with 43% segregating in the same pedigree, a Great Dane female and a female offspring. Of particular interest were an exonic missense variation and a 3-bp intronic deletion near a splice acceptor site. However, although not detected in unrelated healthy Great Danes, these variants were nonpathogenic since they did not segregate with the disease phenotype in the pedigree. These results suggest that a CHM dog model may not be viable, as is the case for mouse and zebrafish.


Degradation of oxidized or oxidatively modified proteins is an essential part of the antioxidant defenses of cells. 4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal, a major reactive aldehyde formed by lipid peroxidation, causes many types of cellular damage. It has been reported that 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins are degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway or, in some cases, by the lysosomal pathway. However, our previous studies using U937 cells showed that 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase is degraded by cathepsin G. In the present study, we isolated the 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase-degrading enzyme from rat neutrophils to an active protein fraction of 28kDa. Using the specific antibody, the 28kDa protein was identified as cathepsin G. Moreover, the degradation activity was inhibited by cathepsin G inhibitors. These results suggest that cathepsin G plays a crucial role in the degradation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.
Multiple pathological mechanisms at multiple sensory sites may underlie the pain that follows nerve injury. This provides a basis for recommending more than one agent, either sequentially or in combination, for its treatment. According to this premise, new drugs that combine different mechanisms of analgesic action in a single molecule are gaining momentum, such as tapentadol which stimulates mu-opioid receptors (MOR) and acts as a noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (NRI) in the CNS. Tapentadol is currently indicated for treating moderate to severe acute and severe chronic pain, and here we demonstrate its efficacy in an animal model of ongoing neuropathic pain. In particular, we performed a series of in vivo electrophysiological tests in spinal nerve ligated and sham-operated rats to show that systemic tapentadol (1 and 5mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced evoked responses of spinal dorsal horn neurones to a range of peripheral stimuli, including brush, punctate mechanical and thermal stimuli. Furthermore, we showed that spinal application of the selective (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist atipamezole, or alternatively the mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, produced near complete reversal of tapentadol's inhibitory effects, which suggests not only that the spinal cord is the key site of tapentadol's actions, but also that no pharmacology other than MOR-NRI is involved in its analgesia. Moreover, according to the extent that the antagonists reversed tapentadol's inhibitions in sham and SNL rats, we suggest that there may be a shift from predominant opioid inhibitory mechanisms in control animals, to predominant noradrenergic inhibition in neuropathic animals.
The TRPA1 receptor is a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of ion channels expressed in nociceptive neurons. TRPA1 receptors are targeted by pungent compounds from mustard and garlic and environmental irritants such as formaldehyde and acrolein. Ingestion or inhalation of these chemical agents causes irritation and burning in the nasal and oral mucosa and respiratory lining. Headaches have been widely reported to be induced by inhalation of environmental irritants, but it is unclear how these agents produce headache. Stimulation of trigeminal neurons releases CGRP and substance P and induces neurogenic inflammation associated with the pain of migraine. Here we test the hypothesis that activation of TRPA1 receptors is the mechanistic link between environmental irritants and peptide-mediated neurogenic inflammation. Known TRPA1 agonists and environmental irritants stimulate CGRP release from dissociated rat trigeminal ganglia neurons and this release is blocked by a selective TRPA1 antagonist, HC-030031. Further, TRPA1 agonists and environmental irritants increase meningeal blood flow following intranasal administration. Prior dural application of the CGRP antagonist, CGRP(8-37), or intranasal or dural administration of HC-030031, blocks the increases in blood flow elicited by environmental irritants. Together these results demonstrate that TRPA1 receptor activation by environmental irritants stimulates CGRP release and increases cerebral blood flow. We suggest that these events contribute to headache associated with environmental irritants.
In different fields of neuroscience research, illusions have successfully been used to unravel underlying mechanisms of stimulus processing. One such illusion existing for the field of pain research is the so-called thermal grill illusion. Here, painful sensations are elicited by interlacing warm and cold bars, with stimulus intensities (temperatures) of these bars being below the respective heat pain or cold pain thresholds. To date, the underlying mechanisms of this phenomenon are not completely understood. There is some agreement, however, that the sensation evoked by this stimulation is generated by central nervous interactions. Therefore, we followed two approaches in this study: firstly, we aimed at developing and validating a water-driven device which might be used in fMRI scanners in future studies - subject to minor adaptations. Secondly, we aimed to interfere with this illusion by induction of a sad mood state, a procedure which is suggested to influence central nervous structures that are also involved in pain processing. The newly developed device induced thermal grill sensations similar to those reported in the literature. Induction of sad, but not neutral mood states, resulted in higher pain and unpleasantness ratings of the painful illusion. These findings might be of importance for the understanding of pain processing in healthy volunteers, but putatively even more so in patients with major depressive disorder. Moreover, our results might indicate that central nervous structures involved in the affective domain or cognitive domain of pain processing might be involved in the perception of the illusion.
Barry J Sessle graduated from dental school in Sydney, Australia, in 1963 and went on to complete a Masters in oral biology. This reinforced his emerging interest in research, which eventually led to his PhD in Sydney and postdoctorate work in dental neuroscience at the NIH. He joined the University of Toronto Faculty of Dentistry, Canada, in 1971 and was Dean of the Faculty from 1990 to 2001. He is currently Professor, Faculty of Dentistry, and Canada Research Chair, and a former President of the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP), the Canadian Pain Society (CPS) and the International Association of Dental Research. Dr Sessle has received many distinctive awards and honors. For example, he is the only dentist to be elected to the Royal Society of Canada and the Canadian Academy of Science (in 1996). He is also the only dentist or dental academic to be President of either the IASP or CPS. He was honored by the American Academy of Orofacial Pain during their annual meeting in 2004 and given an award for his dedication to pain research, service and teaching. This is only the second such award given in the 30 years of the organization's existence. In 2004, he was awarded the Institute of Musculoskeletal Health and Arthritis (IMHA) Quality of Life Research Award in recognition of the highest rank IMHA-related grant in 2004 for the Canadian Institutes of Health Research competitions. Dr Sessle is also a renowned lecturer, presenting 15-20 lectures internationally each year and, in addition, has published 11 books and over 330 papers. He is editor-in-chief of the Journal of Orofacial Pain, and a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of Pain Management. In this article, Dr Sessle discusses his career and current work with the Launch Editor, Laura Dormer.
Howard Fields received his MD and PhD in Neuroscience at Stanford University (CA, USA) in 1965-1966. After Internal Medicine training at Bellevue Hospital in New York, he spent 3 years as a research neurologist at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (MD, USA). Following clinical training in neurology at the Boston City Hospital Service of Harvard Medical School in 1972, he joined the faculty of the University of California, San Francisco (USA) where he is currently Professor of Neurology, Director of the Wheeler Center for the Neurobiology of Addiction and Principal Investigator at the Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center. Fields' major interests are in nervous system mechanisms of pain and substance abuse, with a focus on how endogenous opioids contribute to these mechanisms. He was a founder of the UCSF Pain Management Center and has made major contributions to understanding and treating neuropathic pain. His group was the first to demonstrate the clinical effectiveness of opioids for neuropathic pain and of topical lidocaine for postherpetic neuralgia. In laboratory studies he discovered and elucidated a pain-modulating neural circuit that is required for opioids to produce analgesia. He also discovered that placebo analgesia is blocked by an opioid antagonist. Recently, his laboratory has discovered nerve cells in the striatum that selectively encode the magnitude of a reward. They have also shown how the neurotransmitter dopamine contributes to motivation and reward-based choice. Fields has received numerous research awards and has given many named lectureships including a Merit Award from the NIH, the Kerr Award of the American Pain Society, the Cotzias Award of the American Academy of Neurology and the RD Adams lecture of the American Neurological Association. He also gave the Beecher Lecture (in anesthesiology) and the Adams Lecture (in neurology) at Harvard. In 1997, he was elected to membership in the Institute of Medicine and in 2010, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The Iconic Pain Assessment Tool (IPAT) is a novel web-based instrument for the self-report of pain quality, intensity and location in the form of a permanent diary. Originally designed for people with central poststroke pain, the tool is being adapted for a larger, more diverse patient population. The present study aimed to collect evaluative feedback on the IPAT from a heterogeneous sample of individuals with chronic pain. The specific study aims were to evaluate participant comfort with the tool including enjoyment, ease of use and comfort with the electronic medium; to assess perceived value of the tool for communicating pain quality, intensity and location; to gauge participant intent to share their pain diaries with others and use the tool on a regular basis to track their pain over time; to assess the perceived descriptiveness of current IPAT icons and the numerical rating scale; and to identify strengths and weaknesses of the tool to refine the existing prototype. Written and verbal feedback from individuals with a variety of chronic pain conditions (n=23) were collected in the context of these objectives. Overall, the IPAT was positively endorsed by this heterogeneous sample of people in pain. The authors concluded that the IPAT is a user-friendly instrument that has the potential to help people express, document and share their personal experience with chronic pain.

Clinicogenetic and pathological studies have shown that mutations of the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) are a risk factor for Parkinson's disease and Lewy body disorders. In the present study, we have identified GBA mutations in 6.8% (4/59) of cases with a pathological diagnosis of diffuse Lewy body disease. Taken with previous studies, it appears that GBA mutations are associated with a more diffuse pattern of Lewy body distribution involving the cerebral cortex than the brainstem/limbic distribution observed in typical Parkinson's disease.
Neural cell transplantation and gene therapy have attracted considerable interest as promising therapeutic alternatives for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Preclinical and open-label studies have suggested that grafted fetal neural tissue or viral vector gene transfer can achieve considerable biochemical and clinical improvements, whereas subsequent double-blind, placebo-controlled protocols have produced rather more modest and variable results. Detailed evaluation of these discordant findings has highlighted several crucial issues such as patient selection criteria, details surrounding transplantation or gene therapy methodologies, as well as the study designs themselves that ought to be carefully considered in the planning phases of future clinical trials. Beyond the provision of symptomatic efficacy and safety data, it also remains to be identified whether the possibilities offered by stem cell and gene therapy technological advances might translate to meaningful neuroprotection and/or disease-modifying effects or alleviate the nonmotor aspects of PD and thus offer additional benefits beyond those achieved through conventional pharmacotherapy or deep brain stimulation (DBS).


The aim of the present study was to explore four individuals' perspective of the way their speech and communication changed as a result of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation treatment for Parkinson's disease. Interviews of two men and two women were analyzed using qualitative content analysis. Three themes emerged as a result of the analysis. The first theme included sub-themes describing both increased and unexpected communication difficulties such as a more vulnerable speech function, re-emerging stuttering and cognitive difficulties affecting communication. The second theme comprised strategies to improve communication, using different speech techniques and communicative support, as well as trying to achieve changes in medical and stimulation parameters. The third theme included descriptions of mixed feelings surrounding the surgery. Participants described the surgery as an unavoidable dramatic change, associated both with improved quality of life but also uncertainty and lack of information, particularly regarding speech and communication changes. Despite negative effects on speech, the individuals were generally very pleased with the surgical outcome. More information before surgery regarding possible side effects on speech, meeting with a previously treated patient and possibly voice and speech therapy before or after surgery are suggested to facilitate the adjustment to the new speech conditions.
Nigrostriatal damage is increased in males relative to females. While estrogen is neuroprotective in females, less is known about potential protective effects of testosterone in males. We determined if castration enhances neuronal injury to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Castrates or sham-castrated mice were sacrificed 1 week following injection of MPTP (4  20mg/kg) or saline (n = 11-12/group). The right striatum was immunostained for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The left hemisphere was stained by Golgi Cox to quantify neuronal morphology in medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the dorsolateral striatum. MPTP reduced TH, but there was no effect of castration and no interaction. For MSN dendritic morphology, MPTP decreased the highest branch order and increased spine density on 2nd-order dendrites. Castrated males had shorter 5th-order dendrites. However, there was no interaction between gonadal status and MPTP. Thus, castration and MPTP exert nonoverlapping effects on MSN morphology with castration acting on distal dendrites and MPTP acting proximally.
The identification of the etiologies and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) should play an important role in enabling the development of novel treatment strategies to prevent or slow the progression of the disease. The last few years have seen enormous progress in this respect. Abnormalities of mitochondrial function and increased free radical mediated damage were described in post mortem PD brain before the first gene mutations causing familial PD were published. Several genetic causes are now known to induce loss of dopaminergic cells and parkinsonism, and study of the mechanisms by which these mutations produce this effect has provided important insights into the pathogenesis of PD and confirmed mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress pathways as central to PD pathogenesis. Abnormalities of protein metabolism including protein mis-folding and aggregation are also crucial to the pathology of PD. Genetic causes of PD have specifically highlighted the importance of mitochondrial dysfunction to PD: PINK1, parkin, DJ-1 and most recently alpha-synuclein proteins have been shown to localise to mitochondria and influence function. The turnover of mitochondria by autophagy (mitophagy) has also become a focus of attention. This review summarises recent discoveries in the contribution of mitochondrial abnormalities to PD etiology and pathogenesis.
Nonmotor symptoms (NMS) like neuropsychiatric symptoms, sleep disturbances or autonomic symptoms are a common feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). To explore the existence of groups of NMS and to relate them to PD characteristics, 71 idiopathic non-demented PD out-patients were recruited. Sleep was evaluated by the PD Sleep Scale (PDSS). Several neuropsychiatric, gastrointestinal and urogenital symptoms were obtained from the NMSQuest. Sialorrhea or dysphagia severity was obtained from the Unified PD Rating Scale activities of daily living section. MADRS depression scale was also administered. Exploratory factor analysis revealed the presence of 5 factors, explaining 70% of variance. The first factor included PDSS measurement of sleep quality, nocturnal restlessness, off-related problems and daytime somnolence; the second factor included nocturia (PDSS) and nocturnal activity; the third one included gastrointestinal and genitourinary symptoms; the forth one included nocturnal psychosis (PDSS), sialorrhea and dysphagia (UPDRS); and the last one included the MADRS score as well as neuropsychiatric symptoms. Sleep disorders correlated with presence of wearing-off, nocturia with age &gt;69 years, and nocturnal psychosis with levodopa equivalent dose or UPDRS II score. Neuropsychiatric symptoms correlated with UPDRS II+III score and non-tricyclic antidepressants. These results support the occurrence of significant NMS grouping in PD patients.

To evaluate the role of apoptosis in rabies encephalitis in humans and canines infected with wild-type street virus, in comparison with rodent model infected with street and laboratory passaged CVS strain, we studied postmortem brain tissue from nine humans, six canines infected with street rabies virus, and Swiss albino mice inoculated intramuscularly (IM) and intracerebrally (IC) with street and CVS strains. Encephalitis and high rabies antigen load were prominent in canine and human brains compared to rodents inoculated with street virus. Neuronal apoptosis was detectable only in sucking mice inoculated with CVS strain and minimal in street virus inoculated mice. In a time point study in suckling mice, DNA laddering was noted only terminally (7 days p.i.) following IC inoculation with CVS strain but not with street virus. In weanling and adult mice, apoptosis was restricted to inflammatory cells and absent in neurons similar to human and canine rabies-infected brains. Absence of neuronal apoptosis in wild-type rabies may facilitate intraneuronal survival and replication while apoptosis in inflammatory cells prevents elimination of the virus by abrogation of host inflammatory response.
Child neurology has evolved from a primarily diagnostic to a therapeutic subspecialty. Despite well-documented manpower shortages, child neurology programs at major children's hospitals have expanded, and the optimal administrative structure for child neurology programs has not been clearly defined. The Division of Child Neurology at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, DC, is a part of the Center for Neuroscience and Behavioral Medicine. This center includes multiple medical, behavioral health, and surgical subspecialties, and fosters the development of child neurology. During the 10 years of its existence, the number of board-certified or eligible child neurologists within the center has tripled to over 30. Because of its success, the Division of Child Neurology was split into three free-standing divisions and two institutes. This unique structure has fostered the development of numerous multidisciplinary programs, and is fiscally sustainable. The strengths, limitations, and challenges of this structure in terms of child neurology are reviewed. This administrative structure has been successful and may act as a model for other programs.





Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hydrothorax is a rare complication of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS), and even rarer in the absence of shunt migration into the thoracic compartment. Because of the limited volume within the thoracic cavity, hydrothorax in infants can rapidly cause severe respiratory distress. The case of an infant with recurrent CSF hydrothorax despite a well-positioned VPS is presented. A ventriculoatrial shunt was successfully performed as the definitive treatment. The absence of ascites or predisposing factors for decreased peritoneal absorption and a false-negative (2)-transferrin CSF marker are some of the factors that can add to the diagnostic challenge in these patients. This is a potentially life-threatening condition in infants, which should be closely considered in patients with VPS who develop hydrothorax, although diagnosis is not always straight forward. The etiology and pathophysiology of this very rare disease continue to be elusive, and treatment with ventriculoatrial shunt provides good results.
A growing amount of modern media is consumed simultaneously, a phenomenon known as 'media multitasking'. Individuals who regularly engage in this activity, heavy media multitaskers (HMMs), are more affected by irrelevant information that can intrude into a primary task than are light media multitaskers (LMMs--Ophir et al, 2009 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA 106 15583). However, the locus of this deficit is unknown, as previous research is consistent with both memory and attentional explanations. Here, we isolated attentional processes by employing a singleton distractor task with low working-memory demands. In this task, LMMs used top-down information to improve their performance, yet HMMs did not. This difference in performance in an established attentional capture task argues for the presence of attentional differences in HMMs and is consistent with the idea that HMMs maintain a wider attentional scope than LMMs, even when instructed otherwise.
Numerous studies have shown that familiarity strongly influences how well humans recognize faces. This is particularly true when faces are encountered across a change in viewpoint. In this situation, recognition may be accomplished by matching partial or incomplete information about a face to a stored representation of the known individual, whereas such representations are not available for unknown faces. Chimpanzees, our closest living relatives, share many of the same behavioral specializations for face processing as humans, but the influence of familiarity and viewpoint have never been compared in the same study. Here, we examined the ability of chimpanzees to match the faces of familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics in their frontal and 3/4 views using a computerized task. Results showed that, while chimpanzees were able to accurately match both familiar and unfamiliar faces in their frontal orientations, performance was significantly impaired only when unfamiliar faces were presented across a change in viewpoint. Therefore, like in humans, face processing in chimpanzees appears to be sensitive to individual familiarity. We propose that familiarization is a robust mechanism for strengthening the representation of faces and has been conserved in primates to achieve efficient individual recognition over a range of natural viewing conditions.
The visual system possesses a remarkable ability in learning regularities from the environment. In the case of contextual cuing, predictive visual contexts such as spatial configurations are implicitly learned, retained, and used to facilitate visual search-all without one's subjective awareness and conscious effort. Here we investigated whether implicit learning and its facilitatory effects are sensitive to the statistical property of such implicit knowledge. In other words, are highly probable events learned better than less probable ones even when such learning is implicit? We systematically varied the frequencies of context repetition to alter the degrees of learning. Our results showed that search efficiency increased consistently as contextual probabilities increased. Thus, the visual contexts, along with their probability of occurrences, were both picked up by the visual system. Furthermore, even when the total number of exposures was held constant between each probability, the highest probability still enjoyed a greater cuing effect, suggesting that the temporal aspect of implicit learning is also an important factor to consider in addition to the effect of mere frequency. Together, these findings suggest that implicit learning, although bypassing observers' conscious encoding and retrieval effort, behaves much like explicit learning in the sense that its facilitatory effect also varies as a function of its associative strengths.
Face aftereffects can provide information on how faces are stored by the human visual system (eg Leopold et al, 2001 Nature Neuroscience 4 89-94), but few studies have used robustly represented (highly familiar) faces. In this study we investigated the influence of facial familiarity on adaptation effects. Participants were adapted to a series of distorted faces (their own face, a famous face, or an unfamiliar face). In experiment 1, figural aftereffects were significantly smaller when participants were adapted to their own face than when they were adapted to the other faces (ie their own face appeared significantly less distorted than a famous or unfamiliar face). Experiment 2 showed that this 'own-face' effect did not occur when the same faces were used as adaptation stimuli for participants who were unfamiliar with them. Experiment 3 replicated experiment 1, but included a pre-adaptation baseline. The results highlight the importance of considering facial familiarity when conducting research on face aftereffects.


A sudden luminance increment on a moving stimulus was perceived significantly along the trajectory, in the direction of motion, from its displayed position. A nonlinear relationship with stimulus speed, for a Frhlich-like illusion, but not for the luminance-increment illusion, challenges certain models of spatial mislocalisation and argues for different processes underlying the two illusions.
Temporal experience can be modulated by several environmental factors. There is increasing evidence that numerical quantity may also influence temporal processes. Here, it is shown that merely looking at numbers causes a bias in a time-bisection task that depends on its magnitude. In the first experiment, a group of healthy subjects was submitted to a time-bisection task in which numerical cues were blocked (blocked design). In the second experiment, a new group of participants performed a time-bisection task in which the previous numbers were all randomly arranged in the same block (intermingled design). Results show that temporal performance is biased when numbers of different magnitude are arranged in an intermingled design. These findings argue for a functional interaction between time and numbers, depending on the implicit extrapolation of the size difference between the displayed numbers rather than on the numerical size itself.

DOV 216,303 belongs to a new class of antidepressants, the triple reuptake inhibitors (TRIs), that blocks serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine transporters and thereby increases extracellular brain monoamine concentrations. The aim of the present study was to measure extracellular monoamine concentrations both in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and dorsal hippocampus (DH) after chronic administration of DOV 216,303 in the OBX animal model of depression and to compare the effects with acute drug treatment. OBX animals showed lower dopamine levels in PFC upon acute administration of DOV 216,303 than sham animals for up to five weeks after surgery. No such changes were observed in the DH. Unexpectedly, a DOV 216,303 challenge in chronic DOV 216,303 treated sham animals resulted in a blunted dopamine response in the PFC compared to the same challenge in vehicle treated animals. This blunted response probably reflects pharmacokinetic adaptations and/or pharmacodynamic changes, since brain and plasma concentrations of DOV 216,303 were significantly lower after chronic administration compared to acute administration. Surprisingly, and in contrast what we have reported earlier, chronic DOV 216,303 treatment was unable to normalize the hyperactivity of the OBX animals. Interestingly, by measuring the drug plasma and brain levels, it was demonstrated that at the time of behavioral testing (24 h after last drug treatment) DOV 216,303 was not present anymore in either plasma or brain. This seems to indicate that this putative antidepressant drug has no lasting antidepressant-like behavioral effects in the absence of the drug in the brain.
Social stress is a risk factor for affective disorders in vulnerable individuals. Although the biological nature of stress susceptibility/resilience remains to be elucidated, genetic variation is considered amongst the principal contributors to brain disorders. Furthermore, genetic predisposition may be determinant for the therapeutic outcome, as proposed for antidepressant treatments. In the present studies we compared the inherently diverse genetic backgrounds of 2 mouse strains by assessing the efficacy of a chronic antidepressant treatment in a repeated social stress procedure. C57BL/6J and BalbC mice underwent 10-day social defeats followed by 28-day fluoxetine treatment (10 mg/kg/mL, p.o.). In C57BL/6J, most of the social defeat-induced changes were of metabolic nature including persistently altered feed efficiency and decreased abdominal fat stores that were ameliorated by fluoxetine. BalbC mouse behavior was persistently affected by social defeat both in the social avoidance and the forced swim tests, and in either procedure it was restored by chronic fluoxetine, whereas their endocrine parameters were mostly unaffected. The highlighted strain-specific responsivity to the metabolic and behavioral consequences of social defeat and to the chronic antidepressant treatment offers a promising research tool to further explore the underlying neural mechanisms and genetic basis of stress susceptibility and treatment response.
Clinical interventions which produce cue and contextual extinction learning can reduce craving and relapse in substance abuse and inhibit conditioned fear responses in anxiety disorders. In both types of disorders, classical conditioning links unconditioned drug or fear responses to associated contextual cues and result in enduring pathological responses to multiple stimuli. Extinction therapy countermeasures seek to reduce conditioned responses using a set of techniques in which patients are repeatedly exposed to conditioned appetitive or aversive stimuli using imaginal imagery, in vivo exposure, or written scripts. Such interventions allow patients to rehearse more adaptive responses to conditioned stimuli. The ultimate goal of these interventions, extinction of the original conditioned response, is a new learning process that results in a decrease in frequency or intensity of conditioned responses to drug or fear cues. This review explores extinction approaches in conditioned drug reward and fear responses. The behavioral, neuroanatomical and neurochemical mechanisms of conditioned reward and fear responses and their extinction are derived from our understanding of the animal literature. Extensive neuroscience research shows that even though many mechanisms differ in conditioned fear and reward, converging prefrontal cortical glutamatergic pathways underlie extinction learning. Efficacy of pharmacological and behavioral treatment approaches in addiction and anxiety disorders may be optimized by enhancing extinction and weakening the bond between the original conditioned stimuli and conditioned responses. Adjunctive pharmacotherapy approaches using agents which alter glutamate or -aminobutyric acid signaling or epigenetic mechanisms in prefrontal cortical pathways can enhance extinction learning. A comparative study of extinction processes and its neural mechanisms can be translated into more effective behavioral and pharmacological treatment approaches in substance abuse and anxiety.
The effects of opioid antagonists on conditioned reward produced by ethanol provide variable and sometimes conflicting results, especially in mice. In the present set of experiments, male C57BL/6 mice received 4 vehicle and 4 ethanol conditionings, and the rewarding effects of ethanol were assessed in an unbiased version of the conditioned place preference (CPP) apparatus and an unbiased stimulus assignment procedure. Intraperitoneal (ip) administration of ethanol (2 g/kg, but not 1 g/kg) resulted in the conditioned reward when conditionings lasted for 6 min but not when conditioning lasted for 20 min. Administration of the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1 and 5 mg/kg) before the conditionings attenuated the acquisition of ethanol-induced place preference. Naloxone (1 mg/kg) also inhibited expression of the CPP response, but it did not alter the preference of vehicle-conditioned mice, suggesting the lack of its own motivational effects in this experimental setting. Taken together, the present results suggest that an unbiased version of ethanol-induced CPP in C57BL/6 mice could be a valid model for the study of the motivational effects of ethanol, confirming and expanding previous findings that have demonstrated inhibitory effects of opioid receptor antagonist on alcohol conditioned reward.
Blood platelets are central to haemostasis and platelet aggregation is considered to be a direct index of platelet function. Although protein disulfides (PSSP) are structural components of most proteins, current evidence suggests that PSSP work together with protein SH groups (PSH) to activate various platelet functions in dynamic processes involving thiol/disulfide exchange reactions. Based on these assumptions, we performed experiments to demonstrate how PSH and PSSP are involved in platelet aggregation and how modifications of PSH and PSSP concentrations on the platelet surface by N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) (a PSH-blocking reagent) and dithiothreitol (DTT) (a PSSP-reducing reagent), respectively, may condition platelet susceptibility in protein rich plasma and washed platelets and integrin IIb3 conformation. Our data strongly suggest that the PSH blockage and the PSSP reduction of the platelet surface are deeply involved in aggregation processes evoked in protein rich plasma and washed platelets by ADP and collagen; that endogenous thiols (e.g. GSH) may interfere with NEM actions; that NEM and DTT, acting on preexisting PSH and PSSP of active platelets have opposite conformational changes on integrin IIb3 conformation. Although the precise mechanism and the populations of specific PSH and PSSP involved remain unresolved, our data support the notion that PSH and PSSP of the platelet surface are involved in platelet activation by thiol exchange reactions. A plausible molecular mechanism of PSH and PSSP recruitment during thiol exchange reactions is here proposed.
The pharmacokinetics of memantine, a widely prescribed medication in the United States and the European Union for the treatment of moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD), have not been well explored in the mouse. Memantine is a highly unspecific blocker of many channels and how memantine may be of benefit in AD remains a mystery. Therefore, the investigation of memantine in the mouse, the most commonly chosen subject for modeling AD, has strong potential to lead to better therapies. Here, we present an acute pharmacokinetic analysis of memantine in mouse brain tissue and blood serum for a variety of experimentally relevant doses. The data help shed light on the mechanism of memantine action in vivo, and demonstrate that subcutaneous doses above 10 mg/kg in the mouse are most likely not therapeutically relevant to the human.


I develop an account of weakness of the will that is driven by experimental evidence from cognitive and social psychology. I will argue that this account demonstrates that there is no such thing as weakness of the will: no psychological kind corresponds to it. Instead, weakness of the will ought to be understood as depletion of System II resources. Neither the explanatory purposes of psychology nor our practical purposes as agents are well-served by retaining the concept. I therefore suggest that we ought to jettison it, in favour of the vocabulary and concepts of cognitive psychology.
Two previous experiments demonstrated that f0 and duration are interdependent in the perception of rhythmic groups in speech and sentence rhythmicality, and that the relative weighting of tonal and durational cues depends on listeners' native language. The listeners were native speakers of Swiss German, Swiss French, or Metropolitan French (i.e. from France). The experiment reported here investigates a means of applying this perceptual finding to production data from these three languages, to make a rhythm metric, the Pairwise Variability Index (PVI), perceptually informed. The relative weighting that an appropriate duration and an appropriate f0 contributed to listeners' rhythmicality judgements is calculated, and these language-specific weighting values are incorporated into combined durational- tonal PVIs, to quantify rhythm in the three languages. The results demonstrate that Swiss German and Swiss/Metropolitan French are distinct according to classic durational PVIs, but more similar according to PVIs which are acoustically multidimensional and language-specifically weighted. It is concluded that rhythm produced by speakers, when quantified to account for the acoustic multidimensionality and language-specificity of rhythm perceived by listeners, may be less cross-linguistically divergent than durational rhythm metrics suggest. An evaluation of these language-specifically weighted PVIs concludes that if rhythm metrics remain in use, they should link rhythm perception with rhythm production.
In the last decade a growing body of data revealed that the cerebellum is involved in the regulation of the affective reactions as well as in forming the association between sensory stimuli and their emotional values. In humans, cerebellar areas around the vermis are activated during mental recall of emotional personal episodes and during learning of a CS-US association. Lesions of the cerebellar vermis may affect retention of a fear memory without altering baseline motor/autonomic responses to the frightening stimuli in both human and animal models. Reversible inactivation of the vermis during the consolidation period impairs retention of fear memory in rodents. Recent findings demonstrate that long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses in the cerebellar cortex occurs in relation to associative fear learning similar to previously reported data in the hippocampus and amygdala. Plastic changes affect both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. This concomitant potentiation allows the cerebellar cortical network to detect coincident inputs, presumably conveying sensorial stimuli, with better efficacy by keeping the time resolution of the system unchanged. Collectively, these data suggest that the vermis participates in forming new CS-US association and translate an emotional state elaborated elsewhere into autonomic and motor responses.
Alterations in the intrinsic properties of Purkinje cells (PCs) may contribute to the abnormal motor performance observed in ataxic rats. To investigate whether such changes in the intrinsic neuronal excitability could be attributed to the role of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (K(Ca)), whole cell current clamp recordings were made from PCs in cerebellar slices of control and ataxic rats. 3-AP induced profound alterations in the intrinsic properties of PCs, as evidenced by a significant increase in both the membrane input resistance and the initial discharge frequency, along with the disruption of the firing regularity. In control PCs, the blockade of small conductance K(Ca) channels by UCL1684 resulted in a significant increase in the membrane input resistance, action potential (AP) half-width, time to peak of the AP and initial discharge frequency. SK channel blockade also significantly decreased the neuronal discharge regularity, the peak amplitude of the AP, the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization and the spike frequency adaptation ratio. In contrast, in ataxic rats, both the firing regularity and the initial firing frequency were significantly increased by the blockade of SK channels. In conclusion, ataxia may arise from alterations in the functional contribution of SK channels, to the intrinsic properties of PCs.
Purpose: Little is known about physical therapists' views on the use of portfolios to evaluate professional competence. The purpose of this study was to gather the opinions of physical therapists on the feasibility and acceptability of a portfolio prepared to demonstrate evidence of clinical specialization through reported activities and accomplishments related to professional development, leadership, and research.Methods: Twenty-nine Canadian physical therapists practising in the neurosciences area were given 8 weeks to prepare a professional portfolio. Participants submitted the portfolio along with a survey addressing the preparation of the portfolio and its role as an assessment tool. Qualitative content analysis was used to interpret the participants' comments.Results: Participants reported that maintaining organized records facilitated the preparation of their portfolio. They experienced pride when reviewing their completed portfolios, which summarized their professional activities and highlighted their achievements. Concerns were noted about the veracity of self-reported records and the ability of the documentation to provide a comprehensive view of the full scope of the professional competencies required for clinical specialization (e.g., clinical skills).Conclusion: The study's findings support the feasibility and acceptability of a portfolio review to assess professional competence and clinical specialization in physical therapy and have implications for both physical therapists and professional agencies.


Histamine regulates arousal, circadian rhythms, and thermoregulation. Activation of H3 histamine receptors expressed by preoptic GABAergic neurons results in a decrease of their firing rate and hyperthermia. Here we report that an increase in the A-type K current in preoptic GABAergic neurons in response to activation of H3 histamine receptors results in decreased firing rate and hyperthermia in mice. The Kv4.2 subunit is required for these actions in spite of the fact that Kv4.2/ preoptic GABAergic neurons display A-type currents and firing characteristics similar to those of wild-type neurons. This electrical remodeling is achieved by robust upregulation of the expression of the Kv4.1 subunit and of a delayed rectifier current. Dynamic clamp experiments indicate that enhancement of the A-type current by a similar amount to that induced by histamine is sufficient to mimic its robust effect on firing rates. These data indicate a central role played by the Kv4.2 subunit in histamine regulation of body temperature and its interaction with pERK1/2 downstream of the H3 receptor. We also reveal that this pathway provides a mechanism for selective modulation of body temperature at the beginning of the active phase of the circadian cycle.
Decreased expression of dopamine D2 receptors (D2R), dysfunction of inhibitory neurotransmission and impairments in the structure and connectivity of neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) are involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and major depression, but the relationship between these changes remains unclear. The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a plasticity-related molecule, may serve as a link. This molecule is expressed in cortical interneurons and dopamine, via D2R, modulates its expression in parallel to that of proteins related to synapses and inhibitory neurotransmission, suggesting that D2R-targeted antipsychotics/antidepressants may act by affecting the plasticity of mPFC inhibitory circuits. To understand the role of PSA-NCAM in this plasticity, rats were chronically treated with a D2R agonist (PPHT) after cortical PSA depletion. PPHT-induced increases in GAD67 and synaptophysin (SYN) neuropil expression were blocked when PSA was previously removed, indicating a role for PSA-NCAM in this plasticity. The number of PSA-NCAM expressing interneuron somata also increased after PPHT treatment, but the percentages of these cells belonging to different interneuronal subpopulations did not change. Cortical pyramidal neurons did not express PSA-NCAM, but puncta co-expressing this molecule and parvalbumin could be found surrounding their somata. PPHT treatment increased the number of PSA-NCAM and parvalbumin expressing perisomatic puncta, but decreased the percentage of parvalbumin puncta that co-expressed SYN. PSA depletion did not block these effects on the perisomatic region, but increased further the number of parvalbumin expressing puncta and increased the percentage of puncta co-expressing SYN and parvalbumin, suggesting that the polysialylation of NCAM may regulate perisomatic inhibition of mPFC principal neurons. Summarizing, the present results indicate that dopamine acting on D2R influences structural plasticity of mPFC interneurons and point to PSA-NCAM as a key player in this remodeling.
Many neurodegenerative diseases share a common pathological feature: the deposition of amyloid-like fibrils composed of misfolded proteins. Emerging evidence suggests that these proteins may spread from cell-to-cell and encourage the propagation of neurodegeneration in a prion-like manner. Here, we demonstrated that -synuclein (SYN), a principal culprit for Lewy pathology in Parkinson's disease (PD), was present in endosomal compartments and detectably secreted into the extracellular milieu. Unlike prion protein, extracellular SYN was mainly recovered in the supernatant fraction rather than in exosome-containing pellets from the neuronal culture medium and cerebrospinal fluid. Surprisingly, impaired biogenesis of multivesicular body (MVB), an organelle from which exosomes are derived, by dominant-negative mutant vacuolar protein sorting 4 (VPS4) not only interfered with lysosomal targeting of SYN but facilitated SYN secretion. The hypersecretion of SYN in VPS4-defective cells was efficiently restored by the functional disruption of recycling endosome regulator Rab11a. Furthermore, both brainstem and cortical Lewy bodies in PD were found to be immunoreactive for VPS4. Thus, VPS4, a master regulator of MVB sorting, may serve as a determinant of lysosomal targeting or extracellular secretion of SYN and thereby contribute to the intercellular propagation of Lewy pathology in PD.
Despite the current progress in high-throughput, dense genome scans, a major portion of complex traits' heritability still remains unexplained, a phenomenon commonly termed &quot;missing heritability.&quot; The negligence of analytical approaches accounting for gene-gene interaction effects, such as statistical epistasis, is probably central to this phenomenon. Here we performed a comprehensive two-way SNP interaction analysis of human episodic memory, which is a heritable complex trait, and focused on 120 genes known to show differential, memory-related expression patterns in rat hippocampus. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was also used to capture genotype-dependent differences in memory-related brain activity. A significant, episodic memory-related interaction between two markers located in potassium channel genes (KCNB2 and KCNH5) was observed (P(nominal combined)=0.000001). The epistatic interaction was robust, as it was significant in a screening (P(nominal)=0.0000012) and in a replication sample (P(nominal)=0.01). Finally, we found genotype-dependent activity differences in the parahippocampal gyrus (P(nominal)=0.001) supporting the behavioral genetics finding. Our results demonstrate the importance of analytical approaches that go beyond single marker statistics of complex traits.

Peripheral biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflecting early neuropathological change are critical to the development of treatments for this condition. The most widely used indicator of AD pathology in life at present is neuroimaging evidence of brain atrophy. We therefore performed a proteomic analysis of plasma to derive biomarkers associated with brain atrophy in AD. Using gel based proteomics we previously identified seven plasma proteins that were significantly associated with hippocampal volume in a combined cohort of subjects with AD (N=27) and MCI (N=17). In the current report, we validated this finding in a large independent cohort of AD (N=79), MCI (N=88) and control (N=95) subjects using alternative complementary methods-quantitative immunoassays for protein concentrations and estimation of pathology by whole brain volume. We confirmed that plasma concentrations of five proteins, together with age and sex, explained more than 35% of variance in whole brain volume in AD patients. These proteins are complement components C3 and C3a, complement factor-I, -fibrinogen and alpha-1-microglobulin. Our findings suggest that these plasma proteins are strong predictors of in vivo AD pathology. Moreover, these proteins are involved in complement activation and coagulation, providing further evidence for an intrinsic role of these pathways in AD pathogenesis.
Asymmetry is a prominent feature of human brains with important functional consequences. Many asymmetric traits show population bias, but little is known about the genetic and environmental sources contributing to inter-individual variance. Anatomic asymmetry has been observed in Old World monkeys, but the evidence for the direction and extent of asymmetry is equivocal and only one study has estimated the genetic contributions to inter-individual variance. In this study we characterize a range of qualitative and quantitative asymmetry measures in structural brain MRIs acquired from an extended pedigree of Old World vervet monkeys (n=357), and implement variance component methods to estimate the proportion of trait variance attributable to genetic and environmental sources. Four of six asymmetry measures show pedigree-level bias and one of the traits has a significant heritability estimate of about 30%. We also found that environmental variables more significantly influence the width of the right compared to the left prefrontal lobe.

Assessing an individual's research impact on the basis of a transparent algorithm is an important task for evaluation and comparison purposes. Besides simple but also inaccurate indices such as counting the mere number of publications or the accumulation of overall citations, and highly complex but also overwhelming full-range publication lists in their raw format, Hirsch (2005) introduced a single figure cleverly combining different approaches. The so-called h-index has undoubtedly become the standard in scientometrics of individuals' research impact (note: in the present paper I will always use the term &quot;research impact&quot; to describe the research performance as the logic of the paper is based on the h-index, which quantifies the specific &quot;impact&quot; of, e.g., researchers, but also because the genuine meaning of impact refers to quality as well). As the h-index reflects the number h of papers a researcher has published with at least h citations, the index is inherently positively biased towards senior level researchers. This might sometimes be problematic when predictive tools are needed for assessing young scientists' potential, especially when recruiting early career positions or equipping young scientists' labs. To be compatible with the standard h-index, the proposed index integrates the scientist's research age (Carbon_h-factor) into the h-index, thus reporting the average gain of h-index per year. Comprehensive calculations of the Carbon_h-factor were made for a broad variety of four research-disciplines (economics, neuroscience, physics and psychology) and for researchers performing on three high levels of research impact (substantial, outstanding and epochal) with ten researchers per category. For all research areas and output levels we obtained linear developments of the h-index demonstrating the validity of predicting one's later impact in terms of research impact already at an early stage of their career with the Carbon_h-factor being approx. 0.4, 0.8, and 1.5 for substantial, outstanding and epochal researchers, respectively.
When administered either systemically or centrally, glucose is a potent enhancer of memory processes. Measures of glucose levels in extracellular fluid in the rat hippocampus during memory tests reveal that these levels are dynamic, decreasing in response to memory tasks and loads; exogenous glucose blocks these decreases and enhances memory. The present experiments test the hypothesis that glucose enhancement of memory is mediated by glycogen storage and then metabolism to lactate in astrocytes, which provide lactate to neurons as an energy substrate. Sensitive bioprobes were used to measure brain glucose and lactate levels in 1-sec samples. Extracellular glucose decreased and lactate increased while rats performed a spatial working memory task. Intrahippocampal infusions of lactate enhanced memory in this task. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of astrocytic glycogenolysis impaired memory and this impairment was reversed by administration of lactate or glucose, both of which can provide lactate to neurons in the absence of glycogenolysis. Pharmacological block of the monocarboxylate transporter responsible for lactate uptake into neurons also impaired memory and this impairment was not reversed by either glucose or lactate. These findings support the view that astrocytes regulate memory formation by controlling the provision of lactate to support neuronal functions.

Spontaneous contraction and relaxation of arteries (and in some instances venules) has been termed vasomotion and has been observed in an extensive variety of tissues and species. However, its functions and underlying mechanisms are still under discussion. We demonstrate that in vivo spectrophotometry, measured simultaneously with extracellular recordings at the same locations in the visual thalamus of the cat, reveals vasomotion, measured as an oscillation (0.14 hz) in the recorded oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb) signal, which appears spontaneously in the microcirculation and can last for periods of hours. During some non-oscillatory periods, maintained sensory stimulation evokes vasomotion lasting ~30s, resembling an adaptive vascular phenomenon. This oscillation in the oxyhaemoblobin signal is sensitive to pharmacological manipulation: it is inducible by chloralose anaesthesia and it can be temporarily blocked by systemic administration of adrenaline or acetylcholine (ACh). During these oscillatory periods, neurovascular coupling (i.e. the relationship between local neural activity and the rate of blood supply to that location) appears significantly altered. This raises important questions with regard to the interpretation of results from studies currently dependent upon a linear relationship between neural activity and blood flow, such as neuroimaging.

A large GTPase dynamin, which is required for endocytic vesicle formation, regulates the actin cytoskeleton through its interaction with cortactin. Dynamin2 mutants impair the formation of actin comets, which are induced by Listeria monocytogenes or phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase. However, the role of dynamin2 in the regulation of the actin comet is still unclear. Here we show that aberrant actin comets in dynamin2-depleted cells were rescued by disrupting of microtubule networks. Depletion of dynamin2, but not cortactin, significantly reduced the length and the speed of actin comets induced by Listeria. This implies that dynamin2 may regulate the actin comet in a cortactin-independent manner. As dynamin regulates microtubules, we investigated whether perturbation of microtubules would rescue actin comet formation in dynamin2-depleted cells. Treatment with taxol or colchicine created a microtubule-free space in the cytoplasm, and made no difference between control and dynamin2 siRNA cells. This suggests that the alteration of microtubules by dynamin2 depletion reduced the length and the speed of the actin comet.
Light activation and inactivation of neurons by optogenetic techniques has emerged as an important tool for studying neural circuit function. To achieve a high resolution, new methods are being developed to selectively manipulate the activity of individual neurons. Here, we report that the combination of an acousto-optic device (AOD) and single-photon laser was used to achieve rapid and precise spatiotemporal control of light stimulation at multiple points in a neural circuit with millisecond time resolution. The performance of this system in activating ChIEF expressed on HEK 293 cells as well as cultured neurons was first evaluated, and the laser stimulation patterns were optimized. Next, the spatiotemporally selective manipulation of multiple neurons was achieved in a precise manner. Finally, we demonstrated the versatility of this high-resolution method in dissecting neural circuits both in the mouse cortical slice and the Drosophila brain in vivo. Taken together, our results show that the combination of AOD-assisted laser stimulation and optogenetic tools provides a flexible solution for manipulating neuronal activity at high efficiency and with high temporal precision.
CXCL8/interleukin-8 is a pro-inflammatory chemokine that triggers pleiotropic responses, including inflammation, angiogenesis, wound healing and tumorigenesis. We engineered the first selective CXCR1 agonists on the basis of residue substitutions in the conserved ELR triad and CXC motif of CXCL8. Our data reveal that the molecular mechanisms of activation of CXCR1 and CXCR2 are distinct: the N-loop of CXCL8 is the major determinant for CXCR1 activation, whereas the N-terminus of CXCL8 (ELR and CXC) is essential for CXCR2 activation. We also found that activation of CXCR1 cross-desensitized CXCR2 responses in human neutrophils co-expressing both receptors, indicating that these novel CXCR1 agonists represent a new class of anti-inflammatory agents. Further, these selective CXCR1 agonists will aid at elucidating the functional significance of CXCR1 in vivo under pathophysiological conditions.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at high magnetic fields has made it possible to investigate the columnar organization of the human brain in vivo with high degrees of accuracy and sensitivity. Until now, these results have been limited to the organization principles of early visual cortex (V1). While the middle temporal area (MT) has been the first identified extra-striate visual area shown to exhibit a columnar organization in monkeys, evidence of MT's columnar response properties and topographic layout in humans has remained elusive. Research using various approaches suggests similar response properties as in monkeys but failed to provide direct evidence for direction or axis of motion selectivity in human area MT. By combining state of the art pulse sequence design, high spatial resolution in all three dimensions (0.8 mm isotropic), optimized coil design, ultrahigh field magnets (7 Tesla) and novel high resolution cortical grid sampling analysis tools, we provide the first direct evidence for large-scale axis of motion selective feature organization in human area MT closely matching predictions from topographic columnar-level simulations.
Alpha-synuclein, the major component of Lewy bodies, is thought to play a central role in the onset of synaptic dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease (PD). In particular, -synuclein may affect dopaminergic neuron function as it interacts with a key protein modulating dopamine (DA) content at the synapse: the DA transporter (DAT). Indeed, recent evidence from our &quot;in vitro&quot; studies showed that -synuclein aggregation decreases the expression and membrane trafficking of the DAT as the DAT is retained into -synuclein-immunopositive inclusions. This notwithstanding, &quot;in vivo&quot; studies on PD animal models investigating whether DAT distribution is altered by the pathological overexpression and aggregation of -synuclein are missing. By using the proximity ligation assay, a technique which allows the &quot;in situ&quot; visualization of protein-protein interactions, we studied the occurrence of alterations in the distribution of DAT/-synuclein complexes in the SYN120 transgenic mouse model, showing insoluble -synuclein aggregates into dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal system, reduced striatal DA levels and an altered distribution of synaptic proteins in the striatum. We found that DAT/-synuclein complexes were markedly redistributed in the striatum and substantia nigra of SYN120 mice. These alterations were accompanied by a significant increase of DAT striatal levels in transgenic animals when compared to wild type littermates. Our data indicate that, in the early pathogenesis of PD, -synuclein acts as a fine modulator of the dopaminergic synapse by regulating the subcellular distribution of key proteins such as the DAT.

Evoked striatal field potentials are seldom used to study corticostriatal communication in vivo because little is known about their origin and significance. Here we show that striatal field responses evoked by stimulating the prelimbic cortex in mice are reduced by more than 90% after infusing the AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX close to the recording electrode. Moreover, the amplitude of local field responses and dPSPs recorded in striatal medium spiny neurons increase in parallel with increasing stimulating current intensity. Finally, the evoked striatal fields show several of the basic known properties of corticostriatal transmission, including paired pulse facilitation and topographical organization. As a case study, we characterized the effect of local GABA(A) receptor blockade on striatal field and multiunitary action potential responses to prelimbic cortex stimulation. Striatal activity was recorded through a 24 channel silicon probe at about 600 m from a microdialysis probe. Intrastriatal administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline increased by 657% the duration of the evoked field responses. Moreover, the associated action potential responses were markedly enhanced during bicuculline infusion. Bicuculline enhancement took place at all the striatal sites that showed a response to cortical stimulation before drug infusion, but sites showing no field response before bicuculline remained unresponsive during GABA(A) receptor blockade. Thus, the data demonstrate that fast inhibitory connections exert a marked temporal regulation of input-output transformations within spatially delimited striatal networks responding to a cortical input. Overall, we propose that evoked striatal fields may be a useful tool to study corticostriatal synaptic connectivity in relation to behavior.
The serotonin (5-HT) system densely innervates many brain areas and is important for proper brain development. To specifically ablate the 5-HT system we generated mutant mice carrying a floxed Munc18-1 gene and Cre recombinase driven by the 5-HT-specific serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) promoter. The majority of mutant mice died within a few days after birth. Immunohistochemical analysis of brains of these mice showed that initially 5-HT neurons are formed and the cortex is innervated with 5-HT projections. From embryonic day 16 onwards, however, 5-HT neurons started to degenerate and at postnatal day 2 hardly any 5-HT projections were present in the cortex. The 5-HT system of mice heterozygous for the floxed Munc18-1 allele was indistinguishable from control mice. These data show that deletion of Munc18-1 in 5-HT neurons results in rapid degeneration of the 5-HT system and suggests that the 5-HT system is important for postnatal survival.
Complex diseases are often highly heritable. However, for many complex traits only a small proportion of the heritability can be explained by observed genetic variants in traditional genome-wide association (GWA) studies. Moreover, for some of those traits few significant SNPs have been identified. Single SNP association methods test for association at a single SNP, ignoring the effect of other SNPs. We show using a simple multi-locus odds model of complex disease that moderate to large effect sizes of causal variants may be estimated as relatively small effect sizes in single SNP association testing. This underestimation effect is most severe for diseases influenced by numerous risk variants. We relate the underestimation effect to the concept of non-collapsibility found in the statistics literature. As described, continuous phenotypes generated with linear genetic models are not affected by this underestimation effect. Since many GWA studies apply single SNP analysis to dichotomous phenotypes, previously reported results potentially underestimate true effect sizes, thereby impeding identification of true effect SNPs. Therefore, when a multi-locus model of disease risk is assumed, a multi SNP analysis may be more appropriate.
Personality describes persistent human behavioral responses to broad classes of environmental stimuli. Investigating how personality traits are reflected in the brain's functional architecture is challenging, in part due to the difficulty of designing appropriate task probes. Resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) can detect intrinsic activation patterns without relying on any specific task. Here we use RSFC to investigate the neural correlates of the five-factor personality domains. Based on seed regions placed within two cognitive and affective 'hubs' in the brain--the anterior cingulate and precuneus--each domain of personality predicted RSFC with a unique pattern of brain regions. These patterns corresponded with functional subdivisions responsible for cognitive and affective processing such as motivation, empathy and future-oriented thinking. Neuroticism and Extraversion, the two most widely studied of the five constructs, predicted connectivity between seed regions and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and lateral paralimbic regions, respectively. These areas are associated with emotional regulation, self-evaluation and reward, consistent with the trait qualities. Personality traits were mostly associated with functional connections that were inconsistently present across participants. This suggests that although a fundamental, core functional architecture is preserved across individuals, variable connections outside of that core encompass the inter-individual differences in personality that motivate diverse responses.

Psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and autism are characterised by cellular disorganisation and dysconnectivity across the brain and can be caused by mutations in genes that control neurodevelopmental processes. To examine how neurodevelopmental defects can affect brain function and behaviour, we have comprehensively investigated the consequences of mutation of one such gene, Semaphorin-6A, on cellular organisation, axonal projection patterns, behaviour and physiology in mice. These analyses reveal a spectrum of widespread but subtle anatomical defects in Sema6A mutants, notably in limbic and cortical cellular organisation, lamination and connectivity. These mutants display concomitant alterations in the electroencephalogram and hyper-exploratory behaviour, which are characteristic of models of psychosis and reversible by the antipsychotic clozapine. They also show altered social interaction and deficits in object recognition and working memory. Mice with mutations in Sema6A or the interacting genes may thus represent a highly informative model for how neurodevelopmental defects can lead to anatomical dysconnectivity, resulting, either directly or through reactive mechanisms, in dysfunction at the level of neuronal networks with associated behavioural phenotypes of relevance to psychiatric disorders. The biological data presented here also make these genes plausible candidates to explain human linkage findings for schizophrenia and autism.

How fusion pore formation during exocytosis affects the subsequent release of vesicle contents remains incompletely understood. It is unclear if the amount released per vesicle is dependent upon the nature of the developing fusion pore and whether full fusion and transient kiss and run exocytosis are regulated by similar mechanisms. We hypothesise that if consistent relationships exist between these aspects of exocytosis then they will remain constant across any age. Using amperometry in mouse chromaffin cells we measured catecholamine efflux during single exocytotic events at P0, 1 month and 6 months. At all ages we observed full fusion (amperometric spike only), full fusion preceded by fusion pore flickering (pre-spike foot (PSF) signal followed by a spike) and pure &quot;kiss and run&quot; exocytosis (represented by stand alone foot (SAF) signals). We observe age-associated increases in the size of all 3 modes of fusion but these increases occur at different ages. The release probability of PSF signals or full spikes alone doesn't alter across any age in comparison with an age-dependent increase in the incidence of &quot;kiss and run&quot; type events. However, the most striking changes we observe are age-associated changes in the relationship between vesicle size and the membrane bending energy required for exocytosis. Our data illustrates that vesicle size does not regulate release probability, as has been suggested, that membrane elasticity or flexural rigidity change with age and that the mechanisms controlling full fusion may differ from those controlling &quot;kiss and run&quot; fusion.
While a role for sleep in declarative memory processing is established, the qualitative nature of this consolidation benefit, and the physiological mechanisms mediating it, remain debated. Here, we investigate the impact of sleep physiology on characteristics of episodic memory using an item- (memory elements) and context- (contextual details associated with those elements) learning paradigm; the latter being especially dependent on the hippocampus. Following back-to-back encoding of two word lists, each associated with a different context, participants were assigned to either a Nap-group, who obtained a 120-min nap, or a No Nap-group. Six hours post-encoding, participants performed a recognition test involving item-memory and context-memory judgments. In contrast to item-memory, which demonstrated no between-group differences, a significant benefit in context-memory developed in the Nap-group, the extent of which correlated both with the amount of stage-2 NREM sleep and frontal fast sleep-spindles. Furthermore, a difference was observed on the basis of word-list order, with the sleep benefit and associated physiological correlations being selective for the second word-list, learned last (most proximal to sleep). These findings suggest that sleep may preferentially benefit contextual (hippocampal-dependent) aspects of memory, supported by sleep-spindle oscillations, and that the temporal order of initial learning differentially determines subsequent offline consolidation.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are a unique type of glial cells that function as oligodendrocyte progenitors while constantly proliferating in the normal condition from rodents to humans. However, the functional roles they play in the adult brain are largely unknown. In this study, we focus on the manner of OPC proliferation in the hippocampus of the young adult mice. Here we report that there are oscillatory dynamics in OPC proliferation that differ from neurogenesis in the subgranular zone (SGZ); the former showed S-phase and M-phase peaks in the resting and active periods, respectively, while the latter only exhibited M-phase peak in the active period. There is coincidence between different modes of proliferation and expression of cyclin proteins that are crucial for cell cycle; cyclin D1 is expressed in OPCs, while cyclin D2 is observed in neural stem cells. Similar to neurogenesis, the proliferation of hippocampal OPCs was enhanced by voluntary exercise that leads to an increase in neuronal activity in the hippocampus. These data suggest an intriguing control of OPC proliferation in the hippocampus.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a well-established model of multiple sclerosis, is characterised by microglial activation and lymphocyte infiltration. Induction of EAE in Lewis rats produces an acute monophasic disease characterised by a single peak of disability followed by a spontaneous and complete recovery and a subsequent tolerance to further immunizations. In the current study we have performed a detailed analysis of the dynamics of different lymphocyte populations and cytokine profile along the induction, peak, recovery and post-recovery phases in this paradigm. MBP-injected rats were sacrificed attending exclusively to their clinical score, and the different populations of T-lymphocytes as well as the dynamics of different pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines were analysed in the spinal cord by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry and ELISA. Our results revealed that, during the induction and peak phases, in parallel to an increase in symptomatology, the number of CD3+ and CD4+ cells increased progressively, showing a Th1 phenotype, but unexpectedly during recovery, although clinical signs progressively decreased, the number and proportion of CD3+ and CD4+ populations remained unaltered. Interestingly, during this recovery phase, we observed a marked decrease of Th1 and an important increase in Th17 and T-reg cells. Moreover, our results indicate a specific cytokine expression profile along the EAE course characterized by no changes of IL10 and IL17 levels, decrease of IL21 on the peak, and high IL22 levels during the induction and peak phases that markedly decrease during recovery. In summary, these results revealed the existence of a specific pattern of lymphocyte infiltration and cytokine secretion along the different phases of the acute EAE model in Lewis rat that differs from those already described in chronic or relapsing-remitting mouse models, where Th17-cells were found mostly during the peak, suggesting a specific role of these lymphocytes and cytokines in the evolution of this acute EAE model.
Damage to the hippocampus (HPC) using the excitotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) can cause retrograde amnesia for contextual fear memory. This amnesia is typically attributed to loss of cells in the HPC. However, NMDA is also known to cause intense neuronal discharge (seizure activity) during the hours that follow its injection. These seizures may have detrimental effects on retrieval of memories. Here we evaluate the possibility that retrograde amnesia is due to NMDA-induced seizure activity or cell damage per se. To assess the effects of NMDA induced activity on contextual memory, we developed a lesion technique that utilizes the neurotoxic effects of NMDA while at the same time suppressing possible associated seizure activity. NMDA and tetrodotoxin (TTX), a sodium channel blocker, are simultaneously infused into the rat HPC, resulting in extensive bilateral damage to the HPC. TTX, co-infused with NMDA, suppresses propagation of seizure activity. Rats received pairings of a novel context with foot shock, after which they received NMDA-induced, TTX+NMDA-induced, or no damage to the HPC at a recent (24 hours) or remote (5 weeks) time point. After recovery, the rats were placed into the shock context and freezing was scored as an index of fear memory. Rats with an intact HPC exhibited robust memory for the aversive context at both time points, whereas rats that received NMDA or NMDA+TTX lesions showed a significant reduction in learned fear of equal magnitude at both the recent and remote time points. Therefore, it is unlikely that observed retrograde amnesia in contextual fear conditioning are due to disruption of non-HPC networks by propagated seizure activity. Moreover, the memory deficit observed at both time points offers additional evidence supporting the proposition that the HPC has a continuing role in maintaining contextual memories.
Why does chanting, drumming or dancing together make people feel united? Here we investigate the neural mechanisms underlying interpersonal synchrony and its subsequent effects on prosocial behavior among synchronized individuals. We hypothesized that areas of the brain associated with the processing of reward would be active when individuals experience synchrony during drumming, and that these reward signals would increase prosocial behavior toward this synchronous drum partner. 18 female non-musicians were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they drummed a rhythm, in alternating blocks, with two different experimenters: one drumming in-synchrony and the other out-of-synchrony relative to the participant. In the last scanning part, which served as the experimental manipulation for the following prosocial behavioral test, one of the experimenters drummed with one half of the participants in-synchrony and with the other out-of-synchrony. After scanning, this experimenter &quot;accidentally&quot; dropped eight pencils, and the number of pencils collected by the participants was used as a measure of prosocial commitment. Results revealed that participants who mastered the novel rhythm easily before scanning showed increased activity in the caudate during synchronous drumming. The same area also responded to monetary reward in a localizer task with the same participants. The activity in the caudate during experiencing synchronous drumming also predicted the number of pencils the participants later collected to help the synchronous experimenter of the manipulation run. In addition, participants collected more pencils to help the experimenter when she had drummed in-synchrony than out-of-synchrony during the manipulation run. By showing an overlap in activated areas during synchronized drumming and monetary reward, our findings suggest that interpersonal synchrony is related to the brain's reward system.
This study is aimed to clarify the association between MDMA cumulative use and cognitive dysfunction, and the potential role of candidate genetic polymorphisms in explaining individual differences in the cognitive effects of MDMA. Gene polymorphisms related to reduced serotonin function, poor competency of executive control and memory consolidation systems, and high enzymatic activity linked to bioactivation of MDMA to neurotoxic metabolites may contribute to explain variations in the cognitive impact of MDMA across regular users of this drug. Sixty ecstasy polydrug users, 110 cannabis users and 93 non-drug users were assessed using cognitive measures of Verbal Memory (California Verbal Learning Test, CVLT), Visual Memory (Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test, ROCFT), Semantic Fluency, and Perceptual Attention (Symbol Digit Modalities Test, SDMT). Participants were also genotyped for polymorphisms within the 5HTT, 5HTR2A, COMT, CYP2D6, BDNF, and GRIN2B genes using polymerase chain reaction and TaqMan polymerase assays. Lifetime cumulative MDMA use was significantly associated with poorer performance on visuospatial memory and perceptual attention. Heavy MDMA users (&gt;100 tablets lifetime use) interacted with candidate gene polymorphisms in explaining individual differences in cognitive performance between MDMA users and controls. MDMA users carrying COMT val/val and SERT s/s had poorer performance than paired controls on visuospatial attention and memory, and MDMA users with CYP2D6 ultra-rapid metabolizers performed worse than controls on semantic fluency. Both MDMA lifetime use and gene-related individual differences influence cognitive dysfunction in ecstasy users.
Transfer entropy (TE) is an information-theoretic measure which has received recent attention in neuroscience for its potential to identify effective connectivity between neurons. Calculating TE for large ensembles of spiking neurons is computationally intensive, and has caused most investigators to probe neural interactions at only a single time delay and at a message length of only a single time bin. This is problematic, as synaptic delays between cortical neurons, for example, range from one to tens of milliseconds. In addition, neurons produce bursts of spikes spanning multiple time bins. To address these issues, here we introduce a free software package that allows TE to be measured at multiple delays and message lengths. To assess performance, we applied these extensions of TE to a spiking cortical network model (Izhikevich, 2006) with known connectivity and a range of synaptic delays. For comparison, we also investigated single-delay TE, at a message length of one bin (D1TE), and cross-correlation (CC) methods. We found that D1TE could identify 36% of true connections when evaluated at a false positive rate of 1%. For extended versions of TE, this dramatically improved to 73% of true connections. In addition, the connections correctly identified by extended versions of TE accounted for 85% of the total synaptic weight in the network. Cross correlation methods generally performed more poorly than extended TE, but were useful when data length was short. A computational performance analysis demonstrated that the algorithm for extended TE, when used on currently available desktop computers, could extract effective connectivity from 1 hr recordings containing 200 neurons in 5 min. We conclude that extending TE to multiple delays and message lengths improves its ability to assess effective connectivity between spiking neurons. These extensions to TE soon could become practical tools for experimentalists who record hundreds of spiking neurons.
Most excitatory synaptic terminals in the brain impinge on dendritic spines. We and others have recently shown that dynamic microtubules (MTs) enter spines from the dendritic shaft. However, a direct role for MTs in long-lasting spine plasticity has yet to be demonstrated and it remains unclear whether MT-spine invasions are directly influenced by synaptic activity. Lasting changes in spine morphology and synaptic strength can be triggered by activation of synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and are associated with learning and memory processes. To determine whether MTs are involved in NMDAR-dependent spine plasticity, we imaged MT dynamics and spine morphology in live mouse hippocampal pyramidal neurons before and after acute activation of synaptic NMDARs. Synaptic NMDAR activation promoted MT-spine invasions and lasting increases in spine size, with invaded spines exhibiting significantly faster and more growth than non-invaded spines. Even individual MT invasions triggered rapid increases in spine size that persisted longer following NMDAR activation. Inhibition of either NMDARs or dynamic MTs blocked NMDAR-dependent spine growth. Together these results demonstrate for the first time that MT-spine invasions are positively regulated by signaling through synaptic NMDARs, and contribute to long-lasting structural changes in targeted spines.
Multielectrodes have been used with great success to simultaneously record the activity of neuronal populations in awake, behaving animals. In particular, there is great promise in the use of this technique to allow the control of neuroprosthetic devices by human patients. However, it is crucial to fully characterize the tissue response to the chronic implants in animal models ahead of the initiation of human clinical trials. Here we evaluated the effects of unilateral multielectrode implants on the motor cortex of rats weekly recorded for 1-6 months using several histological methods to assess metabolic markers, inflammatory response, immediate-early gene (IEG) expression, cytoskeletal integrity and apoptotic profiles. We also investigated the correlations between each of these features and firing rates, to estimate the impact of post-implant time on neuronal recordings. Overall, limited neuronal loss and glial activation were observed on the implanted sites. Reactivity to enzymatic metabolic markers and IEG expression were not significantly different between implanted and non-implanted hemispheres. Multielectrode recordings remained viable for up to 6 months after implantation, and firing rates correlated well to the histochemical and immunohistochemical markers. Altogether, our results indicate that chronic tungsten multielectrode implants do not substantially alter the histological and functional integrity of target sites in the cerebral cortex.



Neuronal plasticity is a fundamental factor in cognitive outcome following traumatic brain injury. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, plays an important role in this process. While there are many ways to measure cognitive outcome, general cognitive intelligence is a strong predictor of everyday decision-making, occupational attainment, social mobility and job performance. Thus it is an excellent measure of cognitive outcome following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Although the importance of the single-nucleotide polymorphisms polymorphism on cognitive function has been previously addressed, its role in recovery of general intelligence following TBI is unknown. We genotyped male Caucasian Vietnam combat veterans with focal penetrating TBI (pTBI) (n=109) and non-head injured controls (n=38) for 7 BDNF single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Subjects were administrated the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT) at three different time periods: pre-injury on induction into the military, Phase II (10-15 years post-injury, and Phase III (30-35 years post-injury). Two single-nucleotide polymorphisms, rs7124442 and rs1519480, were significantly associated with post-injury recovery of general cognitive intelligence with the most pronounced effect at the Phase II time point, indicating lesion-induced plasticity. The genotypes accounted for 5% of the variance of the AFQT scores, independently of other significant predictors such as pre-injury intelligence and percentage of brain volume loss. These data indicate that genetic variations in BDNF play a significant role in lesion-induced recovery following pTBI. Identifying the underlying mechanism of this brain-derived neurotrophic factor effect could provide insight into an important aspect of post-traumatic cognitive recovery.
The manner in which information is encoded in neural signals is a major issue in Neuroscience. A common distinction is between rate codes, where information in neural responses is encoded as the number of spikes within a specified time frame (encoding window), and temporal codes, where the position of spikes within the encoding window carries some or all of the information about the stimulus. One test for the existence of a temporal code in neural responses is to add artificial time jitter to each spike in the response, and then assess whether or not information in the response has been degraded. If so, temporal encoding might be inferred, on the assumption that the jitter is small enough to alter the position, but not the number, of spikes within the encoding window. Here, the effects of artificial jitter on various spike train and information metrics were derived analytically, and this theory was validated using data from afferent neurons of the turtle vestibular and paddlefish electrosensory systems, and from model neurons. We demonstrate that the jitter procedure will degrade information content even when coding is known to be entirely by rate. For this and additional reasons, we conclude that the jitter procedure by itself is not sufficient to establish the presence of a temporal code.
DNA fragmentation is a well-recognized hallmark of apoptosis. However, the precise DNA sequences cleaved during apoptosis triggered by distinct mechanisms remain unclear. We used next-generation sequencing of DNA fragments generated in Actinomycin D-treated human HL-60 leukemic cells to generate a high-throughput, global map of apoptotic DNA breakpoints. These data highlighted that DNA breaks are non-random and show a significant association with active genes and open chromatin regions. We noted that transcription factor binding sites were also enriched within a fraction of the apoptotic breakpoints. Interestingly, extensive apoptotic cleavage was noted within genes that are frequently translocated in human cancers. We speculate that the non-random fragmentation of DNA during apoptosis may contribute to gene translocations and the development of human cancers.
The relationships among hippocampal neurogenesis, depression and the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs have generated a considerable amount of controversy. The cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor p21(Cip1) (p21) plays a crucial role in restraining cellular proliferation and maintaining cellular quiescence. Using in vivo and in vitro approaches the present study shows that p21 is expressed in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in early neuronal progenitors and in immature neurons, but not in mature neurons or astroglia. In vitro, proliferation is higher in neuronal progenitor cells derived from p21-/- mice compared to cells derived from wild-type mice. Proliferation is increased in neuronal progenitor cells after suppression of p21 using lentivirus expressing short hairpin RNA against p21. In vivo, chronic treatment with the non-selective antidepressant imipramine as well as the norepinephrine-selective reuptake inhibitor desipramine or the serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine all decrease p21 expression, and this was associated with increased neurogenesis. Chronic antidepressant treatment did not affect the expression of other Cdk inhibitors. Untreated p21-/- mice exhibit a higher degree of baseline neurogenesis and decreased immobility in the forced swim test. Although chronic imipramine treatment increased neurogenesis and reduced immobility in the forced swim test in wild-type mice, it reduced neurogenesis and increased immobility in p21-/- mice. These results demonstrate the unique role of p21 in the control of neurogenesis, and support the hypothesis that different classes of reuptake inhibitor-type antidepressant drugs all stimulate hippocampal neurogenesis by inhibiting p21 expression.
Neural stem/progenitor cell (NSPC) transplantation is a promising therapy for spinal cord injury (SCI). However, little is known about NSPC from the adult human spinal cord as a donor source. We demonstrate for the first time that multipotent and self-renewing NSPC can be cultured, passaged and transplanted from the adult human spinal cord of organ transplant donors. Adult human spinal cord NSPC require an adherent substrate for selection and expansion in EGF (epidermal growth factor) and FGF2 (fibroblast growth factor) enriched medium. NSPC as an adherent monolayer can be passaged for at least 9 months and form neurospheres when plated in suspension culture. In EGF/FGF2 culture, NSPC proliferate and primarily express nestin and Sox2, and low levels of markers for differentiating cells. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) promotes NSPC proliferation and significantly enhances GFAP expression in hypoxia. In differentiating conditions in the presence of serum, these NSPC show multipotentiality, expressing markers of neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) significantly enhances neuronal differentiation. We transplanted the multipotent NSPC into SCI rats and show that the xenografts survive, are post-mitotic, and retain the capacity to differentiate into neurons and glia.Together, these findings reveal that multipotent self-renewing NSPC cultured and passaged from adult human spinal cords of organ transplant donors, respond to exogenous factors that promote selective differentiation, and survive and differentiate after transplantation into the injured spinal cord.

To investigate the biochemical correlates of normal personality we utilized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS). Our sample consisted of 60 subjects ranging in age from 18 to 32 (27 females). Personality was assessed with the NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI). We measured brain biochemistry within the precuneus, the cingulate cortex, and underlying white matter. We hypothesized that brain biochemistry within these regions would predict individual differences across major domains of personality functioning. Biochemical models were fit for all personality domains including Neuroticism, Extraversion, Openness, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness. Our findings involved differing concentrations of Choline (Cho), Creatine (Cre), and N-acetylaspartate (NAA) in regions both within (i.e., posterior cingulate cortex) and white matter underlying (i.e., precuneus) the Default Mode Network (DMN). These results add to an emerging literature regarding personality neuroscience, and implicate biochemical integrity within the default mode network as constraining major personality domains within normal human subjects.
The Drosophila melanogaster TRPA family member painless, expressed in a subset of multidendritic neurons embeding in the larval epidermis, is necessary for larval nociception of noxious heat or mechanical stimuli. However, the function of painless in adult flies remains largely unknown. Here we report that mutation of painless leads to a defect in male-male courtship behavior and alteration in olfaction sensitivity in adult flies. Specific downregulation of the expression of the Painless protein in the olfactory projection neurons (PNs) of the antennal lobes (ALs) resulted in a phenotype resembling that found in painless mutant flies, whereas overexpression of Painless in PNs of painless mutant males suppressed male-male courtship behavior. The downregulation of Painless exclusively during adulthood also resulted in male-male courtship behavior. In addition, mutation of the painless gene in flies caused changes in olfaction, suggesting a role for this gene in olfactory processing. These results indicate that functions of painless in the adult central nervous system of Drosophila include modulation of olfactory processing and inhibition of male-male courtship behavior.
Stress exerts a profound impact on learning and memory, in part, through the actions of adrenal corticosterone (CORT) on synaptic plasticity, a cellular model of learning and memory. Increasing findings suggest that CORT exerts its impact on synaptic plasticity by altering the functional properties of glutamate receptors, which include changes in the motility and function of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid subtype of glutamate receptor (AMPAR) that are responsible for the expression of synaptic plasticity. Here we provide evidence that CORT could also regulate synaptic plasticity by modulating the function of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), which mediate the induction of synaptic plasticity. We found that stress level CORT applied to adult rat hippocampal slices potentiated evoked NMDAR-mediated synaptic responses within 30 min. Surprisingly, following this fast-onset change, we observed a slow-onset (&gt;1 hour after termination of CORT exposure) increase in synaptic expression of GluN2A-containing NMDARs. To investigate the consequences of the distinct fast- and slow-onset modulation of NMDARs for synaptic plasticity, we examined the formation of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) within relevant time windows. Paralleling the increased NMDAR function, both LTP and LTD were facilitated during CORT treatment. However, 1-2 hours after CORT treatment when synaptic expression of GluN2A-containing NMDARs is increased, bidirectional plasticity was no longer facilitated. Our findings reveal the remarkable plasticity of NMDARs in the adult hippocampus in response to CORT. CORT-mediated slow-onset increase in GluN2A in hippocampal synapses could be a homeostatic mechanism to normalize synaptic plasticity following fast-onset stress-induced facilitation.

Converging lines of evidence point to the involvement of neurons of the centrally projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWcp) containing the neuropeptide Urocortin-1 (Ucn1) in excessive ethanol (EtOH) intake and EtOH sensitivity. Here, we expanded these previous findings by using a continuous-access, two-bottle choice drinking paradigm (3%, 6%, and 10% EtOH vs. tap water) to compare EtOH intake and EtOH preference in Ucn1 genetic knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. Based on previous studies demonstrating that electrolytic lesion of the EWcp attenuated EtOH intake and preference in high-drinking C57BL/6J mice, we also set out to determine whether EWcp lesion would differentially alter EtOH consumption in Ucn1 KO and WT mice. Finally, we implemented well-established place conditioning procedures in KO and WT mice to determine whether Ucn1 and the corticotropin-releasing factor type-2 receptor (CRF-R2) were involved in the rewarding and aversive effects of EtOH (2 g/kg, i.p.). Results from these studies revealed that (1) genetic deletion of Ucn1 dampened EtOH preference only in mice with an intact EWcp, but not in mice that received lesion of the EWcp, (2) lesion of the EWcp dampened EtOH intake in Ucn1 KO and WT mice, but dampened EtOH preference only in WT mice expressing Ucn1, and (3) genetic deletion of Ucn1 or CRF-R2 abolished the conditioned rewarding effects of EtOH, but deletion of Ucn1 had no effect on the conditioned aversive effects of EtOH. The current findings provide strong support for the hypothesis that EWcp-Ucn1 neurons play an important role in EtOH intake, preference, and reward.
Human cooperative behaviour, as assayed by decisions in experimental economic dilemmas such as the Dictator Game, is variable across human populations. Within-population variation has been less well studied, especially within industrial societies. Moreover, little is known about the extent to which community-level variation in Dictator Game behaviour relates to community-level variation in real-world social behaviour. We chose two neighbourhoods of the city of Newcastle upon Tyne that were similar in most regards, but at opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of level of socioeconomic deprivation. We administered Dictator Games to randomly-selected residents, and also gathered a large number of more naturalistic measures of cooperativeness. There were dramatic differences in Dictator Game behaviour between the two neighbourhoods, with the mean allocation to the other player close to half the stake in the affluent neighbourhood, and close to one tenth of the stake in the deprived neighbourhood. Moreover, the deprived neighbourhood was also characterised by lower self-reported social capital, higher frequencies of crime and antisocial behaviour, a higher frequency of littering, and less willingness to take part in a survey or return a lost letter. On the other hand, there were no differences between the neighbourhoods in terms of the probability of helping a person who dropped an object, needed directions to a hospital, or needed to make change for a coin, and people on the streets were less likely to be alone in the deprived neighbourhood than the affluent one. We conclude that there can be dramatic local differences in cooperative behaviour within the same city, and that these need further theoretical explanation.
Acid-sensing ion channel-1a (ASIC1a), the primary proton receptor in the brain, contributes to multiple diseases including stroke, epilepsy and multiple sclerosis. Thus, a better understanding of its biogenesis will provide important insights into the regulation of ASIC1a in diseases. Interestingly, ASIC1a contains a large, yet well organized ectodomain, which suggests the hypothesis that correct formation of domain-domain interactions at the extracellular side is a key regulatory step for ASIC1a maturation and trafficking. We tested this hypothesis here by focusing on the interaction between the first transmembrane domain (TM1) and the thumb of ASIC1a, an interaction known to be critical in channel gating. We mutated Tyr71 and Trp287, two key residues involved in the TM1-thumb interaction in mouse ASIC1a, and found that both Y71G and W287G decreased synaptic targeting and surface expression of ASIC1a. These defects were likely due to altered folding; both mutants showed increased resistance to tryptic cleavage, suggesting a change in conformation. Moreover, both mutants lacked the maturation of N-linked glycans through mid to late Golgi. These data suggest that disrupting the interaction between TM1 and thumb alters ASIC1a folding, impedes its glycosylation and reduces its trafficking. Moreover, reducing the culture temperature, an approach commonly used to facilitate protein folding, increased ASIC1a glycosylation, surface expression, current density and slowed the rate of desensitization. These results suggest that correct folding of extracellular ectodomain plays a critical role in ASIC1a biogenesis and function.


Recently, it has been suggested that the primary motor cortex (M1) plays a critical role in implementing the fast and transient post-training phase of motor skill consolidation, known to yield an early boost in performance. Whether a comparable early boost in performance occurs following motor imagery (MIM) training is still unknown. To address this issue, two groups of subjects learned a finger tapping sequence either by MIM or physical practice (PP). In both groups, performance increased significantly in the post-training phase when compared with the pre-training phase and further increased after a 30 min resting period, indicating that both MIM and PP trainings were equally efficient and induced an early boost in motor performance. This conclusion was corroborated by the results of an additional control group. In a second experiment, we then investigated the causal role of M1 in implementing the early boost process resulting from MIM training. To do so, we inhibited M1 by applying a continuous theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) in healthy volunteers just after they learnt, by MIM, the same finger-tapping task as in Experiment #1. As a control, cTBS was applied over the vertex of subjects who underwent the same experiment. We found that cTBS applied over M1 selectively abolished the early boost process subsequent to MIM training. Altogether, the present study provides evidence that MIM practice induces an early boost in performance and demonstrates that M1 is causally involved in this process. These findings further divulge some degree of behavioral and neuronal similitude between MIM and PP.
Impulsivity is the tendency to act without forethought. It is a personality trait commonly used in the diagnosis of many psychiatric diseases. In clinical practice, impulsivity is estimated using written questionnaires. However, answers to questions might be subject to personal biases and misinterpretations. In order to alleviate this problem, eye movements could be used to study differences in decision processes related to impulsivity. Therefore, we investigated correlations between impulsivity scores obtained with a questionnaire in healthy subjects and characteristics of their anticipatory eye movements in a simple smooth pursuit task. Healthy subjects were asked to answer the UPPS questionnaire (Urgency Premeditation Perseverance and Sensation seeking Impulsive Behavior scale), which distinguishes four independent dimensions of impulsivity: Urgency, lack of Premeditation, lack of Perseverance, and Sensation seeking. The same subjects took part in an oculomotor task that consisted of pursuing a target that moved in a predictable direction. This task reliably evoked anticipatory saccades and smooth eye movements. We found that eye movement characteristics such as latency and velocity were significantly correlated with UPPS scores. The specific correlations between distinct UPPS factors and oculomotor anticipation parameters support the validity of the UPPS construct and corroborate neurobiological explanations for impulsivity. We suggest that the oculomotor approach of impulsivity put forth in the present study could help bridge the gap between psychiatry and physiology.
Temporal coding of spike-times using oscillatory mechanisms allied to spike-time dependent plasticity could represent a powerful mechanism for neuronal communication. However, it is unclear how temporal coding is constructed at the single neuronal level. Here we investigate a novel class of highly regular, metronome-like neurones in the rat brainstem which form a major source of cerebellar afferents. Stimulation of sensory inputs evoked brief periods of inhibition that interrupted the regular firing of these cells leading to phase-shifted spike-time advancements and delays. Alongside phase-shifting, metronome cells also behaved as band-pass filters during rhythmic sensory stimulation, with maximal spike-stimulus synchronisation at frequencies close to the idiosyncratic firing frequency of each neurone. Phase-shifting and band-pass filtering serve to temporally align ensembles of metronome cells, leading to sustained volleys of near-coincident spike-times, thereby transmitting synchronised sensory information to downstream targets in the cerebellar cortex.
The analysis of the interaction and synchronization of relatively large ensembles of neurons is fundamental for the understanding of complex functions of the nervous system. It is known that the temporal synchronization of neural ensembles is involved in the generation of specific motor, sensory or cognitive processes. Also, the intersegmental coherence of spinal spontaneous activity may indicate the existence of synaptic neural pathways between different pairs of lumbar segments. In this study we present a multichannel version of the detrended fluctuation analysis method (mDFA) to analyze the correlation dynamics of spontaneous spinal activity (SSA) from time series analysis. This method together with the classical detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) were used to find out whether the SSA recorded in one or several segments in the spinal cord of the anesthetized cat occurs either in a random or in an organized manner. Our results are consistent with a non-random organization of the sets of neurons involved in the generation of spontaneous cord dorsum potentials (CDPs) recorded either from one lumbar segment (DFA- mean = 1.04[Formula: see text]0.09) or simultaneously from several lumbar segments (mDFA- mean = 1.01[Formula: see text]0.06), where  = 0.5 indicates randomness while  = 0.5 indicates long-term correlations. To test the sensitivity of the mDFA method we also examined the effects of small spinal lesions aimed to partially interrupt connectivity between neighboring lumbosacral segments. We found that the synchronization and correlation between the CDPs recorded from the L5 and L6 segments in both sides of the spinal cord were reduced when a lesion comprising the left dorsal quadrant was performed between the segments L5 and L6 (mDFA-[Formula: see text] = 0.992 as compared to initial conditions mDFA- = 1.186). The synchronization and correlation were reduced even further after a similar additional right spinal lesion (mDFA- = 0.924). In contrast to the classical methods, such as correlation and coherence quantification that define a relation between two sets of data, the mDFA method properly reveals the synchronization of multiple groups of neurons in several segments of the spinal cord. This method is envisaged as a useful tool to characterize the structure of higher order ensembles of cord dorsum spontaneous potentials after spinal cord or peripheral nerve lesions.

Diagnosis of patients with a disorder of consciousness is very challenging. Previous studies investigating resting state networks demonstrate that 2 main features of the so-called default mode network (DMN), metabolism and functional connectivity, are impaired in patients with a disorder of consciousness. However, task-induced deactivation--a third main feature of the DMN--has not been explored in a group of patients. Deactivation of the DMN is supposed to reflect interruptions of introspective processes. Seventeen patients with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (UWS, former vegetative state), 8 patients in minimally conscious state (MCS), and 25 healthy controls were investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging during a passive sentence listening task. Results show that deactivation in medial regions is reduced in MCS and absent in UWS patients compared to healthy controls. Moreover, behavioral scores assessing the level of consciousness correlate with deactivation in patients. On single-subject level, all control subjects but only 2 patients in MCS and 6 with UWS exposed deactivation. Interestingly, all patients who deactivated during speech processing (except for one) showed activation in left frontal regions which are associated with conscious processing. Our results indicate that deactivation of the DMN can be associated with the level of consciousness by selecting those who are able to interrupt ongoing introspective processes. In consequence, deactivation of the DMN may function as a marker of consciousness.
Exploring topological properties of human brain network has become an exciting topic in neuroscience research. Large-scale structural and functional brain networks both exhibit a small-world topology, which is evidence for global and local parallel information processing. Meanwhile, resting state networks (RSNs) underlying specific biological functions have provided insights into how intrinsic functional architecture influences cognitive and perceptual information processing. However, topological properties of single RSNs remain poorly understood. Here, we have two hypotheses: i) each RSN also has optimized small-world architecture; ii) topological properties of RSNs related to perceptual and higher cognitive processes are different. To test these hypotheses, we investigated the topological properties of the default-mode, dorsal attention, central-executive, somato-motor, visual and auditory networks derived from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We found small-world topology in each RSN. Furthermore, small-world properties of cognitive networks were higher than those of perceptual networks. Our findings are the first to demonstrate a topological fractionation between perceptual and higher cognitive networks. Our approach may be useful for clinical research, especially for diseases that show selective abnormal connectivity in specific brain networks.
Multisynaptic boutons (MSBs) are presynaptic boutons in contact with multiple postsynaptic partners. Although MSB synapses have been studied with static imaging techniques such as electron microscopy (EM), the dynamics of individual MSB synapses have not been directly evaluated. It is known that the number of MSB synapses increases with synaptogenesis and plasticity but the formation, behavior, and fate of individual MSB synapses remains largely unknown. To address this, we developed a means of live imaging MSB synapses to observe them directly over time. With time lapse confocal microscopy of GFP-filled dendrites in contact with VAMP2-DsRed-labeled boutons, we recorded both MSBs and their contacting spines hourly over 15 or more hours. Our live microscopy showed that, compared to spines contacting single synaptic boutons (SSBs), MSB-contacting spines exhibit elevated dynamic behavior. These results are consistent with the idea that MSBs serve as intermediates in synaptic development and plasticity.
Resting state networks (RSNs) have been studied extensively with functional MRI in humans in health and disease to reflect brain function in the un-stimulated state as well as reveal how the brain is altered with disease. Rodent models of disease have been used comprehensively to understand the biology of the disease as well as in the development of new therapies. RSN reported studies in rodents, however, are few, and most studies are performed with anesthetized rodents that might alter networks and differ from their non-anesthetized state. Acquiring RSN data in the awake rodent avoids the issues of anesthesia effects on brain function. Using high field fMRI we determined RSNs in awake rats using an independent component analysis (ICA) approach, however, ICA analysis can produce a large number of components, some with biological relevance (networks). We further have applied a novel method to determine networks that are robust and reproducible among all the components found with ICA. This analysis indicates that 7 networks are robust and reproducible in the rat and their putative role is discussed.
Inhibitory motor control is a core function of cognitive control. Evidence from diverse experimental approaches has linked this function to a mostly right-lateralized network of cortical and subcortical areas, wherein a signal from the frontal cortex to the basal ganglia is believed to trigger motor-response cancellation. Recently, however, it has been recognized that in the context of typical motor-control paradigms those processes related to actual response inhibition and those related to the attentional processing of the relevant stimuli are highly interrelated and thus difficult to distinguish. Here, we used fMRI and a modified Stop-signal task to specifically examine the role of perceptual and attentional processes triggered by the different stimuli in such tasks, thus seeking to further distinguish other cognitive processes that may precede or otherwise accompany the implementation of response inhibition. In order to establish which brain areas respond to sensory stimulation differences by rare Stop-stimuli, as well as to the associated attentional capture that these may trigger irrespective of their task-relevance, we compared brain activity evoked by Stop-trials to that evoked by Go-trials in task blocks where Stop-stimuli were to be ignored. In addition, region-of-interest analyses comparing the responses to these task-irrelevant Stop-trials, with those to typical relevant Stop-trials, identified separable activity profiles as a function of the task-relevance of the Stop-signal. While occipital areas were mostly blind to the task-relevance of Stop-stimuli, activity in temporo-parietal areas dissociated between task-irrelevant and task-relevant ones. Activity profiles in frontal areas, in turn, were activated mainly by task-relevant Stop-trials, presumably reflecting a combination of triggered top-down attentional influences and inhibitory motor-control processes.


Our visual percepts are not fully determined by physical stimulus inputs. Thus, in visual illusions such as the Kanizsa figure, inducers presented at the corners allow one to perceive the bounding contours of the figure in the absence of luminance-defined borders. We examined the discrimination of the curvature of these illusory contours that pass across retinal scotomas caused by macular degeneration. In contrast with previous studies with normal-sighted subjects that showed no perception of these illusory contours in the region of physiological scotomas at the optic nerve head, we demonstrated perfect discrimination of the curvature of the illusory contours over the pathological retinal scotoma. The illusion occurred despite the large scar around the macular lesion, strongly reducing discrimination of whether the inducer openings were acute or obtuse and suggesting that the coarse information in the inducers (low spatial frequency) sufficed. The result that subjective contours can pass through the pathological retinal scotoma suggests that the visual cortex, despite the loss of bottom-up input, can use low-spatial frequency information from the inducers to form a neural representation of new complex geometrical shapes inside the scotoma.
Fear memory formation is thought to require dopamine, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and zinc release in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), as well as the induction of long term potentiation (LTP) in BLA principal neurons. However, no study to date has shown any relationship between these processes in the BLA. Here, we have used in vitro whole-cell patch clamp recording from BLA principal neurons to investigate how dopamine, BDNF, and zinc release may interact to modulate the LTP induction in the BLA. LTP was induced by either theta burst stimulation (TBS) protocol or spaced 5 times high frequency stimulation (5xHFS). Significantly, both TBS and 5xHFS induced LTP was fully blocked by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390. LTP induction was also blocked by the BDNF scavenger, TrkB-FC, the zinc chelator, DETC, as well as by an inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), gallardin. Conversely, prior application of the dopamine reuptake inhibitor, GBR12783, or the D1 receptor agonist, SKF39393, induced robust and stable LTP in response to a sub-threshold HFS protocol (2xHFS), which does not normally induce LTP. Similarly, prior activation of TrkB receptors with either a TrkB receptor agonist, or BDNF, also reduced the threshold for LTP-induction, an effect that was blocked by the MEK inhibitor, but not by zinc chelation. Intriguingly, the TrkB receptor agonist-induced reduction of LTP threshold was fully blocked by prior application of SCH23390, and the reduction of LTP threshold induced by GBR12783 was blocked by prior application of TrkB-FC. Together, our results suggest a cellular mechanism whereby the threshold for LTP induction in BLA principal neurons is critically dependent on the level of dopamine in the extracellular milieu and the synergistic activation of postsynaptic D1 and TrkB receptors. Moreover, activation of TrkB receptors appears to be dependent on concurrent release of zinc and activation of MMPs.
Cyclooxygenases (COX) are prostanoid synthesizing enzymes constitutively expressed in the brain that contribute to excitotoxic neuronal cell death. While the neurotoxic role of COX-2 is well established and has been linked to prostaglandin E(2) synthesis, the role of COX-1 is not clearly understood. In a model of N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) induced excitotoxicity in the mouse cerebral cortex we found a distinctive temporal profile of COX-1 and COX-2 activation where COX-1, located in microglia, is responsible for the early phase of prostaglandin E(2) synthesis (10 minutes after NMDA), while both COX-1 and COX-2 contribute to the second phase (3-24 hours after NMDA). Microglial COX-1 is strongly activated by ATP but not excitatory neurotransmitters or the Toll-like receptor 4 ligand bacterial lipopolysaccharide. ATP induced microglial COX-1 dependent prostaglandin E(2) synthesis is dependent on P2X7 receptors, extracellular Ca(2+) and cytoplasmic phospholipase A2. NMDA receptor activation induces ATP release from cultured neurons leading to microglial P2X7 receptor activation and COX-1 dependent prostaglandin E(2) synthesis in mixed microglial-neuronal cultures. Pharmacological inhibition of COX-1 has no effect on the cortical lesion produced by NMDA, but counteracts the neuroprotection exerted by inhibition of COX-2 or observed in mice lacking the prostaglandin E(2) receptor type 1. Similarly, the neuroprotection exerted by the prostaglandin E(2) receptor type 2 agonist butaprost is not observed after COX-1 inhibition. P2X7 receptors contribute to NMDA induced prostaglandin E(2) production in vivo and blockage of P2X7 receptors reverses the neuroprotection offered by COX-2 inhibition. These findings suggest that purinergic signaling in microglia triggered by neuronal ATP modulates excitotoxic cortical lesion by regulating COX-1 dependent prostanoid production and unveil a previously unrecognized protective role of microglial COX-1 in excitotoxic brain injury.
This article describes the fabrication and use of microfluidic devices for investigating spatial orientation behaviors in nematode worms (Caenorhabditis elegans). Until now, spatial orientation has been studied in freely moving nematodes in which the frequency and nature of encounters with the gradient are uncontrolled experimental variables. In the new devices, the nematode is held in place by a restraint that aligns the longitudinal axis of the body with the border between two laminar fluid streams, leaving the animal's head and tail free to move. The content of the fluid streams can be manipulated to deliver step gradients in space or time. We demonstrate the utility of the device by identifying previously uncharacterized aspects of the behavioral mechanisms underlying chemotaxis, osmotic avoidance, and thermotaxis in this organism. The new devices are readily adaptable to behavioral and imaging studies involving fluid borne stimuli in a wide range of sensory modalities.


Neural plakophilin-related armadillo protein (NPRAP or -catenin) is a neuronal-specific protein that is best known for its interaction with presenilin 1 (PS1). Interestingly, the hemizygous loss of NPRAP is associated with severe mental retardation in cri du chat syndrome (CDCS), and mutations in PS1 cause an aggressive, early-onset form of Alzheimer's disease. Until recently, studies on the function of NPRAP have focused on its ability to modulate dendritic protrusion elaboration through its binding to cell adhesion and scaffolding molecules. However, mounting evidence indicates that NPRAP participates in intracellular signaling and exists in the nucleus, where it modulates gene expression. This apparent bifunctional nature suggests an elaborate neuronal role, but how NPRAP came to participate in such distinct subcellular events remains a mystery. To gain insight into this pathway, we immunoprecipitated NPRAP from human SH SY5Y cells and identified several novel interacting proteins by mass spectrometry. These included neurofilament alpha-internexin, interferon regulatory protein 2 binding factors, and dynamins 1 and 2. We further validated dynamin 2/NPRAP colocalization and direct interaction in vivo, confirming their bona fide partnership. Interestingly, dynamin 2 has established roles in endocytosis and actin assembly, and both of these processes have the potential to interface with the cell adhesion and intracellular signaling processes that involve NPRAP. Our data provide new avenues for approaching NPRAP biology and suggest a broader role for this protein than previously thought.
Dramatic advances in recent decades in understanding the genetics of Friedreich ataxia (FRDA)--a GAA triplet expansion causing greatly reduced expression of the mitochondrial protein frataxin--have thus far yielded no therapeutic dividend, since there remain no effective treatments that prevent or even slow the inevitable progressive disability in affected individuals. Clinical interventions that restore frataxin expression are attractive therapeutic approaches, as, in theory, it may be possible to re-establish normal function in frataxin deficient cells if frataxin levels are increased above a specific threshold. With this in mind several drugs and cytokines have been tested for their ability to increase frataxin levels. Cell transplantation strategies may provide an alternative approach to this therapeutic aim, and may also offer more widespread cellular protective roles in FRDA. Here we show a direct link between frataxin expression in fibroblasts derived from FRDA patients with both decreased expression of hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes and increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide-mediated toxicity. We demonstrate that normal human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) induce both an increase in frataxin gene and protein expression in FRDA fibroblasts via secretion of soluble factors. Finally, we show that exposure to factors produced by human MSCs increases resistance to hydrogen peroxide-mediated toxicity in FRDA fibroblasts through, at least in part, restoring the expression of the hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes catalase and glutathione peroxidase 1. These findings suggest, for the first time, that stem cells may increase frataxin levels in FRDA and transplantation of MSCs may offer an effective treatment for these patients.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are highly disabling developmental disorders with a population prevalence of 1-3%. Despite a strong genetic etiology, there are no current therapeutic options that target the core symptoms of ASD. Emerging evidence suggests that dysfunction of glutamatergic signaling, in particular through metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) receptors, may contribute to phenotypic deficits and may be appropriate targets for pharmacologic intervention. This study assessed the therapeutic potential of 2-methyl-6-phenylethyl-pyrididine (MPEP), an mGluR5-receptor antagonist, on repetitive and anxiety-like behaviors in the valproic acid (VPA) mouse model of autism. Mice were exposed prenatally on day E13 to VPA and assessed for repetitive self-grooming and marble burying behaviors as adults. Anxiety-like behavior and locomotor activity were measured in an open-field. VPA-exposed mice displayed increased repetitive and anxiety-like behaviors, consistent with previously published results. Across both marble burying and self-grooming assays, MPEP significantly reduced repetitive behaviors in VPA-treated mice, but had no effect on locomotor activity. These results are consistent with emerging preclinical literature that mGluR5-antagonists may have therapeutic efficacy for core symptoms of autism.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated dementia (HAD) usually occurs late in the course of HIV-1 infection and the mechanisms underlying HAD pathogenesis are not well understood. Accumulating evidence indicates that neuronal voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels play an important role in memory processes and acquired neuronal channelopathies in HAD. To examine whether Kv channels are involved in HIV-1-associated neuronal injury, we studied the effects of HIV-1 glycoprotein 120 (gp120) on outward K+ currents in rat cortical neuronal cultures using whole-cell patch techniques. Exposure of cortical neurons to gp120 produced a dose-dependent enhancement of A-type transient outward K+ currents (IA). The gp120-induced increase of IA was attenuated by T140, a specific antagonist for chemokine receptor CXCR4, suggesting gp120 enhancement of neuronal IA via CXCR4. Pretreatment of neuronal cultures with a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, GF109203X, inhibited the gp120-induced increase of IA. Biological significance of gp120 enhancement of IA was demonstrated by experimental results showing that gp120-induced neuronal apoptosis, as detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and caspase-3 staining, was attenuated by either an IA blocker 4-aminopyridine or a specific CXCR4 antagonist T140. Taken together, these results suggest that gp120 may induce caspase-3 dependent neuronal apoptosis by enhancing IA via CXCR4-PKC signaling.
It is well known that acute challenges with psychostimulants such as amphetamine affect impulsive behavior. We here studied the pharmacology underlying the effects of amphetamine in two rat models of impulsivity, the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) and the delayed reward task (DRT), providing measures of inhibitory control, an aspect of impulsive action, and impulsive choice, respectively. We focused on the role of cannabinoid CB1 receptor activation in amphetamine-induced impulsivity as there is evidence that acute challenges with psychostimulants activate the endogenous cannabinoid system, and CB1 receptor activity modulates impulsivity in both rodents and humans. Results showed that pretreatment with either the CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist SR141716A or the neutral CB1 receptor antagonist O-2050 dose-dependently improved baseline inhibitory control in the 5-CSRTT. Moreover, both compounds similarly attenuated amphetamine-induced inhibitory control deficits, suggesting that CB1 receptor activation by endogenously released cannabinoids mediates this aspect of impulsive action. Direct CB1 receptor activation by 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (9-THC) did, however, not affect inhibitory control. Although neither SR141716A nor O-2050 affected baseline impulsive choice in the DRT, both ligands completely prevented amphetamine-induced reductions in impulsive decision making, indicating that CB1 receptor activity may decrease this form of impulsivity. Indeed, acute 9-THC was found to reduce impulsive choice in a CB1 receptor-dependent way. Together, these results indicate an important, though complex role for cannabinoid CB1 receptor activity in the regulation of impulsive action and impulsive choice as well as the opposite effects amphetamine has on both forms of impulsive behavior.


Multisensory integration may occur independently of visual attention as previously shown with compound face-voice stimuli. We investigated in two experiments whether the perception of whole body expressions and the perception of voices influence each other when observers are not aware of seeing the bodily expression. In the first experiment participants categorized masked happy and angry bodily expressions while ignoring congruent or incongruent emotional voices. The onset between target and mask varied from -50 to +133 ms. Results show that the congruency between the emotion in the voice and the bodily expressions influences audiovisual perception independently of the visibility of the stimuli. In the second experiment participants categorized the emotional voices combined with masked bodily expressions as fearful or happy. This experiment showed that bodily expressions presented outside visual awareness still influence prosody perception. Our experiments show that audiovisual integration between bodily expressions and affective prosody can take place outside and independent of visual awareness.
Unbiased, high-throughput screening has proven invaluable for dissecting complex biological processes. Application of this general approach to synaptic function would have a major impact on neuroscience research and drug discovery. However, existing techniques for studying synaptic physiology are labor intensive and low-throughput. Here, we describe a new high-throughput technology for performing assays of synaptic function in primary neurons cultured in microtiter plates. We show that this system can perform 96 synaptic vesicle cycling assays in parallel with high sensitivity, precision, uniformity, and reproducibility and can detect modulators of presynaptic function. By screening libraries of pharmacologically defined compounds on rat forebrain cultures, we have used this system to identify novel effects of compounds on specific aspects of presynaptic function. As a system for unbiased compound as well as genomic screening, this technology has significant applications for basic neuroscience research and for the discovery of novel, mechanism-based treatments for central nervous system disorders.
Cellular abnormalities are not limited to motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). There are numerous observations of astrocyte dysfunction in both humans with ALS and in SOD1(G93A) rodents, a widely studied ALS model. The present study therapeutically targeted astrocyte replacement in this model via transplantation of human Glial-Restricted Progenitors (hGRPs), lineage-restricted progenitors derived from human fetal neural tissue. Our previous findings demonstrated that transplantation of rodent-derived GRPs into cervical spinal cord ventral gray matter (in order to target therapy to diaphragmatic function) resulted in therapeutic efficacy in the SOD1(G93A) rat. Those findings demonstrated the feasibility and efficacy of transplantation-based astrocyte replacement for ALS, and also show that targeted multi-segmental cell delivery to cervical spinal cord is a promising therapeutic strategy, particularly because of its relevance to addressing respiratory compromise associated with ALS. The present study investigated the safety and in vivo survival, distribution, differentiation, and potential efficacy of hGRPs in the SOD1(G93A) mouse. hGRP transplants robustly survived and migrated in both gray and white matter and differentiated into astrocytes in SOD1(G93A) mice spinal cord, despite ongoing disease progression. However, cervical spinal cord transplants did not result in motor neuron protection or any therapeutic benefits on functional outcome measures. This study provides an in vivo characterization of this glial progenitor cell and provides a foundation for understanding their capacity for survival, integration within host tissues, differentiation into glial subtypes, migration, and lack of toxicity or tumor formation.

Auditory hair cells (HCs) have the remarkable property to indefinitely sustain high rates of synaptic vesicle release during ongoing sound stimulation. The mechanisms of vesicle supply that allow such indefatigable exocytosis at the ribbon active zone remain largely unknown. To address this issue, we characterized the kinetics of vesicle recruitment and release in developing chick auditory HCs. Experiments were done using the intact chick basilar papilla from E10 (embryonic day 10) to P2 (two days post-hatch) by monitoring changes in membrane capacitance and Ca(2+) currents during various voltage stimulations. Compared to immature pre-hearing HCs (E10-E12), mature post-hearing HCs (E18-P2) can steadily mobilize a larger readily releasable pool (RRP) of vesicles with faster kinetics and higher Ca(2+) efficiency. As assessed by varying the inter-pulse interval of a 100 ms paired-pulse depolarization protocol, the kinetics of RRP replenishment were found much faster in mature HCs. Unlike mature HCs, exocytosis in immature HCs showed large depression during repetitive stimulations. Remarkably, when the intracellular concentration of EGTA was raised from 0.5 to 2 mM, the paired-pulse depression level remained unchanged in immature HCs but was drastically increased in mature HCs, indicating that the Ca(2+) sensitivity of the vesicle replenishment process increases during maturation. Concomitantly, the immunoreactivity of the calcium sensor otoferlin and the number of ribbons at the HC plasma membrane largely increased, reaching a maximum level at E18-P2. Our results suggest that the efficient Ca(2+)-dependent vesicle release and supply in mature HCs essentially rely on the concomitant engagement of synaptic ribbons and otoferlin at the plasma membrane.

A central goal of neuroscience is to understand how neural circuits encode memory and guide behavior changes. Many of the molecular mechanisms underlying memory are conserved from flies to mammals, and Drosophila has been used extensively to study memory processes. To identify new genes involved in long-term memory, we screened Drosophila enhancer-trap P(Gal4) lines showing Gal4 expression in the mushroom bodies, a specialized brain structure involved in olfactory memory. This screening led to the isolation of a memory mutant that carries a P-element insertion in the debra locus. debra encodes a protein involved in the Hedgehog signaling pathway as a mediator of protein degradation by the lysosome. To study debra's role in memory, we achieved debra overexpression, as well as debra silencing mediated by RNA interference. Experiments conducted with a conditional driver that allowed us to specifically restrict transgene expression in the adult mushroom bodies led to a long-term memory defect. Several conclusions can be drawn from these results: i) debra levels must be precisely regulated to support normal long-term memory, ii) the role of debra in this process is physiological rather than developmental, and iii) debra is specifically required for long-term memory, as it is dispensable for earlier memory phases. Drosophila long-term memory is the only long-lasting memory phase whose formation requires de novo protein synthesis, a process underlying synaptic plasticity. It has been shown in several organisms that regulation of proteins at synapses occurs not only at translation level of but also via protein degradation, acting in remodeling synapses. Our work gives further support to a role of protein degradation in long-term memory, and suggests that the lysosome plays a role in this process.
Emerging applications of neuroimaging outside medicine and science have received intense public exposure through the media. Media misrepresentations can create a gulf between public and scientific understanding of the capabilities of neuroimaging and raise false expectations. To determine the extent of this effect and determine public opinions on acceptable uses and the need for regulation, we designed an electronic survey to obtain anonymous opinions from as wide a range of members of the public and neuroimaging experts as possible. The surveys ran from 1(st) June to 30 September 2010, asked 10 and 21 questions, respectively, about uses of neuroimaging outside traditional medical diagnosis, data storage, science communication and potential methods of regulation. We analysed the responses using descriptive statistics; 660 individuals responded to the public and 303 individuals responded to the expert survey. We found evidence of public skepticism about the use of neuroimaging for applications such as lie detection or to determine consumer preferences and considerable disquiet about use by employers or government and about how their data would be stored and used. While also somewhat skeptical about new applications of neuroimaging, experts grossly underestimated how often neuroimaging had been used as evidence in court. Although both the public and the experts rated highly the importance of a better informed public in limiting the inappropriate uses to which neuroimaging might be put, opinions differed on the need for, and mechanism of, actual regulation. Neuroscientists recognized the risks of inaccurate reporting of neuroimaging capabilities in the media but showed little motivation to engage with the public. The present study also emphasizes the need for better frameworks for scientific engagement with media and public education.
The Collapsin Response Mediator Proteins (CRMPS) are highly expressed in the developing brain, and in adult brain areas that retain neurogenesis, ie: the olfactory bulb (OB) and the dentate gyrus (DG). During brain development, CRMPs are essentially involved in signaling of axon guidance and neurite outgrowth, but their functions in the adult brain remain largely unknown. CRMP5 has been initially identified as the target of auto-antibodies involved in paraneoplasic neurological diseases and further implicated in a neurite outgrowth inhibition mediated by tubulin binding. Interestingly, CRMP5 is also highly expressed in adult brain neurogenic areas where its functions have not yet been elucidated. Here we observed in both neurogenic areas of the adult mouse brain that CRMP5 was present in proliferating and post-mitotic neuroblasts, while they migrate and differentiate into mature neurons. In CRMP5(-/-) mice, the lack of CRMP5 resulted in a significant increase of proliferation and neurogenesis, but also in an excess of apoptotic death of granule cells in the OB and DG. These findings provide the first evidence that CRMP5 is involved in the generation and survival of newly generated neurons in areas of the adult brain with a high level of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity.
Clinical observations and neuroimaging data revealed a right-hemisphere fronto-parietal-thalamic-brainstem network for intrinsic alertness, and additional left fronto-parietal activity during phasic alertness. The primary objective of this fMRI study was to map the functional neuroanatomy of intrinsic alertness as precisely as possible in healthy participants, using a novel assessment paradigm already employed in clinical settings. Both the paradigm and the experimental design were optimized to specifically assess intrinsic alertness, while at the same time controlling for sensory-motor processing. The present results suggest that the processing of intrinsic alertness is accompanied by increased activity within the brainstem, thalamus, anterior cingulate gyrus, right insula, and right parietal cortex. Additionally, we found increased activation in the left hemisphere around the middle frontal gyrus (BA 9), the insula, the supplementary motor area, and the cerebellum. Our results further suggest that rather minute aspects of the experimental design may induce aspects of phasic alertness, which in turn might lead to additional brain activation in left-frontal areas not normally involved in intrinsic alertness. Accordingly, left BA 9 activation may be related to co-activation of the phasic alertness network due to the switch between rest and task conditions functioning as an external warning cue triggering the phasic alertness network. Furthermore, activation of the intrinsic alertness network during fixation blocks due to enhanced expectancy shortly before the switch to the task block might, when subtracted from the task block, lead to diminished activation in the typical right hemisphere intrinsic alertness network. Thus, we cautiously suggest that--as a methodological artifact--left frontal activations might show up due to phasic alertness involvement and intrinsic alertness activations might be weakened due to contrasting with fixation blocks, when assessing the functional neuroanatomy of intrinsic alertness with a block design in fMRI studies.
LMP1-mediated activation of nuclear factor of kappaB (NF-B) is critical for the ligand independent proliferation and cell survival of in vitro EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). Previous experiments revealed that a majority of LMP1-dependent responses are regulated by NF-B. However, the extent that individual NF-B family members are required for these responses, in particular, c-Rel, whose expression is restricted to mature hematopoietic cells, remains unclear. Here we report that low c-Rel expression in LCLs derived from a patient with hyper-IgM syndrome (Pt1), resulted in defects in proliferation and cell survival. In contrast to studies that associated loss of NF-B with increased apoptosis, Pt1 LCLs failed to initiate apoptosis and alternatively underwent autophagy and necrotic cell death. Whereas the proliferation defect appeared linked to a c-Rel-associated decrease in c-myc expression, identified pro-survival and pro-apoptotic targets were expressed at or near control levels consistent with the absence of apoptosis. Ultrastructural examination of Pt1 LCLs revealed a high level of cellular and ER stress that was further supported by gene expression profiling showing the upregulation of several genes involved in stress and inflammation. Apoptosis-independent cell death was accompanied by increased expression of the inflammatory marker, caspase-4. Using gene overexpression and siRNA knockdown we demonstrated that levels of c-Rel directly modulated expression of caspase-4 as well as other ER stress genes. Overall, these findings reveal the importance of c-Rel in maintaining LCL viability and that decreased expression results in ER stress and a default response leading to necrotic cell death.
Synaptic transmission relies on several processes, such as the location of a released vesicle, the number and type of receptors, trafficking between the postsynaptic density (PSD) and extrasynaptic compartment, as well as the synapse organization. To study the impact of these parameters on excitatory synaptic transmission, we present a computational model for the fast AMPA-receptor mediated synaptic current. We show that in addition to the vesicular release probability, due to variations in their release locations and the AMPAR distribution, the postsynaptic current amplitude has a large variance, making a synapse an intrinsic unreliable device. We use our model to examine our experimental data recorded from CA1 mice hippocampal slices to study the differences between mEPSC and evoked EPSC variance. The synaptic current but not the coefficient of variation is maximal when the active zone where vesicles are released is apposed to the PSD. Moreover, we find that for certain type of synapses, receptor trafficking can affect the magnitude of synaptic depression. Finally, we demonstrate that perisynaptic microdomains located outside the PSD impacts synaptic transmission by regulating the number of desensitized receptors and their trafficking to the PSD. We conclude that geometrical modifications, reorganization of the PSD or perisynaptic microdomains modulate synaptic strength, as the mechanisms underlying long-term plasticity.
The cognitive signature of unconscious processes is hotly debated recently. Generally, consciousness is thought to mediate flexible, adaptive and goal-directed behavior, but in the last decade unconscious processing has rapidly gained ground on traditional conscious territory. In this study we demonstrate that the scope and impact of unconscious information on behavior and brain activity can be modulated dynamically on a trial-by-trial basis. Participants performed a Go/No-Go experiment in which an unconscious (masked) stimulus preceding a conscious target could be associated with either a Go or No-Go response. Importantly, the mapping of stimuli onto these actions varied on a trial-by-trial basis, preventing the formation of stable associations and hence the possibility that unconscious stimuli automatically activate these control actions. By eliminating stimulus-response associations established through practice we demonstrate that unconscious information can be processed in a flexible and adaptive manner. In this experiment we show that the same unconscious stimulus can have a substantially different effect on behavior and (prefrontal) brain activity depending on the rapidly changing task context in which it is presented. This work suggests that unconscious information processing shares many sophisticated characteristics (including flexibility and context-specificity) with its conscious counterpart.
Prenatal cocaine exposure causes sustained phosphorylation of the synaptic anchoring protein, glutamate receptor interacting protein (GRIP1/2), preventing synaptic targeting of the GluR2/3-containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs; J. Neurosci. 29: 6308-6319, 2009). Because overexpression of GRIP-associated neuronal rasGEF protein (GRASP-1) specifically reduces the synaptic targeting of AMPARs, we hypothesized that prenatal cocaine exposure enhances GRASP-1 synaptic membrane localization leading to hyper-activation of ras family proteins and heightened actin polymerization. Our results show a markedly increased GRIP1-associated GRASP-1 content with approximately 40% reduction in its rasGEF activity in frontal cortices (FCX) of 21-day-old (P21) prenatal cocaine-exposed rats. This cocaine effect is the result of a persistent protein kinase C (PKC)- and downstream Src tyrosine kinase-mediated GRIP phosphorylation. The hyperactivated PKC also increased membrane-associated GRASP-1 and activated small G-proteins RhoA, cdc42/Rac1 and Rap1 as well as filamentous actin (F-actin) levels without an effect on the phosphorylation state of actin. Since increased F-actin facilitates protein transport, our results suggest that increased GRASP-1 synaptic localization in prenatal cocaine-exposed brains is an adaptive response to restoring the synaptic expression of AMPA-GluR2/3. Our earlier data demonstrated that persistent PKC-mediated GRIP phosphorylation reduces GluR2/3 synaptic targeting in prenatal cocaine-exposed brains, we now show that the increased GRIP-associated GRASP-1 may contribute to the reduction in GluR2/3 synaptic expression and AMPAR signaling defects.
Long term depression (LTD) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, induced with a 20-Hz, 30 s tetanus to Schaffer collaterals, is enhanced in sleep-deprived (SD) rats. In the present study, we investigated the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), -aminobutyric acid (GABA) B receptors (GABA(B)-Rs) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs) in the LTD of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential (pEPSP). The requirement of Ca(2+) from L- and T-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and intracellular stores was also studied. Results indicate that mGluRs, a release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores and GABA(B)-Rs are required for LTD. Interestingly, while mGlu1Rs seem to be involved in both short-term depression and LTD, mGlu5Rs appear to participate mostly in LTD. CGP 55845, a GABA(B)-R antagonist, partially suppressed LTD in normally sleeping (NS) rats, while completely blocking LTD in SD rats. Moreover, GS-39783, a positive allosteric modulator for GABA(B)-R, suppressed the pEPSP in SD, but not NS rats. Since both mGluRs and GABA(B)-Rs seem to be involved in the LTD, especially in SD rats, we examined if the receptor expression pattern and/or dimerization changed, using immunohistochemical, co-localization and co-immunoprecipitation techniques. Sleep-deprivation induced an increase in the expression of GABA(B)-R1 and mGlu1R in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In addition, co-localization and heterodimerization between mGlu1R/GABA(B)-R1 and mGlu1R/GABA(B)-R2 is enhanced in SD rats. Taken together, our findings present a novel form of LTD sensitive to the activation of mGluRs and GABA(B)-Rs, and reveal, for the first time, that sleep-deprivation induces alterations in the expression and dimerization of these receptors.
A central criticism of standard theoretical approaches to constructing stable, recurrent model networks is that the synaptic connection weights need to be finely-tuned. This criticism is severe because proposed rules for learning these weights have been shown to have various limitations to their biological plausibility. Hence it is unlikely that such rules are used to continuously fine-tune the network in vivo. We describe a learning rule that is able to tune synaptic weights in a biologically plausible manner. We demonstrate and test this rule in the context of the oculomotor integrator, showing that only known neural signals are needed to tune the weights. We demonstrate that the rule appropriately accounts for a wide variety of experimental results, and is robust under several kinds of perturbation. Furthermore, we show that the rule is able to achieve stability as good as or better than that provided by the linearly optimal weights often used in recurrent models of the integrator. Finally, we discuss how this rule can be generalized to tune a wide variety of recurrent attractor networks, such as those found in head direction and path integration systems, suggesting that it may be used to tune a wide variety of stable neural systems.
Many studies have provided evidence for the existence of universal constraints on color categorization or naming in various languages, but the biological basis of these constraints is unknown. A recent study of the pattern of color categorization across numerous languages has suggested that these patterns tend to avoid straddling a region in color space at or near the border between the English composite categories of &quot;warm&quot; and &quot;cool&quot;. This fault line in color space represents a fundamental constraint on color naming. Here we report that the two-way categorization along the fault line is correlated with the sign of the L- versus M-cone contrast of a stimulus color. Moreover, we found that the sign of the L-M cone contrast also accounted for the two-way clustering of the spatially distributed neural responses in small regions of the macaque primary visual cortex, visualized with optical imaging. These small regions correspond to the hue maps, where our previous study found a spatially organized representation of stimulus hue. Altogether, these results establish a direct link between a universal constraint on color naming and the cone-specific information that is represented in the primate early visual system.
Non-invasive recording in untethered animals is arguably the ultimate step in the analysis of neuronal function, but such recordings remain elusive. To address this problem, we devised a system that tracks neuron-sized fluorescent targets in real time. The system can be used to create virtual environments by optogenetic activation of sensory neurons, or to image activity in identified neurons at high magnification. By recording activity in neurons of freely moving C. elegans, we tested the long-standing hypothesis that forward and reverse locomotion are generated by distinct neuronal circuits. Surprisingly, we found motor neurons that are active during both types of locomotion, suggesting a new model of locomotion control in C. elegans. These results emphasize the importance of recording neuronal activity in freely moving animals and significantly expand the potential of imaging techniques by providing a mean to stabilize fluorescent targets.
Adult neural precursor cells (NPCs) respond to injury or disease of the CNS by migrating to the site of damage or differentiating locally to replace lost cells. Factors that mediate this injury induced NPC response include chemokines and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) and interferon- (IFN), which we have shown previously promotes neuronal differentiation. RT-PCR was used to compare expression of chemokines and their receptors in normal adult mouse brain and in cultured NPCs in response to IFN and TNF. Basal expression of many chemokines and their receptors was found in adult brain, predominantly in neurogenic regions, with OBSVZ&gt;hippocampus and little or no expression in non-neurogenic regions, such as cortex. Treatment of SVZ-derived NPCs with IFN and TNF (alone and in combination) resulted in significant upregulation of expression of specific chemokines, with CXCL1, CXCL9 and CCL2 most highly upregulated and CCL19 downregulated. Unlike IFN, chemokine treatment of NPCs in vitro had little or no effect on survival, proliferation or migration. Neuronal differentiation was promoted by CXCL9, CCL2 and CCL21, while astrocyte and total oligodendrocyte differentiation was not affected. However, IFN, CXCL1, CXCL9 and CCL2 promoted oligodendrocyte maturation. Therefore, not only do NPCs express chemokine receptors, they also produce several chemokines, particularly in response to inflammatory mediators. This suggests that autocrine or paracrine production of specific chemokines by NPCs in response to inflammatory mediators may regulate differentiation into mature neural cell types and may alter NPC responsiveness to CNS injury or disease.
Given the polarity dependent effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in facilitating or inhibiting neuronal processing, and tDCS effects on pitch perception, we tested the effects of tDCS on temporal aspects of auditory processing. We aimed to change baseline activity of the auditory cortex using tDCS as to modulate temporal aspects of auditory processing in healthy subjects without hearing impairment. Eleven subjects received 2mA bilateral anodal, cathodal and sham tDCS over auditory cortex in a randomized and counterbalanced order. Subjects were evaluated by the Random Gap Detection Test (RGDT), a test measuring temporal processing abilities in the auditory domain, before and during the stimulation. Statistical analysis revealed a significant interaction effect of time vs. tDCS condition for 4000 Hz and for clicks. Post-hoc tests showed significant differences according to stimulation polarity on RGDT performance: anodal improved 22.5% and cathodal decreased 54.5% subjects' performance, as compared to baseline. For clicks, anodal also increased performance in 29.4% when compared to baseline. tDCS presented polarity-dependent effects on the activity of the auditory cortex, which results in a positive or negative impact in a temporal resolution task performance. These results encourage further studies exploring tDCS in central auditory processing disorders.
Ionotropic glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors are the major mediators of fast synaptic neurotransmission. In this work, we used primary cortical cultures from rats as a model system to study AMPA receptor regulation during in vitro cell maturation and after synaptic activity modifications. The levels of AMPA receptor mRNA and protein, along with the alternative splicing and RNA editing of the AMPA receptor subunit (GluR1-4) mRNAs, were analyzed in immature (DIV5) and mature (DIV26) rat neuronal cultures. We observed an increase in the expression of all four AMPA receptor subunits during in vitro neuronal maturation. This finding might be due to the formation of new synapses between neurons during the development of a complex neuronal network. We also analyzed the effects of stimulation (KCl and glutamate) and inhibition (APV/TTX) on rat mature neuronal cultures (DIV26): stimulation with KCl led to an overall down-regulation of GluR1 and GluR3 AMPA receptor subunits and an up-regulation of the GluR2 subunit. Similarly, glutamate treatment induced a significant down-regulation of GluR1 together with an up-regulation of GluR2. In contrast, the chronic blockade of neuronal activity that resulted from APV/TTX treatment up-regulated GluR1 and GluR3 with a parallel down-regulation of GluR2 and GluR4. RNA editing at the R/G site increased during neuronal cell maturation for all AMPA receptors (from 8-39% at DIV5 to 28-67% at DIV26). Unexpectedly, all the treatments tested induced a marked reduction (ranging from -9% to -52%) of R/G editing levels in mature neurons, primarily for the mRNA flip variant. In summary, we showed that cultured rat cortical neurons are able to vary the stoichiometric ratios of the AMPA receptor subunits and to control post-transcriptional processes to adapt fast synaptic transmission under different environmental conditions.
Risk is a ubiquitous feature of the environment for most organisms, who must often choose between a small and certain reward and a larger but less certain reward. To study choice behavior under risk in a genetically well characterized species, we trained mice (C57BL/6) on a discrete trial, concurrent-choice task in which they must choose between two levers. Pressing one lever (safe choice) is always followed by a small reward. Pressing the other lever (risky choice) is followed by a larger reward, but only on some of the trials. The overall payoff is the same on both levers. When mice were not food deprived, they were indifferent to risk, choosing both levers with equal probability regardless of the level of risk. In contrast, following food or water deprivation, mice earning 10% sucrose solution were risk-averse, though the addition of alcohol to the sucrose solution dose-dependently reduced risk aversion, even before the mice became intoxicated. Our results falsify the budget rule in optimal foraging theory often used to explain behavior under risk. Instead, they suggest that the overall demand or desired amount for a particular reward determines risk preference. Changes in motivational state or reward identity affect risk preference by changing demand. Any manipulation that increases the demand for a reward also increases risk aversion, by selectively increasing the frequency of safe choices without affecting frequency of risky choices.
Animals can make faster behavioral responses to multisensory stimuli than to unisensory stimuli. The superior colliculus (SC), which receives multiple inputs from different sensory modalities, is considered to be involved in the initiation of motor responses. However, the mechanism by which multisensory information facilitates motor responses is not yet understood. Here, we demonstrate that multisensory information modulates competition among SC neurons to elicit faster responses. We conducted multiunit recordings from the SC of rats performing a two-alternative spatial discrimination task using auditory and/or visual stimuli. We found that a large population of SC neurons showed direction-selective activity before the onset of movement in response to the stimuli irrespective of stimulation modality. Trial-by-trial correlation analysis showed that the premovement activity of many SC neurons increased with faster reaction speed for the contraversive movement, whereas the premovement activity of another population of neurons decreased with faster reaction speed for the ipsiversive movement. When visual and auditory stimuli were presented simultaneously, the premovement activity of a population of neurons for the contraversive movement was enhanced, whereas the premovement activity of another population of neurons for the ipsiversive movement was depressed. Unilateral inactivation of SC using muscimol prolonged reaction times of contraversive movements, but it shortened those of ipsiversive movements. These findings suggest that the difference in activity between the SC hemispheres regulates the reaction speed of motor responses, and multisensory information enlarges the activity difference resulting in faster responses.
An important unresolved question in sensory neuroscience is whether, and if so with what time course, tactile perception is enhanced by visual deprivation. In three experiments involving 158 normally sighted human participants, we assessed whether tactile spatial acuity improves with short-term visual deprivation over periods ranging from under 10 to over 110 minutes. We used an automated, precisely controlled two-interval forced-choice grating orientation task to assess each participant's ability to discern the orientation of square-wave gratings pressed against the stationary index finger pad of the dominant hand. A two-down one-up staircase (Experiment 1) or a Bayesian adaptive procedure (Experiments 2 and 3) was used to determine the groove width of the grating whose orientation each participant could reliably discriminate. The experiments consistently showed that tactile grating orientation discrimination does not improve with short-term visual deprivation. In fact, we found that tactile performance degraded slightly but significantly upon a brief period of visual deprivation (Experiment 1) and did not improve over periods of up to 110 minutes of deprivation (Experiments 2 and 3). The results additionally showed that grating orientation discrimination tends to improve upon repeated testing, and confirmed that women significantly outperform men on the grating orientation task. We conclude that, contrary to two recent reports but consistent with an earlier literature, passive tactile spatial acuity is not enhanced by short-term visual deprivation. Our findings have important theoretical and practical implications. On the theoretical side, the findings set limits on the time course over which neural mechanisms such as crossmodal plasticity may operate to drive sensory changes; on the practical side, the findings suggest that researchers who compare tactile acuity of blind and sighted participants should not blindfold the sighted participants.
Sixty-five percent of Americans are over-weight. While the neuroendocrine controls of energy homeostasis are well known, how sensory systems respond to and are impacted by obesity is scantily understood. The main accepted function of the olfactory system is to provide an internal depiction of our external chemical environment, starting from the detection of chemosensory cues. We hypothesized that the system additionally functions to encode internal chemistry via the detection of chemicals that are important indicators of metabolic state. We here uncovered that the olfactory bulb (OB) subserves as an internal sensor of metabolism via insulin-induced modulation of the potassium channel Kv1.3. Using an adult slice preparation of the olfactory bulb, we found that evoked neural activity in Kv1.3-expressing mitral cells is enhanced following acute insulin application. Insulin mediated changes in mitral cell excitability are predominantly due to the modulation of Kv1.3 channels as evidenced by the lack of effect in slices from Kv1.3-null mice. Moreover, a selective Kv1.3 peptide blocker (ShK186) inhibits more than 80% of the outward current in parallel voltage-clamp studies, whereby insulin significantly decreases the peak current magnitude without altering the kinetics of inactivation or deactivation. Mice that were chronically administered insulin using intranasal delivery approaches exhibited either an elevation in basal firing frequency or fired a single cluster of action potentials. Following chronic administration of the hormone, mitral cells were inhibited by application of acute insulin rather than excited. Mice made obese through a diet of 32% fat exhibited prominent changes in mitral cell action potential shape and clustering behavior, whereby the subsequent response to acute insulin stimulation was either attenuated or completely absent. Our results implicate an inappropriate neural function of olfactory sensors following exposure to chronic levels of the hormone insulin (diabetes) or increased body weight (obesity).
By causing damage to neural networks, spinal cord injuries (SCI) often result in severe motor and sensory dysfunction. Functional recovery requires axonal regrowth and regeneration of neural network, processes that are quite limited in the adult central nervous system (CNS). Previous work has shown that SCI lesions contain an accumulation of activated microglia, which can have multiple pathophysiological influences. Here, we show that activated microglia inhibit axonal growth via repulsive guidance molecule a (RGMa). We found that microglia activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) inhibited neurite outgrowth and induced growth cone collapse of cortical neurons in vitro--a pattern that was only observed when there was direct contact between microglia and neurons. After microglia were activated by LPS, they increased expression of RGMa; however, treatment with RGMa-neutralizing antibodies or transfection of RGMa siRNA attenuated the inhibitory effects of microglia on axonal outgrowth. Furthermore, minocycline, an inhibitor of microglial activation, attenuated the effects of microglia and RGMa expression. Finally, we examined whether these in vitro patterns could also be observed in vivo. Indeed, in a mouse SCI model, minocycline treatment reduced the accumulation of microglia and decreased RGMa expression after SCI, leading to reduced dieback in injured corticospinal tracts. These results suggest that activated microglia play a major role in inhibiting axon regeneration via RGMa in the injured CNS.
Measurements of human brain function in children are of increasing interest in cognitive neuroscience. Many techniques for brain mapping used in children, including functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), use probes placed on or near the scalp. The distance between the scalp and the brain is a key variable for these techniques because optical, electrical and magnetic signals are attenuated by distance. However, little is known about how scalp-brain distance differs between different cortical regions in children or how it changes with development. We investigated scalp-brain distance in 71 children, from newborn to age 12 years, using structural T1-weighted MRI scans of the whole head. Three-dimensional reconstructions were created from the scalp surface to allow for accurate calculation of brain-scalp distance. Nine brain landmarks in different cortical regions were manually selected in each subject based on the published fNIRS literature. Significant effects were found for age, cortical region and hemisphere. Brain-scalp distances were lowest in young children, and increased with age to up to double the newborn distance. There were also dramatic differences between brain regions, with up to 50% differences between landmarks. In frontal and temporal regions, scalp-brain distances were significantly greater in the right hemisphere than in the left hemisphere. The largest contributors to developmental changes in brain-scalp distance were increases in the corticospinal fluid (CSF) and inner table of the cranium. These results have important implications for functional imaging studies of children: age and brain-region related differences in fNIRS signals could be due to the confounding factor of brain-scalp distance and not true differences in brain activity.

Imbalance of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA is one of several causes of seizures. ATP has also been implicated in epilepsy. However, little is known about the mechanisms involved in the release of ATP from cells and the consequences of the altered ATP signaling during seizures. Pannexin1 (Panx1) is found in astrocytes and in neurons at high levels in the embryonic and young postnatal brain, declining in adulthood. Panx1 forms large-conductance voltage sensitive plasma membrane channels permeable to ATP that are also activated by elevated extracellular K(+) and following P2 receptor stimulation. Based on these properties, we hypothesized that Panx1 channels may contribute to seizures by increasing the levels of extracellular ATP. Using pharmacological tools and two transgenic mice deficient for Panx1 we show here that interference with Panx1 ameliorates the outcome and shortens the duration of kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. These data thus indicate that the activation of Panx1 in juvenile mouse hippocampi contributes to neuronal hyperactivity in seizures.
Ceruloplasmin (Cp) is an essential ferroxidase that plays important roles in cellular iron trafficking. Previous findings suggest that the proper regulation and subcellular localization of iron are very important in brain cell function and viability. Brain iron dyshomeostasis is observed during normal aging, as well as in several neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases, coincident with areas more susceptible to insults. Because of their high metabolic demand and electrical excitability, neurons are particularly vulnerable to ischemic injury and death. We therefore set out to look for abnormalities in the brain of young adult mice that lack Cp. We found that iron levels in the striatum and cerebral cortex of these young animals are significantly lower than wild-type (WT) controls. Also mRNA levels of the neurotrophin brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), known for its role in maintenance of cell viability, were decreased in these brain areas. Chelator-mediated depletion of iron in cultured neural cells resulted in reduced BDNF expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism, suggesting a causal link between low brain iron levels and reduced BDNF expression. When the mice were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion, a model of focal ischemic stroke, we found increased brain damage in Cp-deficient mice compared to WT controls. Our data indicate that lack of Cp increases neuronal susceptibility to ischemic injury by a mechanism that may involve reduced levels of iron and BDNF.
Glycine, a nonessential amino-acid that acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, is currently used as a dietary supplement to improve the quality of sleep, but its mechanism of action is poorly understood. We confirmed the effects of glycine on sleep/wakefulness behavior in mice when administered peripherally. Glycine administration increased non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep time and decreased the amount and mean episode duration of wakefulness when administered in the dark period. Since peripheral administration of glycine induced fragmentation of sleep/wakefulness states, which is a characteristic of orexin deficiency, we examined the effects of glycine on orexin neurons. The number of Fos-positive orexin neurons markedly decreased after intraperitoneal administration of glycine to mice. To examine whether glycine acts directly on orexin neurons, we examined the effects of glycine on orexin neurons by patch-clamp electrophysiology. Glycine directly induced hyperpolarization and cessation of firing of orexin neurons. These responses were inhibited by a specific glycine receptor antagonist, strychnine. Triple-labeling immunofluorescent analysis showed close apposition of glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2)-immunoreactive glycinergic fibers onto orexin-immunoreactive neurons. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis revealed that GlyT2-immunoreactive terminals made symmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of orexin neurons. Double-labeling immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that glycine receptor alpha subunits were localized in the postsynaptic membrane of symmetrical inhibitory synapses on orexin neurons. Considering the importance of glycinergic regulation during REM sleep, our observations suggest that glycine injection might affect the activity of orexin neurons, and that glycinergic inhibition of orexin neurons might play a role in physiological sleep regulation.
An important neuropathological feature of neuroinflammatory processes that occur during e.g. Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is the formation of an astroglial scar. Astroglial scar formation is facilitated by the interaction between astrocytes and extracellular matrix proteins (ECM) such as fibronectin. Since there is evidence indicating that glial scars strongly inhibit both axon growth and (re)myelination in brain lesions, it is important to understand the factors that contribute to the interaction between astrocytes and ECM proteins. Tissue Transglutaminase (TG2) is a multifunctional enzyme with an ubiquitous tissue distribution, being clearly present within the brain. It has been shown that inflammatory cytokines can enhance TG2 activity. In addition, TG2 can mediate cell adhesion and migration and it binds fibronectin with high affinity. We therefore hypothesized that TG2 is involved in astrocyte-fibronectin interactions. Our studies using primary rat astrocytes show that intracellular and cell surface expression and activity of TG2 is increased after treatment with pro-inflammatory cytokines. Astrocyte-derived TG2 interacts with fibronectin and is involved in astrocyte adhesion onto and migration across fibronectin. TG2 is involved in stimulating focal adhesion formation which is necessary for the interaction of astrocytes with ECM proteins. We conclude that astrocyte-derived TG2 contributes to the interaction between astrocytes and fibronectin. It might thereby regulate ECM remodeling and possibly glial scarring.
Resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) has been drawing more and more attention in recent years. However, a publicly available, systematically integrated and easy-to-use tool for RS-fMRI data processing is still lacking. We developed a toolkit for the analysis of RS-fMRI data, namely the RESting-state fMRI data analysis Toolkit (REST). REST was developed in MATLAB with graphical user interface (GUI). After data preprocessing with SPM or AFNI, a few analytic methods can be performed in REST, including functional connectivity analysis based on linear correlation, regional homogeneity, amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF), and fractional ALFF. A few additional functions were implemented in REST, including a DICOM sorter, linear trend removal, bandpass filtering, time course extraction, regression of covariates, image calculator, statistical analysis, and slice viewer (for result visualization, multiple comparison correction, etc.). REST is an open-source package and is freely available at http://www.restfmri.net.
The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence, the distribution and the impact on disability of grey matter (GM) pathology in early multiple sclerosis. Eighty-eight patients with a clinically isolated syndrome with a high risk developing multiple sclerosis were included in the study. Forty-four healthy controls constituted the normative population. An optimized statistical mapping analysis was performed to compare each subject's GM Magnetization Transfer Ratio (MTR) imaging maps with those of the whole group of controls. The statistical threshold of significant GM MTR decrease was determined as the maximum p value (p&lt;0.05 FDR) for which no significant cluster survived when comparing each control to the whole control population. Using this threshold, 51% of patients showed GM abnormalities compared to controls. Locally, 37% of patients presented abnormalities inside the limbic cortex, 34% in the temporal cortex, 32% in the deep grey matter, 30% in the cerebellum, 30% in the frontal cortex, 26% in the occipital cortex and 19% in the parietal cortex. Stepwise regression analysis evidenced significant association (p=0.002) between EDSS and both GM pathology (p=0.028) and T2 white matter lesions load (p=0.019). In the present study, we evidenced that individual analysis of GM MTR map allowed demonstrating that GM pathology is highly heterogeneous across patients at the early stage of MS and partly underlies irreversible disability.
GABAergic inhibition in the central nervous system (CNS) can occur via rapid, transient postsynaptic currents and via a tonic increase in membrane conductance, mediated by synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) respectively. Retinal bipolar cells (BCs) exhibit a tonic current mediated by GABA(C)Rs in their axon terminal, in addition to synaptic GABA(A)R and GABA(C)R currents, which strongly regulate BC output. The tonic GABA(C)R current in BC terminals (BCTs) is not dependent on vesicular GABA release, but properties such as the alternative source of GABA and the identity of the GABA(C)Rs remain unknown. Following a recent report that tonic GABA release from cerebellar glial cells is mediated by Bestrophin 1 anion channels, we have investigated their role in non-vesicular GABA release in the retina. Using patch-clamp recordings from BCTs in goldfish retinal slices, we find that the tonic GABA(C)R current is not reduced by the anion channel inhibitors NPPB or flufenamic acid but is reduced by DIDS, which decreases the tonic current without directly affecting GABA(C)Rs. All three drugs also exhibit non-specific effects including inhibition of GABA transporters. GABA(C)R  subunits can form homomeric and heteromeric receptors that differ in their properties, but BC GABA(C)Rs are thought to be 1-2 heteromers. To investigate whether GABA(C)Rs mediating tonic and synaptic currents may differ in their subunit composition, as is the case for GABA(A)Rs, we have examined the effects of two antagonists that show partial  subunit selectivity: picrotoxin and cyclothiazide. Tonic and synaptic GABA(C)R currents were differentially affected by both drugs, suggesting that a population of homomeric 1 receptors contributes to the tonic current. These results extend our understanding of the multiple forms of GABAergic inhibition that exist in the CNS and contribute to visual signal processing in the retina.
Processing of motion and pattern has been extensively studied in the visual domain, but much less in the somatosensory system. Here, we used ultra-high-field functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 7 Tesla to investigate the neuronal correlates of tactile motion and pattern processing in humans under tightly controlled stimulation conditions. Different types of dynamic stimuli created the sensation of moving or stationary bar patterns during passive touch. Activity in somatosensory cortex was increased during both motion and pattern processing and modulated by motion directionality in primary and secondary somatosensory cortices (SI and SII) as well as by pattern orientation in the anterior intraparietal sulcus. Furthermore, tactile motion and pattern processing induced activity in the middle temporal cortex (hMT+/V5) and in the inferior parietal cortex (IPC), involving parts of the supramarginal und angular gyri. These responses covaried with subjects' individual perceptual performance, suggesting that hMT+/V5 and IPC contribute to conscious perception of specific tactile stimulus features. In addition, an analysis of effective connectivity using psychophysiological interactions (PPI) revealed increased functional coupling between SI and hMT+/V5 during motion processing, as well as between SI and IPC during pattern processing. This connectivity pattern provides evidence for the direct engagement of these specialized cortical areas in tactile processing during somesthesis.
We have previously shown that double deletion of the genes for Rac1 and Rac3 GTPases during neuronal development affects late developmental events that perturb the circuitry of the hippocampus, with ensuing epileptic phenotype. These effects include a defect in mossy cells, the major class of excitatory neurons of the hilus. Here, we have addressed the mechanisms that affect the loss of hilar mossy cells in the dorsal hippocampus of mice depleted of the two Rac GTPases. Quantification showed that the loss of mossy cells was evident already at postnatal day 8, soon after these cells become identifiable by a specific marker in the dorsal hilus. Comparative analysis of the hilar region from control and double mutant mice revealed that synaptogenesis was affected in the double mutants, with strongly reduced presynaptic input from dentate granule cells. We found that apoptosis was equally low in the hippocampus of both control and double knockout mice. Labelling with bromodeoxyuridine at embryonic day 12.5 showed no evident difference in the proliferation of neuronal precursors in the hippocampal primordium, while differences in the number of bromodeoxyuridine-labelled cells in the developing hilus revealed a defect in the migration of immature, developing mossy cells in the brain of double knockout mice. Overall, our data show that Rac1 and Rac3 GTPases participate in the normal development of hilar mossy cells, and indicate that they are involved in the regulation of the migration of the mossy cell precursor by preventing their arrival to the dorsal hilus.
Previous studies have shown that tool use often modifies one's peripersonal space--i.e. the space directly surrounding our body. Given our profound experience with manipulable objects (e.g. a toothbrush, a comb or a teapot) in the present study we hypothesized that the observation of pictures representing manipulable objects would result in a remapping of peripersonal space as well. Subjects were required to report the location of vibrotactile stimuli delivered to the right hand, while ignoring visual distractors superimposed on pictures representing everyday objects. Pictures could represent objects that were of high manipulability (e.g. a cell phone), medium manipulability (e.g. a soap dispenser) and low manipulability (e.g. a computer screen). In the first experiment, when subjects attended to the action associated with the objects, a strong cross-modal congruency effect (CCE) was observed for pictures representing medium and high manipulability objects, reflected in faster reaction times if the vibrotactile stimulus and the visual distractor were in the same location, whereas no CCE was observed for low manipulability objects. This finding was replicated in a second experiment in which subjects attended to the visual properties of the objects. These findings suggest that the observation of manipulable objects facilitates cross-modal integration in peripersonal space.
In general, emotion is known to enhance memory processes. However, the effect of emotion on associative memory and the underling neural mechanisms remains largely unexplored. In this study, we explored brain activation during an associative memory task that involved the encoding and retrieval of word and face pairs. The word and face pairs consisted of either negative or positive words with neutral faces. Significant hippocampal activation was observed during both encoding and retrieval, regardless of whether the word was negative or positive. Negative and positive emotionality differentially affected the hemodynamic responses to encoding and retrieval in the amygdala, with increased responses during encoding negative word and face pairs. Furthermore, activation of the amygdala during encoding of negative word and neutral face pairs was inversely correlated with subsequent memory retrieval. These findings suggest that activation of the amygdala induced by negative emotion during encoding may disrupt associative memory performance.
Housing conditions represent an important environmental variable playing a critical role in the assessment of mouse behaviour. In the present study the effects of isolation and nesting material on the behaviour of female C57BL/6J mice were evaluated. The mice were subjected to different rearing conditions from weaning (at the age of 3 weeks). The study groups were group- and single-housed mice, divided further into groups with or without nesting material (species-specific enrichment). After 8 weeks spent in respective conditions the behavioural testing began. Both factors (social conditions and nesting material) appeared to have a significant impact on the behavioural phenotype. However, it is important to stress that the interaction between the factors was virtually absent. We established that isolation increased locomotor activity and reduced anxiety-like behaviour in several tests of exploration. In contrast, absence of nesting material increased anxiety-like behaviour. Neither factor affected rota-rod performance, nociception and prepulse inhibition. Contextual fear memory was significantly reduced in single-housed mice, and interestingly, in mice with nesting material. Cued fear memory was reduced by single-housing, but not affected by enrichment. Mice from enriched cages displayed faster and better learning and spatial search strategy in the water maze. In contrast, isolation caused significant impairment in the water maze. In conclusion, both isolation and species-specific enrichment have profound effects on mouse behaviour and should be considered in design of the experiments and in assessment of animal welfare issues.

We measured the expression of 187 miRNAs using quantitative real time PCR in the hippocampal CA1 region of contextually conditioned mice and cultured embryonic rat hippocampal neurons after neuronal stimulation with either NMDA or bicuculline. Many of the changes in miRNA expression after these three types of stimulation were similar. Surprisingly, the expression level of half of the 187 measured miRNAs was changed in response to contextual conditioning in an NMDA receptor-dependent manner. Genes that control miRNA biogenesis and components of the RISC also exhibited activity induced expression changes and are likely to contribute to the widespread changes in the miRNA profile. The widespread changes in miRNA expression are consistent with the finding that genes up-regulated by contextual conditioning have longer 3' UTRs and more predicted binding sites for miRNAs. Among the miRNAs that changed their expression after contextual conditioning, several inhibit inhibitors of the mTOR pathway. These findings point to a role for miRNAs in learning and memory that includes mTOR-dependent modulation of protein synthesis.

Upregulation and activation of developmental axon guidance molecules, such as semaphorins and members of the Eph receptor tyrosine kinase family and their ligands, the ephrins, play a role in the inhibition of axonal regeneration following injury to the central nervous system. Previously we have demonstrated in a knockout model that axonal regeneration following spinal cord injury is promoted in the absence of the axon guidance protein EphA4. Antagonism of EphA4 was therefore proposed as a potential therapy to promote recovery from spinal cord injury. To further assess this potential, two soluble recombinant blockers of EphA4, unclustered ephrin-A5-Fc and EphA4-Fc, were examined for their ability to promote axonal regeneration and to improve functional outcome following spinal cord hemisection in wildtype mice. A 2-week administration of either of these blockers following spinal cord injury was sufficient to promote substantial axonal regeneration and functional recovery by 5 weeks following injury. Both inhibitors produced a moderate reduction in astrocytic gliosis, indicating that much of the effect of the blockers may be due to promotion of axon growth. These studies provide definitive evidence that soluble inhibitors of EphA4 function offer considerable therapeutic potential for the treatment of spinal cord injury and may have broader potential for the treatment of other central nervous system injuries.
Timing in the range of seconds referred to as interval timing is crucial for cognitive operations and conscious time processing. According to recent models of interval timing basal ganglia (BG) oscillatory loops are involved in time interval recognition. Parkinsos disease (PD) is a typical disease of the basal ganglia that shows distortions in interval timing. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a powerful treatment of PD which modulates motor and cognitive functions depending on stimulation frequency by affecting subcortical-cortical oscillatory loops. Thus, for the understanding of BG-involvement in interval timing it is of interest whether STN-DBS can modulate timing in a frequency dependent manner by interference with oscillatory time recognition processes. We examined production and reproduction of 5 and 15 second intervals and millisecond timing in a double blind, randomised, within-subject repeated-measures design of 12 PD-patients applying no, 10-Hz- and  130-Hz-STN-DBS compared to healthy controls. We found under(re-)production of the 15-second interval and a significant enhancement of this under(re-)production by 10-Hz-stimulation compared to no stimulation,  130-Hz-STN-DBS and controls. Milliseconds timing was not affected. We provide first evidence for a frequency-specific modulatory effect of STN-DBS on interval timing. Our results corroborate the involvement of BG in general and of the STN in particular in the cognitive representation of time intervals in the range of multiple seconds.
Hippocampal injury-associated learning and memory deficits are frequent hallmarks of brain trauma and are the most enduring and devastating consequences following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Several reports, including our recent paper, showed that TBI brought on by a moderate level of controlled cortical impact (CCI) induces immature newborn neuron death in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In contrast, the majority of mature neurons are spared. Less research has been focused on these spared neurons, which may also be injured or compromised by TBI. Here we examined the dendrite morphologies, dendritic spines, and synaptic structures using a genetic approach in combination with immunohistochemistry and Golgi staining. We found that although most of the mature granular neurons were spared following TBI at a moderate level of impact, they exhibited dramatic dendritic beading and fragmentation, decreased number of dendritic branches, and a lower density of dendritic spines, particularly the mushroom-shaped mature spines. Further studies showed that the density of synapses in the molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus was significantly reduced. The electrophysiological activity of neurons was impaired as well. These results indicate that TBI not only induces cell death in immature granular neurons, it also causes significant dendritic and synaptic degeneration in pathohistology. TBI also impairs the function of the spared mature granular neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. These observations point to a potential anatomic substrate to explain, in part, the development of posttraumatic memory deficits. They also indicate that dendritic damage in the hippocampal dentate gyrus may serve as a therapeutic target following TBI.

The generation of DNA constructs is often a rate-limiting step in conducting biological experiments. Recombination cloning of single DNA fragments using the Gateway system provided an advance over traditional restriction enzyme cloning due to increases in efficiency and reliability. Here we introduce a series of entry clones and a destination vector for use in two, three, and four fragment Gateway MultiSite recombination cloning whose advantages include increased flexibility and versatility. In contrast to Gateway single-fragment cloning approaches where variations are typically incorporated into model system-specific destination vectors, our Gateway MultiSite cloning strategy incorporates variations in easily generated entry clones that are model system-independent. In particular, we present entry clones containing insertions of GAL4, QF, UAS, QUAS, eGFP, and mCherry, among others, and demonstrate their in vivo functionality in Drosophila by using them to generate expression clones including GAL4 and QF drivers for various trp ion channel family members, UAS and QUAS excitatory and inhibitory light-gated ion channels, and QUAS red and green fluorescent synaptic vesicle markers. We thus establish a starter toolkit of modular Gateway MultiSite entry clones potentially adaptable to any model system. An inventory of entry clones and destination vectors for Gateway MultiSite cloning has also been established (www.gatewaymultisite.org).
In most animal species, the vomeronasal organ ensures the individual recognition of conspecifics, a prerequisite for a successful reproduction. The vomeronasal organ expresses several receptors for pheromone detection. Mouse vomeronasal type-2 receptors (V2Rs) are restricted to the basal neurons of this organ and organized in four families. Family-A, B and D (family ABD) V2Rs are expressed monogenically (one receptor per neuron) and coexpress with either Vmn2r1 or Vmn2r2, two members of family-C V2Rs. Thus, basal neurons are characterized by specific combinations of two V2Rs. To investigate this issue, we raised antibodies against all family-C V2Rs and analyzed their expression pattern. We found that six out of seven family-C V2Rs (Vmn2r2-7) largely coexpressed and that none of the anti-Vmn2r2-7 antibodies significantly stained Vmn2r1 positive neurons. Thus, basal neurons are divided into two complementary subsets. The first subset (Vmn2r1-positive) preferentially coexpresses a distinct group of family-ABD V2Rs, whereas the second subset (Vmn2r2-7-positive) coexpresses the remaining group of V2Rs. Phylogenetic reconstruction and the analysis of genetic loci in various species reveal that receptors expressed by this second neuronal subset are recent branches of the V2R tree exclusively present in mouse and rat. Conversely, V2Rs expressed in Vmn2r1 positive neurons, are phylogenetically ancient and found in most vertebrates including rodents. Noticeably, the more recent neuronal subset expresses a type of Major Histocompatibility Complex genes only found in murine species. These results indicate that the expansion of the V2R repertoire in a murine ancestor occurred with the establishment of a new population of vomeronasal neurons in which coexists the polygenic expression of a recent group of family-C V2Rs (Vmn2r2-7) and the monogenic expression of a recent group of family-ABD V2Rs. This evolutionary innovation could provide a molecular rationale for the exquisite ability in individual recognition and mate choice of murine species.


Rising life expectancies coupled with an increasing awareness of age-related cognitive decline have led to the unwarranted use of psychopharmaceuticals, including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs), by significant numbers of healthy older individuals. This trend has developed despite very limited data regarding the effectiveness of such drugs on non-clinical groups and recent work indicates that AChEIs can have negative cognitive effects in healthy populations. For the first time, we use a combination of EEG and simultaneous EEG/fMRI to examine the effects of a commonly prescribed AChEI (donepezil) on cognition in healthy older participants. The short- and long-term impact of donepezil was assessed using two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. In both cases, we utilised cognitive (paired associates learning (CPAL)) and electrophysiological measures (resting EEG power) that have demonstrated high-sensitivity to age-related cognitive decline. Experiment 1 tested the effects of 5 mg/per day dosage on cognitive and EEG markers at 6-hour, 2-week and 4-week follow-ups. In experiment 2, the same markers were further scrutinised using simultaneous EEG/fMRI after a single 5 mg dose. Experiment 1 found significant negative effects of donepezil on CPAL and resting Alpha and Beta band power. Experiment 2 replicated these results and found additional drug-related increases in the Delta band. EEG/fMRI analyses revealed that these oscillatory differences were associated with activity differences in the left hippocampus (Delta), right frontal-parietal network (Alpha), and default-mode network (Beta). We demonstrate the utility of simple cognitive and EEG measures in evaluating drug responses after acute and chronic donepezil administration. The presentation of previously established markers of age-related cognitive decline indicates that AChEIs can impair cognitive function in healthy older individuals. To our knowledge this is the first study to identify the precise neuroanatomical origins of EEG drug markers using simultaneous EEG/fMRI. The results of this study may be useful for evaluating novel drugs for cognitive enhancement.
Melatonin modulates many important functions within the eye by interacting with a family of G-protein-coupled receptors that are negatively coupled with adenylate cyclase. In the mouse, Melatonin Receptors type 1 (MT(1)) mRNAs have been localized to photoreceptors, inner retinal neurons, and ganglion cells, thus suggesting that MT(1) receptors may play an important role in retinal physiology. Indeed, we have recently reported that absence of the MT(1) receptors has a dramatic effect on the regulation of the daily rhythm in visual processing, and on retinal cell viability during aging. We have also shown that removal of MT(1) receptors leads to a small (3-4 mmHg) increase in the level of the intraocular pressure during the night and to a significant loss (25-30%) in the number of cells within the retinal ganglion cell layer during aging. In the present study we investigated the cellular distribution in the C3H/f(+/+) mouse retina of MT(1) receptors using a newly developed MT(1) receptor antibody, and then we determined the role that MT(1) signaling plays in the circadian regulation of the mouse electroretinogram, and in the retinal dopaminergic system. Our data indicate that MT(1) receptor immunoreactivity is present in many retinal cell types, and in particular, on rod and cone photoreceptors and on intrinsically photosensitive ganglion cells (ipRGCs). MT(1) signaling is necessary for the circadian rhythm in the photopic ERG, but not for the circadian rhythm in the retinal dopaminergic system. Finally our data suggest that the circadian regulation of dopamine turnover does not drive the photopic ERG rhythm.
Conditional deletion of APC leads to marked disruption of cortical development and to excessive axonal branching of cortical neurons. However, little is known about the cell biological basis of this neuronal morphological regulation. Here we show that APC deficient cortical neuronal growth cones exhibit marked disruption of both microtubule and actin cytoskeleton. Functional analysis of the different APC domains revealed that axonal branches do not result from stabilized -catenin, and that the C-terminus of APC containing microtubule regulatory domains only partially rescues the branching phenotype. Surprisingly, the N-terminus of APC containing the oligomerization domain and the armadillo repeats completely rescues the branching and cytoskeletal abnormalities. Our data indicate that APC is required for appropriate axon morphological development and that the N-terminus of APC is important for regulation of the neuronal cytoskeleton.


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a severe neurodegenerative disease selectively affecting upper and lower motor neurons. Patients with ALS suffer from progressive paralysis and eventually die on average after three years. The underlying neurobiology of upper motor neuron degeneration and its effects on the complex network of the brain are, however, largely unknown. Here, we examined the effects of ALS on the structural brain network topology in 35 patients with ALS and 19 healthy controls. Using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), the brain network was reconstructed for each individual participant. The connectivity of this reconstructed brain network was compared between patients and controls using complexity theory without--a priori selected--regions of interest. Patients with ALS showed an impaired sub-network of regions with reduced white matter connectivity (p=0.0108, permutation testing). This impaired sub-network was strongly centered around primary motor regions (bilateral precentral gyrus and right paracentral lobule), including secondary motor regions (bilateral caudal middle frontal gyrus and pallidum) as well as high-order hub regions (right posterior cingulate and precuneus). In addition, we found a significant reduction in overall efficiency (p=0.0095) and clustering (p=0.0415). From our findings, we conclude that upper motor neuron degeneration in ALS affects both primary motor connections as well as secondary motor connections, together composing an impaired sub-network. The degenerative process in ALS was found to be widespread, but interlinked and targeted to the motor connectome.
Depression during pregnancy and the postpartum period is a growing health problem, which affects up to 20% of women. Currently, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs) medications are commonly used for treatment of maternal depression. Unfortunately, there is very little research on the long-term effect of maternal depression and perinatal SSRI exposure on offspring development. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the role of exposure to fluoxetine during development on affective-like behaviors and hippocampal neurogenesis in adolescent offspring in a rodent model of maternal depression. To do this, gestationally stressed and non-stressed Sprague-Dawley rat dams were treated with either fluoxetine (5 mg/kg/day) or vehicle beginning on postnatal day 1 (P1). Adolescent male and female offspring were divided into 4 groups: 1) prenatal stress+fluoxetine exposure, 2) prenatal stress+vehicle, 3) fluoxetine exposure alone, and 4) vehicle alone. Adolescent offspring were assessed for anxiety-like behavior using the Open Field Test and depressive-like behavior using the Forced Swim Test. Brains were analyzed for endogenous markers of hippocampal neurogenesis via immunohistochemistry. Results demonstrate that maternal fluoxetine exposure reverses the reduction in immobility evident in prenatally stressed adolescent offspring. In addition, maternal fluoxetine exposure reverses the decrease in hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis in maternally stressed adolescent offspring. This research provides important evidence on the long-term effect of fluoxetine exposure during development in a model of maternal adversity.
In animals, male fertility requires the successful development of motile sperm. During Drosophila melanogaster spermatogenesis, 64 interconnected spermatids descended from a single germline stem cell are resolved into motile sperm in a process termed individualization. Here we identify a putative double-stranded RNA binding protein LUMP that is required for male fertility. lump(1) mutants are male-sterile and lack motile sperm due to defects in sperm individualization. We show that one dsRNA binding domains (dsRBD) is essential for LUMP function in male fertility. These findings reveal LUMP is a novel factor required for late stages of male germline differentiation.
Major depression, because of its recurring and life-threatening nature, is one of the top 10 diseases for global disease burden. Major depression is still diagnosed on the basis of clinical symptoms in patients. The search for specific biological markers is of great importance to advance the method of diagnosis for depression. We examined the methylation profile of 2 CpG islands (I and IV) at the promoters of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene, which is well known to be involved in the pathophysiology of depression. We analyzed genomic DNA from peripheral blood of 20 Japanese patients with major depression and 18 healthy controls to identify an appropriate epigenetic biomarker to aid in the establishment of an objective system for the diagnosis of depression. Methylation rates at each CpG unit was measured using a MassArray system (SEQUENOM), and 2-dimensional hierarchical clustering analyses were undertaken to determine the validity of these methylation profiles as a diagnostic biomarker. Analyses of the dendrogram from methylation profiles of CpG I, but not IV, demonstrated that classification of healthy controls and patients at the first branch completely matched the clinical diagnosis. Despite the small number of subjects, our results indicate that classification based on the DNA methylation profiles of CpG I of the BDNF gene may be a valuable diagnostic biomarker for major depression.
Bladder carcinogenesis is believed to follow two alternative pathways driven by the loss of chromosome 9 and the gain of chromosome 7, albeit other nonrandom copy number alterations (CNAs) were identified. However, confirmation studies are needed since many aspects of this model remain unclear and considerable heterogeneity among cases has emerged. One of the purposes of this study was to evaluate the performance of a targeted test (UroVysion assay) widely used for the detection of Transitional Cell Carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder, in two different types of material derived from the same tumor. We compared the results of UroVysion test performed on Freshly Isolated interphasic Nuclei (FIN) and on Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) tissues from 22 TCCs and we didn't find substantial differences. A second goal was to assess the concordance between array-CGH profiles and the targeted chromosomal profiles of UroVysion assay on an additional set of 10 TCCs, in order to evaluate whether UroVysion is an adequately sensitive method for the identification of selected aneuploidies and nonrandom CNAs in TCCs. Our results confirmed the importance of global genomic screening methods, that is array based CGH, to comprehensively determine the genomic profiles of large series of TCCs tumors. However, this technique has yet some limitations, such as not being able to detect low level mosaicism, or not detecting any change in the number of copies for a kind of compensatory effect due to the presence of high cellular heterogeneity. Thus, it is still advisable to use complementary techniques such as array-CGH and FISH, as the former is able to detect alterations at the genome level not excluding any chromosome, but the latter is able to maintain the individual data at the level of single cells, even if it focuses on few genomic regions.

Pain is a significant medical concern and represents a major unmet clinical need. The ability to perceive and react to tissue-damaging stimuli is essential in order to maintain bodily integrity in the face of environmental danger. To prevent damage the systems that detect noxious stimuli are therefore under strict evolutionary pressure. We developed a high-throughput behavioral method to identify genes contributing to thermal nociception in the fruit fly and have reported a large-scale screen that identified the Ca channel straightjacket (stj) as a conserved regulator of thermal nociception. Here we present the minimal anatomical and neuronal requirements for Drosophila to avoid noxious heat in our novel behavioral paradigm. Bioinformatics analysis of our whole genome data set revealed 23 genes implicated in Ca signaling that are required for noxious heat avoidance. One of these genes, the conserved thermoreceptor TrpA1, was confirmed as a bona fide &quot;pain&quot; gene in both adult and larval fly nociception paradigms. The nociceptive function of TrpA1 required expression within the Drosophila nervous system, specifically within nociceptive multi-dendritic (MD) sensory neurons. Therefore, our analysis identifies the channel TRPA1 as a conserved regulator of nociception.
When inner ear hair cells die, humans and other mammals experience permanent hearing and balance deficits, but non-mammalian vertebrates quickly recover these senses after epithelial supporting cells give rise to replacement hair cells. A postnatal decline in cellular plasticity appears to limit regeneration in mammalian balance organs, where declining proliferation responses are correlated with decreased spreading of supporting cells on artificial and native substrates. By culturing balance epithelia on substrates that differed in flexibility, we assessed spreading effects independent of age, showing a strong correlation between shape change and supporting cell proliferation. Then we made excision wounds in utricles cultured from young and old chickens and mice and compared quantified levels of spreading and proliferation. In utricles from young mice, and both young and old chickens, wounds re-epithelialized in &lt;24 hours, while those in utricles from mature mice took three times longer. More cells changed shape in the fastest healing wounds, which accounted for some differences in the levels of proliferation, but inter-species and age-related differences in shape-sensitive restriction points, i.e., the cellular thresholds for shape changes that promote S-phase, were evident and may be particularly influential in the responses to hair cell losses in vivo.
Neuroscience is increasingly focusing on developmental factors related to human structural and functional connectivity. Unfortunately, to date, diffusion-based imaging approaches have only contributed modestly to these broad objectives, despite the promise of diffusion-based tractography. Here, we report a novel data-driven approach to detect similarities and differences among white matter tracts with respect to their developmental trajectories, using 64-direction diffusion tensor imaging. Specifically, using a cross-sectional sample comprising 144 healthy individuals (7 to 48 years old), we applied k-means cluster analysis to separate white matter voxels based on their age-related trajectories of fractional anisotropy. Optimal solutions included 5-, 9- and 14-clusters. Our results recapitulate well-established tracts (e.g., internal and external capsule, optic radiations, corpus callosum, cingulum bundle, cerebral peduncles) and subdivisions within tracts (e.g., corpus callosum, internal capsule). For all but one tract identified, age-related trajectories were curvilinear (i.e., inverted 'U-shape'), with age-related increases during childhood and adolescence followed by decreases in middle adulthood. Identification of peaks in the trajectories suggests that age-related losses in fractional anisotropy occur as early as 23 years of age, with mean onset at 30 years of age. Our findings demonstrate that data-driven analytic techniques may be fruitfully applied to extant diffusion tensor imaging datasets in normative and neuropsychiatric samples.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) can potentially differentiate into any cell type, including dopaminergic neurons to treat Parkinson's disease (PD), but hyperproliferation and tumor formation must be avoided. Accordingly, we use myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) as a neurogenic and anti-apoptotic transcription factor to generate neurons from hESC-derived neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs), thus avoiding hyperproliferation. Here, we report that forced expression of constitutively active MEF2C (MEF2CA) generates significantly greater numbers of neurons with dopaminergic properties in vitro. Conversely, RNAi knockdown of MEF2C in NPCs decreases neuronal differentiation and dendritic length. When we inject MEF2CA-programmed NPCs into 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned parkinsonian rats in vivo, the transplanted cells survive well, differentiate into tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, and improve behavioral deficits to a significantly greater degree than non-programmed cells. The enriched generation of dopaminergic neuronal lineages from hESCs by forced expression of MEF2CA in the proper context may prove valuable in cell-based therapy for CNS disorders such as PD.

Any given single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in a genome may have little or no functional impact. A biologically significant effect may possibly emerge only when a number of key SNP-related genotypes occur together in a single organism. Thus, in analysis of many SNPs in association studies of complex diseases, it may be useful to look at combinations of genotypes. Genes related to signal transmission, e.g., ion channel genes, may be of interest in this respect in the context of bipolar disorder. In the present study, we analysed 803 SNPs in 55 genes related to aspects of signal transmission and calculated all combinations of three genotypes from the 3803 SNP genotypes for 1355 controls and 607 patients with bipolar disorder. Four clusters of patient-specific combinations were identified. Permutation tests indicated that some of these combinations might be related to bipolar disorder. The WTCCC bipolar dataset were use for replication, 469 of the 803 SNP were present in the WTCCC dataset either directly (n=132) or by imputation (n=337) covering 51 of our selected genes. We found three clusters of patient-specific 3SNP combinations in the WTCCC dataset. Different SNPs were involved in the clusters in the two datasets. The present analyses of the combinations of SNP genotypes support a role for both genetic heterogeneity and interactions in the genetic architecture of bipolar disorder.
Bursting as well as tonic firing patterns have been described in various sensory systems. In the olfactory system, spontaneous bursts have been observed in neurons distributed across several synaptic levels, from the periphery, to the olfactory bulb (OB) and to the olfactory cortex. Several in vitro studies indicate that spontaneous firing patterns may be viewed as &quot;fingerprints&quot; of different types of neurons that exhibit distinct functions in the OB. It is still not known, however, if and how neuronal burstiness is correlated with the coding of natural olfactory stimuli. We thus conducted an in vivo study to probe this question in the OB equivalent structure of insects, the antennal lobe (AL) of the tobacco hornworm Manduca sexta. We found that in the moth's AL, both projection (output) neurons (PNs) and local interneurons (LNs) are spontaneously active, but PNs tend to produce spike bursts while LNs fire more regularly. In addition, we found that the burstiness of PNs is correlated with the strength of their responses to odor stimulation--the more bursting the stronger their responses to odors. Moreover, the burstiness of PNs was also positively correlated with the spontaneous firing rate of these neurons, and pharmacological reduction of bursting resulted in a decrease of the neurons' responsiveness. These results suggest that neuronal burstiness reflects a physiological state of these neurons that is directly linked to their response characteristics.
Successful integration of various simultaneously perceived perceptual signals is crucial for social behavior. Recent findings indicate that this multisensory integration (MSI) can be modulated by attention. Theories of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) suggest that MSI is affected in this population while it remains unclear to what extent this is related to impairments in attentional capacity. In the present study Event-related potentials (ERPs) following emotionally congruent and incongruent face-voice pairs were measured in 23 high-functioning, adult ASD individuals and 24 age- and IQ-matched controls. MSI was studied while the attention of the participants was manipulated. ERPs were measured at typical auditory and visual processing peaks, namely, P2 and N170. While controls showed MSI during divided attention and easy selective attention tasks, individuals with ASD showed MSI during easy selective attention tasks only. It was concluded that individuals with ASD are able to process multisensory emotional stimuli, but this is differently modulated by attention mechanisms in these participants, especially those associated with divided attention. This atypical interaction between attention and MSI is also relevant to treatment strategies, with training of multisensory attentional control possibly being more beneficial than conventional sensory integration therapy.
In this study we characterized the pharmacological selectivity and physiological actions of a new arylaspartate glutamate transporter blocker, L-threo--benzylaspartate (L-TBA). At concentrations up to 100 M, L-TBA did not act as an AMPA receptor (AMPAR) or NMDA receptor (NMDAR) agonist or antagonist when applied to outside-out patches from mouse hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. L-TBA had no effect on the amplitude of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) recorded at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pyramidal cell synapse. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons were unaffected by L-TBA in the presence of physiological extracellular Mg(2+) concentrations, but in Mg(2+)-free solution, EPSCs were significantly prolonged as a consequence of increased NMDAR activity. Although L-TBA exhibited approximately four-fold selectivity for neuronal EAAT3 over glial EAAT1/EAAT2 transporter subtypes expressed in Xenopus oocytes, the L-TBA concentration-dependence of the EPSC charge transfer increase in the absence of Mg(2+) was the same in hippocampal slices from EAAT3 +/+ and EAAT3 -/- mice, suggesting that TBA effects were primarily due to block of glial transporters. Consistent with this, L-TBA blocked synaptically evoked transporter currents in CA1 astrocytes with a potency in accord with its block of heterologously expressed glial transporters. Extracellular recording in the presence of physiological Mg(2+) revealed that L-TBA prolonged fEPSPs in a frequency-dependent manner by selectively increasing the NMDAR-mediated component of the fEPSP during short bursts of activity. The data indicate that glial glutamate transporters play a dominant role in limiting extrasynaptic transmitter diffusion and binding to NMDARs. Furthermore, NMDAR signaling is primarily limited by voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block during low-frequency activity, while the relative contribution of transport increases during short bursts of higher frequency signaling.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are critical for the development of the nervous system. We previously discovered that FGF2 and EGF had opposite effects on motor neuron differentiation from human fetal neural stem cells (hNSCs), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we show that FGF2 and EGF differentially affect the temporal patterns of Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3) activation. High levels of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt activation accompanied with GSK3 inactivation result in reduction of the motor neuron transcription factor HB9. Inhibition of PI3K/Akt by chemical inhibitors or RNA interference or overexpression of a constitutively active form of GSK3 enhances HB9 expression. Consequently, PI3K inhibition increases hNSCs differentiation into HB9(+)/microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)(+) motor neurons in vitro. More importantly, blocking PI3K not only enhances motor neuron differentiation from hNSCs grafted into the ventral horn of adult rat spinal cords, but also permits ectopic generation of motor neurons in the dorsal horn by overriding environmental influences. Our data suggest that FGF2 and EGF affect the motor neuron fate decision in hNSCs differently through a fine tuning of the PI3K/AKT/GSK3 pathway, and that manipulation of this pathway can enhance motor neuron generation.

Despite considerable research on hormone-mediated maternal effects in birds, the underlying physiology remains poorly understood. This study investigated a potential regulation mechanism for differential accumulation of gonadal hormones in bird eggs. Across vertebrates, glucocorticoids can suppress reproduction by downregulating gonadal hormones. Using the chicken as a model species, we therefore tested whether elevated levels of plasma corticosterone in female birds influence the production of gonadal steroids by the ovarian follicles and thus the amount of reproductive hormones in the egg yolk. Adult laying hens of two different strains (ISA brown and white Leghorn) were implanted subcutaneously with corticosterone pellets that elevated plasma corticosterone concentrations over a period of nine days. Steroid hormones were subsequently quantified in plasma and yolk. Corticosterone-implanted hens of both strains had lower plasma progesterone and testosterone levels and their yolks contained less progesterone and testosterone. The treatment also reduced egg and yolk mass. Plasma estrogen concentrations decreased in white Leghorns only whereas in both strains yolk estrogens were unaffected. Our results demonstrate for the first time that maternal plasma corticosterone levels influence reproductive hormone concentrations in the yolk. Maternal corticosterone could therefore mediate environmentally induced changes in yolk gonadal hormone concentrations. In addition, stressful situations experienced by the bird mother might affect the offspring via reduced amounts of reproductive hormones present in the egg as well as available nutrients for the embryo.
The &quot;aha&quot; moment or the sudden arrival of the solution to a problem is a common human experience. Spontaneous problem solving without evident trial and error behavior in humans and other animals has been referred to as insight. Surprisingly, elephants, thought to be highly intelligent, have failed to exhibit insightful problem solving in previous cognitive studies. We tested whether three Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) would use sticks or other objects to obtain food items placed out-of-reach and overhead. Without prior trial and error behavior, a 7-year-old male Asian elephant showed spontaneous problem solving by moving a large plastic cube, on which he then stood, to acquire the food. In further testing he showed behavioral flexibility, using this technique to reach other items and retrieving the cube from various locations to use as a tool to acquire food. In the cube's absence, he generalized this tool utilization technique to other objects and, when given smaller objects, stacked them in an attempt to reach the food. The elephant's overall behavior was consistent with the definition of insightful problem solving. Previous failures to demonstrate this ability in elephants may have resulted not from a lack of cognitive ability but from the presentation of tasks requiring trunk-held sticks as potential tools, thereby interfering with the trunk's use as a sensory organ to locate the targeted food.
The human SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse has been used extensively since its development in 1994 as a model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In that time, a great many insights into the toxicity of mutant SOD1 have been gained using this and other mutant SOD transgenic mouse models. They all demonstrate a selective toxicity towards motor neurons and in some cases features of the pathology seen in the human disease. These models have two major drawbacks. Firstly the generation of robust preclinical data in these models has been highlighted as an area for concern. Secondly, the amount of time required for a single preclinical experiment in these models (3-4 months) is a hurdle to the development of new therapies. We have developed an inbred C57BL/6 mouse line from the original mixed background (SJLxC57BL/6) SOD1(G93A) transgenic line and show here that the disease course is remarkably consistent and much less prone to background noise, enabling reduced numbers of mice for testing of therapeutics. Secondly we have identified very early readouts showing a large decline in motor function compared to normal mice. This loss of motor function has allowed us to develop an early, sensitive and rapid screening protocol for the initial phases of denervation of muscle fibers, observed in this model. We describe multiple, quantitative readouts of motor function that can be used to interrogate this early mechanism. Such an approach will increase throughput for reduced costs, whilst reducing the severity of the experimental procedures involved.
This article deals with the role of fish's body and object's geometry on determining the image spatial shape in pulse Gymnotiforms. This problem was explored by measuring local electric fields along a line on the skin in the presence and absence of objects. We depicted object's electric images at different regions of the electrosensory mosaic, paying particular attention to the perioral region where a fovea has been described. When sensory surface curvature increases relative to the object's curvature, the image details depending on object's shape are blurred and finally disappear. The remaining effect of the object on the stimulus profile depends on the strength of its global polarization. This depends on the length of the object's axis aligned with the field, in turn depending on fish body geometry. Thus, fish's body and self-generated electric field geometries are embodied in this &quot;global effect&quot; of the object. The presence of edges or local changes in impedance at the nearest surface of closely located objects adds peaks to the image profiles (&quot;local effect&quot; or &quot;object's electric texture&quot;). It is concluded that two cues for object recognition may be used by active electroreceptive animals: global effects (informing on object's dimension along the field lines, conductance, and position) and local effects (informing on object's surface). Since the field has fish's centered coordinates, and electrosensory fovea is used for exploration of surfaces, fish fine movements are essential to perform electric perception. We conclude that fish may explore adjacent objects combining active movements and electrogenesis to represent them using electrosensory information.
The shift from a diurnal to nocturnal lifestyle in vertebrates is generally associated with either enhanced visual sensitivity or a decreased reliance on vision. Within birds, most studies have focused on differences in the visual system across all birds with respect to nocturnality-diurnality. The critically endangered Kakapo (Strigops habroptilus), a parrot endemic to New Zealand, is an example of a species that has evolved a nocturnal lifestyle in an otherwise diurnal lineage, but nothing is known about its' visual system. Here, we provide a detailed morphological analysis of the orbits, brain, eye, and retina of the Kakapo and comparisons with other birds. Morphometric analyses revealed that the Kakapo's orbits are significantly more convergent than other parrots, suggesting an increased binocular overlap in the visual field. The Kakapo exhibits an eye shape that is consistent with other nocturnal birds, including owls and nightjars, but is also within the range of the diurnal parrots. With respect to the brain, the Kakapo has a significantly smaller optic nerve and tectofugal visual pathway. Specifically, the optic tectum, nucleus rotundus and entopallium were significantly reduced in relative size compared to other parrots. There was no apparent reduction to the thalamofugal visual pathway. Finally, the retinal morphology of the Kakapo is similar to that of both diurnal and nocturnal birds, suggesting a retina that is specialised for a crepuscular niche. Overall, this suggests that the Kakapo has enhanced light sensitivity, poor visual acuity and a larger binocular field than other parrots. We conclude that the Kakapo possesses a visual system unlike that of either strictly nocturnal or diurnal birds and therefore does not adhere to the traditional view of the evolution of nocturnality in birds.
This study explored if boldness could be used to predict social status. First, boldness was assessed by monitoring individual zebrafish behaviour in (1) an unfamiliar barren environment with no shelter (open field), (2) the same environment when a roof was introduced as a shelter, and (3) when the roof was removed and an unfamiliar object (Lego brick) was introduced. Next, after a resting period of minimum one week, social status of the fish was determined in a dyadic contest and dominant/subordinate individuals were determined as the winner/loser of two consecutive contests. Multivariate data analyses showed that males were bolder than females and that the behaviours expressed by the fish during the boldness tests could be used to predict which fish would later become dominant and subordinate in the ensuing dyadic contest. We conclude that bold behaviour is positively correlated to dominance in zebrafish and that boldness is not solely a consequence of social dominance.
Recently, increasing attention has been focused on the investigation of the human brain connectome that describes the patterns of structural and functional connectivity networks of the human brain. Many studies of the human connectome have demonstrated that the brain network follows a small-world topology with an intrinsically cohesive modular structure and includes several network hubs in the medial parietal regions. However, most of these studies have only focused on undirected connections between regions in which the directions of information flow are not taken into account. How the brain regions causally influence each other and how the directed network of human brain is topologically organized remain largely unknown. Here, we applied linear multivariate Granger causality analysis (GCA) and graph theoretical approaches to a resting-state functional MRI dataset with a large cohort of young healthy participants (n=86) to explore connectivity patterns of the population-based whole-brain functional directed network. This directed brain network exhibited prominent small-world properties, which obviously improved previous results of functional MRI studies showing weak small-world properties in the directed brain networks in terms of a kernel-based GCA and individual analysis. This brain network also showed significant modular structures associated with 5 well known subsystems: fronto-parietal, visual, paralimbic/limbic, subcortical and primary systems. Importantly, we identified several driving hubs predominantly located in the components of the attentional network (e.g., the inferior frontal gyrus, supplementary motor area, insula and fusiform gyrus) and several driven hubs predominantly located in the components of the default mode network (e.g., the precuneus, posterior cingulate gyrus, medial prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobule). Further split-half analyses indicated that our results were highly reproducible between two independent subgroups. The current study demonstrated the directions of spontaneous information flow and causal influences in the directed brain networks, thus providing new insights into our understanding of human brain functional connectome.

Cat odors induce rapid, innate and stereotyped defensive behaviors in rats at first exposure, a presumed response to the evolutionary pressures of predation. Bizarrely, rats infected with the brain parasite Toxoplasma gondii approach the cat odors they typically avoid. Since the protozoan Toxoplasma requires the cat to sexually reproduce, this change in host behavior is thought to be a remarkable example of a parasite manipulating a mammalian host for its own benefit. Toxoplasma does not influence host response to non-feline predator odor nor does it alter behavior on olfactory, social, fear or anxiety tests, arguing for specific manipulation in the processing of cat odor. We report that Toxoplasma infection alters neural activity in limbic brain areas necessary for innate defensive behavior in response to cat odor. Moreover, Toxoplasma increases activity in nearby limbic regions of sexual attraction when the rat is exposed to cat urine, compelling evidence that Toxoplasma overwhelms the innate fear response by causing, in its stead, a type of sexual attraction to the normally aversive cat odor.

Human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC) lines have been considered to be homogeneously euploid. Here we report that normal hPSC--including induced pluripotent--lines are karyotypic mosaics of euploid cells intermixed with many cells showing non-clonal aneuploidies as identified by chromosome counting, spectral karyotyping (SKY) and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) of interphase/non-mitotic cells. This mosaic aneuploidy resembles that observed in progenitor cells of the developing brain and preimplantation embryos, suggesting that it is a normal, rather than pathological, feature of stem cell lines. The karyotypic heterogeneity generated by mosaic aneuploidy may contribute to the reported functional and phenotypic heterogeneity of hPSCs lines, as well as their therapeutic efficacy and safety following transplantation.
Neurodegenration is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive. Here, we present evidence that reveals a crucial role of Wnt5a signaling in this process. We showed that Wnt5a and its receptor Frizzled-5 (Fz5) were up-regulated in the AD mouse brain, and that beta-amyloid peptide (A), a major constituent of amyloid plaques, stimulated Wnt5a and Fz5 expression in primary cortical cultures; these observations indicate that Wnt5a signaling could be aberrantly activated during AD pathogenesis. In support of such a possibility, we observed that inhibition of Wnt5a signaling attenuated while activation of Wnt5a signaling enhanced A-evoked neurotoxicity, suggesting a role of Wnt5a signaling in AD-related neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we also demonstrated that A-induced neurotoxicity depends on inflammatory processes, and that activation of Wnt5a signaling elicited the expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 and TNF- whereas inhibition of Wnt5a signaling attenuated the A-induced expression of the cytokines in cortical cultures. Our findings collectively suggest that aberrantly up-regulated Wnt5a signaling is a crucial pathological step that contributes to AD-related neurodegeneration by regulating neuroinflammation.
Prenatal stress (PS) has been shown to influence the development of the fetal brain and to increase the risk for the development of psychiatric disorders in later life. Furthermore, the variation of human serotonin transporter (5-HTT, SLC6A4) gene was suggested to exert a modulating effect on the association between early life stress and the risk for depression. In the present study, we used a 5-HttPS paradigm to investigate whether the effects of PS are dependent on the 5-Htt genotype. For this purpose, the effects of PS on cognition, anxiety- and depression-related behavior were examined using a maternal restraint stress paradigm of PS in C57BL6 wild-type (WT) and heterozygous 5-Htt deficient (5-Htt +/-) mice. Additionally, in female offspring, a genome-wide hippocampal gene expression profiling was performed using the Affymetrix GeneChip Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array. 5-Htt +/- offspring showed enhanced memory performance and signs of reduced anxiety as compared to WT offspring. In contrast, exposure of 5-Htt +/- mice to PS was associated with increased depressive-like behavior, an effect that tended to be more pronounced in female offspring. Further, 5-Htt genotype, PS and their interaction differentially affected the expression of numerous genes and related pathways within the female hippocampus. Specifically, MAPK and neurotrophin signaling were regulated by both the 5-Htt +/- genotype and PS exposure, whereas cytokine and Wnt signaling were affected in a 5-Htt genotypePS manner, indicating a geneenvironment interaction at the molecular level. In conclusion, our data suggest that although the 5-Htt +/- genotype shows clear adaptive capacity, 5-Htt +/- mice--particularly females--at the same time appear to be more vulnerable to developmental stress exposure when compared to WT offspring. Moreover, hippocampal gene expression profiles suggest that distinct molecular mechanisms mediate the behavioral effects of the 5-Htt genotype, PS exposure, and their interaction.
Functional and reactive neurogenesis and astrogenesis are observed in deafferented vestibular nuclei after unilateral vestibular nerve section in adult cats. The newborn cells survive up to one month and contribute actively to the successful recovery of posturo-locomotor functions. This study investigates whether the nature of vestibular deafferentation has an incidence on the neurogenic potential of the vestibular nuclei, and on the time course of behavioural recovery. Three animal models that mimic different vestibular pathologies were used: unilateral and permanent suppression of vestibular input by unilateral vestibular neurectomy (UVN), or by unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL, the mechanical destruction of peripheral vestibular receptors), or unilateral and reversible blockade of vestibular nerve input using tetrodotoxin (TTX). Neurogenesis and astrogenesis were revealed in the vestibular nuclei using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) as a newborn cell marker, while glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) were used to identify astrocytes and GABAergic neurons, respectively. Spontaneous nystagmus and posturo-locomotor tests (static and dynamic balance performance) were carried out to quantify the behavioural recovery process. Results showed that the nature of vestibular loss determined the cellular plastic events occurring in the vestibular nuclei and affected the time course of behavioural recovery. Interestingly, the deafferented vestibular nuclei express neurogenic potential after acute and total vestibular loss only (UVN), while non-structural plastic processes are involved when the vestibular deafferentation is less drastic (UL, TTX). This is the first experimental evidence that the vestibular complex in the brainstem can become neurogenic under specific injury. These new data are of interest for understanding the factors favouring the expression of functional neurogenesis in adult mammals in a brain repair perspective, and are of clinical relevance in vestibular pathology.
There is ample evidence that ion channel modulation by accessory proteins within a macromolecular complex can regulate channel activity and thereby impact neuronal excitability. However, the downstream consequences of ion channel modulation remain largely undetermined. The Drosophila melanogaster large conductance calcium-activated potassium channel SLOWPOKE (SLO) undergoes modulation via its binding partner SLO-binding protein (SLOB). Regulation of SLO by SLOB influences the voltage dependence of SLO activation and modulates synaptic transmission. SLO and SLOB are expressed especially prominently in median neurosecretory cells (mNSCs) in the pars intercerebralis (PI) region of the brain; these cells also express and secrete Drosophila insulin like peptides (dILPs). Previously, we found that flies lacking SLOB exhibit increased resistance to starvation, and we reasoned that SLOB may regulate aspects of insulin signaling and metabolism. Here we investigate the role of SLOB in metabolism and find that slob null flies exhibit changes in energy storage and insulin pathway signaling. In addition, slob null flies have decreased levels of dilp3 and increased levels of takeout, a gene known to be involved in feeding and metabolism. Targeted expression of SLOB to mNSCs rescues these alterations in gene expression, as well as the metabolic phenotypes. Analysis of fly lines mutant for both slob and slo indicate that the effect of SLOB on metabolism and gene expression is via SLO. We propose that modulation of SLO by SLOB regulates neurotransmission in mNSCs, influencing downstream insulin pathway signaling and metabolism.

We investigate interaction networks that we derive from multivariate time series with methods frequently employed in diverse scientific fields such as biology, quantitative finance, physics, earth and climate sciences, and the neurosciences. Mimicking experimental situations, we generate time series with finite length and varying frequency content but from independent stochastic processes. Using the correlation coefficient and the maximum cross-correlation, we estimate interdependencies between these time series. With clustering coefficient and average shortest path length, we observe unweighted interaction networks, derived via thresholding the values of interdependence, to possess non-trivial topologies as compared to Erds-Rnyi networks, which would indicate small-world characteristics. These topologies reflect the mostly unavoidable finiteness of the data, which limits the reliability of typically used estimators of signal interdependence. We propose random networks that are tailored to the way interaction networks are derived from empirical data. Through an exemplary investigation of multichannel electroencephalographic recordings of epileptic seizures--known for their complex spatial and temporal dynamics--we show that such random networks help to distinguish network properties of interdependence structures related to seizure dynamics from those spuriously induced by the applied methods of analysis.
Detailed knowledge about the anatomical organization of axonal connections is important for understanding normal functions of brain systems and disease-related dysfunctions. Such connectivity data are typically generated in neuroanatomical tract-tracing experiments in which specific axonal connections are visualized in histological sections. Since journal publications typically only accommodate restricted data descriptions and example images, literature search is a cumbersome way to retrieve overviews of brain connectivity. To explore more efficient ways of mapping, analyzing, and sharing detailed axonal connectivity data from the rodent brain, we have implemented a workflow for data production and developed an atlas system tailored for online presentation of axonal tracing data. The system is available online through the Rodent Brain WorkBench (www.rbwb.org; Whole Brain Connectivity Atlas) and holds experimental metadata and high-resolution images of histological sections from experiments in which axonal tracers were injected in the primary somatosensory cortex. We here present the workflow and the data system, and exemplify how the online image repository can be used to map different aspects of the brain-wide connectivity of the rat primary somatosensory cortex, including not only presence of connections but also morphology, densities, and spatial organization. The accuracy of the approach is validated by comparing results generated with our system with findings reported in previous publications. The present study is a contribution to a systematic mapping of rodent brain connections and represents a starting point for further large-scale mapping efforts.
In recent research, many univariate and multivariate approaches have been proposed to improve automatic classification of various dementia syndromes using imaging data. Some of these methods do not provide the possibility to integrate possible confounding variables like age into the statistical evaluation. A similar problem sometimes exists in clinical studies, as it is not always possible to match different clinical groups to each other in all confounding variables, like for example, early-onset (age&lt;65 years) and late-onset (age65) patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we propose a simple method to control for possible effects of confounding variables such as age prior to statistical evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data using support vector machine classification (SVM) or voxel-based morphometry (VBM). We compare SVM results for the classification of 80 AD patients and 79 healthy control subjects based on MRI data with and without prior age correction. Additionally, we compare VBM results for the comparison of three different groups of AD patients differing in age with the same group of control subjects obtained without including age as covariate, with age as covariate or with prior age correction using the proposed method. SVM classification using the proposed method resulted in higher between-group classification accuracy compared to uncorrected data. Further, applying the proposed age correction substantially improved univariate detection of disease-related grey matter atrophy using VBM in AD patients differing in age from control subjects. The results suggest that the approach proposed in this work is generally suited to control for confounding variables such as age in SVM or VBM analyses. Accordingly, the approach might improve and extend the application of these methods in clinical neurosciences.
Oscillatory activity can be widely recorded in the cortex and basal ganglia. This activity may play a role not only in the physiology of movement, perception and cognition, but also in the pathophysiology of psychiatric and neurological diseases like schizophrenia or Parkinson's disease. Ketamine administration has been shown to cause an increase in gamma activity in cortical and subcortical structures, and an increase in 150 Hz oscillations in the nucleus accumbens in healthy rats, together with hyperlocomotion.We recorded local field potentials from motor cortex, caudate-putamen (CPU), substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) and subthalamic nucleus (STN) in 20 awake rats before and after the administration of ketamine at three different subanesthetic doses (10, 25 and 50 mg/Kg), and saline as control condition. Motor behavior was semiautomatically quantified by custom-made software specifically developed for this setting.Ketamine induced coherent oscillations in low gamma (~ 50 Hz), high gamma (~ 80 Hz) and high frequency (HFO, ~ 150 Hz) bands, with different behavior in the four structures studied. While oscillatory activity at these three peaks was widespread across all structures, interactions showed a different pattern for each frequency band. Imaginary coherence at 150 Hz was maximum between motor cortex and the different basal ganglia nuclei, while low gamma coherence connected motor cortex with CPU and high gamma coherence was more constrained to the basal ganglia nuclei. Power at three bands correlated with the motor activity of the animal, but only coherence values in the HFO and high gamma range correlated with movement. Interactions in the low gamma band did not show a direct relationship to movement.These results suggest that the motor effects of ketamine administration may be primarily mediated by the induction of coherent widespread high-frequency activity in the motor circuit of the basal ganglia, together with a frequency-specific pattern of connectivity among the structures analyzed.
The processes of memory reconsolidation and extinction have received increasing attention in recent experimental research, as their potential clinical applications begin to be uncovered. A number of studies suggest that amnestic drugs injected after reexposure to a learning context can disrupt either of the two processes, depending on the behavioral protocol employed. Hypothesizing that reconsolidation represents updating of a memory trace in the hippocampus, while extinction represents formation of a new trace, we have built a neural network model in which either simple retrieval, reconsolidation or extinction of a stored attractor can occur upon contextual reexposure, depending on the similarity between the representations of the original learning and reexposure sessions. This is achieved by assuming that independent mechanisms mediate Hebbian-like synaptic strengthening and mismatch-driven labilization of synaptic changes, with protein synthesis inhibition preferentially affecting the former. Our framework provides a unified mechanistic explanation for experimental data showing (a) the effect of reexposure duration on the occurrence of reconsolidation or extinction and (b) the requirement of memory updating during reexposure to drive reconsolidation.
Mechanisms of explicit object recognition are often difficult to investigate and require stimuli with controlled features whose expression can be manipulated in a precise quantitative fashion. Here, we developed a novel method (called &quot;Dots&quot;), for generating visual stimuli, which is based on the progressive deformation of a regular lattice of dots, driven by local contour information from images of objects. By applying progressively larger deformation to the lattice, the latter conveys progressively more information about the target object. Stimuli generated with the presented method enable a precise control of object-related information content while preserving low-level image statistics, globally, and affecting them only little, locally. We show that such stimuli are useful for investigating object recognition under a naturalistic setting--free visual exploration--enabling a clear dissociation between object detection and explicit recognition. Using the introduced stimuli, we show that top-down modulation induced by previous exposure to target objects can greatly influence perceptual decisions, lowering perceptual thresholds not only for object recognition but also for object detection (visual hysteresis). Visual hysteresis is target-specific, its expression and magnitude depending on the identity of individual objects. Relying on the particular features of dot stimuli and on eye-tracking measurements, we further demonstrate that top-down processes guide visual exploration, controlling how visual information is integrated by successive fixations. Prior knowledge about objects can guide saccades/fixations to sample locations that are supposed to be highly informative, even when the actual information is missing from those locations in the stimulus. The duration of individual fixations is modulated by the novelty and difficulty of the stimulus, likely reflecting cognitive demand.
To determine the relationship between age and gray matter structure and how interactions between gender and hemisphere impact this relationship, we examined correlations between global or regional gray matter volume and age, including interactions of gender and hemisphere, using a general linear model with voxel-based and region-of-interest analyses. Brain magnetic resonance images were collected from 1460 healthy individuals aged 20-69 years; the images were linearly normalized and segmented and restored to native space for analysis of global gray matter volume. Linearly normalized images were then non-linearly normalized and smoothed for analysis of regional gray matter volume. Analysis of global gray matter volume revealed a significant negative correlation between gray matter ratio (gray matter volume divided by intracranial volume) and age in both genders, and a significant interaction effect of age  gender on the gray matter ratio. In analyzing regional gray matter volume, the gray matter volume of all regions showed significant main effects of age, and most regions, with the exception of several including the inferior parietal lobule, showed a significant age  gender interaction. Additionally, the inferior temporal gyrus showed a significant age  gender  hemisphere interaction. No regional volumes showed significant age  hemisphere interactions. Our study may contribute to clarifying the mechanism(s) of normal brain aging in each brain region.
While the limbic system theory continues to be part of common scientific parlance, its validity has been questioned on multiple grounds. Nonetheless, the issue of whether or not there exists a set of brain areas preferentially dedicated to emotional processing remains central within affective neuroscience. Recently, a widespread neural reference space for emotion which includes limbic as well as other regions was characterized in a large meta-analysis. As methodologically heterogeneous studies go into such meta-analyses, showing in an individual study in which all parameters are kept constant, the involvement of overlapping areas for various emotion conditions in keeping with the neural reference space for emotion, would serve as valuable confirmatory evidence. Here, using fMRI, 20 young adult men were scanned while viewing validated neutral and effective emotion-eliciting short film excerpts shown to quickly and specifically elicit disgust, amusement, or sexual arousal. Each emotion-specific run included, in random order, multiple neutral and emotion condition blocks. A stringent conjunction analysis revealed a large overlap across emotion conditions that fit remarkably well with the neural reference space for emotion. This overlap included symmetrical bilateral activation of the medial prefrontal cortex, the anterior cingulate, the temporo-occipital junction, the basal ganglia, the brainstem, the amygdala, the hippocampus, the thalamus, the subthalamic nucleus, the posterior hypothalamus, the cerebellum, as well as the frontal operculum extending towards the anterior insula. This study clearly confirms for the visual modality, that processing emotional stimuli leads to widespread increases in activation that cluster within relatively confined areas, regardless of valence.
It has been proposed that the workings of the brain are mainly intrinsically generated recurrent neuronal activity, with sensory inputs as modifiers of such activity in both sensory and higher order modality non-specific regions. This is supported by the demonstration of recurrent neuronal activity in the visual system as a response to visual stimulation. In contrast recurrent activity has never been demonstrated before in higher order modality non-specific regions. Using magneto-encephalography and Granger causality analysis, we tested in a paralimbic network the hypothesis that stimulation may enhance causal recurrent interaction between higher-order, modality non-specific regions. The network includes anterior cingulate/medial prefrontal and posterior cingulate/medial parietal cortices together with pulvinar thalami, a network known to be effective in autobiographic memory retrieval and self-awareness. Autobiographic memory retrieval of previous personal judgments of visually presented words was used as stimuli. It is demonstrated that the prestimulus condition is characterized by causal, recurrent oscillations which are maximal in the lower gamma range. When retrieving previous judgments of visually presented adjectives, this activity is dramatically increased during the stimulus task as ascertained by Granger causality analysis. Our results confirm the hypothesis that stimulation may enhance causal interaction between higher order, modality non-specific brain regions, exemplified in a network of autobiographical memory retrieval.

Graph-based computational network analysis has proven a powerful tool to quantitatively characterize functional architectures of the brain. However, the test-retest (TRT) reliability of graph metrics of functional networks has not been systematically examined. Here, we investigated TRT reliability of topological metrics of functional brain networks derived from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Specifically, we evaluated both short-term (&lt;1 hour apart) and long-term (&gt;5 months apart) TRT reliability for 12 global and 6 local nodal network metrics. We found that reliability of global network metrics was overall low, threshold-sensitive and dependent on several factors of scanning time interval (TI, long-term&gt;short-term), network membership (NM, networks excluding negative correlations&gt;networks including negative correlations) and network type (NT, binarized networks&gt;weighted networks). The dependence was modulated by another factor of node definition (ND) strategy. The local nodal reliability exhibited large variability across nodal metrics and a spatially heterogeneous distribution. Nodal degree was the most reliable metric and varied the least across the factors above. Hub regions in association and limbic/paralimbic cortices showed moderate TRT reliability. Importantly, nodal reliability was robust to above-mentioned four factors. Simulation analysis revealed that global network metrics were extremely sensitive (but varying degrees) to noise in functional connectivity and weighted networks generated numerically more reliable results in compared with binarized networks. For nodal network metrics, they showed high resistance to noise in functional connectivity and no NT related differences were found in the resistance. These findings provide important implications on how to choose reliable analytical schemes and network metrics of interest.
The TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL)/TRAIL receptor system participates in crucial steps in immune cell activation or differentiation. It is able to inhibit proliferation and activation of T cells and to induce apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes, and seems to be implicated in autoimmune diseases. Thus, TRAIL and TRAIL receptor genes are potential candidates for involvement in susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (MS). To test whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the human genes encoding TRAIL, TRAILR-1, TRAILR-2, TRAILR-3 and TRAILR-4 are associated with MS susceptibility, we performed a candidate gene case-control study in the Spanish population. 59 SNPs in the TRAIL and TRAIL receptor genes were analysed in 628 MS patients and 660 controls, and validated in an additional cohort of 295 MS patients and 233 controls. Despite none of the SNPs withstood the highly conservative Bonferroni correction, three SNPs showing uncorrected p values&lt;0.05 were successfully replicated: rs4894559 in TRAIL gene, p=9.810(-4), OR=1.34; rs4872077, in TRAILR-1 gene, p=0.005, OR=1.72; and rs1001793 in TRAILR-2 gene, p=0.012, OR=0.84. The combination of the alleles G/T/A in these SNPs appears to be associated with a reduced risk of developing MS (p=2.1210(-5), OR=0.59). These results suggest that genes of the TRAIL/TRAIL receptor system exerts a genetic influence on MS.

Primate neurophysiology has revealed various neural mechanisms at the single-cell level and population level. However, because recording techniques have not been updated for several decades, the types of experimental design that can be applied in the emerging field of social neuroscience are limited, in particular those involving interactions within a realistic social environment. To address these limitations and allow more freedom in experimental design to understand dynamic adaptive neural functions, multidimensional recording (MDR) was developed. MDR obtains behavioral, neural, eye position, and other biological data simultaneously by using integrated multiple recording systems. MDR gives a wide degree of freedom in experimental design because the level of behavioral restraint is adjustable depending on the experimental requirements while still maintaining the signal quality. The biggest advantage of MDR is that it can provide a stable neural signal at higher temporal resolution at the network level from multiple subjects for months, which no other method can provide. Conventional event-related analysis of MDR data shows results consistent with previous findings, whereas new methods of analysis can reveal network mechanisms that could not have been investigated previously. MDR data are now shared in the public server Neurotycho.org. These recording and sharing methods support an ecological system that is open to everyone and will be a valuable and powerful research/educational platform for understanding the dynamic mechanisms of neural networks.
A fundamental question in the neurosciences is how central nervous system (CNS) space is allocated to different sensory inputs. Yet it is difficult to measure innervation density and corresponding representational areas in the CNS of most species. These measurements can be made in star-nosed moles (Condylura cristata) because the cortical representation of nasal rays is visible in flattened sections and afferents from each ray can be counted. Here we used electrophysiological recordings combined with sections of the brainstem to identify a large, visible star representation in the principal sensory nucleus (PrV). PrV was greatly expanded and bulged out of the brainstem rostrally to partially invade the trigeminal nerve. The star representation was a distinct PrV subnucleus containing 11 modules, each representing one of the nasal rays. The 11 PrV ray representations were reconstructed to obtain volumes and the largest module corresponded to ray 11, the mole's tactile fovea. These measures were compared to fiber counts and primary cortical areas from a previous investigation. PrV ray volumes were closely correlated with the number of afferents from each ray, but afferents from the behaviorally most important, 11(th) ray were preferentially over-represented. This over-representation at the brainstem level was much less than at the cortical level. Our results indicate that PrV provides the first step in magnifying CNS representations of important afferents, but additional magnification occurs at higher levels. The early development of the 11(th), foveal appendage could provide a mechanism for the most important afferents to capture the most CNS space.
BORIS (CTCFL) is the paralog of CTCF (CCCTC-binding factor; NM_006565), a ubiquitously expressed DNA-binding protein with diverse roles in gene expression and chromatin organisation. BORIS and CTCF have virtually identical zinc finger domains, yet display major differences in their respective C- and N-terminal regions. Unlike CTCF, BORIS expression has been reported only in the testis and certain malignancies, leading to its classification as a &quot;cancer-testis&quot; antigen. However, the expression pattern of BORIS is both a significant and unresolved question in the field of DNA binding proteins. Here, we identify BORIS in the cytoplasm and nucleus of a wide range of normal and cancer cells. We compare the localization of CTCF and BORIS in the nucleus and demonstrate enrichment of BORIS within the nucleolus, inside the nucleolin core structure and adjacent to fibrillarin in the dense fibrillar component. In contrast, CTCF is not enriched in the nucleolus. Live imaging of cells transiently transfected with GFP tagged BORIS confirmed the nucleolar accumulation of BORIS. While BORIS transcript levels are low compared to CTCF, its protein levels are readily detectable. These findings show that BORIS expression is more widespread than previously believed, and suggest a role for BORIS in nucleolar function.

Acute primary open angle glaucoma is an optic neuropathy characterized by the elevation of intraocular pressure, which causes retinal ischemia and neuronal death. Rat ischemia/reperfusion enhances endocytosis of both horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or fluorescent dextran into ganglion cell layer (GCL) neurons 24 h after the insult. We investigated the activation of autophagy in GCL-neurons following ischemia/reperfusion, using acid phosphatase (AP) histochemistry and immunofluorescence against LC3 and LAMP1. Retinal I/R lead to the appearance of AP-positive granules and LAMP1-positive vesicles 12 and 24 h after the insult, and LC3 labelling at 24 h, and induced a consistent retinal neuron death. At 48 h the retina was negative for autophagic markers. In addition, Western Blot analysis revealed an increase of LC3 levels after damage: the increase in the conjugated, LC3-II isoform is suggestive of autophagic activity. Inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyladenine partially prevented death of neurons and reduces apoptotic markers, 24 h post-lesion. The number of neurons in the GCL decreased significantly following I/R (I/R 12.211.13 vs controls 19.231.12 cells/500 m); this decrease was partially prevented by 3-methyladenine (17.081.42 cells/500 m), which potently inhibits maturation of autophagosomes. Treatment also prevented the increase in glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity elicited by I/R. Therefore, targeting autophagy could represent a novel and promising treatment for glaucoma and retinal ischemia.

Lactoferrin (LF), a key element in mammalian immune system, plays pivotal roles in host defence against infection and excessive inflammation. Its protective effects range from direct antimicrobial activities against a large panel of microbes, including bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites, to antinflammatory and anticancer activities. In this study, we show that monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MD-DCs) generated in the presence of bovine LF (bLF) fail to undergo activation by up-modulating CD83, co-stimulatory and major histocompatibility complex molecules, and cytokine/chemokine secretion. Moreover, these cells are weak activators of T cell proliferation and retain antigen uptake activity. Consistent with an impaired maturation, bLF-MD-DC primed T lymphocytes exhibit a functional unresponsiveness characterized by reduced expression of CD154 and impaired expression of IFN- and IL-2. The observed imunosuppressive effects correlate with an increased expression of molecules with negative regulatory functions (i.e. immunoglobulin-like transcript 3 and programmed death ligand 1), indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, and suppressor of cytokine signaling-3. Interestingly, bLF-MD-DCs produce IL-6 and exhibit constitutive signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 activation. Conversely, bLF exposure of already differentiated MD-DCs completely fails to induce IL-6, and partially inhibits Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist-induced activation. Cell-specific differences in bLF internalization likely account for the distinct response elicited by bLF in monocytes versus immature DCs, providing a mechanistic base for its multiple effects. These results indicate that bLF exerts a potent anti-inflammatory activity by skewing monocyte differentiation into DCs with impaired capacity to undergo activation and to promote Th1 responses. Overall, these bLF-mediated effects may represent a strategy to block excessive DC activation upon TLR-induced inflammation, adding further evidence for a critical role of bLF in directing host immune function.
Point mutations in LRRK2 cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. Despite extensive efforts to determine the mechanism of cell death in patients with LRRK2 mutations, the aetiology of LRRK2 PD is not well understood. To examine possible alterations in gene expression linked to the presence of LRRK2 mutations, we carried out a case versus control analysis of global gene expression in three systems: fibroblasts isolated from LRRK2 mutation carriers and healthy, non-mutation carrying controls; brain tissue from G2019S mutation carriers and controls; and HEK293 inducible LRRK2 wild type and mutant cell lines. No significant alteration in gene expression was found in these systems following correction for multiple testing. These data suggest that any alterations in basal gene expression in fibroblasts or cell lines containing mutations in LRRK2 are likely to be quantitatively small. This work suggests that LRRK2 is unlikely to play a direct role in modulation of gene expression, although it remains possible that this protein can influence mRNA expression under pathogenic cicumstances.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) produced by arcuate nucleus (ARC) neurons has a strong orexigenic effect on target neurons. Hypothalamic NPY levels undergo wide-ranging oscillations during the circadian cycle and in response to fasting and peripheral hormones (from 0.25 to 10-fold change). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact of a moderate long-term modulation of NPY within the ARC neurons on food consumption, body weight gain and hypothalamic neuropeptides. We achieved a physiological overexpression (3.6-fold increase) and down-regulation (0.5-fold decrease) of NPY in the rat ARC by injection of AAV vectors expressing NPY and synthetic microRNA that target the NPY, respectively. Our work shows that a moderate overexpression of NPY was sufficient to induce diurnal over-feeding, sustained body weight gain and severe obesity in adult rats. Additionally, the circulating levels of leptin were elevated but the immunoreactivity (ir) of ARC neuropeptides was not in accordance (POMC-ir was unchanged and AGRP-ir increased), suggesting a disruption in the ability of ARC neurons to response to peripheral metabolic alterations. Furthermore, a dysfunction in adipocytes phenotype was observed in these obese rats. In addition, moderate down-regulation of NPY did not affect basal feeding or normal body weight gain but the response to food deprivation was compromised since fasting-induced hyperphagia was inhibited and fasting-induced decrease in locomotor activity was absent.These results highlight the importance of the physiological ARC NPY levels oscillations on feeding regulation, fasting response and body weight preservation, and are important for the design of therapeutic interventions for obesity that include the NPY.
Mitochondrial ferritin (MtF) has been identified as a novel ferritin encoded by an intron-lacking gene with specific mitochondrial localization located on chromosome 5q23.1. MtF has been associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as Friedreich ataxia and restless leg syndrome. However, little information is available about MtF in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, therefore, we investigated the expression and localization of MtF messenger RNA (mRNA) in the cerebral cortex of AD and control cases using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as well as in situ hybridization histochemistry. We also examined protein expression using western-blot assay. In addition, we used in vitro methods to further explore the effect of oxidative stress and -amyloid peptide (A) on MtF expression. To do this we examined MtF mRNA and protein expression changes in the human neuroblastoma cell line, IMR-32, after treatment with A, H2O2, or both. The neuroprotective effect of MtF on oxidative stress induced by H(2)O(2) was measured by MTT assay. The in situ hybridization studies revealed that MtF mRNA was detected mainly in neurons to a lesser degree in glial cells in the cerebral cortex. The staining intensity and the number of positive cells were increased in the cerebral cortex of AD patients. Real-time PCR and western-blot confirmed that MtF expression levels in the cerebral cortex were significantly higher in AD cases than that in control cases at both the mRNA and the protein level. Cell culture experiments demonstrated that the expression of both MtF mRNA and protein were increased by treatment with H2O2 or a combination of A and H2O2, but not with A alone. Finally, MtF expression showed a significant neuroprotective effect against H2O2-induced oxidative stress (p&lt;0.05). The present study suggests that MtF is involved in the pathology of AD and may play a neuroprotective role against oxidative stress.

During the stationary part of neuronal spiking response, the stimulus can be encoded in the firing rate, but also in the statistical structure of the interspike intervals. We propose and discuss two information-based measures of statistical dispersion of the interspike interval distribution, the entropy-based dispersion and Fisher information-based dispersion. The measures are compared with the frequently used concept of standard deviation. It is shown, that standard deviation is not well suited to quantify some aspects of dispersion that are often expected intuitively, such as the degree of randomness. The proposed dispersion measures are not entirely independent, although each describes the interspike intervals from a different point of view. The new methods are applied to common models of neuronal firing and to both simulated and experimental data.
The Embedded Figures Test (EFT) requires observers to search for a simple geometric shape hidden inside a more complex figure. Surprisingly, performance in the EFT is negatively correlated with susceptibility to illusions of spatial orientation, such as the Roelofs effect. Using fMRI, we previously demonstrated that regions in parietal cortex are involved in the contextual processing associated with the Roelofs task. In the present study, we found that similar parietal regions (superior parietal cortex and precuneus) were more active during the EFT than during a simple matching task. Importantly, these parietal activations overlapped with regions found to be involved during contextual processing in the Roelofs illusion. Additional parietal and frontal areas, in the right hemisphere, showed strong correlations between brain activity and behavioral performance during the search task. We propose that the posterior parietal regions are necessary for processing contextual information across many different, but related visuospatial tasks, with additional parietal and frontal regions serving to coordinate this processing in participants proficient in the task.

The present study describes the flexor and extensor muscles in Cebus libidinosus' forearm and compares them with those from humans, chimpanzees and baboons. The data is presented in quantitative anatomical indices for similarity. The capuchin forearm muscles showed important similarities with chimpanzees and humans, particularly those that act on thumb motion and allow certain degree of independence from other hand structures, even though their configuration does not enable a true opposable thumb. The characteristics of Cebus' forearm muscles corroborate the evolutionary convergence towards an adaptive behavior (tool use) between Cebus genus and apes.
Systemic administration of the noncompetitive NMDA-receptor antagonist, MK-801, has been proposed to model cognitive deficits similar to those seen in patients with schizophrenia. The present work investigated the ability of a dopamine-binding DNA aptamer to regulate these MK-801-induced cognitive deficits when injected into the nucleus accumbens. Rats were trained to bar press for chocolate pellet rewards then randomly assigned to receive an intra-accumbens injection of a DNA aptamer (200 nM; n=7), tris buffer (n=6) or a randomized DNA oligonucleotide (n=7). Animals were then treated systemically with MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) and tested for their ability to extinguish their bar pressing response. Two control groups were also included that did not receive MK-801. Data revealed that injection of Tris buffer or the random oligonucleotide sequence into the nucleus accumbens prior to treatment with MK-801 did not reduce the MK-801-induced extinction deficit. Animals continued to press at a high rate over the entire course of the extinction session. Injection of the dopamine aptamer reversed this MK-801-induced elevation in lever pressing to levels as seen in rats not treated with MK-801. Tests for activity showed that the aptamer did not impair locomotor activity. Results demonstrate the in vivo utility of DNA aptamers as tools to investigate neurobiological processes in preclinical animal models of mental health disease.
Genetic, biochemical, and animal model studies strongly suggest a central role for -synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. -synuclein lacks a signal peptide sequence and has thus been considered a cytosolic protein. Recent data has suggested that the protein may be released from cells via a non-classical secretory pathway and may therefore exert paracrine effects in the extracellular environment. However, proof that -synuclein is actually secreted into the brain extracellular space in vivo has not been obtained. We developed a novel highly sensitive ELISA in conjugation with an in vivo microdialysis technique to measure -synuclein in brain interstitial fluid. We show for the first time that -synuclein is readily detected in the interstitial fluid of both -synuclein transgenic mice and human patients with traumatic brain injury. Our data suggest that -synuclein is physiologically secreted by neurons in vivo. This interstitial fluid pool of the protein may have a role in the propagation of synuclein pathology and progression of Parkinson's disease.
A single-site mutant (M5) of native urokinase plasminogen activator (prouPA) induces effective thrombolysis in dogs with venous or arterial thrombosis with a reduction in bleeding complications compared to tPA. This effect, related to inhibition of two-chain M5 (tcM5) by plasma C1-inhibitor (C1I), thereby preventing non-specific plasmin generation, was augmented by the addition of exogenous C1I to plasma in vitro. In the present study, tPA, M5 or placebo +/- C1I were administered in two rat stroke models. In Part-I, permanent MCA occlusion was used to evaluate intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) by the thrombolytic regimens. In Part II, thromboembolic occlusion was used with thrombolysis administered 2 h later. Infarct and edema volumes, and ICH were determined at 24 h, and neuroscore pre (2 h) and post (24 h) treatment. In Part I, fatal ICH occurred in 57% of tPA and 75% of M5 rats. Adjunctive C1I reduced this to 25% and 17% respectively. Similarly, semiquantitation of ICH by neuropathological examination showed significantly less ICH in rats given adjunctive C1I compared with tPA or M5 alone. In Part-II, tPA, M5, and M5+C1I induced comparable ischemic volume reductions (&gt;55%) compared with the saline or C1I controls, indicating the three treatments had a similar fibrinolytic effect. ICH was seen in 40% of tPA and 50% of M5 rats, with 1 death in the latter. Only 17% of the M5+C1I rats showed ICH, and the bleeding score in this group was significantly less than that in either the tPA or M5 group. The M5+C1I group had the best Benefit Index, calculated by dividing percent brain salvaged by the ICH visual score in each group. In conclusion, adjunctive C1I inhibited bleeding by M5, induced significant neuroscore improvement and had the best Benefit Index. The C1I did not compromise fibrinolysis by M5 in contrast with tPA, consistent with previous in vitro findings.
To understand the neural basis of behavior, it is necessary to record brain activity in freely moving animals. Advances in implantable multi-electrode array technology have enabled researchers to record the activity of neuronal ensembles from multiple brain regions. The full potential of this approach is currently limited by reliance on cable tethers, with bundles of wires connecting the implanted electrodes to the data acquisition system while impeding the natural behavior of the animal. To overcome these limitations, here we introduce a multi-channel wireless headstage system designed for small animals such as rats and mice. A variety of single unit and local field potential signals were recorded from the dorsal striatum and substantia nigra in mice and the ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex simultaneously in rats. This wireless system could be interfaced with commercially available data acquisition systems, and the signals obtained were comparable in quality to those acquired using cable tethers. On account of its small size, light weight, and rechargeable battery, this wireless headstage system is suitable for studying the neural basis of natural behavior, eliminating the need for wires, commutators, and other limitations associated with traditional tethered recording systems.
Hormesis occurs when a low level stress elicits adaptive beneficial responses that protect against subsequent exposure to severe stress. Recent findings suggest that mild oxidative and thermal stress can extend lifespan by hormetic mechanisms. Here we show that the botanical pesticide plumbagin, while toxic to C. elegans nematodes at high doses, extends lifespan at low doses. Because plumbagin is a naphthoquinone that can generate free radicals in vivo, we investigated whether it extends lifespan by activating an adaptive cellular stress response pathway. The C. elegans cap'n'collar (CNC) transcription factor, SKN-1, mediates protective responses to oxidative stress. Genetic analysis showed that skn-1 activity is required for lifespan extension by low-dose plumbagin in C. elegans. Further screening of a series of plumbagin analogs identified three additional naphthoquinones that could induce SKN-1 targets in C. elegans. Naphthazarin showed skn-1dependent lifespan extension, over an extended dose range compared to plumbagin, while the other naphthoquinones, oxoline and menadione, had differing effects on C. elegans survival and failed to activate ARE reporter expression in cultured mammalian cells. Our findings reveal the potential for low doses of naturally occurring naphthoquinones to extend lifespan by engaging a specific adaptive cellular stress response pathway.
The study of the neural basis of emotional empathy has received a surge of interest in recent years but mostly employing human neuroimaging. A simpler animal model would pave the way for systematic single cell recordings and invasive manipulations of the brain regions implicated in empathy. Recent evidence has been put forward for the existence of empathy in rodents. In this study, we describe a potential model of empathy in female rats, in which we studied interactions between two rats: a witness observes a demonstrator experiencing a series of footshocks. By comparing the reaction of witnesses with or without previous footshock experience, we examine the role of prior experience as a modulator of empathy. We show that witnesses having previously experienced footshocks, but not nave ones, display vicarious freezing behavior upon witnessing a cage-mate experiencing footshocks. Strikingly, the demonstrator's behavior was in turn modulated by the behavior of the witness: demonstrators froze more following footshocks if their witness froze more. Previous experiments have shown that rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) when receiving footshocks. Thus, the role of USV in triggering vicarious freezing in our paradigm is examined. We found that experienced witness-demonstrator pairs emitted more USVs than nave witness-demonstrator pairs, but the number of USVs was correlated with freezing in demonstrators, not in witnesses. Furthermore, playing back the USVs, recorded from witness-demonstrator pairs during the empathy test, did not induce vicarious freezing behavior in experienced witnesses. Thus, our findings confirm that vicarious freezing can be triggered in rats, and moreover it can be modulated by prior experience. Additionally, our result suggests that vicarious freezing is not triggered by USVs per se and it influences back onto the behavior of the demonstrator that had elicited the vicarious freezing in witnesses, introducing a paradigm to study empathy as a social loop.
Traditional behavioral genetic studies (e.g., twin, adoption studies) have shown that human personality has moderate to high heritability, but recent molecular behavioral genetic studies have failed to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) with consistent effects. The current study adopted a multi-step approach (ANOVA followed by multiple regression and permutation) to assess the cumulative effects of multiple QTLs. Using a system-level (dopamine system) genetic approach, we investigated a personality trait deeply rooted in the nervous system (the Highly Sensitive Personality, HSP). 480 healthy Chinese college students were given the HSP scale and genotyped for 98 representative polymorphisms in all major dopamine neurotransmitter genes. In addition, two environment factors (stressful life events and parental warmth) that have been implicated for their contributions to personality development were included to investigate their relative contributions as compared to genetic factors. In Step 1, using ANOVA, we identified 10 polymorphisms that made statistically significant contributions to HSP. In Step 2, these polymorphism's main effects and interactions were assessed using multiple regression. This model accounted for 15% of the variance of HSP (p&lt;0.001). Recent stressful life events accounted for an additional 2% of the variance. Finally, permutation analyses ascertained the probability of obtaining these findings by chance to be very low, p ranging from 0.001 to 0.006. Dividing these loci by the subsystems of dopamine synthesis, degradation/transport, receptor and modulation, we found that the modulation and receptor subsystems made the most significant contribution to HSP. The results of this study demonstrate the utility of a multi-step neuronal system-level approach in assessing genetic contributions to individual differences in human behavior. It can potentially bridge the gap between the high heritability estimates based on traditional behavioral genetics and the lack of reproducible genetic effects observed currently from molecular genetic studies.
Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder in Huntington's disease (HD) patients. In the general population, women are more prone to develop depression and such susceptibility might be related to serotonergic dysregulation. There is yet to be a study of sexual dimorphism in the development and presentation of depression in HD patients. We investigated whether 8-week-old male and female R6/1 transgenic HD mice display depressive-like endophenotypes associated with serotonergic impairments. We also studied the behavioral effects of acute treatment with sertraline. We found that only female HD mice exhibited a decreased preference for saccharin as well as impaired emotionality-related behaviors when assessed on the novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT) and the forced-swimming test (FST). The exaggerated immobility time displayed by female HD in the FST was reduced by acute administration of sertraline. We also report an increased response to the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT in inducing hypothermia and a decreased 5-HT(2A) receptor function in HD animals. While tissue levels of serotonin were reduced in both male and female HD mice, we found that serotonin concentration and hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) mRNA levels were higher in the hippocampus of males compared to female animals. Finally, the antidepressant-like effects of sertraline in the FST were blunted in male HD animals. This study reveals sex-specific depressive-related behaviors during an early stage of HD prior to any cognitive and motor deficits. Our data suggest a crucial role for disrupted serotonin signaling in mediating the sexually dimorphic depression-like phenotype in HD mice.
We wanted to learn whether activity in the same area(s) of the brain correlate with the experience of beauty derived from different sources. 21 subjects took part in a brain-scanning experiment using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Prior to the experiment, they viewed pictures of paintings and listened to musical excerpts, both of which they rated on a scale of 1-9, with 9 being the most beautiful. This allowed us to select three sets of stimuli--beautiful, indifferent and ugly--which subjects viewed and heard in the scanner, and rated at the end of each presentation. The results of a conjunction analysis of brain activity showed that, of the several areas that were active with each type of stimulus, only one cortical area, located in the medial orbito-frontal cortex (mOFC), was active during the experience of musical and visual beauty, with the activity produced by the experience of beauty derived from either source overlapping almost completely within it. The strength of activation in this part of the mOFC was proportional to the strength of the declared intensity of the experience of beauty. We conclude that, as far as activity in the brain is concerned, there is a faculty of beauty that is not dependent on the modality through which it is conveyed but which can be activated by at least two sources--musical and visual--and probably by other sources as well. This has led us to formulate a brain-based theory of beauty.

In the present study we investigated the capacity of the memory store underlying the mismatch negativity (MMN) response in musicians and nonmusicians for complex tone patterns. While previous studies have focused either on the kind of information that can be encoded or on the decay of the memory trace over time, we studied capacity in terms of the length of tone sequences, i.e., the number of individual tones that can be fully encoded and maintained. By means of magnetoencephalography (MEG) we recorded MMN responses to deviant tones that could occur at any position of standard tone patterns composed of four, six or eight tones during passive, distracted listening. Whereas there was a reliable MMN response to deviant tones in the four-tone pattern in both musicians and nonmusicians, only some individuals showed MMN responses to the longer patterns. This finding of a reliable capacity of the short-term auditory store underlying the MMN response is in line with estimates of a three to five item capacity of the short-term memory trace from behavioural studies, although pitch and contour complexity covaried with sequence length, which might have led to an understatement of the reported capacity. Whereas there was a tendency for an enhancement of the pattern MMN in musicians compared to nonmusicians, a strong advantage for musicians could be shown in an accompanying behavioural task of detecting the deviants while attending to the stimuli for all pattern lengths, indicating that long-term musical training differentially affects the memory capacity of auditory short-term memory for complex tone patterns with and without attention. Also, a left-hemispheric lateralization of MMN responses in the six-tone pattern suggests that additional networks that help structuring the patterns in the temporal domain might be recruited for demanding auditory processing in the pitch domain.
One of the central questions in cognitive neuroscience is the precise neural representation, or brain pattern, associated with a semantic category. In this study, we explored the influence of audiovisual stimuli on the brain patterns of concepts or semantic categories through a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment. We used a pattern search method to extract brain patterns corresponding to two semantic categories: &quot;old people&quot; and &quot;young people.&quot; These brain patterns were elicited by semantically congruent audiovisual, semantically incongruent audiovisual, unimodal visual, and unimodal auditory stimuli belonging to the two semantic categories. We calculated the reproducibility index, which measures the similarity of the patterns within the same category. We also decoded the semantic categories from these brain patterns. The decoding accuracy reflects the discriminability of the brain patterns between two categories. The results showed that both the reproducibility index of brain patterns and the decoding accuracy were significantly higher for semantically congruent audiovisual stimuli than for unimodal visual and unimodal auditory stimuli, while the semantically incongruent stimuli did not elicit brain patterns with significantly higher reproducibility index or decoding accuracy. Thus, the semantically congruent audiovisual stimuli enhanced the within-class reproducibility of brain patterns and the between-class discriminability of brain patterns, and facilitate neural representations of semantic categories or concepts. Furthermore, we analyzed the brain activity in superior temporal sulcus and middle temporal gyrus (STS/MTG). The strength of the fMRI signal and the reproducibility index were enhanced by the semantically congruent audiovisual stimuli. Our results support the use of the reproducibility index as a potential tool to supplement the fMRI signal amplitude for evaluating multimodal integration.
Chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) upregulated in the glial scar inhibit axon regeneration via their sulphated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Chondroitin 6-sulphotransferase-1 (C6ST-1) is upregulated after injury leading to an increase in 6-sulphated GAG. In this study, we ask if this increase in 6-sulphated GAG is responsible for the increased inhibition within the glial scar, or whether it represents a partial reversion to the permissive embryonic state dominated by 6-sulphated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Using C6ST-1 knockout mice (KO), we studied post-injury changes in chondroitin sulphotransferase (CSST) expression and the effect of chondroitin 6-sulphates on both central and peripheral axon regeneration. After CNS injury, wild-type animals (WT) showed an increase in mRNA for C6ST-1, C6ST-2 and C4ST-1, but KO did not upregulate any CSSTs. After PNS injury, while WT upregulated C6ST-1, KO showed an upregulation of C6ST-2. We examined regeneration of nigrostriatal axons, which demonstrate mild spontaneous axon regeneration in the WT. KO showed many fewer regenerating axons and more axonal retraction than WT. However, in the PNS, repair of the median and ulnar nerves led to similar and normal levels of axon regeneration in both WT and KO. Functional tests on plasticity after the repair also showed no evidence of enhanced plasticity in the KO. Our results suggest that the upregulation of 6-sulphated GAG after injury makes the extracellular matrix more permissive for axon regeneration, and that the balance of different CSs in the microenvironment around the lesion site is an important factor in determining the outcome of nervous system injury.
Chronic stress has detrimental effects on physiology, learning and memory and is involved in the development of anxiety and depressive disorders. Besides changes in synaptic formation and neurogenesis, chronic stress also induces dendritic remodeling in the hippocampus, amygdala and the prefrontal cortex. Investigations of dendritic remodeling during development and treatment of stress are currently limited by the invasive nature of histological and stereological methods. Here we show that high field diffusion-weighted MRI combined with quantitative biophysical modeling of the hippocampal dendritic loss in 21 day restraint stressed rats highly correlates with former histological findings. Our study strongly indicates that diffusion-weighted MRI is sensitive to regional dendritic loss and thus a promising candidate for non-invasive studies of dendritic plasticity in chronic stress and stress-related disorders.
Despite the advent of antiretroviral therapy, complications of HIV-1 infection with concurrent drug abuse are an emerging problem. Morphine, often abused by HIV-infected patients, is known to accelerate neuroinflammation associated with HIV-1 infection. Detailed molecular mechanisms of morphine action however, remain poorly understood. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has been implicated in a number of pathological conditions, primarily due to its potent mitogenic and permeability effects. Whether morphine exposure results in enhanced vascular permeability in brain endothelial cells, likely via induction of PDGF, remains to be established. In the present study, we demonstrated morphine-mediated induction of PDGF-BB in human brain microvascular endothelial cells, an effect that was abrogated by the opioid receptor antagonist-naltrexone. Pharmacological blockade (cell signaling) and loss-of-function (Egr-1) approaches demonstrated the role of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), PI3K/Akt and the downstream transcription factor Egr-1 respectively, in morphine-mediated induction of PDGF-BB. Functional significance of increased PDGF-BB manifested as increased breach of the endothelial barrier as evidenced by decreased expression of the tight junction protein ZO-1 in an in vitro model system. Understanding the regulation of PDGF expression may provide insights into the development of potential therapeutic targets for intervention of morphine-mediated neuroinflammation.
In the Rubber Hand Illusion, the feeling of ownership of a rubber hand displaced from a participant's real occluded hand is evoked by synchronously stroking both hands with paintbrushes. A change of perceived finger location towards the rubber hand (proprioceptive drift) has been reported to correlate with this illusion. To measure the time course of proprioceptive drift during the Rubber Hand Illusion, we regularly interrupted stroking (performed by robot arms) to measure perceived finger location. Measurements were made by projecting a probe dot into the field of view (using a semi-transparent mirror) and asking participants if the dot is to the left or to the right of their invisible hand (Experiment 1) or to adjust the position of the dot to that of their invisible hand (Experiment 2). We varied both the measurement frequency (every 10 s, 40 s, 120 s) and the mode of stroking (synchronous, asynchronous, just vision). Surprisingly, with frequent measurements, proprioceptive drift occurs not only in the synchronous stroking condition but also in the two control conditions (asynchronous stroking, just vision). Proprioceptive drift in the synchronous stroking condition is never higher than in the just vision condition. Only continuous exposure to asynchronous stroking prevents proprioceptive drift and thus replicates the differences in drift reported in the literature. By contrast, complementary subjective ratings (questionnaire) show that the feeling of ownership requires synchronous stroking and is not present in the asynchronous stroking condition. Thus, subjective ratings and drift are dissociated. We conclude that different mechanisms of multisensory integration are responsible for proprioceptive drift and the feeling of ownership. Proprioceptive drift relies on visuoproprioceptive integration alone, a process that is inhibited by asynchronous stroking, the most common control condition in Rubber Hand Illusion experiments. This dissociation implies that conclusions about feelings of ownership cannot be drawn from measuring proprioceptive drift alone.
Integrating auditory and motor information often requires precise timing as in speech and music. In humans, the position of the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) in the dorsal auditory stream renders this area a node for auditory-motor integration. Yet, it remains unknown whether the PMv is critical for auditory-motor timing and which activity increases help to preserve task performance following its disruption. 16 healthy volunteers participated in two sessions with fMRI measured at baseline and following rTMS (rTMS) of either the left PMv or a control region. Subjects synchronized left or right finger tapping to sub-second beat rates of auditory rhythms in the experimental task, and produced self-paced tapping during spectrally matched auditory stimuli in the control task. Left PMv rTMS impaired auditory-motor synchronization accuracy in the first sub-block following stimulation (p&lt;0.01, Bonferroni corrected), but spared motor timing and attention to task. Task-related activity increased in the homologue right PMv, but did not predict the behavioral effect of rTMS. In contrast, anterior midline cerebellum revealed most pronounced activity increase in less impaired subjects. The present findings suggest a critical role of the left PMv in feed-forward computations enabling accurate auditory-motor timing, which can be compensated by activity modulations in the cerebellum, but not in the homologue region contralateral to stimulation.
Event-related potentials (ERP) research has identified a negative deflection within about 100 to 150 ms after an erroneous response--the error-related negativity (ERN)--as a correlate of awareness-independent error processing. The short latency suggests an internal error monitoring system acting rapidly based on central information such as an efference copy signal. Studies on monkeys and humans have identified the thalamus as an important relay station for efference copy signals of ongoing saccades. The present study investigated error processing on an antisaccade task with ERPs in six patients with focal vascular damage to the thalamus and 28 control subjects. ERN amplitudes were significantly reduced in the patients, with the strongest ERN attenuation being observed in two patients with right mediodorsal and ventrolateral and bilateral ventrolateral damage, respectively. Although the number of errors was significantly higher in the thalamic lesion patients, the degree of ERN attenuation did not correlate with the error rate in the patients. The present data underline the role of the thalamus for the online monitoring of saccadic eye movements, albeit not providing unequivocal evidence in favour of an exclusive role of a particular thalamic site being involved in performance monitoring. By relaying saccade-related efference copy signals, the thalamus appears to enable fast error processing. Furthermore early error processing based on internal information may contribute to error awareness which was reduced in the patients.
The insulin degrading enzyme (IDE) variant, v311 (rs6583817), is associated with increased post-mortem cerebellar IDE mRNA, decreased plasma -amyloid (A), decreased risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and increased reporter gene expression, suggesting that it is a functional variant driving increased IDE expression. To identify other functional IDE variants, we have tested v685, rs11187061 (associated with decreased cerebellar IDE mRNA) and variants on H6, the haplotype tagged by v311 (v10; rs4646958, v315; rs7895832, v687; rs17107734 and v154; rs4646957), for altered in vitro reporter gene expression. The reporter gene expression levels associated with the second most common haplotype (H2) successfully replicated the post-mortem findings in hepatocytoma (0.89 fold-change, p=0.04) but not neuroblastoma cells. Successful in vitro replication was achieved for H6 in neuroblastoma cells when the sequence was cloned 5' to the promoter (1.18 fold-change, p=0.006) and 3' to the reporter gene (1.29 fold change, p=0.003), an effect contributed to by four variants (v10, v315, v154 and v311). Since IDE mediates A degradation, variants that regulate IDE expression could represent good therapeutic targets for AD.
FoxP3 Treg cells are believed to play a role in the occurrence of autoimmunity and in the determination of clinical recurrences. Contradictory reports are, however, available describing frequency and function of Treg cells during autoimmune diseases. We examined, by both polychromatic flow cytometry, and real-time RT-PCR, several Treg markers in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune disease affecting the central nervous system. We found that Tregs, as defined by CD25, CD39, FoxP3, CTLA4, and GITR expression, were significantly decreased in stable MS patients as compared to healthy donors, but, surprisingly, restored to normal levels during an acute clinical attack. We conclude that Treg cells are not involved in causing clinical relapses, but rather react to inflammation in the attempt to restore homeostasis.
Glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) in glial cells regulates extracellular levels of glycine, which acts as an obligatory co-agonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the brain. In the present study, we developed a novel radioligand, [H]3-chloro-N-((S)-((R)-1-methylpiperidin-2-yl)(thiophen- 3-yl)methyl)-4- (trifluoromethyl)picolinamide ([H]CHIBA-3007), for studying GlyT-1 in the brain. The presence of a single saturable high-affinity binding component for [H]CHIBA-3007 binding to the rat brain membranes was detected. Scatchard analysis revealed an apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (K(d)) of 1.610.16 nM and a maximal number of binding sites (B(max)) of 692.822.8 fmol/mg protein (mean  SEM, n=3). The specific binding of [H]CHIBA-3007 was inhibited by a number of GlyT-1 inhibitors, such as CHIBA-3007, desmethyl-CHIBA-3007, CHIBA-3008, SSR504734, NFPS/ALX5407, LY2365109 and Org24598, consistent with the pharmacological profiles of GlyT-1 inhibitors. Interestingly, the potency of eight GlyT-1 inhibitors (CHIBA-3007, desmethyl-CHIBA-3007, NFPS/ALX5407, LY2365109, Org24598, SSR504734, sarcosine, and glycine) for blocking in vitro specific binding of [H]CHIBA-3007 was significantly correlated with the potency of these inhibitors for inhibiting [C]glycine uptake in the rat brain membranes. In contrast, the GlyT-2 inhibitor ALX1393 exhibited very weak for [H]CHIBA-3007 binding. Furthermore, the regional distribution of [H]CHIBA-3007 binding in the rat brain was similar to the previously reported distribution of GlyT-1. The present findings suggest that [H]CHIBA-3007 would be a useful new radioligand for studying GlyT-1 in the brain.
During the procedure of prism adaptation, subjects execute pointing movements to visual targets under a lateral optical displacement: as consequence of the discrepancy between visual and proprioceptive inputs, their visuo-motor activity is characterized by pointing errors. The perception of such final errors triggers error-correction processes that eventually result into sensori-motor compensation, opposite to the prismatic displacement (i.e., after-effects). Here we tested whether the mere observation of erroneous pointing movements, similar to those executed during prism adaptation, is sufficient to produce adaptation-like after-effects. Neurotypical participants observed, from a first-person perspective, the examiner's arm making incorrect pointing movements that systematically overshot visual targets location to the right, thus simulating a rightward optical deviation. Three classical after-effect measures (proprioceptive, visual and visual-proprioceptive shift) were recorded before and after first-person's perspective observation of pointing errors. Results showed that mere visual exposure to an arm that systematically points on the right-side of a target (i.e., without error correction) produces a leftward after-effect, which mostly affects the observer's proprioceptive estimation of her body midline. In addition, being exposed to such a constant visual error induced in the observer the illusion &quot;to feel&quot; the seen movement. These findings indicate that it is possible to elicit sensori-motor after-effects by mere observation of movement errors.


In critically ill patients, mechanisms underlying diaphragm muscle remodeling and resultant dysfunction contributing to weaning failure remain unclear. Ventilator-induced modifications as well as sepsis and administration of pharmacological agents such as corticosteroids and neuromuscular blocking agents may be involved. Thus, the objective of the present study was to examine how sepsis, systemic corticosteroid treatment (CS) and neuromuscular blocking agent administration (NMBA) aggravate ventilator-related diaphragm cell and molecular dysfunction in the intensive care unit. Piglets were exposed to different combinations of mechanical ventilation and sedation, endotoxin-induced sepsis, CS and NMBA for five days and compared with sham-operated control animals. On day 5, diaphragm muscle fibre structure (myosin heavy chain isoform proportion, cross-sectional area and contractile protein content) did not differ from controls in any of the mechanically ventilated animals. However, a decrease in single fibre maximal force normalized to cross-sectional area (specific force) was observed in all experimental piglets. Therefore, exposure to mechanical ventilation and sedation for five days has a key negative impact on diaphragm contractile function despite a preservation of muscle structure. Post-translational modifications of contractile proteins are forwarded as one probable underlying mechanism. Unexpectedly, sepsis, CS or NMBA have no significant additive effects, suggesting that mechanical ventilation and sedation are the triggering factors leading to diaphragm weakness in the intensive care unit.
In premature infants, glucocorticoids ameliorate chronic lung disease, but have adverse effects on long-term neurological function. Glucocorticoid excess promotes free radical overproduction. We hypothesised that the adverse effects of postnatal glucocorticoid therapy on the developing brain are secondary to oxidative stress and that antioxidant treatment would diminish unwanted effects. Male rat pups received a clinically-relevant tapering course of dexamethasone (DEX; 0.5, 0.3, and 0.1 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)), with or without antioxidant vitamins C and E (DEXCE; 200 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1) and 100 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1), respectively), on postnatal days 1-6 (P1-6). Controls received saline or saline with vitamins. At weaning, relative to controls, DEX decreased total brain volume (704.434.7 mm(3) vs. 564.020.0 mm(3)), the soma volume of neurons in the CA1 (1172.630.4 m(3) vs. 1002.411.8 m(3)) and in the dentate gyrus (525.927.2 m(3) vs. 421.524.6 m(3)) of the hippocampus, and induced oxidative stress in the cortex (protein expression: heat shock protein 70 [Hsp70]: +68%; 4-hydroxynonenal [4-HNE]: +118% and nitrotyrosine [NT]: +20%). Dexamethasone in combination with vitamins resulted in improvements in total brain volume (637.543.1 mm(3)), and soma volume of neurons in the CA1 (1157.542.4 m(3)) and the dentate gyrus (536.127.2 m(3)). Hsp70 protein expression was unaltered in the cortex (+9%), however, 4-HNE (+95%) and NT (+24%) protein expression remained upregulated. Treatment of neonates with vitamins alone induced oxidative stress in the cortex (Hsp70: +67%; 4-HNE: +73%; NT: +22%) and in the hippocampus (NT: +35%). Combined glucocorticoid and antioxidant therapy in premature infants may be safer for the developing brain than glucocorticoids alone in the treatment of chronic lung disease. However, antioxidant therapy in healthy offspring is not recommended.
Generation of epithelial cell polarity requires mechanisms to sort plasma membrane proteins to the apical and basolateral domains. Sorting involves incorporation into specific vesicular carriers and subsequent fusion to the correct target membranes mediated by specific SNARE proteins. In polarized epithelial cells, the SNARE protein syntaxin 4 localizes exclusively to the basolateral plasma membrane and plays an important role in basolateral trafficking pathways. However, the mechanism of basolateral targeting of syntaxin 4 itself has remained poorly understood. Here we show that newly synthesized syntaxin 4 is directly targeted to the basolateral plasma membrane in polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. Basolateral targeting depends on a signal that is centered around residues 24-29 in the N-terminal domain of syntaxin 4. Furthermore, basolateral targeting of syntaxin 4 is dependent on the epithelial cell-specific clathrin adaptor AP1B. Disruption of the basolateral targeting signal of syntaxin 4 leads to non-polarized delivery to both the apical and basolateral surface, as well as partial intercellular retention in the trans-Golgi network. Importantly, disruption of the basolateral targeting signal of syntaxin 4 leads to the inability of MDCK cells to establish a polarized morphology which suggests that restriction of syntaxin 4 to the basolateral domain is required for epithelial cell polarity.
In 1949, Donald Hebb postulated that assemblies of synchronously activated neurons are the elementary units of information processing in the brain. Despite being one of the most influential theories in neuroscience, Hebb's cell assembly hypothesis only started to become testable in the past two decades due to technological advances. However, while the technology for the simultaneous recording of large neuronal populations undergoes fast development, there is still a paucity of analytical methods that can properly detect and track the activity of cell assemblies. Here we describe a principal component-based method that is able to (1) identify all cell assemblies present in the neuronal population investigated, (2) determine the number of neurons involved in ensemble activity, (3) specify the precise identity of the neurons pertaining to each cell assembly, and (4) unravel the time course of the individual activity of multiple assemblies. Application of the method to multielectrode recordings of awake and behaving rats revealed that assemblies detected in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus typically contain overlapping neurons. The results indicate that the PCA method presented here is able to properly detect, track and specify neuronal assemblies, irrespective of overlapping membership.

Here we introduce a database of calibrated natural images publicly available through an easy-to-use web interface. Using a Nikon D70 digital SLR camera, we acquired about six-megapixel images of Okavango Delta of Botswana, a tropical savanna habitat similar to where the human eye is thought to have evolved. Some sequences of images were captured unsystematically while following a baboon troop, while others were designed to vary a single parameter such as aperture, object distance, time of day or position on the horizon. Images are available in the raw RGB format and in grayscale. Images are also available in units relevant to the physiology of human cone photoreceptors, where pixel values represent the expected number of photoisomerizations per second for cones sensitive to long (L), medium (M) and short (S) wavelengths. This database is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial Unported license to facilitate research in computer vision, psychophysics of perception, and visual neuroscience.
The existence of an attentional window--a limited region in visual space at which attention is directed--has been invoked to explain why sudden visual onsets may or may not capture overt or covert attention. Here, we test the hypothesis that observers voluntarily control the size of this attentional window to regulate whether or not environmental signals can capture attention. We have used a novel approach to test this: participants eye-movements were tracked while they performed a search task that required dynamic gaze-shifts. During the search task, abrupt onsets were presented that cued the target positions at different levels of congruency. The participant knew these levels. We determined oculomotor capture efficiency for onsets that appeared at different viewing eccentricities. From these, we could derive the participant's attentional window size as a function of onset congruency. We find that the window was small during the presentation of low-congruency onsets, but increased monotonically in size with an increase in the expected congruency of the onsets. This indicates that the attentional window is under voluntary control and is set according to the expected relevance of environmental signals for the observer's momentary behavioral goals. Moreover, our approach provides a new and exciting method to directly measure the size of the attentional window.
Replication and transneuronal transport of pseudorabies virus (PRV) are widely used to define the organization of neural circuits in rodent brain. Here we report a dual infection approach that highlights connections to neurons that collateralize within complex networks. The method combines Cre recombinase (Cre) expression from a PRV recombinant (PRV-267) and Cre-dependent reporter gene expression from a second infecting strain of PRV (PRV-263). PRV-267 expresses both Cre and a monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) fused to viral capsid protein VP26 (VP26-mRFP) that accumulates in infected cell nuclei. PRV-263 carries a Brainbow cassette and expresses a red (dTomato) reporter that fills the cytoplasm. However, in the presence of Cre, the dTomato gene is recombined from the cassette, eliminating expression of the red reporter and liberating expression of either yellow (EYFP) or cyan (mCerulean) cytoplasmic reporters. We conducted proof-of-principle experiments using a well-characterized model in which separate injection of recombinant viruses into the left and right kidneys produces infection of neurons in the renal preautonomic network. Neurons dedicated to one kidney expressed the unique reporters characteristic of PRV-263 (cytoplasmic dTomato) or PRV-267 (nuclear VP26-mRFP). Dual infected neurons expressed VP26-mRFP and the cyan or yellow cytoplasmic reporters activated by Cre-mediated recombination of the Brainbow cassette. Differential expression of cyan or yellow reporters in neurons lacking VP26-mRFP provided a unique marker of neurons synaptically connected to dual infected neurons, a synaptic relationship that cannot be distinguished using other dual infection tracing approaches. These data demonstrate Cre-enabled conditional reporter expression in polysynaptic circuits that permits the identification of collateralized neurons and their presynaptic partners.
Although the mammalian locomotor CPG has been localized to the lumbar spinal cord, the functional-anatomical organization of flexor and extensor interneurons has not been characterized. Here, we tested the hypothesis that flexor and extensor interneuronal networks for walking are physically segregated in the lumbar spinal cord. For this purpose, we performed optical recordings and lesion experiments from a horizontally sectioned lumbar spinal cord isolated from neonate rats. This ventral hemi spinal cord preparation produces well-organized fictive locomotion when superfused with 5-HT/NMDA. The dorsal surface of the preparation was visualized using the Ca(2+) indicator fluo-4 AM, while simultaneously monitoring motor output at ventral roots L2 and L5. Using calcium imaging, we provided a general mapping view of the interneurons that maintained a stable phase relationship with motor output. We showed that the dorsal surface of L1 segment contains a higher density of locomotor rhythmic cells than the other segments. Moreover, L1 segment lesioning induced the most important changes in the locomotor activity in comparison with lesions at the T13 or L2 segments. However, no lesions led to selective disruption of either flexor or extensor output. In addition, this study found no evidence of functional parcellation of locomotor interneurons into flexor and extensor pools at the dorsal-ventral midline of the lumbar spinal cord of the rat.

Protein conformational disorders are associated with the appearance, persistence, accumulation, and misprocessing of aberrant proteins in the cell. The etiology of renal tubular dysgenesis (RTD) is linked to mutations in the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). Here, we report the identification of a novel ACE mutation (Q1069R) in an RTD patient. ACE Q1069R is found sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum and is also subject to increased proteasomal degradation, preventing its transport to the cell surface and extracellular fluids. Modulation of cellular proteostasis by temperature shift causes an extension in the processing time and trafficking of ACE Q1069R resulting in partial rescue of the protein processing defect and an increase in plasma membrane levels. In addition, we found that temperature shifting causes the ACE Q1069R protein to be secreted in an active state, suggesting that the mutation does not affect the enzyme's catalytic properties.

Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder with a strong genetic component. Core symptoms are abnormal reciprocal social interactions, qualitative impairments in communication, and repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior with restricted interests. Candidate genes for autism include the SHANK gene family, as mutations in SHANK2 and SHANK3 have been detected in several autistic individuals. SHANK genes code for a family of scaffolding proteins located in the postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses. To test the hypothesis that a mutation in SHANK1 contributes to the symptoms of autism, we evaluated Shank1(-/-) null mutant mice for behavioral phenotypes with relevance to autism, focusing on social communication. Ultrasonic vocalizations and the deposition of scent marks appear to be two major modes of mouse communication. Our findings revealed evidence for low levels of ultrasonic vocalizations and scent marks in Shank1(-/-) mice as compared to wildtype Shank1(+/+) littermate controls. Shank1(-/-) pups emitted fewer vocalizations than Shank1(+/+) pups when isolated from mother and littermates. In adulthood, genotype affected scent marking behavior in the presence of female urinary pheromones. Adult Shank1(-/-) males deposited fewer scent marks in proximity to female urine than Shank1(+/+) males. Call emission in response to female urinary pheromones also differed between genotypes. Shank1(+/+) mice changed their calling pattern dependent on previous female interactions, while Shank1(-/-) mice were unaffected, indicating a failure of Shank1(-/-) males to learn from a social experience. The reduced levels of ultrasonic vocalizations and scent marking behavior in Shank1(-/-) mice are consistent with a phenotype relevant to social communication deficits in autism.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative pathology in which defects in proteolytic clearance of amyloid  peptide (A) likely contribute to the progressive nature of the disorder. Lysosomal proteases of the cathepsin family exhibit up-regulation in response to accumulating proteins including A(1-42). Here, the lysosomal modulator Z-Phe-Ala-diazomethylketone (PADK) was used to test whether proteolytic activity can be enhanced to reduce the accumulation events in AD mouse models expressing different levels of A pathology. Systemic PADK injections in APP(SwInd) and APPswe/PS1E9 mice caused 3- to 8-fold increases in cathepsin B protein levels and 3- to 10-fold increases in the enzyme's activity in lysosomal fractions, while neprilysin and insulin-degrading enzyme remained unchanged. Biochemical analyses indicated the modulation predominantly targeted the active mature forms of cathepsin B and markedly changed Rab proteins but not LAMP1, suggesting the involvement of enhanced trafficking. The modulated lysosomal system led to reductions in both A immunostaining as well as A(x-42) sandwich ELISA measures in APP(SwInd) mice of 10-11 months. More extensive A deposition in 20-22-month APPswe/PS1E9 mice was also reduced by PADK. Selective ELISAs found that a corresponding production of the less pathogenic A(1-38) occurs as A(1-42) levels decrease in the mouse models, indicating that PADK treatment leads to A truncation. Associated with A clearance was the elimination of behavioral and synaptic protein deficits evident in the two transgenic models. These findings indicate that pharmacologically-controlled lysosomal modulation reduces A(1-42) accumulation, possibly through intracellular truncation that also influences extracellular deposition, and in turn offsets the defects in synaptic composition and cognitive functions. The selective modulation promotes clearance at different levels of A pathology and provides proof-of-principle for small molecule therapeutic development for AD and possibly other protein accumulation disorders.
We have previously identified the scaffold protein liprin-1 as an important regulator of integrin-mediated cell motility and tumor cell invasion. Liprin-1 may interact with different proteins, and the functional significance of these interactions in the regulation of cell motility is poorly known. Here we have addressed the involvement of the liprin-1 partner GIT1 in liprin-1-mediated effects on cell spreading and migration. GIT1 depletion inhibited spreading by affecting the lamellipodia, and prevented liprin-1-enhanced spreading. Conversely inhibition of the formation of the liprin-1-GIT complex by expression of liprin-CC3 could still enhance spreading, although to a lesser extent compared to full length liprin-1. No cumulative effects were observed after depletion of both liprin-1 and GIT1, suggesting that the two proteins belong to the same signaling network in the regulation of cell spreading. Our data suggest that liprin-1 may compete with paxillin for binding to GIT1, while binding of PIX to GIT1 was unaffected by the presence of liprin-1. Interestingly, GIT and liprin-1 reciprocally regulated their subcellular localization, since liprin-1 overexpression, but not the GIT binding-defective liprin-CC3 mutant, affected the localization of endogenous GIT at peripheral and mature central focal adhesions, while the expression of a truncated, active form of GIT1 enhanced the localization of endogenous liprin-1 at the edge of spreading cells. Moreover, GIT1 was required for liprin-1-enhanced haptotatic migration, although the direct interaction between liprin-1 and GIT1 was not needed. Our findings show that the functional interaction between liprin-1 and GIT1 cooperate in the regulation of integrin-dependent cell spreading and motility on extracellular matrix. These findings and the possible competition of liprin-1 with paxillin for binding to GIT1 suggest that alternative binding of GIT1 to either liprin-1 or paxillin plays distinct roles in different phases of the protrusive activity in the cell.

In speech perception, a functional hierarchy has been proposed by recent functional neuroimaging studies: core auditory areas on the dorsal plane of superior temporal gyrus (STG) are sensitive to basic acoustic characteristics, whereas downstream regions, specifically the left superior temporal sulcus (STS) and middle temporal gyrus (MTG) ventral to Heschl's gyrus (HG) are responsive to abstract phonological features. What is unclear so far is the relationship between the dorsal and ventral processes, especially with regard to whether low-level acoustic processing is modulated by high-level phonological processing. To address the issue, we assessed sensitivity of core auditory and downstream regions to acoustic and phonological variations by using within- and across-category lexical tonal continua with equal physical intervals. We found that relative to within-category variation, across-category variation elicited stronger activation in the left middle MTG (mMTG), apparently reflecting the abstract phonological representations. At the same time, activation in the core auditory region decreased, resulting from the top-down influences of phonological processing. These results support a hierarchical organization of the ventral acoustic-phonological processing stream, which originates in the right HG/STG and projects to the left mMTG. Furthermore, our study provides direct evidence that low-level acoustic analysis is modulated by high-level phonological representations, revealing the cortical dynamics of acoustic and phonological processing in speech perception. Our findings confirm the existence of reciprocal progression projections in the auditory pathways and the roles of both feed-forward and feedback mechanisms in speech perception.
Neither the molecular basis of the pathologic tendency of neuronal circuits to generate spontaneous seizures (epileptogenicity) nor anti-epileptogenic mechanisms that maintain a seizure-free state are well understood. Here, we performed transcriptomic analysis in the intrahippocampal kainate model of temporal lobe epilepsy in rats using both Agilent and Codelink microarray platforms to characterize the epileptic processes. The experimental design allowed subtraction of the confounding effects of the lesion, identification of expression changes associated with epileptogenicity, and genes upregulated by seizures with potential homeostatic anti-epileptogenic effects. Using differential expression analysis, we identified several hundred expression changes in chronic epilepsy, including candidate genes associated with epileptogenicity such as Bdnf and Kcnj13. To analyze these data from a systems perspective, we applied weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify groups of co-expressed genes (modules) and their central (hub) genes. One such module contained genes upregulated in the epileptogenic region, including multiple epileptogenicity candidate genes, and was found to be involved the protection of glial cells against oxidative stress, implicating glial oxidative stress in epileptogenicity. Another distinct module corresponded to the effects of chronic seizures and represented changes in neuronal synaptic vesicle trafficking. We found that the network structure and connectivity of one hub gene, Sv2a, showed significant changes between normal and epileptogenic tissue, becoming more highly connected in epileptic brain. Since Sv2a is a target of the antiepileptic levetiracetam, this module may be important in controlling seizure activity. Bioinformatic analysis of this module also revealed a potential mechanism for the observed transcriptional changes via generation of longer alternatively polyadenlyated transcripts through the upregulation of the RNA binding protein HuD. In summary, combining conventional statistical methods and network analysis allowed us to interpret the differentially regulated genes from a systems perspective, yielding new insight into several biological pathways underlying homeostatic anti-epileptogenic effects and epileptogenicity.
The basic mechanisms underlying acquired generalized muscle weakness and paralysis in critically ill patients remain poorly understood and may be related to prolonged mechanical ventilation/immobilization (MV) or to other triggering factors such as sepsis, systemic corticosteroid (CS) treatment and administration of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA). The present study aims at exploring the relative importance of these factors by using a unique porcine model. Piglets were all exposed to MV together with different combinations of endotoxin-induced sepsis, CS and NMBA for five days. Peroneal motor nerve conduction velocity and amplitude of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) as well as biceps femoris muscle biopsy specimens were obtained immediately after anesthesia on the first day and at the end of the 5-day experimental period. Results showed that peroneal nerve motor conduction velocity is unaffected whereas the size of the CMAP decreases independently of the type of intervention, in all groups after 5 days. Otherwise, despite a preserved size, muscle fibre specific force (maximum force normalized to cross-sectional area) decreased dramatically for animals exposed to MV in combination with CS or/and sepsis. These results suggest that the rapid declines in CMAP amplitude and in force generation capacity are triggered by independent mechanisms with significant clinical and therapeutic implications.

Principal neurons of the lateral superior olive (LSO) compute the interaural intensity differences necessary for localizing high-frequency sounds. To perform this computation, the LSO requires precisely tuned, converging excitatory and inhibitory inputs that are driven by the two ears and that are matched for stimulus frequency. In rodents, the inhibitory inputs, which arise from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB), undergo extensive functional refinement during the first postnatal week. Similar functional refinement of the ascending excitatory pathway, which arises in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), has been assumed but has not been well studied. Using whole-cell voltage clamp in acute brainstem slices of neonatal rats, we examined developmental changes in input strength and pre- and post-synaptic properties of the VCN-LSO pathway. A key question was whether functional refinement in one of the two major input pathways might precede and then guide refinement in the opposite pathway. We find that elimination and strengthening of VCN inputs to the LSO occurs over a similar period to that seen for the ascending inhibitory (MNTB-LSO) pathway. During this period, the fractional contribution provided by NMDA receptors (NMDARs) declines while the contribution from AMPA receptors (AMPARs) increases. In the NMDAR-mediated response, GluN2B-containing NMDARs predominate in the first postnatal week and decline sharply thereafter. Finally, the progressive decrease in paired-pulse depression between birth and hearing onset allows these synapses to follow progressively higher frequencies. Our data are consistent with a model in which the excitatory and inhibitory projections to LSO are functionally refined in parallel during the first postnatal week, and they further suggest that GluN2B-containing NMDARs may mediate early refinement in the VCN-LSO pathway.

The rodent whisker system is a major model for understanding neural mechanisms for tactile sensation of surface texture (roughness). Rats discriminate surface texture using the whiskers, and several theories exist for how texture information is physically sensed by the long, moveable macrovibrissae and encoded in spiking of neurons in somatosensory cortex. However, evaluating these theories requires a psychometric curve for texture discrimination, which is lacking. Here we trained rats to discriminate rough vs. fine sandpapers and grooved vs. smooth surfaces. Rats intermixed trials at macrovibrissa contact distance (nose &gt;2 mm from surface) with trials at shorter distance (nose &lt;2 mm from surface). Macrovibrissae were required for distant contact trials, while microvibrissae and non-whisker tactile cues were used for short distance trials. A psychometric curve was measured for macrovibrissa-based sandpaper texture discrimination. Rats discriminated rough P150 from smoother P180, P280, and P400 sandpaper (100, 82, 52, and 35 m mean grit size, respectively). Use of olfactory, visual, and auditory cues was ruled out. This is the highest reported resolution for rodent texture discrimination, and constrains models of neural coding of texture information.
When faced with risky decisions, people tend to be risk averse for gains and risk seeking for losses (the reflection effect). Studies examining this risk-sensitive decision making, however, typically ask people directly what they would do in hypothetical choice scenarios. A recent flurry of studies has shown that when these risky decisions include rare outcomes, people make different choices for explicitly described probabilities than for experienced probabilistic outcomes. Specifically, rare outcomes are overweighted when described and underweighted when experienced. In two experiments, we examined risk-sensitive decision making when the risky option had two equally probable (50%) outcomes. For experience-based decisions, there was a reversal of the reflection effect with greater risk seeking for gains than for losses, as compared to description-based decisions. This fundamental difference in experienced and described choices cannot be explained by the weighting of rare events and suggests a separate subjective utility curve for experience.


Numerous studies have reported subliminal repetition and semantic priming in the visual modality. We transferred this paradigm to the auditory modality. Prime awareness was manipulated by a reduction of sound intensity level. Uncategorized prime words (according to a post-test) were followed by semantically related, unrelated, or repeated target words (presented without intensity reduction) and participants performed a lexical decision task (LDT). Participants with slower reaction times in the LDT showed semantic priming (faster reaction times for semantically related compared to unrelated targets) and negative repetition priming (slower reaction times for repeated compared to semantically related targets). This is the first report of semantic priming in the auditory modality without conscious categorization of the prime.
Repeated stressful events are known to be associated with onset of depression. Further, stress activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system by elevating plasma cortisol levels. However, little is known about the related downstream molecular pathway. In this study, by using repeated water-immersion and restraint stress (WIRS) as a stressor for mice, we attempted to elucidate the molecular pathway induced by elevated plasma corticosterone levels. We observed the following effects both, in vivo and in vitro: (1) repeated exposure to WIRS activates the 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase (PDK1)-serum glucocorticoid regulated kinase (SGK1)-N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (NDRG1)-adhesion molecule (i.e., N-cadherin, -catenin, and -catenin) stabilization pathway via an increase in plasma corticosterone levels; (2) the activation of this signaling pathway induces morphological changes in oligodendrocytes; and (3) after recovery from chronic stress, the abnormal arborization of oligodendrocytes and depression-like symptoms return to the control levels. Our data strongly suggest that these abnornalities of oligodendrocytes are possibly related to depression-like symptoms.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) based brain-computer interfaces (BCI) have been studied since the 1970s. Currently, the main focus of BCI research lies on the clinical use, which aims to provide a new communication channel to patients with motor disabilities to improve their quality of life. However, the BCI technology can also be used to improve human performance for normal healthy users. Although this application has been proposed for a long time, little progress has been made in real-world practices due to technical limits of EEG. To overcome the bottleneck of low single-user BCI performance, this study proposes a collaborative paradigm to improve overall BCI performance by integrating information from multiple users. To test the feasibility of a collaborative BCI, this study quantitatively compares the classification accuracies of collaborative and single-user BCI applied to the EEG data collected from 20 subjects in a movement-planning experiment. This study also explores three different methods for fusing and analyzing EEG data from multiple subjects: (1) Event-related potentials (ERP) averaging, (2) Feature concatenating, and (3) Voting. In a demonstration system using the Voting method, the classification accuracy of predicting movement directions (reaching left vs. reaching right) was enhanced substantially from 66% to 80%, 88%, 93%, and 95% as the numbers of subjects increased from 1 to 5, 10, 15, and 20, respectively. Furthermore, the decision of reaching direction could be made around 100-250 ms earlier than the subject's actual motor response by decoding the ERP activities arising mainly from the posterior parietal cortex (PPC), which are related to the processing of visuomotor transmission. Taken together, these results suggest that a collaborative BCI can effectively fuse brain activities of a group of people to improve the overall performance of natural human behavior.
Itch, or pruritus, is an important clinical problem whose molecular basis has yet to be understood. Recent work has begun to identify genes that contribute to detecting itch at the molecular level. Here we show that Pirt, known to play a vital part in sensing pain through modulation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel, is also necessary for proper itch sensation. Pirt(-/-) mice exhibit deficits in cellular and behavioral responses to various itch-inducing compounds, or pruritogens. Pirt contributes to both histaminergic and nonhistaminergic itch and, crucially, is involved in forms of itch that are both TRPV1-dependent and -independent. Our findings demonstrate that the function of Pirt extends beyond nociception via TRPV1 regulation to its role as a critical component in several itch signaling pathways.
Exponential random graph models (ERGMs), also known as p* models, have been utilized extensively in the social science literature to study complex networks and how their global structure depends on underlying structural components. However, the literature on their use in biological networks (especially brain networks) has remained sparse. Descriptive models based on a specific feature of the graph (clustering coefficient, degree distribution, etc.) have dominated connectivity research in neuroscience. Corresponding generative models have been developed to reproduce one of these features. However, the complexity inherent in whole-brain network data necessitates the development and use of tools that allow the systematic exploration of several features simultaneously and how they interact to form the global network architecture. ERGMs provide a statistically principled approach to the assessment of how a set of interacting local brain network features gives rise to the global structure. We illustrate the utility of ERGMs for modeling, analyzing, and simulating complex whole-brain networks with network data from normal subjects. We also provide a foundation for the selection of important local features through the implementation and assessment of three selection approaches: a traditional p-value based backward selection approach, an information criterion approach (AIC), and a graphical goodness of fit (GOF) approach. The graphical GOF approach serves as the best method given the scientific interest in being able to capture and reproduce the structure of fitted brain networks.
The disease processes underlying inherited retinal disease are complex and are not completely understood. Many of the corrective gene therapies designed to treat diseases linked to mutations in genes specifically expressed in photoreceptor cells restore function to these cells but fail to stop progression of the disease. There is growing consensus that effective treatments for these diseases will require delivery of multiple therapeutic proteins that will be selected to treat specific aspects of the disease process. The purpose of this study was to design a lentiviral transgene that reliably expresses all of the proteins it encodes and does so in a consistent manner among infected cells. We show, using both in vitro and in vivo analyses, that bicistronic lentiviral transgenes encoding two fluorescent proteins fused to a viral 2A-like cleavage peptide meet these expression criteria. To determine if this transgene design is suitable for therapeutic applications, we replaced one of the fluorescent protein genes with the gene encoding guanylate cyclase-1 (GC1) and delivered lentivirus carrying this transgene to the retinas of the GUCY1*B avian model of Leber congenital amaurosis-1 (LCA1). GUCY1*B chickens carry a null mutation in the GC1 gene that disrupts photoreceptor function and causes blindness at hatching, a phenotype that closely matches that observed in humans with LCA1. We found that treatment of these animals with the 2A lentivector encoding GC1 restored vision to these animals as evidenced by the presence of optokinetic reflexes. We conclude that 2A-like peptides, with proper optimization, can be successfully incorporated into therapeutic vectors designed to deliver multiple proteins to neural retinal. These results highlight the potential of this vector design to serve as a platform for the development of combination therapies designed to enhance or prolong the benefits of corrective gene therapies.
Hypothalamic neurons expressing neuropeptide orexins are critically involved in the control of sleep and wakefulness. Although the activity of orexin neurons is thought to be influenced by various neuronal input as well as humoral factors, the direct consequences of changes in the activity of these neurons in an intact animal are largely unknown. We therefore examined the effects of orexin neuron-specific pharmacogenetic modulation in vivo by a new method called the Designer Receptors Exclusively Activated by Designer Drugs approach (DREADD). Using this system, we successfully activated and suppressed orexin neurons as measured by Fos staining. EEG and EMG recordings suggested that excitation of orexin neurons significantly increased the amount of time spent in wakefulness and decreased both non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep times. Inhibition of orexin neurons decreased wakefulness time and increased NREM sleep time. These findings clearly show that changes in the activity of orexin neurons can alter the behavioral state of animals and also validate this novel approach for manipulating neuronal activity in awake, freely-moving animals.


Neuroimaging classification procedures between normal and pathological subjects are sparse and highly dependent of an expert's clinical criterion. Here, we aimed to investigate whether possible brain structural network differences in the shiverer mouse mutant, a relevant animal model of myelin related diseases, can reflect intrinsic individual brain properties that allow the automatic discrimination between the shiverer and normal subjects. Common structural networks properties between shiverer (C3Fe.SWV Mbp(shi)/Mbp(shi), n=6) and background control (C3HeB.FeJ, n=6) mice are estimated and compared by means of three diffusion weighted MRI (DW-MRI) fiber tractography algorithms and a graph framework. Firstly, we found that brain networks of control group are significantly more clustered, modularized, efficient and optimized than those of the shiverer group, which presented significantly increased characteristic path length. These results are in line with previous structural/functional complex brain networks analysis that have revealed topologic differences and brain network randomization associated to specific states of human brain pathology. In addition, by means of network measures spatial representations and discrimination analysis, we show that it is possible to classify with high accuracy to which group each subject belongs, providing also a probability value of being a normal or shiverer subject as an individual anatomical classifier. The obtained correct predictions (e.g., around 91.6-100%) and clear spatial subdivisions between control and shiverer mice, suggest that there might exist specific network subspaces corresponding to specific brain disorders, supporting also the point of view that complex brain network analyses constitutes promising tools in the future creation of interpretable imaging biomarkers.
Whereas the use of discrete pitch intervals is characteristic of most musical traditions, the size of the intervals and the way in which they are used is culturally specific. Here we examine the hypothesis that these differences arise because of a link between the tonal characteristics of a culture's music and its speech. We tested this idea by comparing pitch intervals in the traditional music of three tone language cultures (Chinese, Thai and Vietnamese) and three non-tone language cultures (American, French and German) with pitch intervals between voiced speech segments. Changes in pitch direction occur more frequently and pitch intervals are larger in the music of tone compared to non-tone language cultures. More frequent changes in pitch direction and larger pitch intervals are also apparent in the speech of tone compared to non-tone language cultures. These observations suggest that the different tonal preferences apparent in music across cultures are closely related to the differences in the tonal characteristics of voiced speech.

A classical question in philosophy and psychology is if the sense of one's body influences how one visually perceives the world. Several theoreticians have suggested that our own body serves as a fundamental reference in visual perception of sizes and distances, although compelling experimental evidence for this hypothesis is lacking. In contrast, modern textbooks typically explain the perception of object size and distance by the combination of information from different visual cues. Here, we describe full body illusions in which subjects experience the ownership of a doll's body (80 cm or 30 cm) and a giant's body (400 cm) and use these as tools to demonstrate that the size of one's sensed own body directly influences the perception of object size and distance. These effects were quantified in ten separate experiments with complementary verbal, questionnaire, manual, walking, and physiological measures. When participants experienced the tiny body as their own, they perceived objects to be larger and farther away, and when they experienced the large-body illusion, they perceived objects to be smaller and nearer. Importantly, despite identical retinal input, this &quot;body size effect&quot; was greater when the participants experienced a sense of ownership of the artificial bodies compared to a control condition in which ownership was disrupted. These findings are fundamentally important as they suggest a causal relationship between the representations of body space and external space. Thus, our own body size affects how we perceive the world.
A proper balance of lipid breakdown and synthesis is essential for achieving energy homeostasis as alterations in either of these processes can lead to pathological states such as obesity. The regulation of lipid metabolism is quite complex with multiple signals integrated to control overall triglyceride levels in metabolic tissues. Based upon studies demonstrating effects of the circadian clock on metabolism, we sought to determine if the central clock cells in the Drosophila brain contribute to lipid levels in the fat body, the main nutrient storage organ of the fly. Here, we show that altering the function of the Drosophila central clock neurons leads to an increase in fat body triglycerides. We also show that although triglyceride levels are not affected by age, they are increased by expression of the amyloid-beta protein in central clock neurons. The effect on lipid storage seems to be independent of circadian clock output as changes in triglycerides are not always observed in genetic manipulations that result in altered locomotor rhythms. These data demonstrate that the activity of the central clock neurons is necessary for proper lipid storage.

Early endosomes (EEs) are known to be a sorting station for internalized molecules destined for degradation, recycling, or other intracellular organelles. Segregation is an essential step in such sorting, but the molecular mechanism of this process remains to be elucidated. Here, we show that actin is required for efficient recycling and endosomal maturation by producing a motile force. Perturbation of actin dynamics by drugs induced a few enlarged EEs containing several degradative vacuoles and also interfered with their transporting ability. Actin repolymerization induced by washout of the drug caused the vacuoles to dissociate and individually translocate toward the perinuclear region. We further elucidated that cortactin, an actin-nucleating factor, was required for transporting contents from within EEs. Actin filaments regulated by cortactin may provide a motile force for efficient sorting within early endosomes. These data suggest that actin filaments coordinate with microtubules to mediate segregation in EEs.
The hippocampus plays an important role in learning and memory. Synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, short-term and long-term, is postulated to be a neural substrate of memory trace. Paired-pulse stimulation is a standard technique for evaluating a form of short-term synaptic plasticity in rodents. However, evidence is lacking for paired-pulse responses in the primate hippocampus. In the present study, we recorded paired-pulse responses in the dentate gyrus of monkeys while stimulating to the medial part of the perforant path at several inter-pulse intervals (IPIs) using low and high stimulus intensities. When the stimulus intensity was low, the first pulse produced early strong depression (at IPIs of 10-30 ms) and late slight depression (at IPIs of 100-1000 ms) of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) generated by the second pulse, interposing no depression IPIs (50-70 ms). When the stimulus intensity was high, fEPSPs generated by the second pulse were depressed by the first pulse at all IPIs except for the longest one (2000 ms). Population spikes (PSs) generated by the second pulse were completely blocked or strongly depressed at shorter IPIs (10-100 or 200 ms, respectively), while no depression or slight facilitation occurred at longer IPIs (500-2000 ms). Administration of diazepam slightly increased fEPSPs, while it decreased PSs produced by the first pulse. It also enhanced the facilitation of PSs produced by the second stimulation at longer IPIs. The present results, in comparison with previous studies using rodents, indicate that paired-pulse responses of fEPSPs in the monkey are basically similar to those of rodents, although paired-pulse responses of PSs in the monkey are more delayed than those in rodents and have a different sensitivity to diazepam.
The present study aimed at determining whether, in healthy humans, postures assumed by distal effectors affect the control of the successive grasp executed with other distal effectors. In experiments 1 and 2, participants reached different objects with their head and grasped them with their mouth, after assuming different hand postures. The postures could be implicitly associated with interactions with large or small objects. The kinematics of lip shaping during grasp varied congruently with the hand posture, i.e. it was larger or smaller when it could be associated with the grasping of large or small objects, respectively. In experiments 3 and 4, participants reached and grasped different objects with their hand, after assuming the postures of mouth aperture or closure (experiment 3) and the postures of toe extension or flexion (experiment 4). The mouth postures affected the kinematics of finger shaping during grasp, that is larger finger shaping corresponded with opened mouth and smaller finger shaping with closed mouth. In contrast, the foot postures did not influence the hand grasp kinematics. Finally, in experiment 5 participants reached-grasped different objects with their hand while pronouncing opened and closed vowels, as verified by the analysis of their vocal spectra. Open and closed vowels induced larger and smaller finger shaping, respectively. In all experiments postures of the distal effectors induced no effect, or only unspecific effects on the kinematics of the reach proximal/axial component. The data from the present study support the hypothesis that there exists a system involved in establishing interactions between movements and postures of hand and mouth. This system might have been used to transfer a repertoire of hand gestures to mouth articulation postures during language evolution and, in modern humans, it may have evolved a system controlling the interactions existing between speech and gestures.
Accumulating evidence indicates that oxidative stress plays a critical role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Our previous work has shown that 100 Hz electro-acupuncture (EA) stimulation at ZUSANLI (ST36) and SANYINJIAO (SP6) protects neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity in male C57BL/6 mice, a model of PD. In the present study we administered 100 Hz EA stimulation at the two acupoints to MPTP-lesioned mice for 12 sessions starting from the day prior to the first MPTP injection. We found that in the striatum of MPTP treated mice 100 Hz EA stimulation effectively inhibited the production of hydrogen peroxide and malonaldehyde, and increased glutathione concentration and total superoxide dismutase activity through biochemical methods. However, it decreased glutathione peroxidase activity via biochemical analysis and did not affect the level of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium in the striatum revealed by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. These data suggest that 100 Hz EA stimulation at ST36 and SP6 has antioxidative effects in the MPTP model of PD. This data, along with our previous work, indicates that 100 Hz EA stimulation at ST36 and SP6 protects the nigrostriatal system by multiple mechanisms including antioxidation and antiapoptosis, and suggests that EA stimulation is a promising therapy for treating PD.


Recent data have provided molecular evidence of high levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress in non-laboured placentas from cases of early-onset pre-eclampsia. Endoplasmic reticulum stress is intricately linked to oxidative stress, and the two often share the same aetiology. In the case of pre-eclampsia this is likely to be placental malperfusion, secondary to deficient conversion of the spiral arteries. Endoplasmic reticulum stress activates a number of signalling pathways aimed at restoring homeostasis, but if these attempts fail then the apoptotic machinery may be activated. The potential consequences for placental development and function are numerous and diverse. Inhibition of protein synthesis results in lower levels of many kinases, growth factors and regulatory proteins involved in cell cycle control, and experiments in vitro reveal that endoplasmic reticulum stress slows cell proliferation. Chronic, low levels of stress during the second and third trimesters may therefore result in a growth restricted phenotype. Higher levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress lead to activation of pro-inflammatory pathways, a feature of pre-eclampsia that may contribute to maternal endothelial cell activation. These findings emphasise the complexity of cellular responses to stress, and the need to approach these in a holistic fashion when considering therapeutic interventions.





Objective: The weight impact produced by the atypical antipsychotic olanzapine has been explored in meta-analyses focusing on patients with schizophrenia. However, outcomes identified for schizophrenia patients cannot always be generalized to patients with bipolar disorder. This study aims to quantitatively estimate the impact of olanzapine on the weight of patients with bipolar disorder.Data Sources: EMBASE, Medline, and PsycINFO were searched using the keywords olanzapine AND (bipolar OR acute mania) in conjunction with (weight gain OR weight increase) (last search: October 2010, with no restrictions on dates of publication). English language was used as a restriction.Study Selection: The search identified 110 articles for review. The inclusion criteria for the chosen studies were a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, the presence of an olanzapine monotherapy group, a comparator placebo or monotherapy group, and mean weight gain and/or incidences of weight gain data. This process identified 13 studies for inclusion.Data Extraction: The primary outcome measure was the mean weight change between olanzapine monotherapy and comparator monotherapy, reported in kilograms. Standard deviation was extracted directly from studies when possible and imputed for 3 studies. The secondary outcome measure was the reported incidences of  7% weight gain.Data Synthesis: The mean difference in weight gain was calculated for the continuous data of the primary outcome. Olanzapine monotherapy was associated with more weight gain when compared to placebo (mean difference = 2.10 kg; 95% CI, 1.16-3.05; P &lt; .001) and other bipolar monotherapy (mean difference = 1.34 kg; 95% CI, 0.95-1.72; P &lt; .001). Odds ratio analysis of the dichotomous secondary outcome also showed more weight gain with olanzapine monotherapy compared to placebo (odds ratio [OR] = 10.12; 95% CI, 1.93-53.14; P = .006) and other bipolar monotherapy (OR = 2.09; 95% CI, 1.27-3.44; P = .004).Conclusions: Currently available data suggest that olanzapine is associated with significant weight gain in bipolar patients. Issues related to side effect profiles and their impact on treatment compliance and physical health outcomes need to be considered when selecting pharmacotherapy.
Parent-offspring attachment is important for animals which have offspring that require parental care for their development. Infant attachment to the mother has been examined in macaques, but it remains poorly understood in common marmosets. Here, we examined the abilities of 14 common marmoset infants to show preference for their parents over adults from another group at the ages of 4, 10, and 15weeks. Each infant was exposed to its parent and an adult from another group in an I-shaped maze. Although 4-week-old infants did not show a significant difference between approach behaviors toward their parents and other adults, 10- and 15-week-old infants approached and stayed longer near their parents than adults from another group. These results suggest selective approach behavior develops in marmosets by the age of 10weeks.
The relationship between Alzheimer disease (AD) and prion-related encephalopathies (TSE) has been proposed by different points of view. Recently, the scientific attention has been attracted by the results proposing the possibility that PrPc, the protein whose pathologic form is responsible of TSE, can mediated the toxic effect of  amyloid (A) oligomers. The oligomers are considered the culprit of the neurodegenerative process associated to AD, although the pathogenic mechanism activated by these small aggregates remain to be elucidated. In the initial study based on the binding screening PrPc was identified as ligand /receptor of A oligomers, while long term potentiation (LTP) analysis in vitro and behavioural studies in vivo, demonstrated that the absence of PrPc abolished the damage induced by A oligomers. The high affinity binding A oligomers-PrPc has been confirmed, whereas a functional role of this association has been excluded by three different studies. We approached this issue by the direct application of A oligomers in the brain followed by the behavioural examination of memory deficits. Our data using PrP knock-out mice suggest that A 1-42 oligomers are responsible for cognitive impairment in AD but PrPc is not required for their effect. Similarly, in two other studies the LTP alterations induced by A 1-42 oligomers was not influenced by the absence of PrP. Possible explanations of these contradictory results are discussed.
It had long been one of the crucial questions in muscle physiology how glycogenolysis is regulated in connection with muscle contraction, when we found the answer to this question in the last half of the 1960s. By that time, the two principal currents of muscle physiology, namely, the metabolic flow starting from glycogen and the mechanisms of muscle contraction, had already been clarified at the molecular level thanks to our senior researchers. Thus, the final question we had to answer was how to connect these two currents. We found that low concentrations of Ca ions (10(-7)-10(-4) M) released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum for the regulation of muscle contraction simultaneously reversibly activate phosphorylase kinase, the enzyme regulating glycogenolysis. Moreover, we found that adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cyclic AMP), which is already known to activate muscle phosphorylase kinase, is not effective in the absence of such concentrations of Ca ions. Thus, cyclic AMP is not effective by itself alone and only modifies the activation process in the presence of Ca ions (at that time, cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase had not yet been identified). After a while, it turned out that our works have not only provided the solution to the above problem on muscle physiology, but have also been considered as the first report of Ca-dependent protein phosphorylation, which is one of the central problems in current cell biology. Phosphorylase kinase is the first protein kinase to phosphorylate a protein resulting in the change in the function of the phosphorylated protein, as shown by Krebs and Fischer. Our works further showed that this protein kinase is regulated in a Ca-dependent manner. Accordingly, our works introduced the concept of low concentrations of Ca ions, which were first identified as the regulatory substance of muscle contraction, to the vast field of Ca biology including signal transduction.
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are cylindrically shaped nanostructures made by sheets of graphene rolled up to form hollow tubes. Owing to their unique range of thermal, electronic, and structural properties, CNTs have been rapidly developing as a technology platform for biological and medical applications, including those designed to develop novel neuro-implantable devices. Depending on their structure, CNTs combine an incredible strength with an extreme flexibility. Further, these materials exhibit physical and chemical properties which allow them to efficiently conduit electrical current in electrochemical interfaces. CNTs can be organized in scaffolds made up of small fibers or tubes with diameters similar to those of neural processes such as axons and dendrites. Recently, CNT scaffolds have been found to promote growth, differentiation, and survival of neurons and to modify their electrophysiological properties. These features make CNTs an attractive material for the design of nano-bio hybrid systems able to govern cell-specific behaviors in cultured neuronal networks. The leading scope of this short review is to highlight how nanotube scaffolds can impact on neuronal signaling ability. In particular, we will focus on the direct and specific interactions between this synthetic nanomaterial and biological cell membranes, and on the ability of CNTs to improve interfaces developed to record or to stimulate neuronal activity. CNTs hold the potential for the development of innovative nanomaterial-based neurological implants. Therefore, it is particularly relevant to improve our knowledge on the impact on neuronal performance of interfacing nerve cells with CNTs.
Spinal cord injury is a devastating neurological trauma, often resulting in the impairment of bladder, bowel, and sexual function as well as the loss of voluntary control of muscles innervated by spinal cord segments below the lesion site. Research is ongoing into several classes of therapies to restore lost function. These include the encouragement of neural sparing and regeneration of the affected tissue, and the intervention with pharmacological and rehabilitative means to improve function. This review will focus on the application of electrical current in the spinal cord in order to reactivate extant circuitry which coordinates and controls smooth and skeletal muscle below the injury. We first present a brief historical review of intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) focusing on its use for restoring bladder function after spinal cord injury as well as its utilization as a research tool for mapping spinal cord circuits that coordinate movements. We then present a review of our own results related to the use of ISMS for restoring standing and walking movements after spinal cord injury. We discuss the mechanisms of action of ISMS and how they relate to observed functional outcomes in animal models. These include the activation of fibers-in-passage which lead to the transsynaptic spread of activation through the spinal cord and the ability of ISMS to produce fatigue-resistant, weight-bearing movements. We present our thoughts on the clinical potential for ISMS with regard to implantation techniques, stability, and damage induced by mechanical and electrical factors. We conclude by suggesting improvements in materials and techniques that are needed in preparation for a clinical proof-of-principle and review our current attempts to achieve these.
The design of control systems for limb prostheses seems likely to benefit from an understanding of how sensorimotor integration is achieved in the intact system. Traditional BMIs guess what movement parameters are encoded by brain activity and then decode them to drive prostheses directly. Modeling the known structure and emergent properties of the biological decoder itself is likely to be more effective in bridging from normal brain activity to functionally useful limb movement. In this study, we have extended a model of spinal circuitry (termed SLR for spinal-like regulator; see Raphael, G., Tsianos, G. A., &amp; Loeb G. E. 2010, Spinal-like regulator facilitates control of a two-degree-of-freedom wrist. The Journal of Neuroscience, 30(28), 9431-9444.) to a planar elbow-shoulder system to investigate how the spinal cord contributes to the control of a musculoskeletal system with redundant and multiarticular musculature and interaction (Coriolis) torques, which are common control problems for multisegment linkages throughout the body. The SLR consists of a realistic set of interneuronal pathways (monosynaptic Ia-excitatory, reciprocal Ia-inhibitory, Renshaw inhibitory, Ib-inhibitory, and propriospinal) that are driven by unmodulated step commands with learned amplitudes. We simulated the response of a planar arm to a brief, oblique impulse at the hand and investigated the role of cocontraction in learning to resist it. Training the SLR without cocontraction led to generally poor performance that was significantly worse than training with cocontraction. Further, removing cocontraction from the converged solutions and retraining the system achieved better performance than the SLR responses without cocontraction. Cocontraction appears to reshape the solution space, virtually eliminating the probability of entrapment in poor local minima. The local minima that are entered during learning with cocontraction are favorable starting points for learning to perform the task when cocontraction is abruptly removed. Given the control system's ability to learn effectively and rapidly, we hypothesize that it will generalize more readily to the wider range of tasks that subjects must learn to perform, as opposed to BMIs mapped to outputs of the musculoskeletal system.
Many studies have demonstrated the ability of chronically implanted multielectrode arrays (MEAs) to extract information from the motor cortex of both humans and nonhuman primates. Similarly, many studies have shown the ability of intracortical microstimulation to impart information to the brain via a single or a few electrodes acutely implanted in sensory cortex of nonhuman primates, but relatively few microstimulation studies characterizing chronically implanted MEAs have been performed. Additionally, device and tissue damage have been reported at the levels of microstimulation used in these studies. Whether the damage resulting from microstimulation impairs the ability of MEAs to chronically produce physiological effects, however, has not been directly tested. In this study, we examined the functional consequences of multiple months of periodic microstimulation via chronically implanted MEAs at levels capable of evoking physiological responses, that is, electromyogram (EMG) activity. The functionality of the MEA and neural tissue was determined by measuring impedances, the ability of microstimulation to evoke EMG responses, and the recording of action potentials. We found that impedances and the number of recorded action potentials followed the previously reported trend of decreasing over time in both animals that received microstimulation and those which did not receive microstimulation. Despite these trends, the ability to evoke EMG responses and record action potentials was retained throughout the study. The results of this study suggest that intracortical microstimulation via MEAs did not cause functional failure, suggesting that MEA-based microstimulation is ready to transition into subchronic (&lt; 30 days) human trials to determine whether complex spatiotemporal sensory percepts can be evoked by patterned microstimulation.
The Gttingen minipig has been established as a translational research animal for neurological and neurosurgical disorders. This animal has a large gyrencephalic brain suited for examination at sufficient resolution with conventional clinical scanning modalities. The large brain, further, allows use of standard neurosurgical techniques and can accommodate clinical neuromodulatory devises such as deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes and encapsulated cell biodelivery devices making the animal ideal for basic scientific studies on neuromodulation mechanisms and preclinical tests of new neuromodulation technology for human use. The use of the Gttingen minipig is economical and does not have the concerns of the public associated with the experimental use of primates, cats, and dogs, thus providing a cost-effective research model for translation of rodent data before clinical trials are initiated.
Chronic neural interfaces that are both structurally and functionally stable inside the brain over long time periods and that have minimal effects on the physiological conditions of the neural tissue to be studied hold great promise to become invaluable research and clinical tool in the near future. In this chapter, I will briefly review the state of the art of neural interfaces and the concepts behind our recent research and development of ultrathin multichannel electrodes.
Spontaneous brain activity across many time scales influences sensory perception and human cognitive performance. Empirical insight into the underlying systems-level mechanisms has, however, remained fragmented. We review here recent studies on how wideband scale-free and scale-specific neuronal activity fluctuations together bias sensory processing and perceptual performance. We posit that these fluctuations constitute the neurophysiological foundation for both the trial-to-trial behavioral variability and the scaling laws governing psychophysical performance.
Total sleep deprivation in healthy subjects has a profound effect on the performance on tasks measuring sustained attention or vigilance. We here report how a selective disruption of deep sleep only, that is, selective slow-wave activity (SWA) reduction, affects the performance of healthy well-sleeping subjects on several tasks: a &quot;simple&quot; and a &quot;complex&quot; vigilance task, a declarative learning task, and an implicit learning task despite unchanged duration of sleep. We used automated electroencephalogram (EEG) dependent acoustic feedback aimed at selective interference with-and reduction of-SWA. In a within-subject repeated measures crossover design, performance on the tasks was assessed in 13 elderly adults without sleep complaints after either SWA-reduction or after normal sleep. The number of vigilance lapses increased as a result of SWA reduction, irrespective of the type of vigilance task. Recognition on the declarative memory task was also affected by SWA reduction, associated with a decreased activation of the right hippocampus on encoding (measured with fMRI) suggesting a weaker memory trace. SWA reduction, however, did not affect reaction time on either of the vigilance tasks or implicit memory task performance. These findings suggest a specific role of slow oscillations in the subsequent daytime ability to maintain sustained attention and to encode novel declarative information but not to maintain response speed or to build implicit memories. Of particular interest is that selective SWA reduction can mimic some of the effects of total sleep deprivation, while not affecting sleep duration.
In a variety of mammalian species, sleep amounts are highest during developmental periods of rapid brain development and synaptic plasticity than at any other time in life [Frank, M. G. &amp; Heller, H. C. (1997a). Development of REM and slow wave sleep in the rat. American Journal of Physiology, 272, R1792-R1799; Jouvet-Mounier, D., Astic, L., &amp; Lacote, D. (1970). Ontogenesis of the states of sleep in rat, cat and guinea pig during the first postnatal month. Developmental Psychobiology, 2, 216-239; Roffwarg, H. P., Muzio, J. N., &amp; Dement, W. C. (1966). Ontogenetic development of the human sleep-dream cycle. Science, 604-619]. Many of the mechanisms governing developmental plasticity also mediate plasticity in the adult brain. Therefore, studying the role of sleep in developmental plasticity may provide insights more generally into sleep function across the lifespan. In this chapter, I review the evidence that supports a critical role for sleep in developmental brain plasticity. I begin with an overview of past studies that support a role for sleep in general brain maturation. This is followed by more recent findings in the developing visual cortex that more specifically address a possible role for sleep in cortical plasticity.
The formation of memory and extraction of knowledge from it is the basis of intelligence. It is believed that, during slow-wave sleep, the brain reorganizes its connectivity matrix so as to store new information optimally. As the probability of direct synaptic connection between arbitrarily chosen neurons in the cortex is extremely low (on the order of 10(- 6)), a combination of modular and hierarchical organization appears to be necessary to enable rapid association of arbitrary items. During waking, an &quot;index&quot; of the neural pattern in lower order cortical modules may be created and stored in the highest order association cortex, the hippocampus, and broadcast back to the relevant cortical modules, where it is stored with the local data. In this manner, the pattern can be spontaneously reactivated and reinstated in all modules to enable the establishment of crossmodular connections, and replay of such patterns of neural activity or &quot;phase sequences&quot; has been observed in hippocampus and neocortex. In prefrontal cortex, the playback of &quot;phase sequences&quot; is associated with periods of intense upstate/downstate transitions and can be accelerated five- to eightfold relative to the waking state. The playback speed declines over time as does the strength of the replay, which is consistent with a simple decay of an asymmetric component of the synaptic weight matrix induced during the experience itself. Since the hippocampal events associated with memory reactivation (sharp-wave ripple events) tend to be correlated with up transitions in the neocortex, hippocampus may coordinate reactivation in neocortex, at least under some conditions.
In the absence of external stimuli, the mammalian brain continues to display a rich variety of spontaneous activity. Such activity is often highly stereotypical, is invariably rhythmic, and can occur with periodicities ranging from a few milliseconds to several minutes. Recently, there has been a particular resurgence of interest in fluctuations in brain activity occurring at &lt; 0.1 Hz, commonly referred to as very slow or infraslow oscillations (ISOs). Whilst this is primarily due to the emergence of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as a technique which has revolutionized the study of human brain dynamics, it is also a consequence of the application of full band electroencephalography (fbEEG). Despite these technical advances, the precise mechanisms which lead to ISOs in the brain remain unclear. In a host of animal studies, one brain region that consistently shows oscillations at &lt; 0.1 Hz is the thalamus. Importantly, similar oscillations can also be observed in slices of isolated thalamic relay nuclei maintained in vitro. Here, we discuss the nature and mechanisms of these oscillations, paying particular attention to a potential role for astrocytes in their genesis. We also highlight the relationship between this activity and ongoing local network oscillations in the alpha (; ~8-13 Hz) band, drawing clear parallels with observations made in vivo. Last, we consider the relevance of these thalamic ISOs to the pathological activity that occurs in certain types of epilepsy.
The most important quest of cognitive neuroscience may be to unravel the mechanisms by which the brain selects, links, consolidates, and integrates new information into its neuronal network, while preventing saturation to occur. During the past decade, neuroscientists working within several disciplines have observed an important involvement of the specific types of brain oscillations that occur during sleep--the cortical slow oscillations; during the resting state--the fMRI resting state networks including the default-mode network (DMN); and during task performance--the performance modulations that link as well to modulations in electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography frequency content. Understanding the role of these slow oscillations thus appears to be essential for our fundamental understanding of brain function. Brain activity is characterized by oscillations occurring in spike frequency, field potentials or blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging signals. Environmental stimuli, reaching the brain through our senses, activate or inactivate neuronal populations and modulate ongoing activity. The effect they sort is to a large extent determined by the momentary state of the slow endogenous oscillations of the brain. In the absence of sensory input, as is the case during rest or sleep, brain activity does not cease. Rather, its oscillations continue and change with respect to their dominant frequencies and coupling topography. This chapter briefly introduces the topics that will be addressed in this dedicated volume of Progress in Brain Research on slow oscillations and sets the stage for excellent papers discussing their molecular, cellular, network physiological and cognitive performance aspects. Getting to know about slow oscillations is essential for our understanding of plasticity, memory, brain structure from synapse to DMN, cognition, consciousness, and ultimately for our understanding of the mechanisms and functions of sleep and vigilance.
The past decade of neuroscience research has provided considerable evidence that the adult brain can undergo substantial reorganization following injury. For example, following an ischemic lesion, such as occurs following a stroke, there is a cascade of molecular, genetic, physiological and anatomical events that allows the remaining structures in the brain to reorganize. Often, these events are associated with recovery, suggesting that they contribute to it. Indeed, the term plasticity in stroke research has had a positive connotation historically. But more recently, efforts have been made to differentiate beneficial from detrimental changes. These notions are timely now that neurorehabilitative research is developing novel treatments to modulate, increase, or inhibit plasticity in targeted brain regions. We will review basic principles of plasticity and some of the new and exciting approaches that are currently being investigated to shape plasticity following injury in the central nervous system.
Stroke survivors with hemiparesis and spinal cord injury (SCI) survivors with tetraplegia find it difficult or impossible to perform many activities of daily life. There is growing evidence that intensive exercise therapy, especially when supplemented with functional electrical stimulation (FES), can improve upper extremity function, but delivering the treatment can be costly, particularly after recipients leave rehabilitation facilities. Recently, there has been a growing level of interest among researchers and healthcare policymakers to deliver upper extremity treatments to people in their homes using in-home teletherapy (IHT). The few studies that have been carried out so far have encountered a variety of logistical and technical problems, not least the difficulty of conducting properly controlled and blinded protocols that satisfy the requirements of high-level evidence-based research. In most cases, the equipment and communications technology were not designed for individuals with upper extremity disability. It is clear that exercise therapy combined with interventions such as FES, supervised over the Internet, will soon be adopted worldwide in one form or another. Therefore it is timely that researchers, clinicians, and healthcare planners interested in assessing IHT be aware of the pros and cons of the new technology and the factors involved in designing appropriate studies of it. It is crucial to understand the technical barriers, the role of telesupervisors, the motor improvements that participants can reasonably expect and the process of optimizing IHT-exercise therapy protocols to maximize the benefits of the emerging technology.
In this chapter, we discuss the neurophysiological basis of how to provide sensory feedback to users with an upper limb prosthesis and discuss some of the theoretical issues that need to be considered when directly stimulating neurons in the somatosensory system. We focus on technologies that are currently available and discuss approaches that are most likely to succeed in providing natural perception from the artificial hand to the user. First, we discuss the advantages and disadvantages of providing feedback by stimulating directly the remaining afferents that originally innervated the arm and hand. In particular, we pay close attention to the normal functional roles that the peripheral afferents play in perception. What are the consequences and implications of stimulating these afferents? We then discuss whether it is reasonable to stimulate neurons in the ascending pathways that carry the information from the afferents to the cortex or directly in neurons in the primary somatosensory cortex. We show that for some modalities there are advantages for stimulating in the spinal cord, while for others it is advantageous to stimulate directly in the somatosensory cortex. Finally, we discuss results from a current experiment in which we used electrical stimuli in primary somatosensory cortex to restore the percept of the intensity of a mechanical probe indented into the hand. The results suggest that the simple percept of stimulus intensity can be provided to the animal from a single finger using four electrodes. We propose that significantly more electrodes will be needed to reproduce more complex aspects of tactile perception.
Vision plays a central role in how we represent and interact with the world around us. Roughly, one-third of the cortical surface in primates is involved in visual processes. The loss of vision, either at birth or later in life, must therefore have profound consequences on brain organization and on the way the world is perceived and acted upon. In this chapter, we formulate a number of critical questions. Do blind individuals indeed develop supra-normal capacities for the remaining senses in order to compensate for their loss of vision? Do brains from sighted and blind individuals differ, and how? How does the brain of someone who has never had any visual perception form an image of the external world? We discuss findings from animal research as well from recent psychophysical and functional brain imaging studies in sighted and blind individuals that shed some new light on the answers to these questions.
Although multisensory integration has been well modeled at the behavioral level, the link between these behavioral models and the underlying neural circuits is still not clear. This gap is even greater for the problem of sensory integration during movement planning and execution. The difficulty lies in applying simple models of sensory integration to the complex computations that are required for movement control and to the large networks of brain areas that perform these computations. Here I review psychophysical, computational, and physiological work on multisensory integration during movement planning, with an emphasis on goal-directed reaching. I argue that sensory transformations must play a central role in any modeling effort. In particular, the statistical properties of these transformations factor heavily into the way in which downstream signals are combined. As a result, our models of optimal integration are only expected to apply &quot;locally,&quot; that is, independently for each brain area. I suggest that local optimality can be reconciled with globally optimal behavior if one views the collection of parietal sensorimotor areas not as a set of task-specific domains, but rather as a palette of complex, sensorimotor representations that are flexibly combined to drive downstream activity and behavior.
Healthy aging is characterized by a diminished quality of sleep with decreased sleep duration and increased time awake after sleep onset. Older adults awaken more frequently and tend to awaken less from rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and more from non-REM (nREM) sleep than young adults. Sleep architecture also begins changing in middle age leading to a dramatic decrease in the deepest stage of nREM-slow wave sleep (SWS)-as aging progresses. Other less marked nREM changes include reduced numbers of sleep spindles and K-complexes. In contrast, the amount of REM diminishes only slightly. Both circadian and homeostatic sleep-regulatory processes are affected by aging. Circadian rhythms of temperature, melatonin, and cortisol are phase advanced and their amplitude diminished. An increased number of nocturnal awakenings and diminished daytime sleepiness suggest diminished homeostatic sleep pressure. A variety of endocrine and neuromodulatory changes (e.g., reduced growth hormone and dopamine levels) also accompany healthy aging. Healthy aging is characterized by declines in working memory and new episodic memory performance with relative sparing of semantic memory, recognition memory, and priming. Memory systems impacted by aging are associated with volumetric and functional changes in fronto-striatal circuits along with more limited changes in medial temporal structures (in which larger aging-related changes suggest neuropathology). Cross-sectional studies generally associate poorer sleep quality with poorer neuropsychological functioning. However, paradoxically, older adults appear to be more resistant to the cognitive effects of sleep deprivation, restriction, and fragmentation than younger adults. A new and expanding field examines the interaction between aging and sleep-dependent memory consolidation. Among forms of learning displaying prominent sleep-dependent consolidation in young adults, motor-sequence learning displays loss of sleep-dependent consolidation with aging whereas sleep-dependent consolidation of verbal declarative memory appears spared. Findings suggest that improving sleep through behavioral or pharmacological treatments may enhance cognition and performance in older adults.
Human sensorimotor control has been predominantly studied using fixed tasks performed under laboratory conditions. This approach has greatly advanced our understanding of the mechanisms that integrate sensory information and generate motor commands during voluntary movement. However, experimental tasks necessarily restrict the range of behaviors that are studied. Moreover, the processes studied in the laboratory may not be the same processes that subjects call upon during their everyday lives. Naturalistic approaches thus provide an important adjunct to traditional laboratory-based studies. For example, wearable self-contained tracking systems can allow subjects to be monitored outside the laboratory, where they engage spontaneously in natural everyday behavior. Similarly, advances in virtual reality technology allow laboratory-based tasks to be made more naturalistic. Here, we review naturalistic approaches, including perspectives from psychology and visual neuroscience, as well as studies and technological advances in the field of sensorimotor control.
A very important outcome of reduced sleep is accidents. The present chapter will attempt to bring together some of the present knowledge in this area. We will focus on the driving situation, for which the evidence of the link between sleep loss and accidents is quite well established, but we will also bring up working life in general where evidence is more sparse. It should be emphasized that reduced sleep as a cause of accidents implies that the mediating factor is sleepiness (or fatigue). This link is discussed elsewhere in this volume, but here we will bring in sleepiness (subjective or physiological) as an explanatory factor of accidents. Another central observation is that many real life accident studies do not link accidents to reduced sleep, but infer reduced sleep and/or sleepiness from the context, like, for example, from work schedules, life styles, or sleep pathology. Reduced sleep is mainly due to suboptimal work schedules (or to a suboptimal life style) or to sleep pathology. We have divided the present chapter into two areas.
Information on the neural circuits underpinning adult attention has been heavily informed by the impact of distinct brain lesions on attentional processes. In a similar fashion, the genetics, molecular, and systems neuroscience of attention can be informed by the impact of developmental disorders of known genetic origin on attentional processes. Here, we focus on three developmental disorders of known genetic origin (Williams syndrome, Down syndrome, and fragile X syndrome) to appraise key findings to date, new developments, and their implications for the neurocognitive development of attention. This growing body of knowledge suggests that attention should be understood as a multicomponential construct whose component processes follow distinct but dynamically interacting developmental trajectories. Further, attentional processes act as critical gateways to further processing, memory, and learning, and they are by converse influenced by other developing skills. In turn, these interactions at the cognitive level emphasize the need to study developing neural circuits involved in attentional control in terms of how their coordinated operations may be modified over time by neural disorders, rather than construing them as isolated cortical or subcortical &quot;modules for attention.&quot;
During the perinatal period, the nervous system is very vulnerable to insult. At this time, the brain undergoes fast and complex maturational processes such as synaptogenesis, arborization, and apoptosis, and the response to the insult is highly dependent on its exact timing. There is evidence that some of the neuroplastic mechanisms adopted by the young brain after damage are unavailable at a later stage of maturation. This applies, for example, to the reorganization of language, the sensorimotor system, or the visual system. Expanding our knowledge on these mechanisms could help the development of early therapeutic interventions aimed at supporting and enhancing functional reorganization at a time of greatest potential brain plasticity.
The production of genotypic and phenotypic diversity (differentiation) is the final outcome of both development and evolution, of nervous systems and of their components. Cortical axons, in particular, differentiate into a variety of phenotypes which are responsible for computational transformations of messages exchanged among neurons. One aspect of this differentiation concerns axon diameters whose diversity in development, but also within and across species, is enhanced by the addition of a relatively small proportion of thicker axons to some axonal pathways. This, combined with differences in the length of pathways and in brain volumes, has rescaled and expanded the temporal range of interneuronal communication. In both development and evolution, this and other aspects of axonal phenotypes, namely the structure and distribution of axonal arbors, differentiate by the combined action of cell intrinsic (genetic) variation, overproduction, and selection by the environment.
For years, the view that the human cognitive system is as a Swiss army knife with innately specified functional modules that come online one by one or can be impaired independently of other modules, has dominated cognitive science. In this chapter, we start out by questioning this view and argue it needs to be replaced by a dynamic neuroconstructivist approach in which genes, brain, behavior, and environment interact multidirectionally throughout development. Using examples from the recent literature, we then highlight how a static modular view of the brain remains deeply ingrained in (1) behavioral, (2) neuroimaging, and (3) genetics research on typical and atypical cognitive development. Finally, we discuss future contributions of the neuroconstructivist approach to developmental research in particular, and cognitive neuroscience in general.
This Fest-schrift honors three outstanding scientists, Serge Rossignol, James Lund, and Jack Feldman, who have pioneered research on three complex motor systems underlying locomotion, mastication, and respiration. In this brief chapter, I highlight some of their main findings, while I also include some reminiscences of my interaction with them over more than 30 years.
We established that hyperreflexia is delayed after spinal transection in the adult rat and that passive exercise could normalize low frequency-dependent depression of the H-reflex. We were also able to show that such passive exercise will normalize hyperreflexia in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI). Recent results demonstrate that spinal transection results in changes in the neuronal gap junction protein connexin 36 below the level of the lesion. Moreover, a drug known to increase electrical coupling was found to normalize hyperreflexia in the absence of passive exercise, suggesting that changes in electrical coupling may be involved in hyperreflexia. We also present results showing that a measure of spasticity, the stretch reflex, is rendered abnormal by transection and normalized by the same drug. These data suggest that electrical coupling may be dysregulated in SCI, leading to some of the symptoms observed. A novel therapy for hyperreflexia and spasticity may require modulation of electrical coupling.
The control of locomotion is a complex dynamic task solved with apparent ease by our body. How this is accomplished still remains an intriguing mystery. This chapter first describes classical and recent findings relevant to understanding the complexity of the question on the verge of several fields of neurophysiology, biomechanics, and computational neuroscience. Then, control of locomotion is analyzed with numerical simulations to reveal some basic characteristics responsible for modulation of the locomotor rhythm and high-level control of steering in the whole animal. In this study, the concept of a central pattern generator (CPG) for controlling locomotor rhythm first proposed by Brown was implemented in a &quot;simple&quot; model with bilateral half-center oscillators consisting of reciprocally organized integrators. The parameters of the CPG were determined by the process of optimization of its phase-duration characteristic that satisfies biomechanical requirements of the overground locomotion. The general finding of this study is that the modality of the control signal that drives CPGs for each limb corresponds to the desired speed of forward progression. This supports the idea that the descending and sensory feedback inputs to the spinal CPG are combined to produce a high-level control signal that sets forward velocity. The same mechanism may be responsible for the control of steering by generating a differential input of speed commands to different limbs.
Mental retardation is a common form of cognitive impairment affecting approximately 3% of the population in industrialized countries. The mental retardation syndrome incorporates a highly diverse group of mental disorders characterized by the combination of cognitive impairment and defective adaptive behavior. The genetic basis of the disease is strongly supported by identification of the genetic lesions associated with impaired cognition, learning, and social adaptation in many mental retardation syndromes. Several of the impaired genes encode epigenetic regulators of gene expression. These regulators exert their function through genome-wide posttranslational modification of histones or by mediating and/or recognizing DNA methylation. In this chapter, we review the most recent advances in the field of epigenetic mechanisms of mental retardation. In particular, we focus on animal models of the human diseases and the mechanism of transcriptional deregulation associated with changes in the cell epigenome.
Apolipoprotein (apo) E has a storied history as a lipid transport protein. The integral association between cholesterol homeostasis and lipoprotein clearance from circulation are intimately related to apoE's function as a ligand for cell-surface receptors of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family. The receptor binding properties of apoE are strongly influenced by isoform specific amino acid differences as well as the lipidation state of the protein. As understanding of apoE as a structural component of circulating plasma lipoproteins has evolved, exciting developments in neurobiology have revitalized interest in apoE. The strong and enduring correlation between the apoE4 isoform and age of onset and increased risk of Alzheimer's disease has catapulted apoE to the forefront of neurobiology. Using genetic tools generated for study of apoE lipoprotein metabolism, transgenic &quot;knock-in&quot; and gene-disrupted mice are now favored models for study of its role in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. Key structural knowledge of apoE and isoform-specific differences is driving research activity designed to elucidate how a single amino acid change can manifest such profoundly significant pathological consequences. This review describes apoE through a lens of structure-based knowledge that leads to hypotheses that attempt to explain the functions of apoE and isoform-specific effects relating to disease mechanism.
Nanomedicine seeks to manufacture drugs and other biologically relevant molecules that are packaged into nanoscale systems for improved delivery. This includes known drugs, proteins, enzymes, and antibodies that have limited clinical efficacy based on delivery, circulating half-lives, or toxicity profiles. The &lt;100 nm nanoscale physical properties afford them a unique biologic potential for biomedical applications. Hence they are attractive systems for treatment of cancer, heart and lung, blood, inflammatory, and infectious diseases. Proposed clinical applications include tissue regeneration, cochlear and retinal implants, cartilage and joint repair, skin regeneration, antimicrobial therapy, correction of metabolic disorders, and targeted drug delivery to diseased sites including the central nervous system. The potential for cell and immune side effects has necessitated new methods for determining formulation toxicities. To realize the potential of nanomedicine from the bench to the patient bedside, our laboratories have embarked on developing cell-based carriage of drug nanoparticles to improve clinical outcomes in infectious and degenerative diseases. The past half decade has seen the development and use of cells of mononuclear phagocyte lineage, including dendritic cells, monocytes, and macrophages, as Trojan horses for carriage of anti-inflammatory and anti-infective medicines. The promise of this new technology and the perils in translating it for clinical use are developed and discussed in this chapter.
Drug addiction, a chronic relapsing disorder, is a serious public health problem around the world. A growing body of preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that mammalian brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), the heterogeneous family of ion channels, play a pivotal role in drug addiction, including nicotine and alcohol dependence. As a result, there is an increasing interest in developing nAChR-based therapies for the treatment of addictive disorders. The current review summarizes the important preclinical and clinical data, demonstrating the ability of nAChR ligands to modulate nicotine and alcohol-induced biobehavioral and neurochemical changes in laboratory animals and humans. Recent studies suggest that partial agonists and antagonists at nAChRs have therapeutic potential for the management of nicotine and alcohol dependence. The complexity of nAChRs and their regulation for the development of nAChR-based drug candidates as novel pharmacotherapy for other addictive disorders will also be discussed. Taken together, this review will provide new insights into nAChR-based compounds and offer innovative translational strategies for combating drug addictive disorders.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that is characterized histopathologically by the presence of plaques, mainly composed of Abeta amyloid and the tangles, mainly composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. To date, there is no treatment that can reverse the disease, and all the current therapeutics is directed to cope with the symptoms of the disease. Here we describe the efforts dedicated to attack the plaques and, in more detail, the process of neurofibrillary degeneration, linked to the presence of the hyperphosphorylated microtubule associated protein tau. We have identified the different putative targets for therapeutics and the current knowledge on them.
In the present article the putative role of environmental factors in schizophrenia is reviewed and synthesized. Accumulating evidence from recent studies suggests that environmental exposures may play a more significant role in the etiopathogenesis of this disorder than previously thought. This expanding knowledge base is largely a consequence of refinements in the methodology of epidemiologic studies, including birth cohort investigations, and in preclinical research that has been inspired by the evolving literature on animal models of environmental exposures. This paper is divided into four sections. In the first, the descriptive epidemiology of schizophrenia is reviewed. This includes general studies on incidence, prevalence, and differences in these measures by urban-rural, neighborhood, migrant, and season of birth status, as well as time trends. In the second section, we discuss the contribution of environmental risk factors acting during fetal and perinatal life; these include infections [e.g. rubella, influenza, Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii), herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2)], nutritional deficiencies (e.g., famine, folic acid, iron, vitamin D), paternal age, fetal/neonatal hypoxic and other obstetric insults and complications, maternal stress and other exposures [e.g. lead, rhesus (Rh) incompatibility, maternal stress]. Other putative neurodevelopmental determinants, including cannabis, socioeconomic status, trauma, and infections during childhood and adolescence are also covered. In the third section, these findings are synthesized and their implications for prevention and uncovering biological mechanisms, including oxidative stress, apoptosis, and inflammation, are discussed. Animal models, including maternal immune activation, have yielded evidence suggesting that these exposures cause brain and behavioral phenotypes that are analogous to findings observed in patients with schizophrenia. In the final section, future studies including new, larger, and more rigorous epidemiologic investigations, and research on translational and clinical neuroscience, gene-environment interactions, epigenetics, developmental trajectories and windows of vulnerability, are elaborated upon. These studies are aimed at confirming observed risk factors, identifying new environmental exposures, elucidating developmental mechanisms, and shedding further light on genes and exposures that may not be identified in the absence of these integrated approaches. The study of environmental factors in schizophrenia may have important implications for the identification of causes and prevention of this disorder, and offers the potential to complement, and refine, existing efforts on explanatory neurodevelopmental models.
Multiple lines of evidence in schizophrenia, from brain imaging, studies in postmortem brains, and genetic association studies, have implicated oligodendrocyte and myelin dysfunction in this disease. Recent studies suggest that oligodendrocyte and myelin dysfunction leads to changes in synaptic formation and function, which could lead to cognitive dysfunction, a core symptom of schizophrenia. Furthermore, there is accumulating data linking oligodendrocyte and myelin dysfunction with dopamine and glutamate abnormalities, both of which are found in schizophrenia. These findings implicate oligodendrocyte and myelin dysfunction as a primary change in schizophrenia, not only as secondary consequences of the illness or treatment. Strategies targeting oligodendrocyte and myelin abnormalities could therefore provide therapeutic opportunities for patients suffering from schizophrenia.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Due to its high prevalence, MS is the leading cause of non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults in the United States and Europe. The clinical disease course is variable and starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life. This transforms into a disease of continuous and irreversible neurological decline by the sixth or seventh decade. Available therapies for MS patients have little benefit for patients who enter this irreversible phase of the disease. It is well established that irreversible loss of axons and neurons are the major cause of the irreversible and progressive neurological decline that most MS patients endure. This review discusses the etiology, mechanisms and progress made in determining the cause of axonal and neuronal loss in MS.
Chronic occipital and suboccipital headache is a common symptom in patients with Chiari I malformation (CMI). These headaches may persist despite appropriate surgical treatment of the underlying pathology via suboccipital decompression, duraplasty and related procedures. Occipital stimulation has been shown to be effective in the treatment of a variety of occipital headache/pain syndromes. We present our series of 18 patients with CMI and persistent occipital headaches who underwent occipital neurostimulator trials and, following successful trials, permanent stimulator placement. Seventy-two percent (13/18) of patients had a successful stimulator trial and proceeded to permanent implant. Of those implanted, 11/13 (85%) reported continued pain relief at a mean follow-up of 23 months. Device-related complications requiring additional surgeries occurred in 31% of patients. Occipital neuromodulation may provide significant long-term pain relief in selected CMI patients with persistent occipital pain. Larger and longer-term studies are needed to further define appropriate patient selection criteria as well as to refine the surgical technique to minimize device-related complications.
Peripheral subcutaneous stimulation has been utilized for a variety of painful conditions affecting the abdominal wall, including sequelae of hernia repair, painful surgical scars, ilio-inguinal neuritis. It has also occasionally been shown to be effective in patients with intractable abdominal visceral pain. Since this is a very recent modality, no large series or prospective studies exist. The results, however, are promising and certainly warrant further investigation.
The article is the first part of a two-part-study which attempts to introduce a new interdisciplinary trend called neuropsychoanalysis. Neuropsychoanalysis aspires to integrate the knowledge of psychoanalysis, neuroscience, psychology and psychiatry. The article introduces the definition and scientific connections of neuropsychoanalysis, the role of the neuroscientific knowledge of the 19th century in the formation of psychoanalytic thought, then looks over the changes in the history of psychoanalysis and cognitive sciences which resulted in the approximation of the two fields and the birth of neuropsychoanalysis.
Studies obtaining implicit measures of associations in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed., Text Revision; American Psychiatric Association, 2000) Axis I psychopathology are organized into three categories: (a) studies comparing groups having a disorder with controls, (b) experimental validity studies, and (c) incremental and predictive validity studies. In the first category, implicit measures of disorder-relevant associations were consistent with explicit beliefs for some disorders (e.g., specific phobia), but for other disorders evidence was either mixed (e.g., panic disorder) or inconsistent with explicit beliefs (e.g., pain disorder). For substance use disorders and overeating, expected positive and unexpected negative associations with craved substances were found consistently. Contrary to expectation, implicit measures of self-esteem were consistently positive for patients with depressive disorder, social phobia, and body dysmorphic disorder. In the second category, short-term manipulations of disorder-relevant states generally affected implicit measures as expected. Therapeutic interventions affected implicit measures for one type of specific phobia, social phobia, and panic disorder, but not for alcohol use disorders or obesity. In the third category, implicit measures had predictive value for certain psychopathological behaviors, sometimes moderated by the availability of cognitive resources (e.g., for alcohol and food, only when cognitive resources were limited). The strengths of implicit measures include (a) converging evidence for dysfunctional beliefs regarding certain disorders and consistent new insights for other disorders and (b) prediction of some psychopathological behaviors that explicit measures cannot explain. Weaknesses include (a) that findings were inconsistent for some disorders, raising doubts about the validity of the measures, and (b) that understanding of the concept &quot;implicit&quot; is incomplete.
Kievit et al.'s target paper exemplifies a trend in recent years in psychology and neuroscience to focus on internal mental and neural processes without integrating actual behavior. We discuss the theoretical status of behavior in the context of their model, and present an extension of the model that explicitly includes behavior. Several theoretical and methodological issues relevant to integrating behavior into the model are considered, particularly the distinction between behavior as measured in the laboratory along with neural and psychological processes (proximal behavior) and behavior as measured in situ as part of ongoing daily experience (distal behavior). We conclude by describing several studies that integrate neural, psychological, and behavioral indicators and discuss how these kinds of studies can facilitate a better understanding of behavior and contribute to theory development.
This paper reviews the affective neuroscience dealing with the effects of traumatic events. We give an overview of the normal fear reactions, the pathological fear reaction, and the character of emotional episodic memories. We find that both emotions and emotional memories are a tripartite unit of sensory information, autonomic reaction, and motor impulse (the PRM complex). We propose that emotions and movements are part and parcel of the same complex. This is our main finding from the review of affective neuroscience, and from here we focus on psychotherapy with post-trauma reactions. The finding of the process of memory reconsolidation opens up a new treatment approach: affective psychotherapy focused on reconsolidation. The meaning of reconsolidation is that an emotional memory, when retrieved and being active, will rest in a labile form, amenable to change, for a brief period of time, until it reconsolidates in the memory. This leads us to the conclusion that emotions, affects, must be evoked during the treatment session and that positive emotion must come first, because safety must be part of the new memories. In the proposed protocol of affective psychotherapy based on reconsolidation the emotional episodic memory is relived in a safe and positive setting, focused in turn on the sensory experience, the autonomic reaction, and the motor impulse. Then it is followed by a fantasy of a different positive version of the same event. All in all treatment should provide a series of new memories without fear related to the original event. With the focus on the motor program, and the actions, there is a natural link to art therapy and to the mode of play, which can rehearse and fantasize new positive actions.
Stressful events and reminders of such events may influence circulating cytokine levels, just as they influence several neuroendocrine processes. However, these cytokine changes may vary with the severity and chronicity of the stressor experienced, as well as the specific mood responses that participants express. In the present investigation, women in abusive or non-abusive dating relationship (N=75) read a script about an abusive or non-abusive relationship and then reported their mood states, followed by the collection of a single blood sample 30 min later. The abused women who read the abuse-related script reported greater anger, sadness, shame, and anxiety than did the non-abused women. In non-abused women greater levels of anger and sadness, but not shame or anxiety, were associated with higher levels of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-6 (IL-6), as well as the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10, irrespective of whether they had read a script regarding an abusive relationship or a neutral script. In contrast, among abused women shown a neutral script, neither IL-6 nor IL-10 levels were related to their anger and sadness, whereas mood levels following the reading of a script regarding abuse were directly related to IL-6, although the extent of the association was lower than that evident in non-abused women. Levels of IL-10 in the abused women, unlike their non-abused counterparts, did not vary with mood state. These data suggest that cytokine levels and the relative balance of IL-6 and IL-10 ordinarily are associated with specific moods, but this relationship is not apparent among women in a chronic stress state.
Deficits in executive control associated with frontal lobe dysfunction have been reported in affective disorder, which is often precipitated by stressful life events. Here we examined the impact of repeated restraint stress (1h daily for 7 days) on rats' performance in the attentional set-shifting task (ASST). To evaluate the persistence of cognitive deficits, the performance of separate groups of rats was assessed on the 4th, 7th, 14th and 21st day following stress cessation. Stressed rats exhibited unusually long-lasting extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting impairments, since these deficits were demonstrated even 3 weeks following stress termination. An inhibitor of corticosterone synthesis, the drug metyrapone (50mg/kg, IP) protected rats from the cognitive impairment suggesting an involvement of endogenous adrenal steroids in the debilitating effects of stress. Acute intraperitoneal administration of four different antidepressants (desipramine, nomifensine, fluoxetine and escitalopram) at the minimum effective doses of 3, 0.3, 1 and 1mg/kg, respectively, reversed the deficits of ED set-shifting in stressed animals. Desipramine, nomifensine, fluoxetine and escitalopram at the minimum effective doses of 6, 1, 1 and 1mg/kg, IP, respectively, promoted also cognitive flexibility in unstressed groups. We conclude that stress-induced long-term set-shifting impairment may represent a useful model mimicking clinically relevant aspects of depression, i.e., the persistence of executive dysfunction. The potential utility of antidepressants in treating frontal-like cognitive impairments is suggested.





To examine the time course of effects of working memory (WM) load on interference control, ERPs were measured in a combined WM and Stroop task. A WM load of 0, 2, or 4 letters was imposed, and during the maintenance-interval Stroop trials were presented that required participants to classify names of famous people while ignoring faces that were either congruent or incongruent with the names. Behavioral interference was not modulated by WM load, but WM load led to an overall reduction of Stroop stimulus encoding as reflected by reduced N170 and N250 amplitudes independent of congruency. Incongruent distractor faces induced interference as shown by a delayed and reduced positivity between 480-600 ms (N450) and an enhanced positivity between 760-1000 ms (P600), indicating longer stimulus evaluation, conflict detection, and conflict resolution, respectively. WM load led to an increase of the P600 at frontal and parietal sites, possibly reflecting PFC-driven top-down control of posterior sites, necessary for conflict resolution.
Social interactions have long-term physiological, psychological, and behavioral consequences. Social isolation is a well-recognized but little understood risk factor and prognostic marker of disease; it can have profoundly detrimental effects on both mental and physical well-being, particularly during states of compromised health. In contrast, the health benefits associated with social support (both reduced risk and improved recovery) are evident in a variety of illnesses and injury states; however, the mechanisms by which social interactions influence disease pathogenesis remain largely unidentified. The substantial health impact of the psychosocial environment can occur independently of traditional disease risk factors and is not accounted for solely by peer-encouraged development of health behaviors. Instead, social interactions are capable of altering shared pathophysiological mechanisms of multiple disease states in distinct measurable ways. Converging evidence from animal models of injury and disease recapitulates the physiological benefits of affiliative social interactions and establishes several endogenous mechanisms (inflammatory signals, glucocorticoids, and oxytocin) by which social interactions influence health outcomes. Taken together, both clinical and animal research are undoubtedly necessary to develop a complete mechanistic understanding of social influences on health.
The basal ganglia and thalamus are paired deep gray matter structures that may be involved by a wide variety of disease entities. The basal ganglia are highly metabolically active and are symmetrically affected in toxic poisoning, metabolic abnormalities, and neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation. Both the basal ganglia and thalamus may be affected by other systemic or metabolic disease, degenerative disease, and vascular conditions. Focal flavivirus infections, toxoplasmosis, and primary central nervous system lymphoma may also involve both deep gray matter structures. The thalamus is more typically affected alone by focal conditions than by systemic disease. Radiologists may detect bilateral abnormalities of the basal ganglia and thalamus in different acute and chronic clinical situations, and although magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is the modality of choice for evaluation, the correct diagnosis can be made only by taking all relevant clinical and laboratory information into account. The neuroimaging diagnosis is influenced not only by detection of specific MR imaging features such as restricted diffusion and the presence of hemorrhage, but also by detection of abnormalities involving other parts of the brain, especially the cerebral cortex, brainstem, and white matter. Judicious use of confirmatory neuroimaging investigations, especially diffusion-weighted imaging, MR angiography, MR venography, and MR spectroscopy during the same examination, may help improve characterization of these abnormalities and help narrow the differential diagnosis.
The large number of randomized controlled clinical trials on migraine have drawn the attention of some authors to the need to improve the design of such trials. In particular, adequate methodology is a critical issue in their planning and execution, as different methodological approaches can translate into different results. The side-effects observed in both the active medication arm and the placebo arm--considering anti-migraine randomized clinical trials--are often influenced by non specific factors. This issue can be quantified by using a systematic review approach to study the rates of adverse events reported in the placebo arms of clinical trials. Such a study requires increased standardization of the methods used to collect adverse data in clinical trials. This focused review article provides a critical re-analysis of the results obtained, by our group, in a recent systematic review of adverse events reported in the placebo groups of clinical trials for three classes of anti-migraine drugs: NSAIDs, triptans and anticonvulsants [Amanzio et al., 2009]. We consider the need for caution in interpreting side-effect profiles of the different placebo groups. In particular, since the side-effects observed in both the active medication and placebo arms of randomized clinical trials are often influenced by patients' and investigators' expectations, the nocebo phenomenon may help to understand the occurrence of (adverse) non-specific side effects observed in these groups. We also discuss the importance of evaluating the role of contributing factors in the results obtained, such as the need for the examiner to be blind to the expected side-effects of the drug being evaluated and a better rationalization of informed consent in order to avoid the occurrence of negative expectations in patients, aimed at preventing negative expectation effects among both investigators and patients. Currently, there is one patented design for investigating reductions in the placebo effect in controlled clinical trials. This paper discusses how these ideas may be helpful in the assessment of adverse events in active and placebo groups.
Cancers of the brain are intrinsically more complicated to treat than systemic malignancies due to the unique anatomical features of the brain. The blood-brain barrier prevents chemotherapeutic agents from reaching brain neoplasms, and angiogenesis occurs as the metabolic needs of the tumour increase, thus further complicating treatment. The newly formed blood vessels form the blood-tumour barrier and are distinct from the blood-brain barrier in that they are more permeable. Being more permeable, these abnormal blood vessels lead to the formation of peri-tumoural edema, which is the cause of much morbidity and mortality associated with central nervous system neoplasms. While the cause of the increased permeability is unclear, kinins have been implicated in regulating the permeability of normal vasculature. Kinins are also known to exert many inflammatory actions affecting both normal and angiogenic blood vessels, as well as tumour cells. The vasodilatory and vascular permeabilizing effects of kinins, and particularly bradykinin and substance P, have been investigated with regard to delivery of chemotherapeutic agents to neoplastic brain tissue through both vascular barriers. In contrast, kinin receptor antagonists have been found to exert effects on tumour cells that result in decreased angiogenesis, tumour cell motility and growth. Thus, many recent patents describe kinin activity on brain vasculature, which may play an integral role in the development of treatments for malignancies in the central nervous system through amelioration of angiogenesis. In conjunction, patents that discuss the ability of kinins to decrease tumour cell migration and proliferation demonstrate that kinins may offer novel approaches to brain tumour therapy in the future.
It has been envisaged that in this century, disorders of the central nervous system will have a significant bearing on the healthcare concerns of the human population worldwide. Such neurological and psychiatric disorders are generally associated with loss of memory, cognitive deficits, impaired mental function etc. Due to the multi-factorial nature of these diseases, modern medicine based psychoactive drugs have met with limited success. Therefore, there is a growing demand for novel products that could target multiple pathways and improve the mental capabilities either independently or in combination with conventional drugs. In the recent times, herbal products based on traditional knowledge have been increasingly used both in developed and developing countries. According to &quot;Ayurveda&quot;, the Indian traditional system of medicine, &quot;medhyarasayanas&quot; represent herbal therapeutics that boost memory, restore cognitive deficits and improve mental function. The current review deals with the components and application of such a traditional herb &quot;Brahmi&quot; that corresponds to two plants, Bacopa monnieri and Centella asiatica. Research evidences clearly indicate that both plants possess neuroprotective properties, have nootropic activity with therapeutic implications for patients with memory loss. The field has witnessed exciting patent activity with most inventions aiming at either (i) improving the methods of herbal extraction or (ii) enrichment and purification of novel compounds from brahmi or (iii) providing novel synergistic formulations for therapeutics in various human ailments. In this review, clinical trials related to the therapeutic properties of brahmi and current patents relevant to the preparation, composition and application have also been included.
Type 2 diabetes is a complex, multifactorial disease resulting from insulin resistance in target tissues and the impairment of insulin secretion from the pancreas. One of the key metabolic actions of insulin is to control blood sugar levels by promoting glucose uptake into adipocyte and muscle cells. This is achieved by activation of a complex signal transduction cascade that stimulates the trafficking of the insulin responsive glucose transporter protein, GLUT4, from specific intracellular sites to the plasma membrane. This review is divided into two major sections. The first section gives an overview of GLUT4 trafficking and the second section focuses on the patents that have been acquired for GLUT4 associated proteins and which demonstrate potential as therapeutic targets for the treatment of diabetes. Inventions in this area include methods and agents to translocate GLUT4 to the plasma membrane independent of insulin and methods to increase the level of GLUT4 in insulin responsive cells.
Environmental conditions during pregnancy determine birthweight, neonatal viability and adult phenotype in human and other animals. In part, these effects may be mediated by the placenta, the principal source of nutrients for fetal development. However, little is known about the environmental regulation of placental phenotype. Generally, placental weight is reduced during suboptimal conditions like maternal malnutrition or hypoxaemia but compensatory adaptations can occur in placental nutrient transport capacity to help maintain fetal growth. In vivo studies show that transplacental glucose and amino acid transfer adapt to the prevailing conditions induced by manipulating maternal calorie intake, dietary composition and hormone exposure. These adaptations are due to changes in placental morphology, metabolism and/or abundance of specific nutrient transporters. This review examines environmental programming of placental phenotype with particular emphasis on placental nutrient transport capacity and its implications for fetal growth, mainly in rodents. It also considers the systemic, cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in signalling environmental cues to the placenta. Ultimately, the ability of the placenta to balance the competing interests of mother and fetus in resource allocation may determine not only the success of pregnancy in producing viable neonates but also the long-term health of the offspring.
The release of environmental contaminants can contribute to impaired male fertility. The bioenergetics of isolated liver mitochondria have been used as a toxicological indicator, an inexpensive first line model to screen possible effects of several substances. Here we report the effects of 2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichloro-ethylene (DDE) on the bioenergetical parameters of testicular mitochondria. A significant decrease in repolarization potential (after a phosphorylative cycle), state 3 respiration and uncoupled respiration, with a concomitant increase in lag phase was found, demonstrating a decrease in mitochondrial function. Importantly, there was also a clear increase in maximum potential in DDE-treated testis mitochondria, which was not mirrored by more commonly used liver mitochondria. Indeed, comparative studies showed that testis and liver mitochondria have strikingly different sensitivities and patterns of response to DDE, indicating that testis mitochondria should be used as a primary toxicological model for a proper evaluation of putative effects of environmental toxicants on the bioenergetics of spermatogenesis and male fertility.
This study investigated the effects of various shoe features and surfaces on step time variability and pelvis accelerations (RMS) during walking in six younger and 22 older adults. Participants walked at a self-selected speed in five shoe conditions (standard, elevated heel, soft sole, hard sole, and high collar) on two surfaces: level and irregular. Results showed an age-related reduction in step time variability on the irregular surface and increased medio-lateral (ML) acceleration RMS in older people walking on the irregular versus the level surface. When wearing the elevated heel shoes, both young and old participants displayed significant reductions in pelvis ML accelerations, suggesting a compensatory strategy to counteract for lateral instability resulting from heel elevation. Overall, the findings demonstrate that older people are less able than younger ones to meet the stepping adaptability required for negotiating an irregular surface and, as a possible consequence, have more difficulty maintaining frontal plane stability on such a surface.
Aphasia is a common consequence of unilateral stroke, typically involving perisylvian regions of the left hemisphere. The course of recovery from aphasia after stroke is variable, and relies on the emergence of neuroplastic changes in language networks. Recent evidence suggests that rehabilitation interventions may facilitate these changes. Functional reorganization of language networks following left-hemisphere stroke and aphasia has been proposed to involve multiple mechanisms, including intrahemispheric recruitment of perilesional left-hemisphere regions and transcallosal interhemispheric interactions between lesioned left-hemisphere language areas and homologous regions in the right hemisphere. Moreover, it is debated whether interhemispheric interactions are beneficial or deleterious to recovering language networks. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) are two safe and noninvasive procedures that can be applied clinically to modulate cortical excitability during poststroke language recovery. Intervention with these noninvasive brain stimulation techniques also allows for inferences to be made regarding mechanisms of recovery, including the role of intrahemispheric and interhemispheric interactions. Here we review recent evidence that suggests that TMS and tDCS are promising tools for facilitating language recovery in aphasic patients, and examine evidence that indicates that both right and left hemisphere mechanisms of plasticity are instrumental in aphasia recovery.
Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability. Understanding how people recover from stroke and other brain lesions remain one of the biggest conundrums in neuroscience. As a result, concerted efforts in recent years have focused on investigating the neurophysiological changes that occur in the brain after stroke, and in developing novel strategies to enhance motor recovery. In particular, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive tool that has been used to investigate the brain plasticity changes resulting from stroke and as a therapeutic modality to safely improve motor function. In this review, we discuss the contributions of TMS to understand how different motor areas, such as the ipsilesional hemisphere, secondary motor areas, and contralesional hemisphere are involved in motor recovery. We also consider recent studies using repetitive TMS (rTMS) in stroke patients to enhance upper extremity function. Although further studies are needed, these investigations provide an important starting point to understand the stimulation parameters and patient characteristics that may influence the optimal response to non-invasive brain stimulation. Future directions of rTMS are discussed in the context of post-stroke motor recovery.







Much confusion still exists about when to treat seizures related to stroke and what agents to use. Seizures may occur in the setting of ischemic stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and other cerebrovascular lesions. The epidemiology of poststroke seizures and patients at higher risk for developing poststroke epilepsy are identified. The utility of electroencephalography (EEG), continuous and video EEG monitoring, and management and treatment of those patients who develop epilepsy are discussed.
Behavioral studies are an important part of neuroscience. They allow inferences about the functions of the brain and any internal states and processes it controls. Positron emission tomography (PET) is an in vivo imaging technique that provides insights into the mechanisms of neuronal communication. In this review, we focus on some of the contributions of PET to the field of behavioral neuroscience. Small animals typically require anesthesia to remain still during PET imaging, which places a burden on behavioral studies. Our approach integrates PET with behavioral observations using a miniature PET scanner that rats wear on the head, a mobility system to facilitate animal movement and ways to integrate the PET data with behavioral measures. We summarize our studies that assessed spontaneous, self-initiated behavioral activity and dopamine D2 receptor functions simultaneously.
Awake animal imaging is becoming an important tool in behavioral neuroscience and preclinical drug discovery. Non-invasive ultra-high-field, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) provides a window to the mind, making it possible to image changes in brain activity across distributed, integrated neural circuits with high temporal and spatial resolution. In theory, changes in brain function, anatomy, and chemistry can be recorded in the same animal from early life into old age under stable or changing environmental conditions. This prospective capability of animal imaging to follow changes in brain neurobiology after genetic or environmental insult has great value to the fields of psychiatry and neurology and probably stands as the key advantage of MRI over other methods in the neuroscience toolbox. In addition, awake animal imaging offers the ability to record signal changes across the entire brain in seconds. When combined with the use of 3D segmented, annotated, brain atlases, and computational analysis, it is possible to reconstruct distributed, integrated neural circuits or 'fingerprints' of brain activity. These fingerprints can be used to characterize the activity and function of new psychotherapeutics in preclinical development and to study the neurobiology of integrated neural circuits controlling cognition and emotion. In this review, we describe the methods used to image awake animals and the recent advances in the radiofrequency electronics, pulse sequences, and the development of 3D segmented atlases and software for image analysis. Results from pharmacological MRI studies and from studies using provocation paradigms to elicit emotional responses are provided as a small sample of the number of different applications possible with awake animal imaging.
We have recently developed a mobile brain imaging method (MoBI), that allows for simultaneous recording of brain and body dynamics of humans actively behaving in and interacting with their environment. A mobile imaging approach was needed to study cognitive processes that are inherently based on the use of human physical structure to obtain behavioral goals. This review gives examples of the tight coupling between human physical structure with cognitive processing and the role of supraspinal activity during control of human stance and locomotion. Existing brain imaging methods for actively behaving participants are described and new sensor technology allowing for mobile recordings of different behavioral states in humans is introduced. Finally, we review recent work demonstrating the feasibility of a MoBI system that was developed at the Swartz Center for Computational Neuroscience at the University of California, San Diego, demonstrating the range of behavior that can be investigated with this method.
People are frequently faced with intertemporal choices, i.e., choices differing in the timing of their consequences, preferring smaller rewards available immediately over larger rewards delivered after a delay. The inability to forgo sooner gratification to favor delayed reward (e.g., impulsivity) has been related to several pathological conditions characterized by poor self-control, including drug addiction and obesity. Comparative and functional human studies have implicated a network of brain areas involved in intertemporal choice, including the medial portion of the orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC). Moreover, damage to this cortical area increases preference for immediate gratification in intertemporal decisions. Here, we review recent neuroscientific studies concerning intertemporal choice, suggesting that the mOFC contributes to preference for delayed rewards, either by computing the value of future outcomes (i.e., valuation), or by enabling people to imagine and represent future rewards and their consequences (e.g., prospection).
Abstract Stress can have a lasting impact on the structure and function of brain circuitry that results in long-lasting changes in the behavior of an organism. Synaptic plasticity is the mechanism by which information is stored and maintained within individual synapses, neurons, and neuronal circuits to guide the behavior of an organism. Although these mechanisms allow the organism to adapt to its constantly evolving environment, not all of these adaptations are beneficial. Under prolonged bouts of physical or psychological stress, these mechanisms become dysregulated, and the connectivity between brain regions becomes unbalanced, resulting in pathological behaviors. In this review, we highlight the effects of stress on the structure and function of neurons within the mesocorticolimbic brain systems known to regulate mood and motivation. We then discuss the implications of these spine adaptations on neuronal activity and pathological behaviors implicated in mood disorders. Finally, we end by discussing recent brain imaging studies in human depression within the context of these basic findings to provide insight into the underlying mechanisms leading to neural dysfunction in depression.
The most fundamental issue of the neurosciences is the question of how or whether the mind and the body can interact with each other. It has recently been suggested in several studies that current neuroimaging evidence supports a view where the mind can have a well-documented causal influence on various brain processes. These arguments are critically analyzed here. First, the metaphysical commitments of the current neurosciences are reviewed. According to both the philosophical and neuroscientific received views, mental states are necessarily neurally based. It is argued that this leaves no room for a genuine interaction of the mental and the neural. Second, it is shown how conclusions drawn from recent imaging studies are in fact compatible with the fully physicalistic notion of mental causation and how they can thus be easily accommodated to the received view. The fallacious conclusions are argued to be a result of an overly vague grasping of the conceptual issues involved. The question of whether the fundamental physical principles exclude outright the ability of mental states to have causal influence on the physical world is also addressed and the reaction of appealing to the apparent loophole provided by quantum physics is assessed. It is argued that linking psychology to quantum physics contradicts many basic tenets of the current neurosciences and is thus not a promising line of study. It is concluded that the interactionist hypothesis benefits from neither conceptual nor empirical support.
Recent therapeutic human studies testing transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has shown promising results, although many questions remain unanswered. Translational research with experimental animals is an appropriate framework for investigating its mechanisms of action that are still undetermined. Nevertheless, animal and human studies are often discordant. Our aim was to review tDCS animal studies, examining and comparing their main findings with human studies. We performed a systematic review in Medline and other databases, screening for animal studies in vivo that delivered tDCS. Studies in vitro and using other neuromodulatory techniques were excluded. We extracted data according to Animal Research: Reporting In Vivo Experiments (ARRIVE) guidelines for reporting in vivo animal research. Thus, we collected data on sample characteristics (size, gender, weight and specimen) and methodology (experimental procedures, experimental animals, housing and husbandry, as well as analysis). We also collected data on methods for delivering tDCS (location, size, current and current density of electrodes and electrode montage), experimental effects (polarity-, intensity- and after-effects) and safety. Only 12 of 48 potentially eligible studies met our inclusion criteria and were reviewed. Quality assessment reporting was only moderate and studies were heterogeneous regarding tDCS montage methodology, position of active and reference electrodes, and current density used. Nonetheless, almost all studies demonstrated that tDCS had positive immediate and long-lasting effects. Vis--vis human trials, animal studies applied higher current densities (34.2 vs. 0.4 A/m(2), respectively), preferred extra-cephalic positions for reference electrodes (60% vs. 10%, respectively) and used electrodes with different sizes more often. Potential implications for translational tDCS research are discussed.
Seven mammalian purinergic receptor subunits, denoted P2X1-P2X7, and several spliced forms of these subunits have been cloned. When heterologously expressed, these cDNAs encode ATP-gated non-selective cation channels organized as trimers. All activated receptors produce cell depolarization and promote Ca(2+) influx through their pores and indirectly by activating voltage-gated calcium channels. However, the biophysical and pharmacological properties of these receptors differ considerably, and the majority of these subunits are also capable of forming heterotrimers with other members of the P2X receptor family, which confers further different properties. These channels have three ATP binding domains, presumably located between neighboring subunits, and occupancy of at least two binding sites is needed for their activation. In addition to the orthosteric binding sites for ATP, these receptors have additional allosteric sites that modulate the agonist action at receptors, including sites for trace metals, protons, neurosteroids, reactive oxygen species and phosphoinositides. The allosteric regulation of P2X receptors is frequently receptor-specific and could be a useful tool to identify P2X members in native tissues and their roles in signaling. The focus of this review is on common and receptor-specific allosteric modulation of P2X receptors and the molecular base accounting for allosteric binding sites.
Discovering the basic mechanisms in fear encoding and expression is important in many fields, including psychology, sociology, medicine, and neuroscience. Effective treatment for fear-based pathology depends on understanding how fear is learned and regulated. Among the molecular systems required for fear learning and amygdalar synaptic plasticity, brain derived neurtrophic factor (BDNF) and its high affinity receptor Ntrk2/TrkB have been shown to play essential roles. Therefore, we will focus this review on three main aspects; first of all, the impact of Bdnf polymorphism on fear related characteristics in humans and animal models. Secondly, we will discuss BDNF-TrkB activity regulation by epigenetic, transcriptional and post-translational events, and finally we will discuss TrkB-BDNF signalling in fear learning. BDNF-TrkB and the signalling activated in this particular form of plasticity are becoming crucial players in fear learning and memory thus highlighting these molecules as potential therapeutic targets in fear-related pathologies.
Optogenetics has revolutionized the toolbox arsenal that neuroscientists now possess to investigate neuronal circuit function in intact and living animals. With a combination of light emitting 'sensors' and light activated 'actuators', we can monitor and control neuronal activity with minimal perturbation and unprecedented spatiotemporal resolution. Zebrafish neuronal circuits represent an ideal system to apply an optogenetic based analysis owing to its transparency, relatively small size and amenability to genetic manipulation. In this review, we describe some of the most recent advances in the development and applications of optogenetic sensors (i.e., genetically encoded calcium indicators and voltage sensors) and actuators (i.e., light activated ion channels and ion pumps). We focus mostly on the tools that have already been successfully applied in zebrafish and on those that show the greatest potential for the future. We also describe crucial technical aspects to implement optogenetics in zebrafish including strategies to drive a high level of transgene expression in defined neuronal populations, and recent optical advances that allow the precise spatiotemporal control of sample illumination.
Mounting evidence implicates the zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a promising model species for reward and addiction research. Modeling drug abuse-related behavior in both adult and larval zebrafish produced a wealth of clinically translatable data, also demonstrating their sensitivity to various drugs of abuse and the ability to develop tolerance. Several studies have also applied withdrawal paradigms to model the adverse effects of drug abuse in zebrafish. In this review, we summarize recent findings of a wide spectrum of zebrafish drug abuse-related behavioral and physiological phenotypes, discuss the existing challenges, and outline potential future directions of research in this field.
Zebrafish can provide a valuable animal model to screen potential cognitive enhancing and anxiolytic drugs. They are economical and can provide a relatively quick indication of possible functional efficacy. In as much as they have a complex nervous system and elaborate behavioral repertoire, zebrafish can provide a good intermediate model between in vitro receptor and cell-based assays and classic mammalian models for drug screening. In addition, the variety of molecular tools available in zebrafish makes them outstanding models for helping to determine the neuromolecular mechanisms for psychoactive drugs. However, to use zebrafish as a translational model we must have validated, sensitive and efficient behavioral tests. In a series of studies, our lab has developed tests of cognitive function and stress response, which are sensitive to drug effects in a similar manner as rodent models and humans for cognitive enhancement and alleviating stress response. In particular, the three-chamber task for learning and memory was shown to be sensitive to the cognitive enhancing effects of nicotine and has been useful in helping to determine neural mechanisms crucial for nicotinic-induced cognitive enhancement. The novel tank diving test was shown to be a valid and efficient test of stress response. It is sensitive to the reduction in stress-related behaviors due to the amxiolytic drugs diazepam and buspirone but not chlordiazepoxide. Nicotine also causes stress alleviating effects which can be interpreted as anxiolytic effects. Zebrafish models of behavioral pharmacology can be useful to efficiently screen test compounds for drug development and can be useful in helping to determine the mechanisms crucial for new therapeutic treatments of neurobehavioral impairments.
