The development of chronic pain is associated with activity-dependent plastic changes in neuronal structures in the peripheral and central nervous system. In order to investigate the time-dependent processing of afferent noxious stimuli in the spinal cord we employed the quantitative autoradiographic 2-deoxyglucose technique in a model of chronic monoarthritic pain in the rat. Spinal metabolic activity was determined at various time-points (two, four and 14 days) after the injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the left tibiotarsal joint. In addition, the effect of acute noxious mechanical stimulation of the arthritic joint was investigated at 14 days of monoarthritis. Local glucose utilization was determined in lumbar segments L2-L5, ipsi- and contralateral to the inflamed hindpaw, and compared with saline-injected controls. In general, monoarthritic animals had bilaterally increased metabolic activity in all laminae of the spinal cord. Detailing the time-course showed that in rats with two days of monoarthritis metabolic activity was significantly increased to a similar extent on both sides of all spinal laminae. In contrast, at four days, glucose utilization in deep laminae of the dorsal horn (laminae V-VI), the central gray area (laminae X) and the ventral horn (laminae VII-IX) tended to return to control levels. At 14 days of monoarthritis, however, metabolic activity showed a further increase in all laminae of the spinal cord. This increase was more pronounced on the side ipsilateral to inflammation, reaching 65% above corresponding control levels in laminae V, VI. Animals with 14 days of monoarthritis which were subjected to mechanical noxious stimulation of the arthritic joint displayed clear behavioral signs of acute pain. Although in this group metabolic activity was above control levels, it was lower than in animals with 14 days of monoarthritis that were not additionally stimulated. The data show not only a general increase of spinal cord metabolic activity during the time-course of the development of a chronic pain state, but also show a region-specific non-linear time profile. This may reflect the complexity of transducing and suppressive transmitter systems involved in the central processing of ongoing pain.
The hypothesis that prostaglandins contribute to hyperalgesia resulting from nerve injury was tested in rats in which the sciatic nerve was partially transected on one side. Subcutaneous injection of indomethacin (a classic inhibitor of cyclo-oxygenase) into the affected hindpaw relieved mechanical hyperalgesia for up to 10 days after injection. Subcutaneous injection of meloxicam or SC-58125 (selective inhibitors of cyclo-oxygenase-2) into the affected hindpaw also relieved mechanical hyperalgesia, but with a shorter time-course. Subcutaneous injection of SC-19220 (an EP1 prostaglandin receptor blocker) into the affected hindpaw produced significant relief of mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. Comparable injections into the contralateral paw or abdomen had no effect on mechanical or thermal hyperalgesia, suggesting that the effects we observed were local rather than systemic. We conclude that prostaglandins, probably prostaglandin E1 or E2, contribute to the peripheral mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia following nerve injury. These data provide further evidence that inflammatory mediators contribute to neuropathic pain, and may warrant further study of peripherally administered non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as a possible treatment for such pain in patients.
The objective was to determine ventral medullary surface responses to blood loss sufficient to induce shock. We examined changes in scattered light from rostral and intermediate areas of the ventral medullary surface in four intact, drug-free cats during acute hypovolemia. Scattered light images, collected during 660 and 560 nm illumination to measure cellular activity and hemodynamic aspects, respectively, were digitized at 50 frames/s during baseline, and during withdrawal of 20-30% blood volume. Hypovolemia elicited a profound hypotension and eventual bradycardia. In all cats, a modest increase in ventral medullary surface reflectance (activity decline) accompanied initial blood loss; as hypovolemia continued, and blood pressure declined, reflectance switched to a decline (activity increase), with the lowest reflectance occurring at maximal blood loss. Hypovolemia elicited multiple transient physiologic behaviors, including tachycardia, tachypnea, intermittent isolated and sustained bursts of enhanced inspiratory efforts, and extensor activation of the somatic musculature. The phasic physiological behaviors during hypovolemia were accompanied by partial recovery of medullary surface reflectance and blood pressure towards baseline values; however, reflectance continued to decrease as blood pressure progressively fell after these recovery efforts. Patterns of reflectance were not uniform over areas examined; isolated regions of enhanced or diminished reflectance appeared upon the overall images. Optical signals indicating hemodynamic changes followed the neural activity patterns, but not precisely. Regions within the ventral surface are responsive to hypovolemia, and to transient behaviors associated with momentary restoration of blood pressure; these ventral surface areas may assume essential roles in the systemic response to hypovolemic-induced shock.
The role of carnosine, N-acetylcarnosine and homocarnosine as scavengers of reactive oxygen species and protectors against neuronal cell death secondary to excitotoxic concentrations of kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate was studied using acutely dissociated cerebellar granule cell neurons and flow cytometry. We find that carnosine, N-acetylcarnosine and homocarnosine at physiological concentrations are all potent in suppressing fluorescence of 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein, which reacts with intracellularly generated reactive oxygen species. However, only carnosine in the same concentration range was effective in preventing apoptotic neuronal cell death, studied using a combination of the DNA binding dye, propidium iodide, and a fluorescent derivative of the phosphatidylserine-binding dye, Annexin-V. Our results indicate that carnosine and related compounds are effective scavengers of reactive oxygen species generated by activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, but that this action does not prevent excitotoxic cell death. Some other process which is sensitive to carnosine but not the related compounds is a critical factor in cell death. These observations indicate that at least in this system reactive oxygen species generation is not a major contributor to excitotoxic neuronal cell death.
Neuronal activity and Ca2+ channel activation play important roles in neuronal survival and development. In cerebellar granule neurons, the culture conditions can induce differential expression of various membrane receptor proteins. To test the hypothesis that culture conditions might affect the activity of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels, the present study analysed the differences in Ca2+ signalling between granule neurons grown in the presence of normal (5 mM) or high (25 mM) KCl. The Ca2+ transients evoked by 50 mM KCl developed similarly in both cultures, as a function of age. In contrast, when compared with neurons grown in 25 mM KCl, a proportion of the neurons grown in normal KCl showed, between days in vitro 4 and 6, a higher Ca2+ transient in response to 12.5 mM KCl. These neurons were less sensitive to the effect of 10 microM nifedipine and, conversely, more sensitive to the effects of 10 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC when stimulated with 50 mM KCl, indicating that they express preferentially, at this stage, the N- and/or Q-type Ca2+ channels. This period of maximal activity of the N/Q-type Ca2+ channels was associated with a significant increase in the rate of neuronal apoptosis. The present study also shows, by comparing the rates of neuronal apoptosis, that the long-term maintenance in 25 mM KCl appears to &quot;synchronize&quot; and sensitize the neuronal population to the apoptotic process. These results illustrate the differential effect the culture conditions can have on the expression and activity of Ca2+ channels, which, in turn, can modulate neuronal survival.
In rat brainstem slices, we investigated the interaction between platelet-activating factor and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in mediating long-term potentiation within the medial vestibular nuclei. We analysed the N1 field potential wave evoked in the ventral portion of the medial vestibular nuclei by primary vestibular afferent stimulation. The group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (R,S)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid, prevented long-term potentiation induced by a platelet-activating factor analogue [1-O-hexadecyl-2-O-(methylcarbamyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine], as well as the full development of potentiation, induced by high-frequency stimulation under the blocking agent for synaptosomal platelet-activating factor receptors (ginkolide B), at drug washout. However, potentiation directly induced by the group I glutamate metabotropic receptor agonist, (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, was reduced by ginkolide B. These findings suggest that platelet-activating factor, whether exogenous or released following potentiation induction, exerts its effect through presynaptic group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, mediating the increase of glutamate release. In addition, we found that this mechanism, which led to full potentiation through presynaptic group I metabotropic glutamate receptor activation, was inactivated soon after application of potentiation-inducing stimulus. In fact, the long-lasting block of the platelet-activating factor and metabotropic glutamate receptors prevented the full potentiation development and the induced potentiation progressively declined to null. Moreover, ginkolide B, given when high-frequency-dependent potentiation was established, only reduced it within 5 min after potentiation induction. We conclude that to fully develop vestibular long-term potentiation requires presynaptic events. Platelet-activating factor, released after the activation of postsynaptic mechanisms which induce potentiation, is necessary for coupling postsynaptic and presynaptic phenomena, through the activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, and its action lasts only for a short period. If this coupling does not occur, a full and long-lasting potentiation cannot develop.
We sought to determine whether pontomesencephalic cholinergic neurons which we have been shown previously to project to the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area also contribute to the thalamic activation projection from the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. Retrograde tracing, immunohistochemical localization of choline acetyltransferase and statistical methods were used to determine the full extent of the cholinergic projection from the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei to the thalamus. Progressively larger Fluoro-Gold injections in to the thalamus proportionally labeled increasing numbers of pontomesencephalic cholinergic cells both ipsi- and contralaterally in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. Multiple large thalamic injections left only a small fraction of the ipsilateral pontomesencephalic cholinergic group unlabeled. This small remainder did not correspond to the populations which project to the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, thereby indicating that substantia nigra- and ventral tegmental area-projecting cholinergic neurons must also project to the thalamus. We examined whether there existed any set of cholinergic neurons in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei which did not innervate a thalamic target. The distribution of descending projections of the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei demonstrated that the unlabeled remainder cannot correspond to a purely descending group. We also show that substance P-positive cholinergic cells in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus project to the thalamus. Further studies demonstrated that the small population of cholinergic cells left unlabeled from the thalamus were the smallest sized cholinergic cells, and included two groups of small, light-staining cholinergic cells located in the parabrachial area and central gray, adjacent to the main pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei cholinergic groups. These small cells, in contrast to thalamic-projecting cholinergic cells, did not stain positively for reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase. Taken together, these results indicated that all of the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive/choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons of the pedunculopontine/laterodorsal tegmental nuclei ascend to innervate some portion of the thalamus, in addition to the other targets they innervate. These findings indicate that the diverse physiological and behavioral effects attributed to the activity of pontomesencephalic cholinergic neurons should not be dissociated from their activating effects in the thalamus.
This study was carried out in order to examine the effects of acute or chronic L-DOPA treatment on striatally expressed FosB- and JunB-like proteins in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Rats with a unilateral, near-total 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the ascending mesostriatal projection received either an acute challenge or a one-week treatment with 10 mg/kg/day methyl L-DOPA (combined with 15 mg/mg benserazide), and were killed at either 3 h or two days post-injection. Both acute and chronic L-DOPA treatment caused a pronounced, persistent increase in the number of FosB-like immunoreactive cells in the dopamine-denervated striata (five- and seven-fold increase, respectively, above the levels found in lesioned but non-drug-treated controls), but the two treatment groups differed markedly with respect to both the average amount of staining per cell, which was two-fold larger in the chronic L-DOPA cases, and the anatomical distribution of the labeled cells. After an acute injection of L-DOPA, FosB-positive cells were distributed rather uniformly across all striatal subregions, whereas chronic L-DOPA treatment induced discrete clusters of strongly FosB-like immunoreactive cells within medial and central striatal subregions, as well as in a large, yet sharply defined portion of the lateral caudate-putamen. Strongly labeled cell clusters that appeared in the medial and central caudate-putamen were preferentially located within calbindin-poor, mu-opioid receptor-rich striosomes, whereas the lateral area displaying FosB activation encompassed both striosomal and matrix domains. In both the medial and the lateral striatum a near-total overlap was found between strongly FosB-like immunoreactive cell groups and areas showing pronounced dynorphin expression. NADPH-diaphorase-positive striatal interneurons did not express FosB-like immunoreactivity after a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion alone, a negligible proportion of them did after an acute L-DOPA challenge, but about 8% of these interneurons were FosB positive following chronic L-DOPA treatment. Like FosB, JunB was induced in the DA-denervated striatum by both acute and chronic L-DOPA treatment, and exhibited similar distribution patterns. However, JunB did not exhibit prolonged expression kinetics, and was somewhat down-regulated in the chronically compared with the acutely L-DOPA-treated rats. The present results show that L-DOPA administration produces a long-lasting increase in the levels of FosB-, but not JunB-like immunoreactivity in the dopamine-denervated striatum. More importantly, these data show that striatal induction of FosB- and JunB-like proteins by chronic L-DOPA treatment exhibits both regional and compartmental specificity.
Repeated dopamine agonist administration to rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway potentiates behavioral and neuronal activation in response to subsequent dopamine agonist treatment. This response sensitization has been termed &quot;priming&quot; or &quot;reverse-tolerance&quot;. Our prior work has shown that three pretreatment injections of the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) into 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats permits a previously inactive dose of the D2 agonist quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) to induce robust contralateral rotation and striatal Fos expression in striatoentopeduncular &quot;direct&quot; pathway neurons. These striatal neurons typically express D1 but not D2 receptors. Because apomorphine acts as an agonist at both D1 and D2 receptors, the present study sought to determine whether D1, D2, or concomitant D1/D2 receptor stimulation was required to prime D2-mediated contralateral rotation and striatal Fos expression. Twenty-one days following unilateral stereotaxic injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle, rats received three pretreatment injections, at three- to six-day intervals, with either: the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine, the D1 agonist SKF38393, the D2 agonist quinpirole, or a combination of SKF38393 + quinpirole. Ten days following the third pretreatment injection, 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were challenged with the D2 agonist quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg). Pretreatment with SKF38393 (10 mg/kg), quinpirole (1 mg/kg) or SKF38393 (1 mg/kg) + quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) permitted an otherwise inactive dose of quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) to induce robust contralateral rotation which was similar in magnitude to that observed following apomorphine priming. However, only pretreatment with SKF38393 (10 mg/kg) or SKF38393 (1 mg/kg) + quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) permitted the same dose of quinpirole (0.25 mg/kg) to induce striatal Fos expression. These results demonstrate that while prior stimulation of D1, D2 or D1/D2 receptors can effectively prime D2-mediated contralateral rotation, prior stimulation of D1 receptors is required to prime D2-mediated striatal Fos expression. This study demonstrates that priming of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats with a D1 agonist permits a subsequent challenge with a D2 agonist to produce robust rotational behavior that is accompanied by induction of immediate-early gene expression in neurons that comprise the &quot;direct&quot; striatal output pathway. These responses are equivalent to the changes observed in apomorphine-primed 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats challenged with D2 agonist. In contrast, D2 agonist priming was not associated with D2-mediated induction of striatal immediate-early gene expression even though priming of D2-mediated rotational behavior was not different from that observed following priming with apomorphine or D1 agonist. Therefore, while priming-induced alterations in D2-mediated immediate early gene expression in the &quot;direct&quot; striatal output pathway may contribute to the enhanced motor behavior observed, such changes in striatal gene expression do not appear to be required for this potentiated motor response in dopamine-depleted rats.
The influence of postnatal socio-emotional deprivation on the development of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase-reactive neurons in prefrontal cortical areas and in subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens was quantitatively investigated in the precocious rodent Octodon degus. Forty-five-days-old O. degus from two animal groups were compared: (i) degus which were repeatedly separated from their mothers during the first three postnatal weeks and after weaning reared in complete isolation; and (ii) degus which were reared under normal undisturbed social conditions. Socially-deprived animals displayed a significant decrease of NADPH-diaphorase-containing neurons in anterior cingulate cortex (85.5%), the same tendency was observed in the infralimbic, precentral medial and prelimbic prefrontal areas. Similarly, the core region of nucleus accumbens expressed reduced NADPH-diaphorase-reactive neuron numbers in deprived animals (70%), whereas the shell region remained unchanged. Since during normal postnatal development the number of NADPH-diaphorase-reactive neurons gradually decreases in all prefrontal cortical and accumbal regions, the observed deprivation-induced changes may reflect either an excessive reduction of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons or a down-regulation of the enzyme in neurons that normally express it. Since some NADPH-diaphorase-containing neurons in the prefrontal cortex have been shown to be GABAergic, it is tempting to speculate that a reduction of these inhibitory neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex may result in an enhanced excitatory output activity of disinhibited projection neurons in this cortical region, including those that project to the core region of the nucleus accumbens. Our results indicate a link between early adverse socio-emotional experience and the maturation of NADPH-reactive neurons and further studies are required to analyse the functional implication for this experience-induced brain pathology.
The present study was designed to elucidate the distribution, time-course and mechanism(s) of status epilepticus-induced neuronal damage in the rat amygdaloid complex. Status epilepticus was induced with kainate (9 mg/kg, i.p.), and the behavioral and electrographic seizure activity of each rat was monitored via cortical electrodes attached to a continuous video electrocorticogram system. Rats were subsequently perfused 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24 or 48 h after kainate injection. The first signs of amygdaloid damage were seen in rats perfused 4 h after kainate injection, though the severity and temporal appearance of damage varied substantially between the different amygdaloid nuclei and their subdivisions. Second, terminal transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive nuclei and laddering of DNA in gel electrophoresis appeared in the amygdala 8 and 16 h after kainate, respectively. The distribution and density of TUNEL-positive nuclei in the different amygdaloid nuclei correlated with the distribution of neuronal damage in Thionin- and silver-stained sections. Third, the immunoreactivity of Bax protein, a promoter of apoptotic neuronal death, increased in the vulnerable medial division of the lateral nucleus prior to the appearance of argyrophilic neurons and TUNEL-positive nuclei. Fourth, the severity of neuronal damage progressed in some, but not all, amygdaloid regions throughout the 48-h follow-up, even though the occurrence of high-amplitude and frequency discharges, which are typically associated with behavioral seizure activity, extinguished after 7 h. These data show that status epilepticus-induced neuronal damage in the amygdala is a dynamic region-specific process, the severity of which depends on the duration of seizure activity. At least one mechanism underlying the damage involves apoptosis, which continues long after the behavioral and electrographic seizures have subsided.
The endogenous kappa receptor selective opioid peptide dynorphin has been shown to inhibit glutamate receptor-mediated neurotransmission and voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. It is thought that dynorphin can be released from hippocampal dentate granule cells in an activity-dependent manner. Since actions of dynorphin may be important in limiting excitability in human epilepsy, we have investigated its effects on voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in dentate granule cells isolated from hippocampi removed during epilepsy surgery. One group of patients showed classical Ammon's horn sclerosis characterized by segmental neuronal cell loss and astrogliosis. Prominent dynorphin-immunoreactive axon terminals were present in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, indicating pronounced recurrent mossy fiber sprouting. A second group displayed lesions in the temporal lobe that did not involve the hippocampus proper. All except one of these specimens showed a normal pattern of dynorphin immunoreactivity confined to dentate granule cell somata and their mossy fiber terminals in the hilus and CA3 region. In patients without mossy fiber sprouting the application of the kappa receptor selective opioid agonist dynorphin A ([D-Arg6]1-13, 1 microM) caused a reversible and dose-dependent depression of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in most granule cells. These effects could be antagonized by the non-selective opioid antagonist naloxone (1 microM). In contrast, significantly less dentate granule cells displayed inhibition of Ca2+ channels by dynorphin A in patients with mossy fiber sprouting (Chi-square test, P &lt; 0.0005). The lack of dynorphin A effects in patients showing mossy fiber sprouting compares well to the loss of kappa receptors on granule cells in Ammon's horn sclerosis but not lesion-associated epilepsy. Our data suggest that a protective mechanism exerted by dynorphin release and activation of kappa receptors may be lost in hippocampi with recurrent mossy fiber sprouting.
The control of theta rhythm in neuronal activity of the medial septal area and hippocampal electroencephalogram by the brainstem structures was investigated in waking rabbits. In the first series of experiments stimulating electrodes were implanted into the midbrain reticular formation and median raphe nucleus. The standard frequency of theta-bursts in medial septal area neurons and in the electroencephalogram was uniformly and chronically decreased in all rabbits with electrodes implanted into the median raphe nucleus (4.7 +/- 0.5 Hz versus 5.2 +/- 0.19 Hz in animals without electrodes in median raphe nucleus). Weak electrical stimulation of the median raphe nucleus resulted in additional decrease of theta expression in the medial septal area neurons and its disappearance from the hippocampal electroencephalogram, where it was substituted by delta-waves and spindles. Stimulation of the reticular formation had the opposite effect, with an increase in theta frequency, regularity and expression in medial septal area neuronal activity and hippocampal electroencephalogram. In the second series of experiments reversible functional blockade of the median raphe nucleus by local microinjection of lidocaine was performed. This resulted in expression of theta-bursts in an additional group of medial septal area neurons, an increase in theta-burst frequency (by 0.5-2 Hz) and regularity with concomitant changes in the electroencephalogram. The effects of sensory stimuli on the background of increased theta activity were suppressed or significantly decreased. It is concluded that, in accordance with the data of other authors, the median raphe nucleus can be regarded as a functional antagonist of the reticular formation, powerfully suppressing theta-bursts of the medial septal area neurons and hippocampal theta rhythm. It is suggested that, in combination with the theta-enhancing influences of reticular formation, the median raphe nucleus may participate in termination of attention, its switching to other stimuli and stabilization of the effects of learning.
In this report, we investigated the electrophysiological dynamics of the neuronal circuit including the dentate gyrus during an associative task. A group of rats was trained to discriminate between a patterned electrical stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract, used as an artificial cue associated with a water reward, and a natural odor associated with a light flash. Polysynaptic field potential responses, evoked by a single electrical stimulation of the same lateral olfactory tract electrode, were recorded in the molecular layer of the ipsilateral dentate gyrus prior to and just after each training session. An increase in this response was observed when a significant discrimination of the two cues began. A positive correlation was found between the change in the polysynaptic potentiation and behavioral performances. The onset latency of the potentiated polysynaptic response was 35-45 ms. When a group of naive animals was pseudoconditioned, no change in field potential was observed. These results are consistent with the hypothesized dynamic activation of the dentate gyrus early in the making of association, allowing gradual storage of associative information in a defined set of synapses. Moreover, the onset latency of the potentiated response suggests the existence of reactivating hippocampal loops during the processing of associative information.
We investigated the neuroadaptive changes in synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus as a result of chronic intermittent ethanol exposure. Male Wistar rats were exposed daily (14 h) to ethanol vapors (blood alcohol levels = 150-200 mg%) for 12-14 days, and synaptic field potentials elicited by Schaffer collateral stimulation were compared in hippocampal slices from control and chronic ethanol-treated rats. Excitatory postsynaptic responses of slices were recorded under three conditions: (i) normal physiological saline; (ii) continued presence of 33 mM (150 mg%) ethanol (chronic ethanol-treated rats only); (iii) acute exposure to 33 mM ethanol. When recorded in ethanol-free physiological saline, the mean amplitude of the dendritic synaptic potential and the somatic population spike were significantly smaller in slices from chronic ethanol-treated rats compared to slices from control rats. Under conditions of continuous ethanol exposure, somatic and dendritic synaptic responses of slices taken from chronic ethanol-treated rats were further depressed, suggesting that neural pathways in area CA1 remained sensitive to ethanol. Acute application of ethanol led to a more pronounced reduction of the mean somatic population spike amplitude in slices from chronic ethanol-treated rats than in slices from control rats. However, dendritic synaptic responses were unaffected by acute ethanol in slices from both control and chronic ethanol-treated rats. In addition, we examined the involvement of presynaptic mechanisms in the effects of chronic intermittent ethanol using paired-pulse protocols. When recorded in the continued presence of ethanol, slices from chronic ethanol-treated rats exhibited a significant reduction in paired-pulse facilitation of the dendritic synaptic response compared to slices from control rats, indicating a presynaptic component to the neuroadaptive effects of chronic intermittent ethanol exposure. Conversely, acute ethanol exposure resulted in an enhancement of paired-pulse facilitation of the dendritic synaptic response, an effect that was similar in slices from both control and chronic ethanol-treated rats. Paired-pulse facilitation of the somatic population spike amplitude was not altered by chronic ethanol treatment. However, acute ethanol exposure significantly enhanced paired-pulse facilitation of the somatic population spike in slices from chronic ethanol-treated rats. This effect of acute ethanol was not observed in slices from control rats. Paired-pulse inhibition was not significantly altered in slices from chronic ethanol-treated rats, suggesting that GABAergic inhibitory mechanisms were not involved in the neuroadaptive effects of chronic intermittent ethanol exposure. We suggest that chronic intermittent ethanol exposure can induce multiple neuroadaptive changes in synaptic transmission of CA1 pyramidal neurons that are detectable at both the pre- and postsynaptic levels. Alterations in paired-pulse facilitation indicate presynaptic changes involving the release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, whereas changes in dendritic synaptic responses suggest postsynaptic changes in the responsiveness of neurons to synaptic input. Moreover, differential effects of chronic ethanol treatment on synaptic responses recorded in the dendrites versus the somatic region implicate additional effects of ethanol on somatically located mechanisms of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, we suggest that complete tolerance to ethanol does not occur in the CA1 region of the hippocampus following chronic intermittent ethanol exposure.
Although excessive release of the neurotransmitter glutamate contributes to ischemic neuronal damage, immunocytochemical studies have not found a loss of glutamate from ischemic axon terminals. We examined the effects of two components of ischemia, hypoxia and hypoglycemia, on glutamate loss from rat hippocampal slices. In vitro hypoglycemia induced by incubation for 1 h without glucose depleted 50% of glutamate from slices when ATP levels were about 5 nmol/mg protein. Hypoxic slices aerated with N2 reached similar ATP levels without significant glutamate depletion. To induce 50% glutamate losses with chemical hypoxia, ATP had to be depleted to &lt; 1 nmol/mg protein. Immunocytochemical staining indicated that glutamate-like immunoreactivity was reduced throughout slices by hypoglycemia. Hypoxia decreased glutamate-like immunoreactivity in neuronal perikarya and dendrites of pyramidal cells and granule cells. However, in contrast to hypoglycemia, hypoxia maintained or increased glutamate-like immunoreactivity in many terminals. Hypoxia and hypoglycemia induced similar, ATP-dependent releases of glutamate into supernatants, which could account for only part of the hypoglycemic losses. The additional hypoglycemic losses were consistent with increased catabolism of glutamate. Glutamate losses from hypoglycemic terminals were reduced by blockade of aspartate aminotransferase or the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Exogenous glutamate increased glutamate in hypoglycemic slices to hypoxic levels and returned glutamate-like immunoreactivity to terminals, suggesting that terminals maintained glutamate uptake during metabolic insults. Hypoglycemia induces a large loss of glutamate that does not occur during hypoxia. The greater loss of glutamate from terminals during hypoglycemia is consistent with increased metabolism of glutamate via aspartate aminotransferase and not increased release of glutamate. Continued uptake of glutamate by hypoxic terminals may help to maintain their levels of glutamate. Hypoglycemic metabolism of glutamate may decrease pathologic glutamate release and contribute to the prolonged neurologic abnormalities associated with recovery from hypoglycemia.
In this study, we report that mobilization of internal Ca2+ by sphingosine-1-phosphate, a metabolite of ceramide, induces apoptosis in cultured hippocampal neurons. This sphingosine-1-phosphate-induced apoptosis is dependent upon the activation of protein phosphatases, possibly calcineurin and phosphatase 2A (or a related phosphatase). In addition, pretreatment of neurons with double-stranded oligonucleotides containing the metallothionein phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response element sequence as transcription factor decoys suppressed apoptosis. In contrast, double-stranded oligonucleotides containing either the c-jun or SV40 phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response element sequences were ineffective. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and supershift assays revealed that c-Fos-containing activator protein- complexes preferentially bound the metallothionein phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response element sequence-containing oligonucleotides. Furthermore, antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos and c-jun were also protective. The apoptotic death of hippocampal neurons has been hypothesized to contribute to the cognitive impairments observed following insults to the brain. While increases in intracellular calcium are thought to be key mediators of neuronal apoptosis, the biochemical cascade(s) activated as a result of increased Ca2+ which mediates apoptosis of hippocampal neurons is (are) not well understood. The findings presented in this study suggest that mobilization of internal calcium via prolonged exposure of sphingosine-1-phosphate induces apoptosis of hippocampal neurons in culture. Sustained increases in intracellular calcium activate a phosphatase cascade that includes calcineurin and a phosphatase 2A-like phosphatase, and leads to the expression of genes containing metallothionein phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response element (TGAGTCA)-type enhancer sequences. The expression of genes containing TGAGTCA-type enhancer sequences appears to be essential for sphingosine-1-phosphate-induced apoptosis of hippocampal neurons.
The aim of the present study was to assess the age-dependent response of microtubule-associated protein 1B, a plasticity-associated protein deriving from a late gene, following administration of an epileptogenic stimulus. The effect of a single administration of the convulsant pentylenetetrazole on microtubule-associated protein 1B expression in the hippocampal formation and cortex of three-, 18- and 28-month-old rats was assessed using northern blot analysis, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In three-month-old rats, we detected initial increases in microtubule-associated protein 1B messenger RNA at 15 h following pentylenetetrazole administration in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and in layers II/III of the entorhinal cortex, and these reached a maximum at 44 h. However, in the hippocampus and cortex of 18-month-old rats, the peak occurred at 15 h, and in the brains of 28-month-old rats a blunted peak was reached at 3 h. Pentylenetetrazole treatment in young rats resulted in a robust induction of microtubule-associated protein 1B immunoreactivity in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in layers II/III of the entorhinal cortex, but also produced a large decrease in the retrosplenial cortex. However, following pentylenetetrazole treatment in older rats, the granule cells of the dentate gyrus were nearly devoid of microtubule-associated protein 1B immunoreactivity, whereas the retrosplenial cortex showed no changes at all, and the entorhinal cortex had an expression pattern similar to that of young rats. Aberrant immunolabeling of microtubule-associated protein 1B occurred in cortical layer VI of the aged rats where, unlike in young rats, there was heavy staining of neuronal somata. These results suggest that the regulation of the plasticity-associated protein microtubule-associated protein 1B is altered in the ageing rat brain, with the peak of expression shifted to earlier times in 18-month-old rats and blunted, variable increases at even earlier times in 28-month-old rats.
Clathrin assembly protein AP180 plays a regulatory role in clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle recycling in synapses. Previously, using immunoblot analysis, we observed a significant reduction of AP180 protein in Alzheimer's disease neocortex. In this study, we examined immunohistochemically the expression of AP180 in post mortem brains with Alzheimer's disease (n = 5) in comparison with neurologically normal controls (n = 5). Overall, AP180 was revealed as immunoreactive punctate granules located in the neuropil, and around neuronal cell bodies and their processes, consistent with the typical expression of synaptic proteins. Reduced density of AP180 immunoreactive puncta was seen throughout all layers of the superior frontal gyrus in Alzheimer's disease, but the loss of AP180 immunoreactivity was not as prominent in the cerebellum. This regional difference is in agreement with our previous results from immunoblot analyses. In the hippocampus, cell body AP180 immunoreactivity normally seen in the hilus and the CA3 regions of control brains was completely lost in Alzheimer's disease. In addition, AP180 immunoreactivity in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus showed several changes in Alzheimer's disease. These appeared to be expansion of the inner molecular layer and relative changes in immunoreactivity that resulted in clearer delineation of the inner and outer molecular layers. These results provide anatomical and spatial information on AP180 expression in Alzheimer's disease brains. The variations in altered AP180 immunoreactivity in different brain regions of Alzheimer's disease may underlie the dysfunction of the corresponding synapses.
Although memory deficits are one of the most persistent consequences of human subdural haematoma, cognitive functioning has hardly been investigated in the rat subdural haematoma model. In the present study, the effects on spatial learning of right- and left-sided unilateral subdural haematoma and of bilateral subdural haematoma induced above the sensorimotor cortical areas were evaluated. Spatial learning was assessed by standard acquisition in the Morris water escape task (five sessions). Additional issues addressed were sensorimotor functioning (footprint analysis), recovery of cognitive functioning (tested by an overtraining and a reversal training) and replicability of induced cognitive deficits. Following unilateral subdural haematoma surgery, hardly any impairments in the Morris water escape task were observed: rats with a unilateral right-sided subdural haematoma showed very mild, transient deficits, whereas rats with left-sided subdural haematoma were indistinguishable from controls. Bilateral subdural haematoma surgery led to a clear, although transient, performance deficit. We conclude that animals with bilateral subdural haematoma may provide a promising cognitive deficit model for investigating recovery of function.
Binding of cyclic AMP to the regulatory subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase is an essential step in cyclic AMP-mediated intracellular signal transduction. In the present study, the binding capacity of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase for cyclic AMP was examined by autoradiography with local cerebral blood flow in focal cerebral ischemia in the rat, which was induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery using the intraluminal suture method. The binding capacity of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and local cerebral blood flow were assessed by the in vitro [3H]cyclic AMP binding and the [14C]iodoantipyrine methods, respectively. At 3 h of occlusion, a significant reduction in the binding of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase to cyclic AMP was already noted in the lateral region of the caudate-putamen and the parietal cortex. Between three and five hours of occlusion, the area with reduced cyclic AMP binding was significantly expanded to the peri-ischemic regions including the frontal cortex and the medial region of the caudate-putamen. The threshold in local cerebral blood flow for reduced cyclic AMP binding was clearly noted at 5 h of ischemia, and was 45 ml/100 g per min in the cerebral cortices, and 38 ml/100 g per min in the caudate-putamen, respectively. No threshold was noted at 3 h of ischemia, since cyclic AMP binding showed a large variation ranging from reduced to normal values even when local cerebral blood flow was below 20 ml/100 g per min. Recirculation for 3.5 h following 1.5 h of ischemia restored the normal cyclic AMP binding in the cerebral cortices, but failed to normalize cyclic AMP binding in the caudate-putamen despite good recovery of local cerebral blood flow. Western blot analysis suggested that this reduction in cyclic AMP binding was not due to loss or degradation of the subunit protein of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, and may therefore have resulted from conformational changes in the protein. A significant increase in cyclic AMP binding was noted after recirculation in the non-ischemic regions such as the frontal and the cingulate cortices on the occluded side and in the contralateral cortices. These data indicate that cyclic AMP-mediated signal transduction in the brain tissue may be very susceptible to ischemic stress, and the region of disrupted signal transduction may expand progressively from the ischemic core to peri-ischemic regions in the acute phase of ischemia. Such impairment of signal transduction may not be restored in the caudate-putamen even when cerebral circulation is fully recovered after short-term ischemia, suggesting that a regional vulnerability to ischemic stress may also exist in cyclic AMP-mediated signal transduction. A significant increase in cyclic AMP binding after recirculation in regions outside of ischemic area may be closely related with the protective mechanisms of brain tissue, since cyclic AMP has been reported to exert various neuroprotective actions.
To investigate possible convergence of autonomic and somatosensory input in the insula of the non-human primate, extracellular single-unit recordings were obtained from 81 neurons (43 insular and 38 in surrounding cortex) during application of cutaneous nociceptive stimuli (pinch) and baroreceptor challenge in six anesthetized monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). All cells were also tested with light touch (brush) stimulation. Twenty-six units responded to blood pressure changes; 20 (80%) were identified within the insula (P &lt; 0.001). The majority of these insular units (16/20) also responded to nociceptive pinch (convergent units). More units responsive to changes in blood pressure (unimodal and convergent) were found in the right (18/29, 62%) than in the left insular cortex (2/14, 14%)(P = 0.004). Twenty-nine insular neurons responded to nociceptive stimuli; 16 of these were convergent units and 13 showed unimodal responses to somatosensory stimuli alone. These cells had wide bilateral receptive fields including face, hand, foot and tail. Ten insular neurons were unresponsive to both sets of stimuli (non-responsive cells); significantly more of these cells (28/38) were identified in extrainsular locations (P &lt; 0.01). We suggest that the primate insular cortex may be involved in the integration of cardiovascular function with somatosensory (principally nociceptive) input. This view supports the emerging role of the insular cortex as an important forebrain site of viscerosomatosensory regulation with clinical implications for cardiovascular regulation under conditions of stress and arousal.
To investigate the possibility that rhythmic activity originating in the central nervous system may modulate human eye movements, anticipatory eye movements were generated by tracking an intermittently obscured sinusoidally moving target. Eight subjects tracked intermittently obscured sinusoids of three different frequencies and of two different amplitudes. Eye movements were recorded by an infra-red reflection technique. The eye velocity records were analysed in the frequency domain by power spectral estimates. During periods where the target was obscured, eye movements consisted of a staggered series of anticipatory saccades with intervening smooth anticipatory eye movements or relatively stationary periods. In sections where the intervening smooth components of anticipatory tracking were of high velocity (above 15 deg/s), a superimposed smooth tremulous oscillation at around 10 Hz was sometimes present. Coherence analysis showed that this 10 Hz range oscillation of smooth anticipatory movement was not derived from head tremor and that the same oscillation was present in both eyes. This oscillation was not generally observed during smooth tracking of pseudorandom waveforms. Investigation of anticipatory eye movements has revealed a 10-Hz range oscillation or &quot;tremor&quot; superimposed upon smooth movements that might in other circumstances be inhibited by direct visual feedback. This smooth eye movement oscillation is thought to originate from the central nervous system and may reflect a widespread frequency modulation of motor commands.
Ventral pallidal dopamine has been recently shown to play an important role in psychostimulant reward and locomotor activation. The aim of the present study was to compare the roles of ventral pallidal D1 and D2 receptors in evoking locomotor activity with those in the nucleus accumbens. The D1 agonist SKF 38393 and the D2 agonist quinpirole hydrochloride (0.3-3 microg/ 0.5 microl) were bilaterally injected into ventral pallidum or nucleus accumbens through pre-implanted cannulae. In the ventral pallidum, 0.3-1 microg SKF 38393 increased locomotor activity while 3 microg had no effect; 3 microg quinpirole suppressed locomotion while 0.3-1 microg had no effect. Locomotor activity induced by an equigram (0.3 microg) mixture of SKF 38393 and quinpirole, while significantly higher than that induced by 0.3 microg quinpirole was not significantly higher than that induced by 0.3 microg SKF 38393 alone. At the 3 microg dose, SKF 38393 injections into anterior ventral pallidum increased activity; injections into posterior ventral pallidum decreased activity. In the nucleus accumbens, 0.3-3 microg SKF 38393 dramatically increased locomotor activity while quinpirole moderately increased locomotion. In the group that had previously received the full quinpirole dose range, injection of the equigram (0.3 microg) mixture of SKF 38393 and quinpirole induced locomotor activation which was higher than that induced by either drug alone or by the addition of the effect of each drug alone, i.e. synergy occurred. Moreover, rats that had previously received SKF 38393 developed a sensitized locomotor response to subsequent SKF 38393, quinpirole or the mixture of these two drugs. The difference in locomotor response to dopamine agonists between the ventral pallidum and nucleus accumbens is consistent with electrophysiological evidence collected at these two sites. These findings suggest that, unlike the nucleus accumbens, where D1 and D2 receptor activation may facilitate each other to induce a synergistic effect on locomotor activity, ventral pallidal D1 and D2 receptors may be located on different neurons and coupled with different, if not opposite, behavioral output.
It has been suggested that there are sex differences in the neural response to drugs of abuse. Previous studies have shown that, upon administration of morphine, the immediate early gene c-Fos is induced in the striatum, nucleus accumbens and cortex of the rat brain. This induction of c-Fos is reduced by administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate. However, in studies using immunocytochemistry, we found that the pattern of this expression differed markedly between the sexes. In male rats treated with morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) and killed 2 h later, there was an induction of c-Fos in the dorsomedial caudate-putamen, the nucleus accumbens and in the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus. Administration of dizocilpine maleate (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.; 30 min before morphine) partially blocked the response in the caudate-putamen, but not in the thalamus. In females, morphine induced c-Fos in the caudate-putamen, but with more inter-animal variability than in males. In the midline intralaminar thalamic nuclei, female rats showed less induction than males. In male rats, dizocilpine maleate alone caused negligible induction of c-Fos, whereas in female rats, it caused a large induction in the rhomboid, reuniens and central medial nuclei of the thalamus, and in the cortex. Whereas dizocilpine maleate partially blocked the morphine-induced c-Fos expression in the caudate-putamen of males, it completely blocked this response in females. With dizocilpine maleate alone, there was little or no effect on behavior in male rats, whereas in female rats, it caused head bobbing, thrashing, hyperactivity and uncoordinated movements. These behavioral sex differences were not seen on treatment of rats with the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2R,4R,5S-2-amino-4,5-(1,2-cyclohexyl)-7-phosphoheptanoic acid (NPC-17742; 10 mg/kg, i.p.) and this drug did not induce c-Fos expression in either sex. In the caudate-putamen, morphine-induced c-Fos expression was significantly reduced by NPC-17742 (30 min before morphine) in males and completely blocked in females. These results suggest that the responses to both morphine and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists differ between the sexes and emphasize that glutamate is involved in morphine-induced immediate early gene expression in the brain. These studies thus have important implications for gender differences in drug addiction.
The enteric nervous system can generate complex motor patterns independently of the central nervous system. The ascending enteric reflex pathway consists of sensory neurons, long chains of a single class of orally directed interneuron and excitatory motor neurons. Because of the importance of this pathway in peristalsis, it was modelled from the firing of sensory neurons through to muscle membrane activation. The model was anatomically realistic in the number of neurons simulated and in the patterns of connections between neurons. The model was also realistic in the simulation of ligand-gated currents in neuron and muscle membrane, current flow in the muscle syncytium and voltage-dependent currents in muscle. Sensory neurons were activated in a manner consistent with a brief mechanical stimulus. Transmission between sensory neurons and first-order interneurons was by slow excitatory transmission, which caused interneurons to fire continuously for several hundred milliseconds. Interneurons then transmitted to higher order interneurons by fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials, each lasting for around 40 ms. As the activity propagated along the pathway, random firing became progressively more synchronized between neurons, until the network as a whole was firing in a coordinated manner. The coordinated firing was a robust phenomenon over a wide range of network and neuron parameters. It is therefore possible that this is a general property of feedforward networks that receive high levels of sustained input. The smooth muscle model indicated that bursting input to the muscle may increase the likelihood of muscle cells firing action potentials when compared with uniform input. In addition, the syncytium model explains how the predicted muscle excitation might be related to current experimental observations.
Previous work has shown that, after domestic chicks have learned the characteristics of an object (visual imprinting), there is a learning-related increase in the numerical density of Fos-immunopositive neurons in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale, a forebrain region that is a site of recognition memory for the imprinted object. The present study describes the time-course of this effect and has used double-labelling immunocytochemistry to identify neuronal types in which the effect occurs. Chicks were trained by exposure for 1 h to an imprinting (training) stimulus and then given a preference test to determine the strength of imprinting (i.e. of learning). Strongly imprinted chicks were killed 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5 or 4 h (12 chicks in each group) after the start of training and a further group of 12 chicks remained untrained. Sections from the chicks' brains were stained for Fos-like immunoreactivity, and the numerical density of Fos-positive nuclei in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale was counted. Relative to untrained chicks, there was a 60% increase in the number of Fos-positive nuclei in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale 2 h after the start of training (P = 0.02), but not at any other time. Sections from 10 trained chicks, two killed at each of the above times after training, and from two untrained chicks were stained with anti-Fos antibody as before and also with an antibody against GABA. Approximately 95% of the Fos-positive neurons in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale were also immunopositive for GABA. In neurons immunopositive for GABA, there were significantly (P = 0.02) more Fos-positive nuclei in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale 2 h after the start of training than in untrained chicks. Five chicks killed 2 h after training and five untrained chicks yielded sections for the next experiment; sections were double labelled for (i) Fos and (ii) either Calbindin-D28k or parvalbumin. Training gave rise to a significant (P = 0.017) increase in numerical density of Fos-positive nuclei of neurons that were immunonegative for Calbindin-D28k. This increase occurred in neurons that were immunopositive for parvalbumin. The use of alternative antibodies for GABA, Calbindin-D28k and parvalbumin in trained and untrained chicks confirmed the double-staining pattern observed in the quantitative experiments. The results demonstrate that the learning-related increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity following training is transitory and have localized the increase to a population of neurons immunopositive for GABA and parvalbumin, but not Calbindin-D28k.
A temporal cascade of events has been described from a number of biochemical investigations of passive avoidance training in day-old chicks. Among these, within minutes of training, there is a transient, enhanced release of glutamate and increased agonist and antagonist binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptors in the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale of the forebrain. Some 6.5 h later, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazo lepropionate binding to glutamate receptors is also increased in the same region. These processes might be predicted to affect the uptake of calcium via voltage-sensitive calcium channels or glutamate receptor-associated channels, thereby changing the intracellular calcium concentration. To test this possibility, we have measured the calcium concentration in synaptoneurosomes, containing both pre- and postsynaptic elements, prepared from left and right intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale at various times following training, using Fura 2-AM as the indicator of intracellular calcium concentration. Synaptoneurosomes, prepared immediately and 5 min after training, were stimulated with 70 mM potassium chloride in the presence of 2 mM calcium, resulting in a significantly enhanced increase in calcium concentration in synaptoneurosomes from the left hemisphere of trained chicks. This effect was absent in samples obtained at later times after training. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (0.5 mM) induced a significant enhancement in the increase in calcium concentration in intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale from both left and right hemispheres 10 min and 30 min after training. At 3 h and 6 h after training, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazo lepropionate (0.5 mM) induced a significantly enhanced increase in calcium concentration in samples from either hemisphere. These results suggest that immediately after training there is an engagement of both pre- and postsynaptic voltage-sensitive calcium channels, followed by an increased reponse to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation, and coinciding with the enhanced calcium-dependent glutamate release and an increase in N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptor binding that has been reported previously. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-sensitive mechanisms are activated at a later stage of memory formation, when increased alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate binding to glutamate receptors has been reported. Thus, responsiveness of calcium channels to agonist stimulation is implicated in temporally diverse stages in the cascade of events involved in memory formation following passive avoidance training in the chick.
Transgenic mice overexpressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor from the beta-actin promoter were tested for behavioral, gross anatomical and physiological abnormalities. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA overexpression was widespread throughout brain. Overexpression declined with age, such that levels of overexpression decreased sharply by nine months. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor transgenic mice had no gross deformities or behavioral abnormalities. However, they showed a significant passive avoidance deficit. This deficit was dependent on continued overexpression, and resolved with age as brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcripts decreased. In addition, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor transgenic mice showed increased seizure severity in response to kainic acid. Hippocampal slices from brain-derived neurotrophic factor transgenic mice showed hyperexcitability in area CA3 and entorhinal cortex, but not in dentate gyrus. Finally, area CA1 long-term potentiation was disrupted, indicating abnormal plasticity. Our data suggest that overexpression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the brain can interfere with normal brain function by causing learning impairments and increased excitability. The results also support the hypothesis that excess brain-derived neurotrophic factor could be pro-convulsant in the limbic system.
Though D1-like dopamine receptors [D1A/B] are defined in terms of linkage to the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase, with D1A assumed to be the functionally prepotent subtype, evidence suggests the existence of another, novel D1-like receptor without such coupling. To investigate these issues we challenged mutant mice having targeted gene deletion of the D1A receptor with selective agonists and used an ethologically-based assessment technique to resolve resultant behavioural topography. D1-like-dependent behaviour was substantially conserved in D1A-null mice relative to wild-types following challenge with each of two selective D1-like agents: A 68930 (0.068-2.0 mg/kg s.c.) which exhibits full efficacy to stimulate adenylyl cyclase, and SKF 83959 (0.016-2.0 mg/kg s.c.) which fails to stimulate adenylyl cyclase, and indeed inhibits the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase induced by dopamine. Furthermore, responsivity to the selective D2-like agonist RU 24213 (0.1-12.5 mg/kg s.c.) was conserved in D1A-null mice, indicating the integrity of D1-like:D2-like interactions at the level of behaviour. These data are consistent with behavioural primacy of a D1-like receptor other than D1A [or D1B] that is coupled to a transduction system other than/additional to adenylyl cyclase.
Subcellular localization of the 67,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylase and neurotransmitter function of GABA were investigated in the cerebellum of the mice lacking the 65,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylase. The GABA content decreased by 25% in the cerebellum. Putative GABA-releasing terminals from basket/stellate and Golgi cells were immunostained with glutamate decarboxylase-67 antibody. Basket cell-derived inhibitory postsynaptic currents in Purkinje cells and the high potassium-induced release of GABA were not significantly affected. Although previous investigations have suggested that glutamate decarboxylase-65 is mainly involved in transmitter synthesis and that glutamate decarboxylase-67 is transported to the nerve terminals only after association with glutamate decarboxylase-65, the present results indicate that glutamate decarboxylase-67 is independently concentrated in the nerve terminals and provides GABA for synaptic transmission in the absence of glutamate decarboxylase-65.
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease, a multifunctional protein in the DNA base excision repair pathway, plays a central role in repairing DNA damage caused by reactive oxygen species. We examined protein expression of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease before and after cold injury-induced brain trauma in mice, where we have previously shown reactive oxygen species to participate. Immunohistochemistry showed the nuclear expression of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease in the entire region of control brains. One hour after cold injury-induced brain trauma, nuclear immunoreactivity was predominantly decreased in the inner boundary of the lesion, whereas there was a slight increase in the outer boundary area. Four hours after cold injury-induced brain trauma, nuclear immunoreactivity was almost absent in the entire lesion, and remained so until 24 h. At this time, a marked increase in apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease immunoreactivity was seen in the outer boundary zone. Western blot analysis of the sample from the non-ischemic area showed a characteristic 37,000 mol. wt band, which decreased markedly 24 h after cold injury-induced brain trauma. A time-dependent increase in DNA fragmentation was also observed after cold injury-induced brain trauma. Our data provide the first evidence that apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease decreased rapidly in the lesion after cold injury-induced brain trauma, whereas it was significantly increased at the outer boundary zone. Although further examination is necessary to elucidate the direct relationship between apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease alteration and the pathogenesis of cold injury-induced brain trauma, our results suggest the possibility that an early decrease in apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease and failure of the DNA repair mechanism may contribute to DNA-damaged neuronal cell death after cold injury-induced brain trauma.
Tumor necrosis factor is a potent activator of myeloid cells, which acts via two cell-surface receptors, the p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor receptors. The present study describes the cellular distribution of both receptor messenger RNAs across the rat brain under basal conditions and in response to systemic injection with the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide and recombinant rat tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Time-related induction of the messenger RNA encoding c-fos, cyclo-oxygenase-2 enzyme and the inhibitory factor kappa B alpha was assayed as an index of activated neurons and cells of the microvasculature by intravenous tumor necrosis factor-alpha challenge. The effect of the proinflammatory cytokine on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis was determined by measuring the transcriptional activity of corticotropin-releasing factor and plasma corticosterone levels. Constitutive expression of p55 messenger RNA was detected in the circumventricular organs, choroid plexus, leptomeninges, the ependymal lining cells of the ventricular walls and along the blood vessels, whereas p75 transcript was barely detectable in the brain under basal conditions. Immunogenic insults caused up-regulation of both tumor necrosis factor receptors in barrier-associated structures, as well as over the blood vessels, an event that was associated with a robust activation of the microvasculature. Indeed, intravenous tumor necrosis factor-alpha provoked a rapid and transient transcription of inhibitory factor kappa B alpha and cyclo-oxygenase-2 within cells of the blood-brain barrier, and a dual-labeling technique provided the anatomical evidence that the endothelium of the brain capillaries expressed inhibitory factor kappa B alpha. Circulating tumor necrosis factor-alpha also rapidly stimulated c-fos expression in nuclei involved in the autonomic control, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the ventrolateral medulla. A delayed c-fos mRNA induction was detected in the circumventricular organs, organum vascularis of the lamina terminalis, the subfornical organ, the median eminence and the area postrema. The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus exhibited expression of corticotropin-releasing factor primary transcript that was associated with a sharp increase in the plasma corticosterone levels 1h after intravenous tumor necrosis factor-alpha administration. Taken together, these data provide the evidence that p55 is the most abundant tumor necrosis factor receptor in the central nervous system and is expressed in barrier-associated structures. Circulating tumor necrosis factor has the ability to directly activate the endothelium of the brain's large blood vessels and small capillaries, which may produce soluble molecules (such as prostaglandins) to vehicle the signal through parenchymal elements. The pattern of c-fos-inducible nuclei suggests complex neuronal circuits solicited by the cytokine to activate neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing factor and the corticotroph axis, a key physiological response for the appropriate control of the systemic inflammatory response.
In the rat, spinal autonomic neurons controlling penile erection receive descending pathways that modulate their activity. The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus contributes oxytocinergic fibers to the dorsal horn and preganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic cell columns. We used retrograde tracing techniques with pseudorabies virus combined with immunohistochemistry against oxytocin and radioligand binding detection of oxytocinergic receptors to evidence the oxytocinergic innervation of thoracolumbar and lumbosacral spinal neurons controlling penile erection. Spinal neurons labelled with pseudo-rabies virus transsynaptically transported from the corpus cavernosum were present in the intermediolateral cell column and the dorsal gray commissure of the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral spinal cord. Confocal laser scanning microscopic observation of the same preparations revealed close appositions between oxytocinergic varicosities and pseudorabies virus-infected neurons, suggesting strongly the presence of synaptic contacts. Electron microscopy confirmed this hypothesis. Oxytocin binding sites were present in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, the dorsal gray commissure and the intermediolateral cell column in both the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral segments. In rats, stimulation of the paraventricular nucleus induces penile erection, but the link between the nucleus and penile innervation remains unknown. Our findings support the hypothesis that oxytocin, released by descending paraventriculo-spinal pathways, activates proerectile spinal neurons.
The subunit composition of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of rat autonomic ganglia neurons was studied by means of antibodies, which differentiated between different alpha subunits and specifically blocked acetylcholine-induced membrane currents. Polyclonal rabbit antibodies and mouse monoclonal antibodies were raised against synthetic peptides matching in sequence the alpha(181-192) region of alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, and alpha7 subunits of rat neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The antibodies discriminated among alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, and alpha7 peptides in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and bound to native acetylcholine receptors expressed in PC-12 cells. By means of immunoperoxidase staining of cultured rat autonomic neurons followed by transmission, dark-field and phase-contrast microscopy, it was found that all cells of the superior cervical ganglia expressed the alpha3, alpha5, and alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, whereas approximately half of the cells were clearly alpha4-positive. In contrast, only about one-third of the intracardiac neurons were alpha3-positive, about 50% were alpha4-positive, one-seventh were alpha5-positive, and one-fifth were alpha7-positive. All antibodies tested blocked acetylcholine-induced currents in the neurons of the superior cervical ganglia as was demonstrated by whole-cell patch-clamp studies. Although each antibody could block up to 80% of the current, the degree of inhibition varied considerably from cell to cell. It is concluded that alpha3, alpha5, and alpha7 subunits are expressed in all neurons of the superior cervical ganglion and in some intracardiac neurons, whereas alpha4 subunits are expressed in some but not all neurons of both tissues. The neurons of the superior cervical ganglion express heterogeneous acetylcholine receptors and differ in relative amounts of acetylcholine receptor subtypes expressed.
Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western immunoblot analyses were performed to demonstrate the presence of beta-arrestin-1 in rat dorsal root ganglion. beta-Arrestin-1 existed as two alternatively spliced variants, although predominantly in its untruncated form. Several factors affected the visualization of the truncated version on a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel; however, the isoform was clearly detected on a two-dimensional gel. We further localized beta-arrestin-1 immunoreactivity in the sensory neurons of the 5th lumbar dorsal root ganglia. Beta-arrestin-1-immunoreactive neurons accounted for approximately 60% of the sensory neurons, and approximately 88% of the beta-Arrestin-1 immunoreactive neurons fell into a category of small neurons having a diameter of 10-30 microm. Members of the arrestin superfamily play crucial roles in the desensitization of G protein-coupled receptors. Our data demonstrating the presence of beta-arrestin-1 in the rat dorsal root ganglion at both messenger RNA and protein levels support the idea that beta-arrestin- participates in receptor desensitization in the sensory neurons. Furthermore, because small-size neurons of dorsal root ganglion are often implicated in nociception, the predominant presence of beta-arrestin-1 immunoreactivity in small-size sensory neurons suggests that beta-arrestin-1 may have a role modulating nociceptive signals.
The amyloid precursor protein undergoes proteolysis at several sites to yield a number of functionally relevant peptides, including beta-amyloid and the soluble amyloid precursor protein derivatives alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein and beta-soluble amyloid precursor protein. beta-Amyloid is the primary constituent of senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease, while a-soluble amyloid precursor protein promotes synaptogenesis and plays a role in neuroprotective processes. We tested for age-related alterations in these amyloid precursor protein proteolytically derived peptides by measuring the levels of alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein, total soluble amyloid precursor proteins (alpha- and beta-soluble amyloid precursor protein combined) and beta-amyloid in cerebrospinal fluid from three-, 13- and 23-month-old Fischer-344 rats. Western blot analysis using selective antibodies revealed 50% less total soluble amyloid precursor protein and a-soluble amyloid precursor protein in cisternal cerebrospinal fluid from 23-month-old rats compared with three- and 13-month-old animals. Mass spectrometric analysis indicated, however, that beta-amyloid in cerebrospinal fluid was not different between the three age groups. In a second group of young (five to six months of age) and aged (24-25 months of age) rats, spatial working and reference memory were assessed in a water maze followed by collection of cerebrospinal fluid. As a group, the aged rats consistently performed below the young rats in both working and reference memory tests. The aged rats also had 49% less cerebrospinal fluid alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein than did their younger counterparts. There was a positive correlation (r= 0.52-0.57, P &lt; 0.001) between performance in spatial memory tasks and cerebrospinal fluid alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein in these young and aged rats. These results suggest that there is a positive association between cerebrospinal fluid levels of alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein and cognitive performance in rats, and that alpha-soluble amyloid precursor protein may be involved in the spatial learning and memory changes that accompany ageing.
Neuropathic pain resulting from peripheral nerve injury can often be relieved by administration of alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists. Tonic activation of alpha-adrenergic receptors may therefore facilitate the hyperalgesia and allodynia associated with neuropathic pain. It is currently unclear whether alpha2A- or alpha2c-adrenergic receptor subtypes are involved in the pro-nociceptive actions of alpha-adrenergic receptors under neuropathic conditions. We therefore investigated the effects of peripheral nerve injury on the expression of these subtypes in rat spinal cord using immunohistochemical techniques. In addition, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was examined as an internal control because it has previously been shown to be up-regulated following nerve injury. We observed a decrease in alpha2A-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity in the spinal cord ipsilateral to three models of neuropathic pain: complete sciatic nerve transection, chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve and L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation. The extent of this down-regulation was significantly correlated with the magnitude of injury-induced changes in mechanical sensitivity. In contrast, alpha2c-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity was only increased in the spinal nerve ligation model; these increases did not correlate with changes in mechanical sensitivity. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was up-regulated in all models examined. Increased expression of neuropeptide Y correlated with changes in mechanical sensitivity. The decrease in alpha2A-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity and the lack of consistent changes in alpha2C-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity suggest that neither of these receptor subtypes is likely to be responsible for the abnormal adrenergic sensitivity observed following nerve injury. On the contrary, the decrease in alpha2A-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity following nerve injury may result in an attenuation of the influence of descending inhibitory noradrenergic input into the spinal cord resulting in increased excitatory transmitter release following peripheral stimuli.
The role of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) and kainate receptors in spinal nociceptive transmission in both normal animals and animals with carrageenan inflammation was investigated using the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX) and the selective GluR5 kainate receptor antagonist LY382884 [3S,4aR,6S,8aR-6-(4-carboxyphenyl)methyl-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8, 8a-deca-hydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid]. In normal animals, spinal administration of 100 microg of LY382884 produced a significant inhibition of both the C-fibre-evoked response and post-discharge of dorsal horn neurons, with the wind-up of the neurons being reduced by both 50 and 100 microg of LY382884. The spinal actions of LY382884 were enhanced following 3 h of carrageenan inflammation, such that doses of 20 microg and above were able to produce significant inhibitions of the noxious-evoked response of the neurons. Spinal administration of NBQX in normal animals (5-50 microg) inhibited the C-fibre-evoked response of the dorsal horn neurons, but only 50 microg of NBQX was able to inhibit the wind-up and post-discharge of the neurons. Following 3 h of carrageenan inflammation, the ability of NBQX to inhibit the wind-up and post-discharge of the neurons was markedly enhanced. These data suggest that both AMPA and kainate GluR5 receptors play an enhanced role in spinal nociceptive processing following the development of peripheral inflammation, as antagonists at both receptors are more effective against nociceptive responses, including wind-up under these inflammatory conditions.
Damage caused by administering glutamate into the spinal cord was characterized histologically. Glutamate destroyed neurons for several hundred micrometers around the administering microdialysis fiber. At 24 h after treatment, significant (P = 0.036) loss of neurons was observed (75%) relative to control (47%) near the fiber when glutamate was administered for 1 h at a concentration outside the fiber approximating the maximum glutamate released upon spinal cord injury. Significant loss of neurons (P = 0.006, 0.022) was also caused by administering a combination of glutamate at about its average concentration released upon injury over the 1 h period of administration in combination with the maximum aspartate concentration released upon injury. This work provides a direct demonstration that the concentrations of excitatory amino acids released upon spinal cord injury are neurotoxic. The destruction of neurons by exposure to excitatory amino acids when there is also substantial loss of neurons simply from the presence of the microdialysis fiber may reflect sensitization of neurons to excitotoxicity by stress.
The inferior colliculus is a central auditory structure which serves as a site for the integration of ascending and descending auditory information. Changes in central auditory structures may occur with acoustic exposure, which cannot be explained by alterations in cochlear function alone. Rats were exposed to a 10-kHz tone at 100 dB SPL for 9 h. Auditory brainstem response measures showed an initial 25-30-dB threshold shift across all tested frequencies. By 30 days post-exposure, thresholds for clicks and most frequencies returned to near control levels; however, thresholds remained elevated at 10 and 20 kHz. Inner hair cell loss was confined to apical and basal ends of the cochlea, and did not exceed 20%. Inferior colliculus levels of the two isoforms of the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (65,000 and 67,000 mol. wt forms) were measured immediately post-exposure (0 h) and at two and 30 days post-exposure using quantitative immunocytochemical and western blotting techniques. Zero-hour measures revealed a significant increase in the level of glutamate decarboxylase (mol. wt 67,000) protein (118%), as well as in the optical density (35%) of immunolabeled cells. By 30 days post-exposure, inferior colliculus protein levels of both glutamate decarboxylase isoforms were significantly below unexposed controls (39% and 21% for the 65,000 and 67,000 mol. wt forms, respectively). These studies describe increased markers for GABA immediately following acoustic exposure, followed by a decline to below control levels from two to 30 days post-exposure. It remains to be determined whether noise trauma-induced changes in glutamate decarboxylase levels in the inferior colliculus reflect protective up-regulation in response to intense stimulation, followed by the establishment of new neurotransmitter equilibrium levels.
The present study examined whether the expression of the messenger RNA encoding the protein responsible for acetylcholine synthesis is associated with sleep-wakefulness. Choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels were analysed using a semi-quantitative assay in which reverse transcription was coupled to complementary DNA amplification using the polymerase chain reaction. To examine the relationship between steady-state messenger RNA and behavioral activity, rats were killed during the day (4.00 p.m.) or night (4.00 a.m.), and tissue from the vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal bands of Broca was analysed. Choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels were higher during the day than during the night. The second study examined more closely the association between choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels and individual bouts of wakefulness, slow-wave sleep or rapid eye movement sleep. Choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA levels were low during wakefulness, intermediate in slow-wave sleep and high during rapid eye movement sleep. In contrast, protein activity, measured at a projection site of cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, was higher during wakefulness than during sleep. These findings suggest that choline acetyltransferase protein and messenger RNA levels exhibit an inverse relationship during sleep and wakefulness. The increased messenger RNA expression during sleep is consistent with a restorative function of sleep.
This study investigated the effect of ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist or antagonist administration into the nucleus accumbens on the maintenance of cocaine self-administration and the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The stimulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid or N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens with either alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid or 1-aminocyclobutane-cis-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, respectively, decreased the number of cocaine-reinforced responses, suggesting an enhancement in the rewarding properties of cocaine. In contrast, blockade of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid receptors with N-methyl-D-aspartate, or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with dizocilpine maleate or 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid had no selective effect on the maintenance of cocaine self-administration. Following one week of extinction from the reinforcing cue of the drug-paired lever, both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid and 1-aminocyclobutane-cis-1,3-dicarboxylic acid treatment in the nucleus accumbens reinstated cocaine-seeking behavior. However, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid treatment increased responding only on the drug-paired lever, while 1-aminocyclobutane-cis-1,3-dicarboxylic acid increased responding on both the drug-paired and non-drug-paired levers. These results suggest that stimulation of glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens augments the reinforcing effect of cocaine, yet glutamate transmission is not required to maintain cocaine self-administration. In addition, increased glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens may be involved in facilitating the relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior.
GABA(B) receptors are believed to be associated with the efferents of the nucleus reticularis thalami, which is implicated in the regulation of activity in the thalamocortical-corticothalamic circuit and plays a role in absence seizures. Yet, the distribution of GABA(B) receptors in the thalamus has only been studied in the rat, and there is no comparable information in primates. The potent GABA(B) receptor antagonist [3H]CGP 62349 was used to study the distribution and binding properties of the receptor in control monkeys and those with small ibotenic acid lesions in the anterodorsal segment of the nucleus reticularis thalami. Eight-micrometer-thick cryostat sections of the fresh frozen brains were incubated in the presence of varying concentrations of the ligand. Autoradiographs were analysed using a quantitative image analysis technique, and binding parameters were calculated for select thalamic nuclei as well as basal ganglia structures present in the same sections. The overall number of GABA(B) binding sites in the monkey thalamus and basal ganglia was several-fold higher than previously reported values for the rat. In the thalamus, the receptors were distributed rather uniformly and the binding densities and affinities were high (Bmax range of 245.5-437.9 fmol/ mg of tissue, Kd range of 0.136-0.604 nM). In the basal ganglia, the number of binding sites and the affinities were lower (Bmax range of 51.1-244.2 fmol/mg of tissue; K(d) range of 0.416-1.394 nM), and the differences between nuclei were more pronounced, with striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta displaying the highest binding densities. Seven days post-lesion, a 20-30% decrease in Bmax values (P &lt; 0.05) was found in the nuclei receiving input from the lesioned nucleus reticularis thalami sector (the mediodorsal nucleus and densicellular and magnocellular parts of the ventral anterior nucleus) without changes in affinity. No significant changes were detected in any other structures. The results of the lesioning experiments suggest that a portion of thalamic GABA(B) receptors is in a presynaptic location on the nucleus reticularis thalami efferents. The overall distribution pattern in the thalamus also suggests a partial association of GABA(B) receptors with corticothalamic terminals presynaptically.
The relationship between nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive neurons and blood vessels was investigated within the rat basal ganglia. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive cell bodies, dendrites or axon-like processes surrounding many but not all blood vessels were observed in the caudate-putamen, ventral pallidum, medial part of the globus pallidus, substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus. It is concluded that this close relationship contributes to the local vasodilator effect of nitric oxide in the regulation of blood flow in cerebral blood vessels.
We have investigated the distribution of alpha2c-adrenergic receptors in the rat striatum and characterized the striatal neuron types expressing these receptors. Sequential double-labelled immunocytochemistry was performed with a polyclonal antibody against rat alpha2c-adrenoceptors and antibodies against GABA, Calbindin-D28k, parvalbumin and calretinin. The subregional distribution of alpha2c-adrenoceptor binding sites in the striatum was also quantitatively investigated using selective radioligands. Almost all lightly stained striatal GABAergic neurons, with the morphological characteristics of medium-sized spiny projection neurons (94% of GABAergic cells counted), contained alpha2c-adrenoceptor-immunoreactive structures. Intensely labelled GABAergic inteneurons (6%) were devoid of alpha2c-adrenoceptor immunoreactivity. The co-localization of calbindin- and alpha2c-adrenoceptor immunoreactivity in the majority of the cells confirmed the presence of alpha2c-adrenoceptors in the population of medium-sized spiny neurons. Furthermore, the alpha2c-adrenoceptor/calbindin double-labelling disclosed the existence of three neuronal subsets in the matrix compartment of the striatum: a large proportion (83%) of double-labelled neurons, a population of neurons (8%) that exhibited only alpha2c-adrenoceptor immunoreactivity without calbindin immunoreactivity, and a population of neurons (9%) immunoreactive for calbindin, but lacking alpha2c-adrenoceptors. In addition, alpha2c-adrenoceptor immunolabelled neurons were observed in calbindin-free striatal patches. Parvalbumin- and calretinin-positive neurons never displayed alpha2c-adrenoceptor immunoreactivity, confirming that striatal GABAergic interneurons are devoid of alpha2c-adrenoceptors. The present findings indicate that alpha2c-adrenoceptors are localized in GABAergic medium-sized spiny projection neurons but not in interneurons of the rat striatum, and that they may modulate both the direct and indirect pathways of the basal ganglia, as well as participate in the regulation of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons.
The activity-dependent induction of immediate-early genes is commonly used to map activated neuronal networks. In a previous analysis of the cortico-basal ganglia circuits, we have shown that a cortical stimulation produces Fos protein expression in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus, with a pattern which conforms to the anatomical organization of cortical projections [Sgambato V. et al. (1996) Neuroscience 81, 93-112]. In the present study, we examined the effects of a unilateral blockade of the corticostriatal transmission on c-fos and zif 268 messenger RNA expression evoked in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the subthalamic nucleus following stimulation of the ipsilateral motor cortex. The blockade of the corticostriatal pathway was performed either by an excitotoxic striatal lesion or by an application of the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione within the striatum. After application of the glutamate receptor antagonist, which prevented the cortical stimulation activating the GABAergic striatonigral pathway, the induction of both c-fos and zif 268 messenger RNAs was facilitated in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata. In the subthalamic nucleus ipsilateral to the application of 6-cyano7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, the cellular discharges evoked by stimulation of the cortex were considerably shortened as a result of the blockade of the disinhibitory striato-pallido-subthalamic circuit. However, a strong expression of immediate-early genes was still induced by the cortical stimulation. By contrast, after unilateral kainate lesion of the striatum, the cortical stimulation was no longer able to induce c-fos and zif 268 messenger RNA expression in the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus and in the substantia nigra pars reticulata bilaterally. The lack of immediate-early gene induction strongly contrasted with the neuronal discharges evoked in these nuclei by the cortical stimulation. Comparison between the cortically evoked neuronal activities and the pattern of immediate-early gene expression suggests that the induction of immediate-early genes in the basal ganglia mainly reflects the level of synaptic activity rather than the frequency of discharge of the postsynaptic neurons. Moreover, the results stress that modifications of immediate-early gene expression observed in the basal ganglia after an acute or a chronic interruption of the corticostriatal transmission are not superimposable.
The processes of neuronal differentiation and survival are key questions in neurobiology. The olfactory system possesses unique regenerative capacity, as its neurons are continually replaced throughout adulthood from a maintained population of precursor cells. Primary cultures of olfactory epithelium enriched in olfactory neurons would provide a useful model to study the processes of neurogenesis, differentiation and senescence. To determine whether immature olfactory neurons could be isolated in primary culture and to investigate the mechanisms underlying these processes, culture conditions which selectively favored the presence of immature olfactory neurons were optimized. Using low plating densities, a population of cells was identified which, by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, demonstrated messages for olfactory neuronal markers, including Golf, olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel and olfactory marker protein, as well as the p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that these putative immature olfactory neurons possessed immunoreactivity to G(olf), neuron-specific tubulin, neural cell adhesion molecule, synaptophysin and neurofilament. These neurons were defined as olfactory receptor neuron-1 cells. Under these conditions, a separate class of rarely occurring cells with different morphology demonstrated immunoreactivity to mature markers, such as adenylyl cyclase III and olfactory marker protein. Electrophysiologically, these cells displayed properties consistent with those of acutely dissociated olfactory receptor neurons. Another class of rarer cells which represented less than 2% of cells in culture demonstrated immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein. These cultures can serve as a model for in vitro analysis of olfactory receptor neuronal development and maintenance, and provide a potential substrate for the development of cell lines.
Olfactory learning in young rats correlates with neural plasticity in the olfactory bulb, and involves noradrenergic modulation of reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between mitral cells and GABAergic granule cells. The purpose of this study was to examine, in vivo, the consequences of manipulating bulbar GABA transmission during training. In the first experiment, postnatal day 11 rat pups were trained in an olfactory associative learning task with citral odor and foot shock as the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli, respectively. The pups received continuous infusion of saline or the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol into the olfactory bulbs throughout a 30-min training session. The pups were then tested on postnatal day 12 for a preference for or an aversion to citral odor. Saline-infused control pups developed an aversion to citral odor. The GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol impaired this aversive learning in a dose-dependent manner. In the second experiment, pups were exposed to the odor for 30 min while receiving continuous intrabulbar infusion of a low or high dose of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, without any other reinforcer. Depending on whether a low (0.2 nmol/bulb) or high (1.0 nmol/bulb) dose of bicuculline was infused, the pups showed a preference or an aversion for citral odor after infusion of low and high doses, respectively. These results indicate that disinhibition of mitral cells in the olfactory bulb is critical for olfactory learning in young rats, and suggest that the degree of disinhibition is an important determinant in acquiring either preference or aversion for the conditioned odor.
Protein kinase C has been implicated in long-term regulation of cellular functions including induction and maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation. In the present study the time-course of long-term potentiation-induced translocation of Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase C isoenzymes (PKCalpha/beta and PKCgamma) was investigated. Quantitative immunoblot analysis was used to measure translocation of these isoenzymes between cytosolic, membrane-associated and membrane-inserted fraction at 5, 15 and 60 min after induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus in vivo. To investigate the involvement of metabotropic glutamate receptors in protein kinase C regulation during long-term potentiation induction, additional animals were treated before tetanization with (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, an antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors. Brief tetanic stimulation of the perforant path resulted in a 100-150% increase in the population spike amplitude in response to test stimuli 5, 15 or 60 min after stimulation in both untreated and (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine-treated animals. Only those rats showing clear potentiation were selected for further biochemical analysis of the potentiated dentate gyrus. Five minutes after high-frequency stimulation the subcellular distribution of all studied protein kinase C isoenzymes was unchanged compared with controls. PKC-gamma translocated into the cytosol 15 min after tetanization and this redistribution was blocked by (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylgly-cine pretreatment. By contrast, PKC alpha/beta levels increased in the cytosolic fraction only 60 min after tetanization, but in a (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine-independent manner. In an additional set of experiments it was shown that (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine alone applied intraventricularly had no effect on the subcellular distribution of the studied isoenzymes. The data suggest that PKCalpha/beta and PKCgamma are activated during different post-tetanic phases and metabotropic glutamate receptor activation might be essential for tetanus-induced translocation of postsynaptic PKCgamma only.
Neuronal activity was recorded from the anterior cingulate cortex of behaving rats during discrimination and learning of conditioned stimuli associated with or without reinforcements. The rats were trained to lick a protruding spout just after a conditioned stimulus to obtain reward (intracranial self-stimulation or sucrose solution) or to avoid aversion. The conditioned stimuli included both elemental (auditory or visual stimuli) and configural (simultaneous presentation of auditory and visual stimuli predicting reward outcome opposite to that predicted by each stimulus presented alone) stimuli. Of the 62 anterior cingulate neurons responding during the task, 38 and four responded differentially and non-differentially to the conditioned stimuli (conditioned stimulus-related neurons), respectively. Of the 38 differential conditioned stimulus-related neurons, 33 displayed excitatory (n = 10) and inhibitory (n = 23) responses selectively to the conditioned stimuli predicting reward. These excitatory and inhibitory differential conditioned stimulus-related neurons were located mainly in the cingulate cortex areas 1 and 3 of the rostral and ventral parts of the anterior cingulate cortex, respectively. The remaining 20 neurons responded mainly during intracranial self-stimulation and/or ingestion of sucrose (ingestion/intracranial self-stimulation-related neurons). Increase in activity of the ingestion/intracranial self-stimulation-related neurons was correlated to the first lick to obtain rewards during the task, suggesting that the activity reflected some aspects of motor functions for learned instrumental behaviors. These ingestion/intracranial self-stimulation-related neurons were located sparsely in cingulate cortex area 1 of the rostral part of the anterior cingulate cortex and densely in frontal area 2 of the caudal and dorsal parts of the anterior cingulate cortex. Analysis by the multidimensional scaling of responses of 38 differential conditioned stimulus-related neurons indicated that the anterior cingulate cortex categorized the conditioned stimuli into three groups based on reward contingency, regardless of the physical characteristics of the stimuli, in a two-dimensional space; the three conditioned (two elemental and one configural) stimuli predicting sucrose solution, the three conditioned (two elemental and one configural) stimuli predicting no reward, and the lone conditioned stimulus predicting intracranial self-stimulation. The results suggest that the anterior cingulate cortex is organized topographically; stimulus attributes predicting reward or no reward are represented in the rostral and ventral parts of the anterior cingulate cortex, while the caudal and dorsal parts of the anterior cingulate cortex are related to execution of learned instrumental behaviors. These results are in line with recent neuropsychological studies suggesting that the rostral part of the anterior cingulate cortex plays a crucial role in socio-emotional behaviors by assigning a positive or negative value to future outcomes.
The relationship between discharge rates of locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons and rates of norepinephrine release was examined in the anesthetized rat. Neuronal discharge rates of locus coeruleus neurons were altered and quantified using a combined recording-infusion probe. Peri-locus coeruleus infusions of either the cholinergic agonist, bethanechol, or the alpha2-agonist, clonidine, were used to enhance or suppress neuronal discharge activity, respectively. Alterations in concentrations of extracellular norepinephrine within the prefrontal cortex were determined using in vivo microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. A linear relationship between locus coeruleus activity and norepinephrine dialysate concentration was observed between complete suppression of locus coeruleus discharge activity and approximately 300-400% of basal discharge levels (1.58+/-0.29 Hz). Above these levels, increases in locus coeruleus discharge rates were not accompanied by similar increases in dialysate norepinephrine concentrations. In general, neither activation nor suppression of locus coeruleus neuronal discharge rates appeared to alter the relationship between discharge activity and norepinephrine efflux during subsequent epochs. The one exception to this was observed during recovery from relatively high-magnitude locus coeruleus activation. In two out of three cases in which locus coeruleus discharge rates were increased greater than 450%, a recovery of norepinephrine concentrations to basal levels occurred more quickly than the recovery of locus coeruleus neuronal discharge rates to basal levels. Although limited, these latter observations suggest that dysregulation of norepinephrine release may occur following sustained activation of locus coeruleus at the highest rates examined, which may mimic those associated with intense arousal or stress.
The serotonin1A receptor partial agonist, buspirone, also displays antagonist properties at D2 receptors and is metabolized to the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, 1-(2-pyrimidinyl-piperazine). Herein, we examined mechanisms underlying the influence of buspirone alone, and in association with the serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine, upon extracellular levels of serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline simultaneously quantified in the frontal cortex of freely moving rats. Buspirone (0.01-2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently decreased dialysate levels of serotonin (-50%), and increased those of dopamine (+100%) and noradrenaline (+140%). The reduction by buspirone of serotonin levels was abolished by the serotonin1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100,635 (0.16), which did not, however, modify its influence upon dopamine and noradrenaline. In contrast to buspirone, the serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine (10.0), increased frontocortical levels of serotonin (+ 120%), dopamine (+55%) and noradrenaline (+90%). Buspirone dose-dependently (0.01-2.5) decreased the induction by fluoxetine of serotonin levels yet potentiated (three-fold) its elevation of dopamine and noradrenaline levels. The serotonin1A agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino)-tetralin (0.16), mimicked the action of buspirone in reducing resting levels of serotonin (-60%) and in enhancing those of dopamine (+135%) and noradrenaline (+165%). Like buspirone, it attenuated the influence of fluoxetine upon serotonin levels, yet facilitated its influence upon dopamine and noradrenaline levels. In contrast, WAY 100,635 selectively potentiated the increase in levels of serotonin (two-fold) versus dopamine and noradrenaline elicited by fluoxetine. Further, WAY 100,635 abolished the inhibitory influence of buspirone upon fluoxetine-induced serotonin release, but only partly interfered with its potentiation of fluoxetine-induced increases in dopamine and noradrenaline levels. The D2/D3 receptor antagonist, raclopride (0.16), increased basal dopamine (+60%) levels but little influenced those of serotonin and noradrenaline, and failed to modify the action of fluoxetine. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, 1-(2-pyrimidinyl-piperazine) (2.5), which did not modify resting levels of serotonin, markedly increased those of dopamine (+90%) and noradrenaline (+190%) and potentiated (two-fold) the increases in dialysate levels of dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin provoked by fluoxetine. Further, the alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, S18616, attenuated the enhancement by buspirone of the fluoxetine-induced increase in levels of dopamine and noradrenaline. In conclusion, the inhibitory influence of buspirone upon resting and fluoxetine-stimulated serotonin levels reflects its agonist properties at serotonin1A autoreceptors. The facilitatory influence of buspirone upon resting and fluoxetine-stimulated dopamine and noradrenaline levels may also involve its serotonin1A properties. However, its principal mechanism of action in this respect is probably the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist properties of its metabolite, 1-(2-pyrimidinyl-piperazine). The present observations are of significance to experimental and clinical studies of the influence of buspirone upon depressive states, alone and in association with antidepressant agents.
Use-dependent depression of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was investigated with intracellular recordings and the paired-pulse paradigm in rat neocortical neurons in vitro. Pairs of stimuli invariably reduced the second inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A (GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential) of a pair; at interstimulus intervals of 500 ms, the amplitude of the second inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A was considerably smaller than the first (36.2 +/- 6.2%, n= 17). Decreasing the interstimulus interval reduced the second inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A further and with interstimulus intervals shorter than 330 ms the compound excitatory postsynaptic potential-inhibitory postsynaptic potential response reversed from a hyperpolarizing to a depolarizing response. The depression of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A exhibited a maximum at interstimulus intervals near 150 ms and recovered with a time constant of 282 +/- 96.2 ms. Elimination of excitatory transmission by the application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid yielded an essentially unaltered time-course of paired-pulse depression (maximum depression near 150 ms, time constant of recovery 232 +/- 98 ms). The polarity change of the compound excitatory postsynaptic potential response at shorter interstimulus intervals was abolished in the presence of CNQX and D(- )-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. CNQX and D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid also reduced the apparent depolarizing shift of the reversal potential between the first and second inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A from about 6 mV to less than 2 mV. Application of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55845A in the presence of CNQX and (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid abolished the inhibitory postsynaptic potential-B and paired-pulse depression. Under these conditions, the amplitude of the second inhibitory postsynaptic potential was, on average, about 90% of the first, i.e. reduced by about 10%. The second inhibitory postsynaptic potential-A was approximately constant at interstimulus intervals between 100 and 500 ms. It is concluded that paired-pulse depression of cortical inhibition is predominantly mediated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors of GABAergic interneurons. The abolition of net inhibition at interstimulus intervals near 330 ms may facilitate spread of excitation and neuronal synchrony during repetitive cortical activation near 3 Hz. This use-dependent depression of inhibition may contribute to highly synchronized slow electroencephalogram activity during spike-and-wave or delta activity.
Experimental cortical photothrombosis leads to pronounced alterations in the binding density of [3H]muscimol and [3H]baclofen to GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, both in the lesioned and the structurally intact cortex. The binding density of [3H]muscimol to GABA(A) receptors was markedly increased in the &quot;core&quot; of the lesion during the first week, reaching a maximum on the third day post-lesion. Simultaneously, it dropped in the exofocal primary somatosensory cortex. Reductions in the binding density of [3H]muscimol were also found in remote cortical areas of the contralateral hemisphere and lasted for several weeks. In contrast to the down-regulation of apparent binding density of [3H]muscimol, a long-lasting up-regulation of that of [3H]baclofen to GABA(B) receptors was measured in the exofocal primary somatosensory cortex and in remote cortical areas of both hemispheres. The greatest increase in the binding density of [3H]baclofen was seen on the seventh day in the surroundings of the lesion. Our findings indicate that widespread alterations in the concentrations of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors are induced in remote cortical areas by a focal ischaemic lesion. Since GABA(A) receptor affinity is regulated by nitric oxide, we suggest that the observed down-regulation of GABA(A) receptors may be correlated with a lesion-induced increase in nitric oxide, whereas the up-regulation of GABAB receptors might be caused by other mechanisms, e.g., compensatory processes. In the centre of the lesion, however, a GABA(A) receptor-mediated mechanism, which limits the spread of lesion-induced hyperexcitability, is thought to be involved.
Long-term changes in synaptic transmission in slices of rat visual cortex were induced either by pairing the excitatory postsynaptic potentials with postsynaptic depolarization or by intracellular tetanization without synaptic stimulation. Changes in the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude induced by any of the protocols applied in isolation persisted for longer than 1 h. Pairing-induced long-term potentiation was input specific. We studied the interaction between intracellular tetanization and pairing-induced plasticity by applying the two protocols one after the other at 10-min intervals. The pairing procedure applied after intracellular tetanization did not lead to any further potentiation, but to a depotentiation of the potentiated inputs. A second pairing protocol applied 10 min later led to further depotentiation, while previously unaffected inputs became weakly depressed. If intracellular tetanization was applied after the pairing procedure, the synaptic responses did not change immediately, but a slow return of the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude to the control level could be observed. Therefore, intracellular tetanization is not capable of inducing further potentiation after pairing, and pairing cannot further potentiate the inputs which have already been potentiated by intracellular tetanization. The maintenance of long-term potentiation induced by any of the protocols was impaired by successive application of another procedure. These results suggest a similarity of the mechanisms of synaptic changes induced by the two protocols and demonstrate that the direction of synaptic gain change depends on the history of the synapse.
The serotonergic system is considered as a neuromodulatory system interacting with other neurotransmissions in the brain and participating in the elaboration of an adapted response of the central nervous system to external stimuli. Indeed, serotonin is involved in a large number of physiological events, such as temperature regulation, sleep, learning and memory, behaviour, sexual function, hormonal secretions and immune activity, and in parallel, it is also implicated in pathological disorders particularly in stress, anxiety, aggressivity and depression. At least 14 different types of serotonin receptors mediate serotonergic activity and among them, serotonin-1B receptors play an important role in the control of the serotonergic function. Serotonin-1B receptors are autoreceptors localized on serotonergic neuron terminals (varicosities) where they inhibit the evoked release of serotonin and its biosynthesis; they are also heteroreceptors located on non-serotonergic terminals, where they inhibit the release of the corresponding neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, GABA, noradrenaline, etc.). 5-Hydroxytryptamine-moduline, an endogenous tetrapeptide (Leu-Ser-Ala-Leu) recently isolated and characterized from rat and bovine brain extracts, was shown to specifically interact with serotonin1B receptors as an allosteric modulator having antagonistic properties in vitro and in vivo. Immuncytochemical studies using specific polyclonal anti-peptide antibodies have shown that this peptide is distributed heterogeneously in mouse brain and located in areas which also contain serotonin-1B receptors. Moreover, the content of these cerebral tissues in 5-hydroxytryptamine-moduline is affected by stress. In the present work, polyclonal anti-5-hydroxytryptamine-moduline antibodies were administered to mice via intracerebroventricular injections to study the in vivo effects of a lowering (or suppression) of this neuropeptide in the central nervous system. The inactivation of the peptide by the specific antibodies significantly modified the behaviour of the animals in two behavioural tests, the open-field and elevated plus-maze, known to be animal models related to anxiety behaviour. Treated mice displayed behaviour consistent with an anxiolytic effect of the antibody, suggesting a potential role of 5-hydroxytryptamine-moduline in the control of anxiety.
An essential role for caspases in programmed neuronal cell death has been demonstrated in various in vitro studies, and synthetic caspase inhibitors have recently been shown to prevent neuronal cell loss in animal models of focal cerebral ischemia and traumatic brain injury, respectively. The therapeutic utility of caspase inhibitors, however, will depend on preservation of both structural and functional integrity of neurons under stressful conditions. The present study demonstrates that expression and proteolytic activity of caspase-3 is up-regulated in the rat hippocampus after transient forebrain ischemia. Continuous i.c.v. infusion of the caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp(OMe)-Glu(OMe)-Val-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethyl ketone significantly attenuated caspase-3-like enzymatic activity, and blocked delayed cell loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons after ischemia. Administration of N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp(OMe)-Glu(OMe)-Val-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethyl ketone, however, did not prevent impairment of induction of long-term potentiation in post-ischemic CA1 cells, suggesting that caspase inhibition alone does not preserve neuronal functional plasticity.
Hyperpolarization-activated inward currents were studied in single adult cockroach Periplaneta americana pacemaker neurosecretory cells, identified as dorsal unpaired median neurons using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Under current clamp, injection of negative current produced a hyperpolarization of the cell membrane with a sag in the membrane potential toward the resting value. Under voltage clamp, the whole-cell current-voltage relationship exhibited an unexpected biphasic aspect. The global hyperpolarization-activated inward current could be dissociated by means of 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and tetraethylammonium chloride sensitivity, ionic selectivity, voltage dependence and activation threshold as inward potassium and calcium-sensitive chloride currents. The inward potassium current was activated around -80 mV. The reversal potential followed the potassium equilibrium potential when the extracellular potassium concentration was raised. This current was not dependent on the external sodium concentration and was sensitive to 10 mM tetraethylammonium chloride or 5 mM barium chloride. The hyperpolarization-activated inward calcium-sensitive chloride current was activated in a range of potential 20 mV more positive than the potassium current. The estimated reversal potential (-71 mV) was very close to the equilibrium potential for chloride ions ( 73 mV). Intracellularly applied 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and external application of 1 mM zinc chloride, calcium-free saline or high concentrations of intracellular 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate blocked the inward chloride current. Current-clamp experiments indicated that the inward potassium current accounted for inward rectification of dorsal unpaired median neurons. Our findings report, for the first time in pacemaker neurosecretory cells, the co-existence of two distinct hyperpolarization-activated inward currents which have specialized function in pacemaker activity.
Initial experiments to evaluate the in vivo fate(s) of constitutively proliferating subependymal cells determined that, following in vivo labeling of this population by infection with a retrovirus containing a beta-galactosidase reporter gene, there was a progressive and eventually complete loss of histochemically beta-galactosidase-positive cells within the lateral ventricle subependyma with increasing survival times of up to 28 days after retroviral infection. Subsequent experiments were designed to ascertain the potential contributions of: (i) the migration of subependymal cells away from the forebrain lateral ventricles; and (ii) the down-regulation of the retroviral reporter gene expression. Retroviral lineage tracing experiments demonstrate that a major in vivo fate for constitutively proliferating subependymal cells is their rostral migration away from the walls of the lateral ventricle to the olfactory bulb. Although down-regulation of retroviral reporter gene expression does not contribute to the loss of detection of beta-galactosidase-labeled cells from the lateral ventricle subependyma, it does result in an underestimation of the absolute number of retrovirally labeled cells in the olfactory bulb at longer survival times. Furthermore, a temporal decrease in the double labeling of beta-galactosidase-labeled cells with [3H]thymidine was observed, indicating that only a subpopulation of the migratory subependymal-derived cells continue to actively proliferate en route to the olfactory bulb. These two events may contribute to the lack of a significant increase in the total number of retrovirally labeled subependymal cells during rostral migration. Evidence from separately published studies suggests that cell death is also an important regulator of the size of the constitutively proliferating subependymal population. In summary, in vivo studies utilizing retroviral reporter gene labeling demonstrate that constitutively proliferating subependymal cells born in the lateral ventricle migrate rostrally to the olfactory bulb. Loss of proliferation potential and retroviral reporter gene down-regulation contribute to the lack of any significant increase in the total number of labeled cells recovered in the olfactory bulb.
In this study, we investigated the cellular distribution of iron in the brain of Belgrade rats. These rats have a mutation in Divalent Metal Transporter 1, which has been implicated in iron transport from endosomes. The Belgrade rats have iron-positive pyramidal neurons, but these are fewer in number and less intensely stained than in controls. In the white matter, iron is normally present in patches of intensely iron-stained oligodendrocytes and myelin, but there is dramatically less iron staining in the Belgrade rat. Those oligodendrocytes that stained for iron did so strongly and were associated with blood vessels. Astrocytic iron staining was seen in the cerebral cortex for both normal rats and Belgrade rats, but the iron-stained astrocytes were less numerous in the mutants. Iron staining in tanycytes, modified astrocytes coursing from the third ventricle to the hypothalamus, was not affected in the Belgrade rat, but was affected by diet. The results of this study indicate that Divalent Metal Transporter 1 is important to iron transport in the brain. Iron is essential in the brain for basic metabolic processes such as heme formation, neurotransmitter production and ATP synthesis. Excess brain iron is associated with a number of common neurodegenerative diseases. Consequently, elucidating the mechanisms of brain iron delivery is critical for understanding the role of iron in pathological conditions.
In humans the regulation of cellular copper homeostasis is essential for proper organ development and function. A novel cytosolic protein, named Atox 1, was recently identified in yeast that functions in shuttling intracellular mononuclear copper [Cu(I)] to copper-requiring proteins. Atox 1 and its human homolog, hAtox1, are members of an emerging family of proteins termed copper chaperones that are involved in the maintenance of copper homeostasis. Northern blot analysis demonstrates that Atox 1 is widely expressed at varying levels in a variety of rat tissues including brain. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we characterized the expression profile for the rat homolog of Atox1 (rAtox1) in the normal adult rat brain. There is widespread expression within the brain that appears to be primarily neuronal. The highest levels of Atox1 message consists of distinct neuronal subtypes that are also characterized by their high levels of metals like copper, iron, and zinc, which include the pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in addition to the neurons of the locus coeruleus. The high levels of a metal chaperone like Atox1 in subsets of neurons that also sequester metals suggests that Atox1 may be important in maintaining the functionality of metal requiring enzymes. A detailed analysis of the restricted expression profile for a novel copper chaperone, rAtox1, is described in the adult rat CNS. Further analysis shows that Atoxl expression is associated with neuronal populations that sequester copper.
The susceptibility to develop cortically induced focal and generalized seizures was examined in Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS), an inbred strain of Wistar rats with absence epilepsy. A GABA-withdrawal syndrome induced after suppression of a 2-h intracortical GABA infusion was used as a model of focal epileptogenesis: localized cortical discharges appear at the infusion site within 1 h. GAERS were more prone to develop a GABA-withdrawal syndrome than non-epileptic inbred controls and non-selected Wistar rats. After a transient suppression of absence seizures following GABA infusion in GAERS, generalized spike-and-wave discharges and focal spikes were recorded simultaneously in the cortex. GAERS also showed a higher incidence of systemic pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions at the dose of 25 mg/kg. Higher doses had similar convulsant effects in all groups. In conclusion, the results confirm a genetic susceptibility in GAERS and/or resistance in inbred non-epileptic rats to focal and generalized seizures involving the cortex. Rats with absence epilepsy appear to be more prone to seizures elicited by cortical GABA deficiency.
Primary cultures of cerebral neurons of Sprague-Dawley rats increased cyclic GMP production in response to the stimulation of excitatory amino acids, including N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate, kainate and (+/-)-1-aminocylopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid. This increased cyclic GMP production was significantly inhibited by halothane or isoflurane at clinically relevant concentrations (0.5-2%). This inhibition was reversible by treatment with L-arginine, the substrate of nitric oxide synthase. However, the increase of cyclic GMP production stimulated by sodium nitroprusside, an activator of soluble guanylate cyclase, was not inhibited by halothane or isoflurane. Neither halothane nor isoflurane affected the basal cyclic GMP production. Activation of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter-stimulated nitric oxide-guanylate cyclase signaling pathway increases intracellular cyclic GMP content in neurons. Our results suggest that halothane or isoflurane inhibited this signaling pathway stimulated by selective agonists of each subtype of receptors for excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters. This inhibition may be involved in mechanisms of anesthesia and analgesia. The site(s) of the inhibition is (are) proximal to the activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase.
GABAergic neurons occur in the myenteric plexus and submucosa and their innervations of the gut, where GABA stimulates motor neurons, and non-neural cells via &quot;central type&quot; GABA(A) receptors. These receptors occur on half of the neurons in the rat intestine. The GABA(A) receptor is a ligand-gated chloride channel constructed from different subunit families (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon). In rat these exist as subtypes, alpha1-6, beta1-3, gamma1-3 and delta, defining the clinically relevant pharmacological features of GABA(A) receptors. However, the identity, distribution, and abundance of enteric GABA(A) receptor subunits are unknown. To identify and map the regional expression of GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs in the enteric nervous system, we assayed enteric RNA from the ileum of Sprague-Dawley rats by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for alpha1-6, beta 1-3, gamma1-3, and delta subunit messenger RNAs. Subunit messenger RNA localization, was probed by in situ hybridization. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of RNA from myenteric and submucosal nerve layers revealed the expression alpha1, alpha3, beta2, beta3, gamma1 and gamma3 subunit messenger RNAs. Little alpha4 and alpha6 and no alpha2, beta1, gamma2 or delta subunit messenger RNA were detected. In situ hybridization revealed that transcripts for alpha1, alpha3, alpha5 and beta2 subunits occur in both myenteric and submucous ganglia. However, beta3 messenger RNA was found only in myenteric plexus. The gamma1 subunit messenger RNA was also restricted to the cells in the myenteric plexus while gamma3 was found in cells of both nerve layers. In this study of the subunit messenger RNA expression profile of GABA(A) receptors within the enteric nerve layers we show an abundant, diverse and widespread distribution that is unique in comparison to the CNS. The distinctive and heterogeneous distribution of enteric GABA(A) subunits may be important in the integration of neural control of gut function.
In adult male rats many pelvic autonomic ganglion cells change in structure and function after androgen deprivation. In this study we have investigated whether preganglionic neurons in the lumbar and sacral spinal cord that innervate these ganglion cells are also androgen-sensitive. Numerous spinal neurons retrogradely labelled from the pelvic ganglion possessed androgen receptor immunoreactivity and this was diminished by castration or enhanced by additional testosterone exposure. These comprised 27-77% of all preganglionic neurons innervating the pelvic ganglion, depending on the spinal level and whether animals were administered testosterone prior to sacrifice or not. When adult animals were castrated, no change occurred in the soma size or number of primary dendrites in these lumbar or sacral preganglionic neurons. Mean dendrite length was also determined in lumbar preganglionic neurons supplying the pelvic ganglion, but was not affected by castration. However, the total volume of lumbar preganglionic terminal varicosities supplying each noradrenergic pelvic ganglion cell decreased in parallel with the volume of the target neuron. These studies show that many preganglionic autonomic neurons involved in pelvic reflexes are androgen-sensitive, but that androgens selectively influence particular neuronal compartments. The prevalence of androgen receptors in these neurons suggests that testosterone may directly influence gene expression of preganglionic neurons. Together these studies suggest that testosterone (or a metabolite) has widespread actions on pelvic reflex circuits during adulthood and that under conditions of diminished circulating androgens a variety of reflex activities may not function optimally.
Transient paralysis of the soleus muscle in neonatal rats leads to permanent muscle weakness, loss of muscle fibres and motoneuron death. Application of leupeptin, an inhibitor of a calcium-activated neutral protease, to the neuromuscular junction is known to enhance the maintenance of neuromuscular contacts during development and axonal sprouting. Here, we show that treatment of soleus muscles with leupeptin as they recover from a period of paralysis rescues motoneurons that would otherwise die. The number of motoneurons to the soleus muscle was established by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase eight to 10 weeks after recovery from paralysis. There were only 38.4 (+/-2.8 S.E.M., n=5) motoneurons innervating the soleus muscle that had been paralysed with alpha-bungarotoxin, compared to 58.2 (+/-3.1 S.E.M., n=5) to the control untreated soleus. Thus, the number of motoneurons to the soleus muscle on the alpha-bungarotoxin-treated side was 66.9% (+/-6.2% S.E.M., n=5) of the control side. In those animals where paralysis of the soleus muscle was followed three days later by treatment with leupeptin, the number of labelled motoneurons on the treated side of the spinal cord was 61.5 (+/-4.6 S.E.M., n=4) and that on the contralateral untreated control side was 59 (+/-3.8 S.E.M., n=4). This improvement in motoneuron survival in the leupeptin-treated animals is also confirmed by counts of the number of motor units in the soleus muscle obtained by recording muscle tension. In animals that had their soleus muscles paralysed at birth, only 21 (+/-0.7 S.E.M., n=5) motor units were present, compared to 30 motor units in control muscles. When the paralysed soleus muscle was subsequently treated with leupeptin, the number of remaining motor units in the muscle was 29.8 (+/- 1.0 S.E.M., n=5). In addition, the force output of the soleus muscles that had undergone a period of neonatal paralysis was calculated for both the NaCl- and leupeptin-treated animals. The results showed that paralysis at birth results in a reduction in weight and force output of the soleus muscle, which is not improved following treatment with leupeptin. This study shows that application of leupeptin to the soleus muscle after alpha-bungarotoxin-induced paralysis rescues motoneurons to the soleus that would otherwise die. This effect is most likely due to stabilization of their neuromuscularjunctions.
Ethanol withdrawal is a physiopathological state associated with increased number and function of N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors. We assessed the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation on the extracellular levels of glutamate in vivo by the focal application of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the striatum of dependent rats following withdrawal from chronic treatment with ethanol. In control, chronic sucrose-treated rats, 800 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate increased glutamate levels to 268% of baseline values. In ethanol-withdrawn animals, 12 h after interruption of the chronic treatment, the application of N-methyl-D-aspartate increased glutamate levels to 598% of baseline values. In ethanol-intoxicated rats N-methyl-D-aspartate was ineffective. Concentration-response curves showed that in ethanol withdrawn animals N-methyl-D-aspartate was five-fold more potent than in controls. In withdrawn animals, the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine (1.0 mg/kg i.p.) or ethanol (5 g/kg i.g.) markedly reduced the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced increase in glutamate levels. These results are consistent with the up-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by chronic ethanol and add biochemical evidence for the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors facilitating glutamate release through a positive feedback mechanism. The glutamate-induced, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated elevations of extracellular glutamate may constitute a neurochemical substrate for the neuropathological alterations associated with alcoholism.
Glutamatergic regulation of neurofilament expression, phosphorylation and accumulation in cultured spinal cord neurons was studied. At seven days in culture, 0.15% of the neurons were immunoreactive for non-phosphorylated neurofilaments, but essentially no cells immunoreactive for phosphorylated neurofilaments were seen. The number and size of the immunoreactive cells in culture corresponded well to those of rat and human spinal cord neurons in vivo. In spinal cord cultures, sublethal, long-lasting stimulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)/kainate or metabotrophic receptors, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, dose-dependently increased the number of non-phosphorylated neurofilament-immunoreactive cells, which was blocked by nifedipine, an antagonist of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. Stimulation of kainate or all non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors decreased the expression of medium-molecular-weight neurofilament messenger RNA. Blockade of AMPA/kainate receptors, but not of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, increased the amount of phosphorylated neurofilament protein and the number of phosphorylated neurofilament-immunoreactive cell bodies. The phosphorylated neurofilament-immunoreactive cell population was different from the non-phosphorylated neurofilament-immunoreactive neurons, which lost their axonal non-phosphorylated neurofilament immunoreactivity but showed intense cytoplasmic labeling in response to the blockade of AMPA/ kainate receptors. Immunoreactivity for phosphoserine did not change upon glutamate receptor stimulation and blockade. The results show that activation of AMPA/kainate receptors decreases the expression of neurofilament messenger RNA and neurofilament phosphorylation in spinal cord neurons by a mechanism involving active voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. Blockade of these receptors seems to disturb axonal neurofilament transport. Because AMPA/kainate receptors mediate chronic glutamatergic death of spinal motor neurons and these receptors have been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the observed alteration in neurofilament phosphorylation and distribution may contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic motor neuron diseases.
In view of the widespread use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for treatment of inflammatory pain, we determined the effects of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, indomethacin, on dorsal horn neurons in the rat spinal cord in vivo. At 2.0-12.0 mg/kg (i.v.), indomethacin depressed the responses of spinal dorsal horn neurons to the effects of iontophoretic application of substance P, N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate. As indomethacin inhibits cyclo-oxygenase, these are the first data linking prostanoids and possibly arachidonic acid and other eicosanoids to the effects of substance P and glutamate in the spinal dorsal horn. As responses to iontophoretic application can be assumed to have been postsynaptic and as indomethacin had an effect generalized to all excitatory responses, we suggest a postsynaptic site for cyclo-oxygenase. We also suggest that elements in the cyclo-oxygenase signal transduction pathway may thus mediate at least some of the effects of substance P and glutamate receptor activation. Activation of the cyclo-oxygenase pathway in CNS neurons is Ca2- dependent, and activation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and substance P receptors increases intracellular Ca2+. This led to the expectation that indomethacin would have a greater effect on responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate than to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate, but the reverse was observed. Thus, in addition to a mediator role, we hypothesize that an element(s) of the cyclo-oxygenase pathway may regulate the efficacy of excitation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors and perhaps other membrane-bound receptors. The cyclo-oxygenase signal transduction pathway thus appears to play at least two major roles in regulation of sensory processing in the spinal cord. Therefore, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, via cyclo-oxygenase inhibition, may have multiple actions in control of spinal sensory mechanisms.
The activity of 68 neurons, mainly Purkinje cells, was recorded from the cerebellar anterior vermis of decerebrate cats during wobble of the whole animal (at 0.156 Hz, 5 degrees), a mixture of tilt and rotation, leading to stimulation of labyrinth receptors. Most of the neurons (65/68) were affected by both clockwise and counterclockwise rotations. Twenty-four units showing responses of comparable amplitude to these stimuli (narrowly tuned cells) were represented by a single vector (Smax), whose preferred direction corresponded to the direction of stimulation giving rise to the maximal response. The remaining 41 units, however, showed different amplitude responses to these rotations (broadly tuned cells) and were characterized by two spatially and temporally orthogonal vectors (Smax and Smin), suggesting that labyrinthine signals with different spatial and temporal properties converged on these cells. All these units were tested while the body was aligned with the head (control position), as well as after static displacement of the body under a fixed head by 15 degrees and/or 30 degrees around a vertical axis passing through C1-C2, thus leading to stimulation of neck receptors. The orientation component of the response vector of the Purkinje cells to vestibular stimulation changed following body-to-head displacement. Moreover, the amplitude of vector rotation corresponded, on the average, to that of body rotation. Changes in temporal phase, gain and tuning ratio of the responses were also observed. We propose that information from neck receptors regulates the convergence of labyrinthine signals with different spatial and temporal properties on corticocerebellar units. Due to their strict relationship with the motor system, these units may give rise to appropriate responses in the limb musculature, by modifying the spatial organization of the vestibulospinal reflexes according to the requirements of body stability. The cerebellar vermis may thus represent an important structure, where frames of reference can be altered to account for changes in position of trunk, head and neck.
We have compared the band-like distribution of the Purkinje cell-specific polypeptides zebrin I and zebrin II with the spatial organization of tactile projections to crus IIa in the cerebellar hemisphere of the rat. Maps of tactile responses in the granular layer of the cerebellar hemispheres are fractured into discontinuous regions, termed &quot;patches&quot;. High-density micromapping was used to identify specific patches and their boundaries within this fractured somatotopic map. In one series of experiments, medial and lateral boundaries of the large central ipsilateral upper lip-related patch were identified and labeled with either Fast Blue or India Ink. Following immunocytochemical processing, the band-like distribution of immunostained Purkinje cells (zebrin-positive bands) and the identified patch boundaries were digitized and reconstructed in three dimensions. Comparisons between these two features demonstrate a spatial correspondence between zebrin transitions and the boundaries of the electrophysiologically defined upper lip-related patch. In another series of experiments, we outlined the boundaries or centers of several smaller patches consistently located in the medial portion of the folium. Again, we found a correspondence between the distribution of granule cell layer tactile patches and the zebrin staining pattern. The correspondence between tactile projection patterns and molecular features demonstrated in the present study implies that there is a distinct and largely fixed spatial pattern of organization in the cerebellar hemispheres. We discuss possible causal connections and developmental determinates, as well as the physiological significance of the correspondence between the two features.
Interaction between GABAA and GABA(B) receptors was studied in rat cerebellar granule cells in culture, by the whole-cell patch-clamp approach. Our data show that the GABA(B) agonist (-)baclofen is not able, per se, to significantly change the muscimol-activated chloride current. However, (-)baclofen dose-dependently prevents the reduction of GABA(A) receptor function by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase. The effect of baclofen is mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein. In fact, in cells treated with pertussis toxin, baclofen and forskolin, the toxin is able to block baclofen action, allowing forskolin to act fully. The protective effect by GABA(B) receptor activation under these circumstances is most probably related to the prevention of cyclic AMP increases after forskolin treatment. In fact, in these neurons cyclic AMP and protein kinase A activation result in a down-regulation of GABA(A) receptor function. On the whole, the data indicate the presence of complex modulation of GABA(A) receptors by GABA(B) receptor types in cerebellum granule cells.
We have recorded from single neurons in the retinorecipient layers of the superior colliculus of the cat. We distinguished several functionally distinct groups of collicular neurons on the basis of their velocity response profiles to photic stimuli. The first group was constituted by cells responding only to photic stimuli moving at slow-to-moderate velocities across their receptive fields (presumably receiving strong excitatory W-type input but not, or only subthreshold, Y-type input). These cells were recorded throughout the stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum and constituted 50% of our sample. The second group of cells exhibited excitatory responses only at moderate and fast velocities (presumably receiving excitatory Y-type but not W-type input). These cells constituted only about 7% of the sample and were located principally in the lower stratum griseum superficiale. The third group of cells was constituted by cells excited over the entire range of velocities tested (1-2000 /s) and presumably received substantial excitatory input from both W- and Y-channels. These cells constituted almost 26% of our sample and were located in the lower stratum griseum superficiale, stratum opticum and the upper part of the stratum griseum intermediale. Overall, cells receiving excitatory Y-type input, i.e. the sum of group two and group three cells, constituted about a third of the sample and their excitatory discharge fields were significantly larger than those of cells receiving only W-type input. A fourth distinct group of collicular neurons was also constituted by cells responding over a wide range of stimulus velocities. These cells were excited by slowly moving stimuli, while fast-moving photic stimuli evoked purely suppressive responses. The excitatory discharge fields of these cells (presumably, indicating the spatial extent of the W-input) were located within much larger inhibitory fields, the extent of which presumably indicates the spatial extent of the Y-input. These low-velocity-excitatory/high-velocity-suppressive cells were recorded from the stratum griseum superficiale, stratum opticum and stratum griseum intermediale and constituted about 17% of the sample. The existence of low-velocity-excitatory/high-velocity-suppressive cells in the mammalian colliculus has not been previously reported. Low-velocity-excitatory/high-velocity-suppressive cells might play an important role in activating &quot;fixation/orientation&quot; and &quot;saccade&quot; premotor neurons recorded by others in the intermediate and deep collicular layers. Overall, in the majority (57%) of collicular neurons in our sample there was no indication of a convergence of W- and Y-information channels. However, in a substantial minority of collicular cells (about 43% of the sample) there was clear evidence of such convergence and about 40% of these (low-velocity-excitatory/high-velocity-suppressive cells) appear to receive excitatory input from the W-channel and inhibitory input from the Y-channel.
Previous studies have clearly demonstrated that the immediate-early gene, c-fos can regulate, through its protein product Fos, the expression of the pro-opiomelanocortin gene. In the present study, immunohistochemistry for Fos and beta-endorphin was used to assess the basal activity of hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin-producing neurons throughout a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle. Here, we showed that Fos is undetectable in most beta-endorphin neurons from late morning until 30 min after light offset in the evening, whereas Fos is spontaneously expressed in these neurons after 1 h following dark onset. The number of beta-endorphin neurons expressing Fos increases continuously during the first half of the dark phase, is maximal at the middle of this phase and decreases through late night and early morning, reaching a nadir 2-3 h after light onset. Acute shifts of lighting parameters allowed us to demonstrate that the light-off signal per se is neither sufficient nor necessary for Fos expression in beta-endorphin neurons. However, when recurrent, this signal is able to entrain Fos expression after a period of adaptation to the new light/dark schedule. Moreover, an expression of Fos in beta-endorphin neurons persists during subjective night in rat exposed to constant light or constant dark for two to three days. Thus, the occurrence of the daily rhythmic increase in the expression of Fos protein in hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin neurons exclusively at (subjective) night suggests that these neurons are, most likely, controlled by a (circadian) nocturnal oscillator. Our data also reveal an interesting property of this oscillator: its entrainment by the daily light-to-dark transition signal.
Mutations in the presenilin-1 gene are linked to the majority of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease cases. We have previously shown that the expression of transforming growth factor-beta is altered in Alzheimer's patients, compared to controls. Here we examine presenilin- expression in human post-mitotic neurons (hNT cells), normal human astrocytes, and human brain tumor cell lines following treatment with three isoforms of transforming growth factor-beta, or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. As the NT2/D1 teratocarcinoma cell line is treated with retinoic acid to induce differentiation to hNT cells, presenilin-1 messenger RNA expression is dramatically increased. Furthermore, there is a 2-3-fold increase in presenilin-1 messenger RNA expression following treatment of hNT cells with growth factors and similar results are found by Western blotting and with immunohistochemical staining for presenilin-1 protein. However, treatment of normal human astrocytes with cytokines results in minimal changes in presenilin-1 messenger RNA and protein. Interestingly, the expression of presenilin-1 in human U87 MG astrocytoma and human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells is only increased when cells are treated with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor or transforming growth factor-beta3. These findings suggest that endogenous presenilin-1 gene expression in human neurons can be induced by growth factors present in normal and diseased brain tissue. Cytokines may play a major role in regulating expression of presenilin-1 which may affect its biological actions in physiological and pathological conditions.
In this study, we report a comparative analysis of the distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the binocular primary visual cortex of rats analysed at the end of the critical period for monocular deprivation (postnatal day 35) and during adulthood (postnatal day 90). High-resolution non-isotopic in situ hybridization coupled with Nissl staining allowed to determine the relative number of neurons expressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. In postnatal day 90 rats, the relative number of neurons positive for brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA significantly decreases in layer II/III with respect to postnatal day 35 animals, being constant in all the other cortical layers. Moreover, we demonstrate that dark rearing for 22 days, starting from postnatal day 90, determines: (i) a decrease of the overall level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA with a consequent reduction of labelling intensity in all cells throughout cortical layers II-VI; (ii) an increase of cell numbers expressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in layers IV and V; and (iii) a decreased intensity of staining for brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in dendrites after dark rearing. A re-exposure to light for 2 h after the period of darkness almost restores the number of brain-derived neurotrophic factor RNA-positive neurons. We conclude that the maturation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in neurons of layer II/III goes beyond postnatal days 35-40, which can be considered the end of the critical period [Fagiolini M. et al. (1994) Vis. Res., 34, 709-720]. Moreover, we show that the cellular expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA is regulated by light in adult rats as well as during development.
delta-Opioid receptors belong to the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors, characterized by seven putative transmembrane domains, and have been shown to interact with a host of effector systems. It has been suggested that the charge on the conserved aspartic acid residue at position 128 in transmembrane domain 3 of the delta-opioid receptor contributes to both the conformation of the receptor binding pocket and the molecular rearrangements which accompany the establishment of high-affinity states of the receptor. In light of this, we used site-directed mutagenesis to determine whether this residue participates in the transmission of signals to adenylyl cyclase, the effector with which opioid receptors have been classically associated. Substitution of this aspartic acid (D128) for the neutral amino acid alanine, or the protonated amino acids lysine and histidine, constitutively couples the receptor to adenylyl cyclase, as evidenced by a curtailed response to forskolin stimulation in transfected cells. In addition, this constitutive activity can be blocked by pretreatment of the transfected cells with pertussis toxin. Interestingly, naloxone blocks this effect in cells expressing the D128A mutant, but acts as an agonist at the D128K mutant. Our findings support the hypothesis that the interaction between agonist and receptor promotes conformational changes that may be mimicked, at least in part, by mutation of the aspartate residue at position 128. Furthermore, these changes appear to be involved not only in receptor activation, but also in the functional discrimination between agonists and antagonists.
The role of nitric oxide, a compound involved in neurotransmission and regulation of cerebral blood flow, in cerebral ischemia is still not fully elucidated yet. Although well studied in adult systems of cerebral ischemia/hypoxia, information on nitric oxide in perinatal asphyxia is limited and, in particular, no direct evidence for its generation has been provided. We therefore decided to study nitric oxide generation in brain of asphyctic rat pups by biophysical and biochemical methods. We used a simple, non-invasive rat model resembling the clinical situation in perinatal asphyxia: rat pups delivered by Caesarean section were placed into a water bath at 37 degrees C still in patent membranes for various asphyctic periods (up to 20 min). Brain pH, cerebral blood flow, neuronal nitrix oxide synthase messenger RNA (by northern and dot blot analysis), immunoreactive protein (by western blot analysis) and nitric oxide synthase activity were determined; generation of nitric oxide was evaluated directly by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. Neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA activity and nitric oxide generation were unaffected, whereas neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive protein of 150,000 mol. wt was decreased and of 136,000 mol. wt was increased with the length of the asphyctic period. This is the first report on direct evidence for the generation of nitric oxide in perinatal asphyxia and we demonstrate that nitric oxide production remains unaffected even by 20 min of asphyxia, at a time-point when cerebral blood flow was increased four-fold and severe acidosis was present. However, it was found that levels of immunoreactive neuronal nitric oxide synthase of 136,000 mol. wt were increased paralleling the length of asphyxia. Levels of the 150,000 mol. wt immunoreactive neuronal nitric oxide synthase protein decreased, suggesting a different regulation pattern. Thus, the present biochemical and biophysical results form the basis for further investigations on nitric oxide in perinatal asphyxia.
The ratiometric indicators 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein and Fura-2 were employed to examine, respectively, intracellular pH (pHi) and calcium ([Ca2+]i) changes evoked by anoxia in cultured postnatal rat hippocampal neurons at 37 degrees C. Under both HCO3-/CO2- and HEPES-buffered conditions, 3-, 5- or 10-min anoxia induced a triphasic change in pHi consisting of an initial fall in pHi, a subsequent rise in pHi in the continued absence of O2 and, finally, a further rise in pHi upon the return to normoxia, which recovered towards preanoxic steady-state pHi values if the duration of the anoxic insult was &lt; or = 5 min. In parallel experiments performed on sister cultures, anoxia of 3, 5 or 10 min duration evoked rises in [Ca2+]i which, in all cases, commenced after the start of the fall in pHi, reached a peak at or just following the return to normoxia and then declined towards preanoxic resting levels. Removal of external Ca2+ markedly attenuated increases in [Ca2+]i, but failed to affect the pHi changes evoked by 5 min anoxia. The latency from the start of anoxia to the start of the increase in pHi observed during anoxia was increased by perfusion with media containing either 2 mM Na+, 20 mM glucose or 1 microM tetrodotoxin. Because each of these manoeuvres is known to delay the onset and/or attenuate the magnitude of anoxic depolarization, the results suggest that the rise in pHi observed during anoxia may be consequent upon membrane depolarization. This possibility was also suggested by the findings that Zn2+ and Cd2+, known blockers of voltage-dependent proton conductances, reduced the magnitude of the rise in pHi observed during anoxia. Under HCO3-/CO2-free conditions, reduction of external Na+ by substitution with N-methyl-D-glucamine (but not Li+) attenuated the magnitude of the postanoxic alkalinization, suggesting that increased Na+/H+ exchange activity contributes to the postanoxic rise in pHi. In support, rates of pHi recovery from internal acid loads imposed following anoxia were increased compared to control values established prior to anoxia in the same neurons. In contrast, rates of pHi recovery from acid loads imposed during anoxia were reduced, suggesting the possibility that Na+/H+ exchange is inhibited during anoxia. We conclude that the steady-state pHi response of cultured rat hippocampal neurons to transient anoxia is independent of changes in [Ca2+]i and is characterized by three phases which are determined, at least in part, by alterations in Na+/H- exchange activity and, possibly, by a proton conductance which is activated during membrane depolarization.
We examined the effect of ischemia on inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-induced Ca2+ release by functional and morphological approaches, using the gerbil model after 6-h unilateral occlusion of the common carotid artery. Autoradiographic study revealed that the basal uptake of 45Ca2+ into the endoplasmic reticulum and caffeine-induced 45Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum were normal in the presence of ATP in each ischemic brain region, whereas inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-induced 45Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum was inhibited only in the CA1 region of the hippocampus on the ischemic side. In moderately ischemic gerbils, electron microscopic study demonstrated aggregation of swollen endoplasmic reticulum in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, so that abundant endoplasmic reticulum assembled in close contact to form endoplasmic reticulum cisternal stacks. In severely ischemic gerbils, immunohistochemical analysis of the hippocampus showed loss of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor protein with preservation of immunoreactivity for type 2 and 3 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor proteins, which was confirmed by western blot analysis. Such selective inhibition of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-induced Ca2+ release and the loss of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in cerebral ischemia may be associated with its region-specific vulnerability to ischemia.
Spreading depression is a wave of sustained depolarization challenging the energy metabolism of the cells without causing irreversible damage. In the ischaemic brain, sreading depression-like depolarization contributes to the evolution of ischaemia to infarction. The depolarization is propagated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but changes in signal transduction downstream of the receptors are not known. Because protein phosphorylation is a general mechanism whereby most cellular processes are regulated, and inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or protein kinase C is neuroprotective, the expression of protein kinase C subspecies in spreading depression was examined. Cortical treatment with KCl induced an upregulation of protein kinase Cdelta and zeta messenger RNA at 4 and 8 h, whereas protein kinase Calpha, beta, gamma and epsilon did not show significant changes. The gene induction was the strongest in layers 2 and 3, and was followed by an increased number of protein kinase Cdelta-immunoreactive neurons. Protein kinase Cdelta and zeta inductions were inhibited by pretreatment with an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate, which also blocked spreading depression propagation, and with dexamethasone, which acted without blocking the propagation. Quinacrine, a phospholipase A2 inhibitor, reduced only protein kinase C5 induction. In addition, N(G)(-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, did not influence protein kinase Cdelta or zeta induction, whereas 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione, an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate/kainate receptor antagonist, and the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors indomethacin and diclophenac tended to increase gene expression. The data show that cortical spreading depression induces Ca2(+)-independent protein kinase C subspecies delta and zeta, but not Ca(2+)-dependent subspecies, through activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and phospholipase A2. Even though the signal pathway is similar to the induction described previously in ischaemia for genes implicated in delayed neuronal death, the gene inductions observed here are not necessarily pathogenetic, but may represent a general reaction to metabolic stress.
The perirhinal cortex is crucially involved in various forms of learning and memory. Decrements in neuronal responsiveness occur in the perirhinal cortex with stimulus repetition during visual recognition performance. However, very little is known concerning the underlying mechanisms of synaptic transmission and plasticity in this cortical region. In this study, we provide evidence demonstrating the presence of functional group I, II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors in the rat perirhinal cortex in vitro. Furthermore, the results demonstrate long-lasting synaptic depression in the perirhinal cortex. Extracellular synaptic responses were recorded from superficial layers of the perirhinal cortex directly below the rhinal sulcus, in response to electrical stimuli delivered in the superficial or intermediate layers to the entorhinal or temporal cortex sides of the rhinal sulcus. Evoked synaptic potentials were depressed during bath perfusion of each of the following: the broad-spectrum metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, the selective group I agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, the group II agonist (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine and the group III agonist (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate. Furthermore, there was a long-lasting depression of synaptic transmission following washout of (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine or (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-(2',3'-dicarboxy-cyclopropyl)glycine. Activation of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors by (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate did not result in long-lasting changes in synaptic transmission. Thus, the pharmacological activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors can produce short- or long-term changes in synaptic transmission in the perirhinal cortex. It is possible therefore, that metabotropic glutamate receptors are involved in the decrement in neuronal responsiveness associated with visual recognition in the perirhinal cortex.
Localization of cannabinoid CB 1 receptors on GABAergic interneurons in the rat hippocampal formation was studied by double-labeling immunohistochemistry with confocal microscopy. Virtually all CB1-immunoreactive neurons (95%) are GABAergic. CB 1 fluorescence showed a punctate pattern. In contrast, the GABA fluorescence was distributed homogeneously, suggesting that while CB 1 receptors and GABA exist in the same cells they are not localized in the same subcellular compartments. Although virtually all CB1 neurons were GABAergic, many GABAergic neurons did not contain CB1 receptors. GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampal formation can be further divided into subpopulations with distinct connections and functions, using cell markers such as neuropeptides and calcium binding proteins. CB1 receptors were highly co-localized with cholecystokinin and partially co-localized with calretinin and calbindin, but not with parvalbumin. This suggests that cannabinoids may modulate GABAergic neurotransmission at the synapses on the soma and at synapses on the proximal dendrites of the principal neurons, as well as at synapses on other GABAergic interneurons.
We describe the immunocytochemical distribution of adenosine A1 receptors in the rat hippocampus. Adenosine A1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was seen on the cell soma and dendrites of pyramidal cells and the cell soma and proximal part of dendrites of granule cells, but not on glial cells. Developmentally, adenosine A1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was diffuse on postnatal day 7 and increased in intensity in individual cells by day 21. In the CA2/CA3a region, the adult pattern of A1 receptor distribution was established by day 28. In the adult rat hippocampus, rostrocaudal inspection revealed that immunoreactivity in CA2/CA3a was greatest. Confocal microscopy revealed differences in the staining patterns for the adenosine A receptor and synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic terminals. This result suggests that the adenosine A1 receptor might have postsynaptic physiological functions. Double-labeling of adenosine A1 receptors and anterogradely-labeled fibers from the supramammillary nucleus showed that the fibers from the supramammillary nucleus terminate directly on the cell soma of the A1 receptor-immunopositive neurons in CA2/CA3a and the dentate gyrus. These results indicate that the adenosine A 1 receptor in CA2/CA3a and the dentate gyrus are in a position to regulate hippocampal theta activity and that resultant strong synaptic depression in CA2/CA3a could play a role in regulating the intrinsic signal flow between CA3 and CA1.
Recent immunohistochemical studies of rat brain triiodothyronine reveal heaviest localization in locus coeruleus perikarya. The cellular distribution is similar to that observed in concomitant studies of tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry: heavy clumps of immunoreactive triiodothyronine are distributed within locus coeruleus cytosol and in cell processes, leaving cell nuclei unstained. At the same time, in locus coeruleus targets, cell nuclei as well as surrounding neuropil are prominently triiodothyronine labeled. These observations, combined with diverse evidence linking thyroid hormone with norepinephrine at many levels of physiological and pathophysiological function, led to the hypothesis that the locus coeruleus binds and accumulates triiodothyronine and delivers the hormone via anterograde axonal transport to postsynaptic locus coeruleus targets, where nuclear triiodothyronine receptors are densely concentrated. Furthermore, the hypothesis predicts that destruction of locus coeruleus nerve terminals would interrupt this neural route of triiodothyronine delivery and prevent or reduce triiodothyronine labeling of nuclear receptors in noradrenergic target cells. To test this formulation, we gave the specific locus coeruleus lesioning agent, N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4), to adult male rats and examined their brains three, five and seven days thereafter by triiodothyronine and, in alternate sections, tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Treatment with DSP-4 resulted in specific and selective reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase and triiodothyronine immunohistochemical labeling in cell nuclei and in nerve cell processes within the neuropil of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex at all time periods examined. The results demonstrate that full occupancy of locus coeruleus target cells by triiodothyronine requires the presence of intact locus coeruleus projections and supports the proposal that, like norepinephrine, triiodothyronine delivery to noradrenergic targets occurs through delivery by locus coeruleus terminals. These findings provide strong support for earlier proposals that triiodothyronine functions as a co-transmitter with norepinephrine in addition to or as part of its genomic role in the cells receiving noradrenergic innervation.
Single gustatory nerve fibers branch and innervate several taste buds. In turn, individual taste buds may receive innervation from numerous gustatory nerve fibers. To evaluate the pattern of sensory innervation of fungiform papilla-bearing taste buds, we used iontophoretic fluorescent injection to retrogradely label the fibers that innervate single taste papillae in the hamster. For each animal, a single taste papilla was injected through the gemmal pore with 3.3% tetramethylrhodamine dextran amine. Fungiform papillae either at the tongue tip (0.5-1.5 mm from the tip) or more posteriorly (1.5-3.0 mm from the tip) were injected. After one to seven days survival, the geniculate and trigeminal ganglia and the tongue were sectioned and examined for labeled cells and fibers, respectively. Analysis of the number and topographic distribution of geniculate cells innervating single taste papillae, shows that: (i) 15 +/- 4 (S.D.) ganglion cells converge to innervate a single fungiform taste bud; (ii) more ganglion cells innervate anterior- (range: 13-35 cells) than posterior-lying buds (range: five to 12 cells), which, in part, may be related to bud volume (microm3); and (iii) ganglion somata innervating a single taste bud are scattered widely within the geniculate ganglion. Analysis of labeled fibers in the tongue demonstrated that two to eight taste buds located within 2 mm of the injected taste bud share collateral innervation with the injected taste bud. Since all buds with labeled fibers were located in close proximity (within a 2-mm radius), widely dispersed geniculate ganglion cells converge to innervate closely spaced fungiform taste buds. Trigeminal ganglion (mandibular division) cells were also labeled in every case and, as with the geniculate ganglion, a dispersed cell body location and collateralization pattern among papillae were observed. This study shows that iontophoresis of tetramethylrhodamine dextran amine, selectively applied to individual peripheral receptor end-organs, effectively locates sensory ganglion cells in two different ganglia that project to these sites. Moreover, the marker demonstrates collateral branches of sensory afferents associated with the labeled fibers and the nearby receptor areas innervated by these collaterals. The labeling of single or clusters of receptor cells, as well as identified sensory afferents, affords future possibilities for combining this technique with immunocytochemistry to establish the relationships of innervation patterns with neurotransmitters and neurotropic substances within identified cells.
The temporal and anatomical distribution of members of the interleukin-1 system in the rat brain following intraperitoneal kainic acid administration was studied in relation to neurodegeneration as detected with in situ end labelling. Kainic acid administration (10 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in the induced expression of interleukin-1beta, interleukin- receptor antagonist and caspase-1p10 immunoreactivity in areas known to display neuronal and tissue damage upon excitotoxic lesions. The induction of these proteins was transient. Interleukin-1 immunoreactivity appeared at 5 h, and the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist-immunoreactive cells were first detected at 12 h, whereas the induction of caspase- 1p10 expression was first detected 24 h after kainic acid injection. Double labelling with the microglial marker Ox42 confirmed that both interleukin-1beta and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist were mainly localized in microglial cells. The regional distribution of in situ end-labelled neurons was similar to the distribution of cells expressing interleukin-1beta and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, whereas the distribution of caspase-1 was more limited. The in situ end-labelled neurons, were, similarly to the interleukin-1beta-positive cells, first detected at 5 h, which is earlier than the induction of caspase-1. Our results show that the induction of IL-1beta and IL-1 receptor antagonist proteins after kainic acid are closely associated with the temporal as well as the anatomical distribution of in situ end-labelled neurons, whereas the induction of caspase-1 protein exhibited a delayed temporal profile and limited distribution. Since cytokine production occurs in activated microglial cells, the inflammatory component seems to be a strong mediator of this type of excitotoxic damage. The late onset of the caspase-1 expression would seem to indicate that this enzyme has no fundamental role in directly causing neuronal cell death induced by systemic kainic acid.
As the goldfish is a common experimental animal for vision research, including psychophysical behavior, it is very important to quantitatively score fish behavior. We have previously developed a computer image processing system which can acquire the positional coordinates of goldfish moving freely in an aquarium and determine turning directions (go straight, right or left turn). In the present study, an algorithm to determine tilting angles of moving goldfish was constructed. We also made histograms for quantifying the interaction between pairs of goldfish (two-point distance). By using these histograms, we estimated the time-course of behavioral regeneration after optic nerve transection in goldfish. Control goldfish showed an equal percentage of right or left turns and maintained an upright position in a dorsoventral axis. When the optic nerve of a goldfish was unilaterally sectioned, the goldfish showed predominant turning and slight tilting toward the intact eye. The abnormal turning and tilting behaviors lasted for 10-14 days and then gradually decreased, returning to control behaviors by one month after the unilateral transection. When the optic nerve of a single goldfish was bilaterally sectioned, it did not show any preferential turning and tilting behavior, which is similar to what was observed in control goldfish. However, the trace maps showed that, after bilateral sectioning, fish preferred to cross the center of the tank, which was unlike control fish. In control pairs, one goldfish chased the other with a fixed small range of two-point distances. However, in pairs of goldfish with bilateral transection of the optic nerve, the blind goldfish behaved independently of each other, with a long two-point distance. The long two-point distance of the blind goldfish lasted for at least two months and then slowly returned to control two-point distance by four months after bilateral transection. Such fast and slow recovery in goldfish behaviors evoked after unilateral and bilateral transection of the optic nerve is discussed with respect to reconnection of regenerating optic nerves in the fish central nervous system. This computer image processing system is a useful tool with which we can quickly and easily quantify fish behavior.
Previous research has demonstrated that pharmacological stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptors produces increases in serotonin output. The present study explored whether this relationship also holds under physiological conditions. Accordingly, we examined the effects of D2 receptor blockade or unilateral dopamine depletion on behaviorally induced increases in extracellular serotonin levels in the corpus striatum and prefrontal cortex of freely moving rats using in vivo microdialysis. Extracellular levels of dopamine and serotonin, as well as behavioral activity, were increased by both mild tail pinch and the light-dark transition. Tail pinch-induced increases in serotonin levels (39+/-3% and 53+/-5% in the corpus striatum and prefrontal cortex, respectively), but not the accompanying behavioral changes, were blocked by local application of the D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (10 microM). D2 receptor blockade also disrupted the positive relationship between striatal serotonin levels and behavioral activity of animals across the light-dark transition (r=0.93 without raclopride, r=0.24 in presence of raclopride). Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system also abolished increases in striatal serotonin output induced by both tail pinch and light-dark transition. A negative correlation was observed between the degree of striatal dopamine depletion and tail pinch-induced increases in serotonin efflux (r= - 0.88). Thus, both a local blockade of postsynaptic D2 receptors and striatal dopamine depletion prevented increases in serotonin output that normally accompany behavioral activation. These data indicate that the increases in the forebrain serotonin output produced by two distinct physiological/environmental manipulations appear to be largely dependent upon intact local dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Amphetamine-like stimulants exert well-known arousal-enhancing actions. Surprisingly, little is known concerning the neuroanatomical substrates through which these drugs enhance arousal. Previous work implicates a number of basal forebrain structures in the regulation of behavioral state. The current studies examined the effects of amphetamine infusions made directly within basal forebrain sites on behavioral, electroencephalographic, and electromyographic indices of arousal in anesthetized and unanesthetized rat. In the anesthetized rat, amphetamine elicited prolonged epochs of bilateral electroencephalographic activation when infused unilaterally (3.75 microg/150 nl) into an extended region of the medial basal forebrain, demarcated anteriorally by the anterior portion of the medial septal area (which includes posterior accumbens shell) and posteriorally by the posterior aspect of the preoptic area of the hypothalamus. In the unanesthetized (undisturbed, resting) rat, amphetamine infusions into this region elicited prolonged epochs of alert waking, which at the lowest dose (3.75 microg), qualitatively resembled normal waking. Infusions placed lateral (including within the substantia innominata), anterior (including within the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens), posterior, or dorsal to these structures, as well as directly within the lateral ventricles did not alter electroencephalographic or behavioral measures. These results indicate that a region of the medial basal forebrain, extending from the anterior medial septum/accumbens shell to the posterior preoptic area, is a site within which amphetamine-like stimulants act to enhance behavioral and electroencephalographic measures of arousal.
The present study examined the effects of acute and chronic neurogenic stressors on the expression of two distinct angiotensin receptors in two stress-related brain nuclei: angiotensin type 1A receptor in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and angiotensin type 2 receptor in the nucleus locus coeruleus. Male Wistar rats were divided into four experimental groups. The first two groups were subjected once to an acute 90-min immobilization or air-jet stress session, respectively. The other two groups were subjected to 10 days of daily 90-min immobilization sessions and, on the 11th day, one group was exposed to an additional 90-min immobilization and the other to a single air-jet stress (heterotypic but still neurogenic) session. In each group, rats were perfused before stress (0 min), immediately following stress (90 min) or 150, 180, 270 or 360 min (and 24 h in chronic immobilization) after the beginning of the last stress session. Basal expression of both angiotensin receptor subtype 1A and angiotensin receptor subtype 2 messenger RNA was minimal in non-stressed animals. Acute immobilization as well as air-jet stress induced similar patterns (time-course and maximal values) of angiotensin receptor subtype 1A messenger RNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus. Angiotensin receptor subtype 1A messenger RNA expression increased 90-150 min after the beginning of the stress and returned to basal levels by 360 min. Chronic stress immobilization slightly modified the pattern, but not maximal values of angiotensin receptor subtype 1A messenger RNA expression to further immobilization (homotypic) or air-jet stress (heterotypic). Acute immobilization and air-jet stress sessions induced similar locus coeruleus-specific angiotensin receptor subtype 2 messenger RNA expression. This expression increased 90 min following the onset of the stress session and remained elevated for at least 360 min. Chronic immobilization stress increased angiotensin receptor subtype 2 messenger RNA expression to levels comparable to those observed in acute stress conditions. Novel acute exposure to neurogenic stressors did not further increase these levels in either homotypic (immobilization) or in heterotypic (air-jet stress) conditions. These results suggest that central angiotensin receptors are targets of regulation in stress; therefore, stress may modulate angiotensin function in the paraventricular nucleus and locus coeruleus during chronic exposure to neurogenic stressors.
We recently reported that the pretraining induction of long-term potentiation in the lateral septum by fimbrial tetanic stimulation altered contextual fear conditioning in mice. The aim of the present study was to examine at which stage of fear conditioning (i.e. either acquisition or expression) this impairment takes place. Mice implanted with stimulating electrodes in the fimbria and recording electrodes in the lateral septal were conditioned to acquire fear towards a novel context using a footshock procedure. Twenty-four hours after conditioning, animals were re-exposed to the conditioning environment and the level of freezing behavior served as the measure of conditioned fear. The level of fimbrial-lateral septal synaptic neurotransmission was manipulated using either fimbrial tetanic stimulation (which induced septal long-term potentiation) alone, or followed by fimbrial low-frequency stimulation producing depotentiation of the previously established long-term potentiation. The results showed that (i) septal long-term potentiation induced either prior to acquisition or only prior to retention testing impaired conditioned freezing; and (ii) the impairing effect of pretraining induction of long-term potentiation on conditioned freezing was not only abolished by fimbrial low-frequency stimulation administered prior to retention testing but actually produced enhanced conditioned freezing with respect to controls. These data suggest that the level of fimbrial-lateral septal synaptic neurotransmission may influence the expression, but not the acquisition, of contextual fear conditioning.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of selective lesions of the three main sources of limbic afferents to the nucleus accumbens-fornix, prelimbic cortex and amygdala-with those induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockage in this structure, in a non-associative task designed to estimate the ability of rodents to encode spatial and non-spatial relationships between discrete stimuli. The task consists of placing mice in an open field containing five objects and, after three sessions of habituation, examining their reactivity to object displacement (spatial novelty) and object substitution (object novelty). Focal administrations of the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (0.1 microg/side) induced a selective impairment in the ability of mice to react to the spatial change. Lesions to the different structures affect the response of mice to spatial and non-spatial novelty in different ways. In particular, while fornix lesions induced a decrease in re-exploration of the displaced objects, prelimbic cortex lesions enhanced the exploration of both displaced and non-displaced objects. Finally, the basolateral amygdala lesions did not induce any impairment in the detection of the displaced objects but decreased the latencies to approach novel objects. It is concluded that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockage in the nucleus accumbens subsumes the effects of the three lesions. Some hypotheses on the role of glutamatergic transmission in the accumbens on information processing are briefly discussed.
The long-term effects of intrastriatal injections of the agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, quinolinic acid, have been extensively characterized. Much less is known, however, about the early molecular and neurochemical changes which occur within a few hours of the toxin injection. In the present study, we have performed intrastriatal injections of low doses of quinolinic acid which induce DNA damage 10-12 h post-lesion, and selective death of striatal projection neurons two weeks later. We examined the time-course of alterations in the microtubule-associated protein 2, an early marker of cytoskeletal disruption, and enkephalin and substance P, two neuropeptides present in largely distinct subpopulations of striatal efferent neurons projecting to the globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus, respectively. Immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 was decreased at the periphery of the lesion 10 h after quinolinate injection. Levels of enkephalin messenger RNA were markedly decreased as early as 6 h post-lesion; however, a significant decrease in enkephalin immunoreactivity was not observed in the globus pallidus (external pallidum) until 12 h post-injection. Levels of substance P messenger RNA were decreased 12 h post-injection in striatal neurons. However, in contrast to enkephalin immunoreactivity, immunolabeling for substance P was not significantly decreased at this time-point in the internal pallidum, a finding reminiscent of early grades of Huntington's disease. The results reveal the time-course of change in messenger RNA and peptide levels in striatal efferent neurons shortly after an excitotoxic insult. These data have implications for the interpretation of findings in post mortem brain and mouse models of Huntington's disease.
Dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission regulate striatal preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels. In the present study, we investigated serotonin 2A/2C receptor-mediated regulation of preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression in the rat striatum after adult dopamine depletion produced with 6-hydroxydopamine. Significant reductions (46-61% of control values) in preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels were detected by in situ hybridization in rostral, central and caudal regions of the striatum after &gt;85% dopamine depletion. Repeated administration of the specific serotonin2A/2C receptor agonist, (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrobromide, to dopamine-depleted rats completely reversed the reduction in preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels in rostral, central and dorsal-caudal striatal regions. In unlesioned (vehicle-injected) control animals, repeated administration of (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrobromide did not affect preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression in rostral, central and ventral-caudal striatal regions, but decreased preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels in the dorsal-caudal striatal subregion. In addition, serotonin turnover in the dopamine-depleted rostral striatum was significantly increased by 35-45% which is consistent with serotonin hyperinnervation after 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. These data show that the decrease in striatal preprotachykinin messenger RNA after dopamine depletion can be normalized with repeated serotonin2A/2C receptor stimulation. We hypothesize that this serotonin2A/2C receptor regulation of preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression after 6-hydroxydopamine is a consequence of serotonin hyperinnervation, which may include increased striatal serotonin2A/2C receptors, induced by dopamine depletion. We also propose that the serotonin system could be pharmacologically targeted to restore the direct striatal tachykinin pathway in Parkinson's disease.
Anatomical studies in the rat have shown that the cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis receive synapses from monoamine axons, but similar evidence is lacking in primates. We used single- and double-labeling immunocytochemistry to visualize monoamine axons and their relationship with the cholinergic cells of the basal forebrain of the monkey. Norepinephrine axons, labeled with dopamine-beta-hydroxylase antibodies, formed a bed of fine varicose axons that co-distributed with the cholinergic cells. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons, presumed to be mainly dopaminergic, were 10-20 times more abundant than dopamine-beta-hydroxylase axons throughout the basal forebrain, except in the medial septal area, where their density was lower. Serotonin-immunoreactive axons formed a dense axon plexus throughout the basal forebrain. Double-labeling light microscopy demonstrated that each of the three types of monoamine axons formed frequent direct contacts with the cholinergic cells. Electron microscopy showed that the noradrenergic and the putative dopaminergic axons synapsed on the cholinergic cells. In the human brain, immunolabeling with antibodies to dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, tyrosine hydroxylase and tryptophan hydroxylase (for serotonin axons) showed axon densities in the nucleus basalis comparable to those of the monkey brain. The data demonstrate that all three of these monoamine systems innervate the cholinergic and possibly also the non-cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis, and therefore affect the release of acetylcholine in the cerebral cortex.
In vitro autoradiography with [125I]vasoactive intestinal peptide revealed that the vasoactive intestinal peptide analogue, stearyl-norleucine17 vasoactive intestinal peptide, reported to be inactive at adenylyl cyclase-linked receptors in astrocytes, displaced a subset of vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites on rat brain sections. These sites were widespread in adult rat brains and enriched in the olfactory bulb and thalamus, and corresponded to previously demonstrated GTP-insensitive vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites. Stearyl-norleucine17 vasoactive intestinal peptide also identified receptors in rat lung and liver. In the adult brain, the stearyl-norleucine analog displaced only GTP-insensitive vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites. In contrast, stearyl-norleucine17 vasoactive intestinal peptide-displaceable sites in the embryonic day 9 mouse appeared to include both GTP-sensitive and GTP-insensitive binding sites. This observation suggested the presence of an embryonic vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor with distinct pharmacological properties. Treatment of whole cultured mouse embryos with stearyl-norleucine17 vasoactive intestinal peptide resulted in stimulation of embryonic growth, with the stearyl-norleucine analog equipotent to vasoactive intestinal peptide, but less efficacious at higher concentrations (10(-7) M). Embryonic growth was inhibited by pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide and 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate. In addition, 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate inhibited stearyl-norleucine17 vasoactive intestinal peptide-stimulated growth. The results of the current study support the hypothesis that vasoactive intestinal peptide regulation of early postimplantation embryonic growth occurs, at least in part, independently of adenylyl cyclase stimulation.
The mechanisms underlying resealing of transected myelinated rat dorsal root axons were investigated in vivo using an assay based on exclusion of a hydrophilic dye (Lucifer Yellow-biocytin conjugate). Smaller caliber axons (&lt;5 microm outer diameter) resealed faster than larger axons. Resealing was Ca2+ dependent, requiring micromolar levels of extracellular [Ca2+] to proceed, and further accelerated in 1 mM Ca2+. Two hours after transection, 84% of axons had resealed in saline containing 2 mM Ca2+, 28% had resealed in saline containing no added Ca2+ and only 3% had resealed in the Ca2+ buffer BAPTA (3 mM). The enhancing effect of Ca2+ could be overcome by both non-specific cysteine protease inhibitors (e.g., leupeptin) and inhibitors specific for the calpain family of Ca2+ -activated proteases. Resealing in 2 mM Ca2+ was not inhibited by an inhibitor of phospholipase A2. Resealing in low [Ca2+] was not enhanced by agents which disrupt microtubules, but was enhanced by dimethylsulfoxide (0.5-5%). These results suggest that activation of endogenous calpain-like proteases by elevated intra-axonal [Ca2+] contributes importantly to membrane resealing in transected myelinated mammalian axons in vivo.
Vestibular receptors of the frog, Rana temporaria, were examined for the effect of bath-applied opioid peptide leu-enkephalin, its synthetic analogue dalargin and the specific opiate antagonist naloxone. Multiunit afferent activity of the whole vestibular nerve was recorded in an in vitro preparation. Leu-enkephalin (0.005-100 nM) and dalargin (0.1-100 nM) depress the resting discharge frequency. Naloxone (10 nM-1 microM) antagonizes responses induced by leu-enkephalin and dalargin that suggests a specific action of opioid peptides. Leu-enkephalin and delargin inhibit the excitatory action of L-glutamate. The effects of opioid peptides on L-glutamate-induced responses are unaffected by Co2+ block of transmitter release from hair cells that could speak in favour of the postsynaptic nature of these responses. At the same time, the other possible site of action of opioid peptides, such as efferent system, can not be excluded. The results indicate that opiate receptors are present in hair cells and that the neurotransmitter L-glutamate is involved in opiate action at the peripheral vestibular system of the frog. We suggest that opioid peptides may act as a neuromodulator in this system.
Melatonin is synthesized in the retina at night and acts as a local modulator within this tissue by mediating the effects of darkness. We investigated the expression and localization of the mt1 (Mel1a) melatonin receptor in rat retina in order to disclose the cellular and molecular bases of melatonin's action in the mammalian retina. Western blotting of the mt1 receptor in rat retina exhibited a single immunoreactive band of approximately 37,000 mol. wt, which corresponds to the predicted molecular size of the receptor. The mt1 receptor was immunocytochemically localized to both the inner and outer plexiform layers. During postnatal development, retina from two-week-old rats showed the highest mt1 immunoreactivity; the outer plexiform layer and horizontal cell bodies were strongly immunolabeled, with weaker labeling in the inner plexiform layer. Expression of mt1 receptor messenger RNA in the rat retina was demonstrated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. mt1 receptor transcripts were localized to ganglion cells, amacrine cells and horizontal cells. These results suggest that melatonin influences retinal physiology by acting on multiple retinal cell types, including ganglion, amacrine and horizontal cells, via the mt1 receptor expressed in their processes.
In anaesthetized rats, the intraspinal release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 was measured using antibody microprobes. We addressed the question of whether the release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 is altered during development of acute inflammation in the knee evoked by intra-articular injections of kaolin and carrageenan. We also examined cyclo-oxygenase-1 and cyclo-oxygenase-2 protein levels in the spinal cord during the development of inflammation using the same model of arthritis. Densitometric analysis of microprobes showed that basal release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 in the period 175-310 min after kaolin was slightly higher than in the absence of inflammation. A pronounced enhancement of basal release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 was observed 430-530 min after kaolin. Enhanced levels of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 were observed throughout the dorsal and ventral horns. Release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 was not altered further by the application of innocuous and noxious pressure onto the inflamed knee. Western blot analysis revealed that cyclo-oxygenase-2 but not cyclo-oxygenase-1 protein levels were elevated in the spinal cords of animals with inflammation compared to normal animals. This effect was evident as early as 3 h after the induction of arthritis. The maximum elevation of cyclo-oxygenase-2 protein levels (six-fold) was observed 12 h after the induction of arthritis. The results show that there is a tonic release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 from the spinal cord following the induction of arthritis, which is accompanied by enhanced expression of cyclo-oxygenase-2 protein in the spinal cord. We suggest that intraspinal prostaglandins may play a role in inflammation-evoked central sensitization of spinal cord neurons.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide is involved in peripheral and spinal mechanisms of inflammatory pain. In this paper, we used collagen II-induced arthritis in the rat as a model to investigate the influence of chronic arthritic pain on calcitonin gene-related peptide gene expression in sensory and motor pathways. Additionally, we examined the effect of the glucocorticoid drug budesonide on arthritis-induced changes of calcitonin gene-related peptide expression and constitutive calcitonin gene-related peptide expression. Thirteen days after the immunization with native rat collagen type II rats developed a progressive and chronic polyarthritis which was scored with respect to the degree of swelling and/or redness of the paw and ankle joints. Budesonide significantly attenuated the extent of arthritis. Changes in calcitonin gene-related peptide expression were evaluated by semiquantitative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry on day 21 post-immunization. In sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia of arthritic rats, a significant increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA and protein levels was seen. These increases were completely blocked by budesonide. Also in dorsal root ganglia of non-arthritic rats, budesonide had an effect, with reduced calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA levels below constitutive concentrations. Image analysis of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity revealed that changes in calcitonin gene-related peptide expression were due to alterations in calcitonin gene-related peptide expression levels rather than to de novo synthesis or changes in the numbers of calcitonin gene-related peptide expressing neurons. In spinal motoneurons of arthritic rats, marked decreases in calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA and protein levels were measured. These reductions were attenuated by budesonide. The changes in calcitonin gene-related peptide expression in motoneurons correlated with the severity of arthritis in the ipsilateral hind paw. Budesonide had no effects on calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA levels in motoneurons of non-arthritic rats. The opposite regulation of calcitonin gene-related peptide gene expression in primary sensory and spinal somatomotor pathways in collagen-induced arthritis suggests that calcitonin gene-related peptide plays a specific role in both chronic inflammatory pain and arthritis-induced motor dysfunction. The sensitivity of constitutive and inflammation-induced sensory calcitonin gene-related peptide expression to budesonide treatment may indicate that the beneficial effects of steroid treatment in inflammation is partly mediated by down-regulation of calcitonin gene-related peptide in sensory neurons involved in neurogenic inflammation.
The expression of galanin and neuropeptide Y in rat lumbar 5 (L5) dorsal root ganglia and dorsal horn (L4-5) was studied after four types of peripheral nerve injury using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The possible correlation between these two peptides and tactile allodynia-like behaviour was analysed as well. The models employed were the Gazelius (photochemical lesion) and Seltzer and Bennett (constriction lesions) models, as well as complete sciatic nerve transection (axotomy). Two weeks after surgery, the Gazelius model rats more frequently displayed a greater tactile allodynia than the rats from the Seltzer and Bennett models. Tactile allodynia was not observed in any of the axotomized rats. A marked increase in the number of galanin-immunoreactive and galanin messenger RNA-positive neuron profiles was observed in ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia in all types of models. The increase in allodynic rats (Gazelius, Seltzer and Bennett models) was less pronounced than that after axotomy. In addition, in the Bennett model the number of galanin-immunoreactive neurons was significantly lower in allodynic rats as compared to non-allodynic rats, and the same tendency, but less obvious was found in the Seltzer model. Furthermore, an increase in galanin-immunoreactive fibres was found in the superficial laminae of the ipsilateral dorsal horn in all lesion models, especially in lamina II. A dramatic increase in the number of neuropeptide Y and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA-positive neuron profiles was also found in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia in all models, but no significant difference was found in peptide levels between allodynic and non-allodynic rats in any of the models. The present results suggest that the levels of endogenous galanin may play a role in whether or not allodynia develops in the Bennett model.
The response to dorsal root stimulation, at one to two times threshold, was investigated in the isolated cervical enlargement of the turtle spinal cord. At frequencies near 10 Hz the synaptic response in motoneurons and the cord dorsum potential, after an initial lag time, oscillated in amplitude with a period of more than 1 s. The mono- and polysynaptyic postsynaptic response in motoneurons, the pre- and postsynaptic component of the cord dorsum potential and the dorsal root potential oscillated in synchrony. These oscillations were only observed with stimulus frequencies in the range 9-11 Hz. The oscillating response could only be evoked from stimulus sites to which dorsal root potentials were conducted from the spinal cord (2-3 mm). At more distant stimulus sites cyclic variations in amplitude of the cord dorsum potential and the synaptic response in motoneurons were not observed. During an oscillating spinal response to a stimulus train in one dorsal root filament, the response evoked by a stimulus in another short filament (2-3 mm) from the same root varied in amplitude with the induced oscillation. The spinal response to a stimulus in a longer filament (i.e. more than 3 mm) did not oscillate. It is argued that the oscillating responses described rely on interactions between distributed elements rather than on unit oscillators. We also show that primary afferent transmission is unaffected by the substantial variations in dorsal root potentials during oscillations.
Steady-state Na+/K+ pump current (Ip) in isolated adult rat dorsal root ganglia neurons was studied to determine if the plasma membrane Na+/K+ pump activity is uniform across the population of dorsal root ganglia neurons. Cells were voltage-clamped at -40 mV and holding current (Ih) was recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques under conditions that stimulate the Na+/K+ pump (60 mM intracellular Na+ and 5.4 mM extracellular K+). Ip was defined as the 1 mM ouabain-sensitive fraction of Ih. Data suggest the existence of three subpopulations of dorsal root ganglia neurons having mean steady-state Ip densities of 1.6+/-0.1, 3.8+/-0.2 and 7.5+/-0.4 pA/pF. Neurons with small Ip had an average soma perimeter of 95+/-3 microm, while neurons with medium and large Ip density had significantly larger soma sizes (131+/-8 and 141+/-7 microm, respectively). Neurons with a large Ip density had a significantly lower specific membrane resistance (Rm; mean 4.0+/-0.3 kohm x cm2) than neurons with medium or small Ip density (19+/-6 and 31+/-6 kohm x cm2, respectively). Regardless of these differences, in all groups of neurons Ip had a low sensitivity to ouabain (Ip half inhibition by ouabain was observed at 80-110 microM). These data suggest that the Na+/K+ pump site density and/or its activity is not uniform throughout the dorsal root ganglia neuron population; however, this non-uniformity does not appear to relate to the functional expression of the different alpha isoforms of the Na+/K+ pump. The major functional Na+/K+ pump in the dorsal root ganglia neuron plasma membrane appeared to be the low ouabain affinity (alpha1) isoform.
We propose that the primary afferent depolarization that follows GABA(A) receptor activation in the spinal cord also occurs in the periphery. As evidence, the present study localizes beta2/beta3 and alpha1 subunits of the GABA(A) receptor on 10-14% of the unmyelinated primary afferents axons in the glabrous skin of the cat paw. Behavioral studies demonstrate that local peripheral injection of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol at a low concentration (2.0 microM) attenuates, and at a high concentration (1 mM) enhances, formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors. Intraplantar injection of muscimol alone at a high dose evokes thermal hyperalgesia. Bicuculline, a GABA(A) antagonist, prevents these muscimol-induced changes in behavior. The muscimol-induced effects are due to local rather than systemic or central activation of GABA(A) receptors, as such effects are not observed in the contralateral paw. We interpret these findings to indicate that activation of GABA(A) receptors by low concentrations of muscimol depolarizes peripheral primary afferent terminals, a phenomenon we call peripheral primary afferent depolarization, in turn reducing the size of the peripheral action potentials and concomitantly reducing the amount of algogenic substances released from the peripheral terminals of these fibers. This sequence of events presumably results in a reduction in nociceptor activation. Higher concentrations of muscimol further depolarize GABA(A) receptor-containing terminals, which then initiates action potentials in nociceptors analogous to the appearance of dorsal root reflexes that arise following activation of GABA(A) receptors on central primary afferent terminals. These latter events reverse the analgesic effects of GABA(A) ligands and lead to potentiation of nociceptive input. Thus, the present study provides anatomical and behavioral evidence supporting a bimodal role for GABA(A) receptors in the modulation of peripheral nociceptive transmission.
The present investigation details the modulation of medullary dorsal horn neuron responses to excitatory amino acids and peripheral cutaneous stimuli by orphanin FQ (nociceptin), an endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor-like, receptor. Effects of orphanin FQ, administered microiontophoretically or given intracerebroventricularly, were tested on the responses of nociceptive-specific, wide dynamic range and low threshold neurons recorded in the superficial and deeper dorsal horn of the medulla (trigeminal nucleus caudalis) in anesthetized (urethane or pentobarbital) male rats. Microiontophoretic application of orphanin FQ reduced the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses in 86% (71/82) of neurons, and the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid-evoked responses in 86% (30/35) of neurons. However, orphanin FQ produced a longer lasting inhibitory effect on the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses relative to the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid-evoked responses. The inhibitory effect of orphanin FQ was not modality-specific, responses evoked by noxious as well as non-noxious stimuli were reduced in 22/23 neurons. However, the inhibitory effect was more pronounced on noxious stimulus-evoked responses. Naloxone applied at currents that antagonized the inhibitory effects of selective agonists at mu and kappa opioid receptors failed to inhibit the effects of orphanin FQ. Microiontophoretic co-application of substance P with N-methyl-D-aspartate facilitated the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses in 52% (26/50) of nociceptive neurons. Orphanin FQ blocked or reduced the substance P-induced facilitation by 86+/-24.4% (n = 14). In order to compare electrophysiological data with previous behavioral observations, effects of orphanin FQ administered intracerebroventricularly were tested on the excitatory amino acid-evoked responses. Orphanin FQ reduced the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses in 85% (11/13) of neurons whereas the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid-evoked responses were facilitated in 69% (9/13) of neurons. We suggest that orphanin FQ produces a predominantly inhibitory effect on, (i) noxious stimuli evoked responses, (ii) excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated transmission and, (iii) the substance P-induced facilitation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses. We conclude that orphanin FQ primarily produced an antinociceptive action at the level of the dorsal horn of the medulla.
The functional organization of the trigeminal nuclei during embryogenesis was investigated using multiple-site optical recording with a fast voltage-sensitive dye. Brainstem preparations with three classified trigeminal nerve afferents, the ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular nerves, together with motor nerve fibers, were dissected from five- to eight-day-old chick embryos. Electrical responses evoked by trigeminal nerve stimulations were optically recorded simultaneously from many loci of the stained preparations. We identified three response areas related to the trigeminal nerve: area I, located cephalic to the level of the trigeminal ganglion; area II, located caudal to the level of the trigeminal ganglion; and area III, located at the level of the trigeminal root. The neural responses in areas I and II were evoked by ophthalmic, maxillary or mandibular nerve stimulation, while the responses in area III were detected when the stimulation was applied to the trigeminal motor nerve. In comparison with the morphology indicated by DiI labeling, the results suggest that areas I, II and III correspond to the principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, the spinal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and the trigeminal motor nucleus, respectively. We identified two components of the optical response: a fast and a slow signal. In five-day-old preparations, fast spike-like signals related to action potentials were recorded from the three response areas. In six-day-old preparations, slow optical signals which reflect glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials were detected from area II only when the ophthalmic nerve was stimulated: no slow signal was evoked by maxillary or mandibular nerve stimulation. In seven- and eight-day-old preparations, slow signals were detected from both areas I and II with every nerve stimulation. These results suggest that synaptic function is first generated in the spinal trigeminal nucleus by the six-day embryonic stage, and the developmental organization of synaptic function is not the same in the three trigeminal nerves or in the two sensory nuclei. Contour line maps of the signal amplitude revealed that the size and the area of the neural responses within the trigeminal nuclei changed dramatically with development. We compared the spatial distribution and temporal dynamics of the optical signals between the ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular nerve stimulations, and we found that somatotopic organization is less clear in a rostrocaudal/mediolateral X-Y plane, although the areas of the maxillary and mandibular nerves appeared to separate in the lateral direction.
The classic opioid peptide, enkephalin, and the novel member of the opioid family, nociceptin/orphanin FQ, inhibit the spontaneous electrical activity of neurons recorded from the rostral ventrolateral medulla, presumably cardiovascular neurons. In this study, the putative effects of endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2, the newly discovered endogenous ligands for the micro-opioid receptor, on the electrical activity of rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons were investigated in rat brain slices in vitro. Like enkephalin and nociceptin, perfusion of endomorphin-1 or endomorphin-2 profoundly inhibited spontaneous discharges of 43% and 38% of the medullary neurons, respectively. No excitatory response to perfusion of either endomorphin was found in all neurons surveyed. Both endomorphins produced concentration-dependent inhibition. However, endomorphin-1 was more potent than endomorphin-2 for production of the inhibition, as demonstrated by the greater and longer suppression induced by endomorphin-1 than that induced by endomorphin-2 at the same concentration. Among the four opioid agonists tested, EC50 values (in nM) were 3.17 (endomorphin-1), 3.02 (nociceptin), 10.1 (endomorphin-2) and 150.0 (enkephalin). The non-selective opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone, blocked the inhibitory responses of the neurons to endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2 and enkephalin, but not to nociceptin. The selective mu antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine, prevented the neuronal inhibition induced by endomorphins, but not by enkephalin and nociceptin. Neither naloxone nor beta-funaltrexamine alone had a significant effect on the firing rate of the neurons. These results demonstrate that endomorphin-1 and, to a lesser extent, endomorphin-2 exert an inhibitory modulation of the electrical activity of rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons, which is mediated through the stimulation of mu-opioid receptors.
This study investigated the origin of a dopaminergic innervation of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. In pentobarbital-anaesthetized male Long-Evans rats, a transpharyngeal approach was used to inject a retrograde tracer, rhodamine latex microspheres, into the supraoptic nucleus. After 13-26 h survival under anaesthesia, animals were perfused transcardially, the brain sectioned and processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence, a marker for hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons. In six cases with injections restricted to the supraoptic nucleus, rhodamine-labelled microspheres were observed in a population of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons located in the A15 cells below the anterior commissure (A15 dorsal) and above the optic chiasm (A15 ventral), and the dorsal and lateral periventricular A14 cell group. Occasional double-labelled cells were seen in the medial and lateral hypothalamus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, but rarely in other known dopaminergic cell groups, notably the ventral tegmental area (A10), zona incerta (A13) and substantia nigra. In support of a role for dopamine in neurohypophysial regulation, these observations indicate that the major dopaminergic input to magnocellular neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus is derived from a relatively sparse population of neurons located in the A14 and A15 cell groups.
Histamine, a putative neuromodulator and neurotransmitter, can depolarize supraoptic neurons and enhance depolarizing afterpotentials that play a key role in determining the excitability of these neurons. This study investigated intracellular signal transduction involved in histamine-induced enhancement of depolarizing afterpotentials utilizing immunohistochemical and electrophysiological methods. Abundant inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-related immunostaining was seen in all parts of the supraoptic nucleus, mainly within somata and proximal processes of the magnocellular neurons, but also in astrocytes of the ventral glial lamina. In supraoptic neurons displaying depolarizing afterpotentials, three brief depolarizations evoked a slow inward current. Bath application of histamine (1-2.5 microM) reversibly enhanced this slow inward current in almost all supraoptic neurons tested. Amplitudes and durations of the slow inward current were increased by 68.1% and 22.8%, respectively. Pretreatment of cells with a histamine receptor (subtype 1) antagonist (pyrilamine) or inhibitors of phospholipase C activation (neomycin or U73122) prevented histamine-induced enhancement of the slow inward current. When electrodes containing heparin, an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor blocker, were used for recording, histamine had no effect on the slow inward current. Heparin, however, failed to abolish norepinephrine-induced enhancement of the slow inward current. After H7 [1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine], an inhibitor of protein kinase C, was infused into supraoptic neurons via the electrodes, histamine-induced enhancement of the slow inward current was also blocked. These results indicate the presence of, and functional roles for, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-sensitive Ca2+ stores in supraoptic neurons. Following activation of histamine receptors (subtype 1) and phospholipase C, Ca2+ mobilization from internal stores participates in mediating histamine-induced enhancement of depolarizing afterpotentials.
The luteinizing hormone surge in the female rat is the result of the integration of multiple signals within the medial preoptic area. The medial preoptic area contains gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons that are responsible for the release of luteinizing hormone, neurons containing estrogen receptors and terminals originating from the suprachiasmatic nucleus with, for example, vasopressin as neurotransmitter. Both the medial preoptic area and suprachiasmatic nucleus are crucial for the occurrence of luteinizing hormone surges, since lesioning of either nucleus prevents pre-ovulatory and steroid-induced luteinizing hormone surges. In this study, we investigated whether vasopressin in the medial preoptic area could be the daily neuronal signal from the suprachiasmatic nucleus responsible for the timing of the luteinizing hormone surge. Vasopressin (50 ng/microl) or Ringer solution was administered by reverse microdialysis from Zeitgeber times 7.5 to 12.5 into the medial preoptic area of ovariectomized, estradiol-treated rats. The suprachiasmatic nucleus was lesioned to remove all cyclic luteinizing hormone secretion. This was evaluated by monitoring behavioral activity; animals that were arrhythmic were included in the experiments. Hourly blood samples were taken to measure plasma luteinizing hormone levels. Preoptic vasopressin administration induced a surge-like luteinizing hormone pattern in suprachiasmatic nucleus-lesioned animals, whereas constant, basal luteinizing hormone levels were found in the control animals. These data show that vasopressin, by itself, is able to trigger the luteinizing hormone surge in suprachiasmatic nucleus-lesioned rats. We propose that vasopressin is a timing signal from the suprachiasmatic nucleus responsible for the activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis in the female rat.
The present study sought to identify tectothalamic neurons in the rat inferior colliculus that receive their innervation directly from the cochlear nuclei and to identify the axons that provide the innervation. A direct projection would bypass the binaural interactions of the superior olivary complex and provide the quickest route to the neocortex. Axons, primarily from the dorsal cochlear nucleus, were labeled with anterograde transport of dextran and terminated in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus in a laminar pattern. Most labeled axons were thin and simply branched. Other axons were thicker, gnarly, less frequently observed and probably originated from the ventral cochlear nucleus. None had concentrated endbulbs or a nest of endings. Both types of axons terminated primarily in the central nucleus and layer 3 of the external cortex. This pattern suggests that the combination of these subdivisions in the rat are equivalent to the central nucleus as defined in other species. Tectothalamic neurons in the inferior colliculus in the same animals were identified by retrograde transport from the medial geniculate body and intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow. A number of different cell types act as tectothalamic neurons and receive contacts from cochlear nucleus axons. These include flat cells (disc-shaped), less-flat cells and stellate cells. Two innervation patterns were seen: a combination of axosomatic and axodendritic contacts, and predominantly axodendritic contacts. Both patterns were seen in the central nucleus, but axosomatic contacts were seen less often in the other subdivisions. This is the first study to show direct connections between cochlear nuclear axons and identified tectothalamic neurons. The layers of axons from cochlear nuclei may provide convergent inputs to neurons in the inferior colliculus rather than the heavy inputs from single axons typical of lower auditory nuclei. Excitatory synapses made by axons from the cochlear nuclei on tectothalamic neurons may provide a substrate for rapid transmission of monaural information to the medial geniculate body.
The orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 is a transcription factor that belongs to the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily and is expressed in many regions of the brain. To determine the physiological role of Nurr1, we previously generated mice with a null mutation in the Nurr1 gene. Nurr1-null mice appear to develop normally but die within 12 h after birth. Subsequent analysis revealed the absence of neurotransmitter dopamine and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the central dopaminergic area of newborn pups. Herein, using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we show that Nurr1 is expressed only in subset of catecholamine producing neurons (A2 partly, A8-A10 and A11 catecholaminergic cell groups), and is excluded from the norepinephrine producing neurons (A1, A2, A5-A6 catecholaminergic cell groups). Nurr1 was not expressed in the dopamine synthesizing cell groups (A12-A16 catecholaminergic cell groups) of the diencephalon and the olfactory bulb. As previously shown and confirmed in this study, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was absent in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of Nurr1-deficient mice. However, the loss of Nurr1 expression in A2 and A11 dopaminergic neurons did not affect their tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. This study begins to dissect cues necessary for understanding the complex regulation of the catecholaminergic biosynthetic pathway with regard to local, chemical and developmental changes in the brain.
Cholinergic neurons of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus have been hypothesized to play a critical role in the-generation and maintenance of rapid eye movement sleep. Less is known about the function of non-cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental nucleus neurons. As part of our ongoing studies of the brainstem circuitry controlling behavioral state, we have begun to investigate the functional properties of these neurons. In the course of these experiments, we have observed a novel response to the neurotransmitter noradrenaline. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus neurons were carried out in 21- to 35-day-old rat brain slices. A subpopulation of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus cells responded to a 30-s application of 50 microM noradrenaline with depolarization and a decrease in input resistance which lasted several minutes. Following return to resting membrane potential, these cells invariably exhibited barrages of excitatory postsynaptic potentials which lasted at least 12 min. These excitatory postsynaptic potentials were reversibly abolished by bath application of tetrodotoxin, as well as by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, but were insensitive to application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. To examine whether these neurons were cholinergic, the recorded cells were labeled with biocytin and tested for co-localization with reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase, a marker for laterodorsal tegmental nucleus cholinergic neurons. In every instance, neurons with these properties were non-cholinergic. However, they were always located in close proximity to reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive laterodorsal tegmental nucleus cells. The present data indicate that noradrenaline, in addition to directly inhibiting cholinergic cells of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, also results in the direct and indirect excitation of non-cholinergic cells of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. The indirect excitation is long lasting and mediated by glutamatergic mechanisms. Our working hypothesis is that these non-cholinergic cells are local circuit inhibitory interneurons and that prolonged excitation of these neurons by noradrenaline may serve as a mechanism for inhibition of cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental nucleus cells during wakefulness, when noradrenaline tone is high.
The effects of locally infused cholinergic agonists on extracellular levels of norepinephrine in the olfactory bulb of anesthetized rats were determined using in vivo microdialysis coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection. Using chronically implanted microdialysis probes, the basal norepinephrine level in the olfactory bulb was 0.55 pg/10 microl dialysate. Local infusion of K+ (30 mM) or the norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor desipramine (1 microM) through the dialysis probe significantly increased basal norepinephrine levels. Focal activation of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons, the sole source of norepinephrine innervation of the olfactory bulb, increased norepinephrine levels by 247% of control. Local infusion of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor soman (0.4 mM) into the olfactory bulb increased basal norepinephrine levels by 134% of control, suggesting that endogenously released acetylcholine modulates norepinephrine release. Intrabulbar infusion of acetylcholine (40 mM) or nicotine (40 mM) increased norepinephrine levels (317% and 178% of control, respectively), while infusion of the muscarinic receptor agonist pilocarpine (40 mM) reduced norepinephrine levels (54% of control). These results demonstrate that basal norepinephrine release in the olfactory bulb is potently modulated by stimulation of local cholinergic receptors. Nicotinic receptors stimulate, and muscarinic receptors inhibit, norepinephrine release from locus coeruleus terminals.
The concentration of nitric oxide was found to be decreased in a hypersympathetic condition. We carried out experiments on cultured sympathetic neurons from 12-14-days-old chick embryos to investigate the role of vasoactive peptides and amine on nitric oxide production. Stimulation of cultured neurons with endothelin-1, norepinephrine and angiotensin-II initially increases nitric oxide production and subsequently decreases it in a dose-dependent manner (P&lt;0.05, n = 7). Stimulation of Fura-2 acetoxymethyl ester-loaded neurons with endothelin-1, norepinephrine and angiotensin-II increases the calcium influx (within 30-90 s) and it is then restored to the initial level (P&lt;0.05, n = 7). An additional observation was that specific stimulator L-arginine significantly increases the nitric oxide release and calcium influx into the cells, whereas N(W)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester blunts nitric oxide release dose dependently (P&lt;0.05, n = 7) and does not change the calcium concentration in the cells. We propose that vasoactive peptides and amines inhibit nitric oxide production in the cultured sympathetic neuron by regulation of intracellular calcium concentration.
Nitric oxide is a highly reactive molecule, diffusible and therefore ubiquitous in the central nervous system. Consequently, nitric oxide or nitric oxide-derived nitrogen oxides must enter into contact with neuromodulators and they can modify these molecules, especially monoamines, and thus change their regulatory action on synaptic transmission. We tested this possibility on a well-known, identified cholinergic synapse of Aplysia buccal ganglion, in which we have found that evoked acetylcholine release was decreased by extracellularly applied serotonin. We show that this modulatory effect of serotonin was largely reduced not only in the presence of 3-morpholinosydnonimine, a nitric oxide donor, but also when endogenous nitric oxide synthase was activated. We have shown that this decrease in the serotonin effect is due to the formation of chemical derivatives of serotonin, mainly a symmetric serotonin dimer, 4-nitroso-serotonin and 4-nitro-serotonin, which are ineffective in reproducing the modulatory effect of serotonin. Serotonin is involved in the regulation of several central functions, such as sleep-wake activity or mood. The consequences of chemical modifications of serotonin by nitric oxide must be taken into account in physiological as well as pathological situations. In addition, our results highlight the importance of the physiological implications of interactions between free radicals and neuromediators in the nervous system.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase signal transduction pathway involved in the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of various mammalian cells consists of a sequential activation of three protein kinases, Raf, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, and mitogen-activated protein kinase. These kinases are highly expressed in brain and play an important role in neuronal signalling. In this study, to further characterize mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling pathway in brain, we have elucidated the topography and subcellular distribution of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinasel in adult rat brain and differentiating PC12 cells. Our immunohistochemical data indicate that mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 is widely distributed throughout the brain and expressed prominently in cortex, hippocampus, brainstem, hypothalamus and cerebellum. In these areas of brain mitogen-activated protein kinase kinasel is exclusively neuronal in origin and is localized within perikarya and dendrites. Confocal microscopy data has determined that a portion of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 in rat brain is co-localized with microtubules. This co-localization was observed only within neuritic shaft and cilia of ventricular ependymal cells. In nerve growth factor-induced differentiating PC12 cells, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 displays co-localization with microtubules within proximal regions of neuritic shafts and their junctions with the cell somas. From bovine brain extract, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinasel co-purifies with microtubules. In vitro kinase assay detected mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 activity within purified microtubules. These observations indicate that mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 is associated with microtubules within some specialized compartments of the brain and microtubule-associated mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 is catalytically active.
We studied the effects of sleep on auditory evoked magnetic fields following pure tone stimulation applied to the right ear of 10 healthy normal volunteers to investigate the changes in the processing of auditory perception in the primary auditory cortex. Dual 37-channel biomagnetometers were used to record auditory evoked magnetic fields over the bilateral temporal lobes in response to presented tones. Auditory evoked magnetic fields were compared for three stimulus frequencies (250, 1000 and 4000 Hz) and three sleep stages (awake state, sleep stages 1 and 2). Four main components, M50, M100, M150 and M200, were identified with latencies of approximately 50, 100, 150 and 200 ms, respectively. The latency of each component had a tendency to be prolonged with the depth of sleep stage in all frequencies. The amplitude ratios of the early-latency components (M50 and M100) showed a tendency of reduction compared with the same components in the awake state. By contrast, the amplitude ratios of the long-latency components (M150 and M200) were significantly enhanced with an increase in the sleep stage compared with the same components in the awake state. The equivalent current dipoles of all components in all conditions were detected at the superior temporal cortex (the primary auditory cortex). As for the changes in the equivalent current dipole location of each component, the equivalent current dipole was detected in the more posterior and medial region in responses to the high-frequency tone (1000 and 4000 Hz) compared with those to 250 Hz tone stimulation. Although the equivalent current dipoles of the early-latency components (M50 and M100) were in regions more anterior and superior compared to those in the awake state, there was no consistent tendency of changes in equivalent current dipole locations between each sleep stage in the late-latency components (M150 and M200). These findings are probably due to the difference in generating mechanisms between the early- and late-latency components.
Wobbler mice display forelimb weakness, altered paw positioning, reduced running speed, muscle atrophy and motor neuron loss; co-treatment with glycosaminoglycans and insulin-like growth factor-I counteracts the progression of the disease. Reportedly, treatment with glycosaminoglycans or insulin-like growth factor-I slows the early stages of progressive forelimb dysfunction in wobbler mice. Our aim was to study whether the combination of these two drugs would result in greater neuroprotective effects. In a group of wobbler mice, combined treatment with daily s.c. administration of 20 microg/kg insulin-like growth factor-I and 1 mg/kg glycosaminoglycans was begun upon diagnosis at three weeks of age and continued for the next six weeks. This treatment halted motor neuron loss and markedly reduced the decay of forelimb muscle morphometry and function. Moreover, the mouse phenotype itself was strikingly improved. The effect of the combination treatment was significantly higher than that of the single drugs, even at a dosage as high as 1 mg/kg insulin-like growth factor-I. The ability of the insulin-like growth factor-I/glycosaminoglycans pharmacological cocktail to arrest the progression of motor neuron disease in wobbler mice and the safety of the low dose of insulin-like growth factor-I used hold promise that this combination might represent a novel approach for the treatment of motor neuron disease and peripheral neuropathies.
Peripheral and central injections of D-glucose enhance learning and memory in rats, and block memory impairments produced by morphine. The mechanism(s) for these effects is (are) as yet unknown. One mechanism by which glucose might act on memory and other brain functions is by regulating the ATP-sensitive potassium channel. This channel may couple glucose metabolism and neuronal excitability, with channel blockade increasing the likelihood of stimulus-evoked neurotransmitter release. The present experiments explored the effects of intra-septal injections of glucose and the ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker glibenclamide on spontaneous alternation behavior in the rat. Intra-septal injections of glucose (20 nmol) or glibenclamide (10 nmol), 30 min prior to plus-maze spontaneous alternation performance, significantly enhanced alternation scores compared to rats receiving vehicle injections. Glibenclamide enhanced spontaneous alternation performance in an inverted-U dose-response manner. Individually sub-effective doses of glucose (5 nmol) and glibenclamide (5 nmol) significantly enhanced plus-maze alternation scores when co-injected into the septal area. Glibenclamide (10 nmol), when co-administered with morphine (4 nmol) 30 min prior to Y-maze spontaneous alternation performance, attenuated the performance-impairing effects of morphine alone. The present findings show that intra-septal injections of the direct ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker glibenclamide, both alone and in conjunction with a sub-effective dose of glucose, enhance spontaneous alternation performance and attenuate the performance-impairing effects of morphine. The similarity of the results obtained with glibenclamide and glucose, together with their similar actions on ATP-sensitive potassium channel function, suggests that glucose may modulate memory-dependent behavior in the rat by regulating the ATP-sensitive potassium channel.
To examine the influence of chronic stress on the brain, we measured local cerebral blood flow in the hippocampus of rats which had been exposed to chronic stress by the hydrogen clearance method in the freely moving status. Rats were exposed, once a day for 12 weeks, to stress of a 15-min immersion in cold water at 4 degrees C (the stress group) or slightly handled for about 1 min (the control group). Local cerebral blood flow values in the hippocampus, which were measured after a 12-week recovery period, were lower in rats in the stress group than those of rats in the control group only in the dark cycle, but not in the light cycle. Accordingly, local cerebral blood flow in the hippocampus of rats in the stress group did not have a daily fluctuation, i.e. lower in the light cycle and higher in the dark cycle, as was shown in rats in the control group. There were no significant changes in motor activity in rats in the stress group as compared to those in the control group. Severe structural damages were observed in the CA2 and CA3 cell fields of the hippocampus of rats in the stress group. We found that an increase in local cerebral blood flow in the hippocampus in the dark cycle was blunted following chronic stress exposure, suggesting that chronic stress exposure caused hippocampal neurons to be less responsive to environmental stimuli derived from motor activity during the dark cycle.
The time-course of DNA fragmentation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and the choroid plexus was studied following induction of transient forebrain ischemia under lethal normothermic (37 degrees C), or sublethal hypothermic (33 degrees C) conditions. Oligonucleosomal- and high-molecular-weight DNA fragmentation were analysed by conventional agarose gel electrophoresis and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, respectively. DNA breaks were visualized by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin-deoxyuridinetriphosphate nick-end labeling method. At 48 h of recovery following normothermic ischemia, in situ labeling of DNA breaks were widespread in medial CA1 and high-molecular-weight DNA cleavage was seen. In contrast, at the same time-point in lateral CA1, many pyknotic but few cells displaying in situ labeling of DNA breaks were observed. Major oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation was not seen until 72 h of recovery. Following hypothermic ischemia, DNA fragmentation was absent in CA1. DNA fragmentation was seen in the choroid plexus at 24 h of recovery following normothermic ischemia, which was diminished by 48 h of recovery. In conclusion, oligonucleosomal and high-molecular-weight DNA fragmentation at 10-50 kilobase pairs, occur in CA1 after morphological signs, and acidophilia signifying neurodegeneration appear. DNA fragmentation and cell death in the choroid plexus precede neuronal death in CA1 and may play a causative role.
Housing rats in an enriched environment after focal brain ischemia improves functional outcome without changes in infarct volume, suggesting neuroplastic changes outside the lesion. In this study, permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was followed by housing in an enriched or a standard environment. Nerve growth factor-induced gene A and glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression were determined by in situ hybridization two to 30 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Stroke induced a decrease in nerve growth factor-induced gene A messenger RNA expression in cortical areas outside the ischemic lesion and in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus two to three days after ischemia. This decrease was more prolonged with environmental enrichment, lasting until 20 days. However, 30 days after focal cerebral ischemia, environmental enrichment increased nerve growth factor-induced gene A expression compared to standard housing. A reduction of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor (type II) messenger RNA two to 12 days after stroke in standard housed rats was restored by environmental enrichment. These data suggest that improved functional outcome induced by environmental enrichment after middle cerebral artery occlusion is associated with dynamically altered expression of nerve growth factor-induced gene A messenger RNA in brain regions outside the ischemic lesion, and sustained levels of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression.
Sprouting of mossy fibers in the hippocampus of rats that underwent limbic epileptogenesis by amygdala kindling or kainate injection was studied at the light microscopic and ultrastructural levels by cytochemical demonstration of the enzyme 5'-nucleotidase. This adenosine-producing ectoenzyme has previously been shown to characterize malleable terminals during brain development and lesion-induced synaptogenesis, but to be otherwise associated with glial membranes. At the light microscopic level, kainate-treated but not control or kindled rats showed 5'-nucleotidase activity in the CA3 region and in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. At the ultrastructural level, in control animals, the synapses of the molecular and granular layers were enzyme negative. Only some mossy fiber boutons of the dentate hilus exhibited 5'-nucleotidase activity. In epileptic rats, synaptic labeling within the hilus appeared more intense. Moreover, 5'-nucleotidase-containing terminals within the inner molecular layer, presumably ectopic mossy fiber boutons, were found in both kindled and kainate-treated rats. It is concluded that, in both the normal and epileptic hippocampus, 5'-nucleotidase is associated with axons capable of a plastic sprouting response. The synaptic enzyme may attenuate the glutamatergic transmission of mossy fibers, in particular of the aberrant mossy fibers in epileptic rats, by producing the inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine. Alternatively, 5'-nucleotidase may influence synapse formation by its putative non-enzymatic, adhesive functions.
Transection of the entorhino-dentate perforant path is a well known model for lesion-induced axonal sprouting and glial reactions in the rat. In this study, we have characterized the microglial reaction in the dentate molecular layer of the SJL/J and C57Bl/6 mouse. The morphological transformation of the microglial cells and their densitometrically measured Mac-1 immunoreactivity were correlated with the density of silver-impregnated axonal and terminal degeneration and the myelination of the degenerating medial and lateral perforant pathways. Anterograde axonal and terminal degeneration leads to: (i) altered myelin basic protein immunoreactivity with the appearance of discrete myelin deposits preferentially in the denervated medial and significantly less so in the lateral perforant path zone from day 2 after lesioning; (ii) an increase in number and Mac-1 immunoreactivity of morphologically-changed microglial cells in the denervated perforant path zones with more pronounced morphological transformation of microglia in the medial than in the lateral perforant path zones at day 2 but not day 5 after lesioning; and (iii) a linear correlation between the density of microglial Mac-1 reactivity and axonal degeneration in the medial but not in the lateral perforant path zone at two days postlesion, and a linear correlation in both zones at five days postlesion. We propose that the differentiated microglial response is due to the different densities of axonal and terminal degeneration, as observed in the individual cases. The finding of a potentiated or accelerated microglial activation in the medial as compared to the lateral perforant path zone suggests different kinetics of microglial activation in areas with degenerating myelinated and unmyelinated fibers.
A reduction in the activity of mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons has been suggested to play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Indeed, a recent study indicates that the density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons is decreased in the deep layers of the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic subjects [Akil et al., (1999) Am. J. Psychiatry, in press]. To determine the impact of partial loss of prefrontal dopamine axons on the activity of the remaining dopamine axons, we examined the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex on local extracellular dopamine concentrations in the rat. In rats sustaining an average 63% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons and no loss of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in the medial prefrontal cortex (smaller lesion), the baseline extracellular dopamine concentration was reduced by 63+/-9%. Thirty minutes of tail pressure increased extracellular dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex by a maximum of 1.28+/-0.28 pg in control rats, but only 0.74+/-0.18 pg in rats with smaller lesions. In rats sustaining an average 80% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons and 25% loss of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons (larger lesion), the baseline extracellular dopamine concentration in the medial prefrontal cortex did not differ from control values. In addition, the maximum stress-evoked increase in dopamine concentration was also similar to that observed in control rats (+1.04+/-0.28 pg). The stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex of rats sustaining smaller and larger lesions may occur in the absence of a corresponding increase in dopamine synthesis in mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons. This proposal is supported by our observation that stress did not alter tissue or extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations in the medial prefrontal cortex of lesioned rats. These data suggest that moderate loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in the prefrontal cortex is sufficient to reduce extracellular dopamine concentrations in this brain region. In addition, a further reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in the medial prefrontal cortex, combined with the loss of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons, results in normal extracellular dopamine concentrations in this area. We propose that the latter effect is due to increased neurochemical activity of remaining mesoprefrontal dopamine axons and/or decreased clearance of extracellular dopamine due to loss of both dopamine and norepinephrine transporters.
L- and N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels are widely distributed in neurons of the CNS. To investigate their subcellular distributions on CNS neurons, intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) increase in response to high potassium ([K+]) solution was detected in primary cultured rat neocortical neurons using the calcium indicator dye Oregon Green with a confocal laser scanning microscope. Extracellular application of 90 mM [K+] solution induced fluorescence increase in a manner dependent on extracellular [Ca2+]. The increase was partially blocked by 10 microM nifedipine, and the reduction was higher in cell bodies compared to dendritic processes. In contrast, omega-conotoxin GVIA reduced the 90 mM [K+] induced fluorescence increase more in the dendritic processes. The results demonstrated the heterogeneous distribution of nifedipine- and omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive calcium channels, which may suggest a functional difference in nifedipine- and omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive channels in cultured neocortical neurons.
Significant changes in the apparent diffusion coefficient of water are observed in nuclear magnetic resonance images of patients with acute ischemic stroke. However, the underlying mechanisms of these apparent diffusion coefficient changes are still unresolved. To analyse possible mechanisms, this study applies nuclear magnetic resonance imaging on a 14.1 Tesla narrow-bore magnet to quantitatively study water diffusion in individually perfused brain slices following exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate excitotoxicity. The results indicate that brain slices have at least two distinct diffusing water compartments with apparent diffusion coefficients of 0.96+/-0.10x10(-3) mm2/s and 0.06+/-0.01x10(-3) mm2/s. When excitotoxicity was induced with N-methyl-D-aspartate, there was a significant decrease in the fraction of the fast diffusing water component in the slices (P&lt;0.001). However, neither apparent diffusion coefficient changed significantly. Prior treatment with dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) depressed the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (P&lt;0.01, ANOVA). The results demonstrate brain slice compartmental changes resulting from direct receptor stimulation and provide evidence for tissue water redistribution as an important mechanism for changes in apparent diffusion coefficient seen in clinical magnetic resonance imaging. The brain slice preparation affords a well-controlled method to study the mechanisms of tissue nuclear magnetic resonance contrast, bridging the gap between basic nuclear magnetic resonance studies and clinical magnetic resonance imaging. The brain slice model also offers a new way to test the utility of potential anti-stroke drugs using high field nuclear magnetic resonance imaging.
Cultured neurons offer many advantages over a slice preparation for whole-cell patch-clamp studies, such as better control over the environment and space clamp control. However, heterogeneous cultures of neurons present problems in distinguishing the cell type from which recordings are made. The present study uses correlations with data obtained in the hippocampal slice preparation to determine the feasibility of &quot;identifying&quot; different neuronal subtypes in cultures obtained from the superior region of postnatal two- to 13-day-old rat hippocampus. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording in the current-clamp mode after 24-96 h in culture was used to determine if the action potential duration would be a useful criterion in distinguishing cell types. Single action potentials were elicited by a 0.1-0.2 ms, 2-4 nA depolarizing pulse. The average membrane potential and input resistance were -46.8+/-1.2 mV (n = 58) and 576+/-56 Mohms (n = 57), respectively. A frequency distribution of the action potential duration measured at half-maximal amplitude showed four distinct groups of neurons (group 1, 1.36+/-0.03 ms, n = 17; group 2, 2.19+/-0.05 ms, n = 20; group 3, 3.17+/-0.10 ms, n = 16; group 4, 4.36+/-0.13, n = 5). Based on correlations with previous studies using intracellular recording in identified cells in slices, the data suggest that group 1 represents basket cells, group 2 represents vertical cells, group 3 represents a combination of stellate cells and pyramidal cells, and group 4 represents another unidentified class of cells. Further analysis of the fast afterhyperpolarization allows distinction between pyramidal cells and stellate cells in group 3. In contrast to the interneurons in a slice preparation, these cells offer good voltage control and environmental control. Future studies will record from these cells in current-clamp mode to quickly characterize the action potential before switching to voltage-clamp recording to characterize the currents present in the different types of interneurons.
Minimal excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked in CA3 pyramidal neurons by activation of the mossy fibres in hippocampal slices from seven- to 16-day-old rats. Conditioning intracellular depolarizing pulses were delivered as 50- or 100-Hz bursts. A statistically significant depression and potentiation was induced in four and five of 13 cases, respectively. The initial state of the synapses influenced the effect: the amplitude changes correlated with the pretetanic paired-pulse facilitation ratio. Afferent (mossy fibre) tetanization produced a significant depression in four of six inputs, and no significant changes in two inputs. Quantal content decreased or increased following induction of the depression or potentiation, respectively, whereas no significant changes in quantal size were observed. Compatible with presynaptic maintenance mechanisms of both depression and potentiation, changes in the mean quantal content were associated with modifications in the paired-pulse facilitation ratios, coefficient of variation of response amplitudes and number of response failures. Cases were encountered when apparently &quot;presynaptically silent&quot; synapses were converted into functional synapses during potentiation or when effective synapses became &quot;presynaptically silent&quot; when depression was induced, suggesting respective changes in the probability of transmitter release. It is concluded that, in juvenile rats, it is possible to induce lasting potentiation at the mossy fibre-CA3 synapses by purely postsynaptic stimulation, while afferent tetanization is accompanied by long-lasting depression. The data support the existence not only of a presynaptically induced, but also a postsynaptically induced form of long-term potentiation in the mossy fibre-CA3 synapse. Despite a postsynaptic induction mechanism, maintenance of both potentiation and depression is likely to occur presynaptically.
In the kainate model of epilepsy, electrophysiological and anatomical modifications occur in inhibitory circuits of the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus. Using postembedding GABA immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, we characterized perisomatic GABA and non-GABA synaptic contacts in CA pyramidal cells, and GABAergic interneurons of stratum oriens/alveus and stratum lacunosum-moleculare, and examined if changes occurred at these synapses at two weeks post-kainate treatment. We found that, in control rats, the number and total length of perisomatic GABA synapses were significantly smaller (approximately 40-50%) in lacunosum-moleculare interneurons than in oriens/alveus interneurons and pyramidal cells. Additionally, the number and total length of perisomatic non-GABA synapses were different among all cell types, with these parameters increasing significantly in the following order: pyramidal cells&lt;lacunosum-moleculare interneurons&lt;oriens/alveus interneurons. Following kainate treatment, we found that the number and total length of GABA synapses were significantly increased in lacunosum-moleculare interneurons (by 76% and 100%, respectively), but were unchanged in pyramidal cells and oriens/alveus interneurons. In addition, the mean length of individual GABA synapses was significantly increased (by 17%) in pyramidal cells after kainate treatment. In contrast, no changes were observed at non-GABA synapses in any cell type examined after kainate treatment. These results indicate that, in control animals, the ultrastructural correlates of perisomatic GABA inhibition are less pronounced in lacunosum-moleculare than oriens/alveus interneurons or pyramidal cells, whereas those of perisomatic excitation are more prominent in oriens/alveus than lacunosum-moleculare interneurons, and much less present in pyramidal cells. In addition, our results with kainate-treated animals suggest that cell-specific changes in perisomatic inhibition may occur in CA1 inhibitory interneurons in the chronically hyperexcitable hippocampus. The ultrastructural correlates of perisomatic inhibition were increased in lacunosum-moleculare interneurons, which may thus suggest some disinhibition of pyramidal cells. However, the ultrastructural correlates of perisomatic inhibition were increased in pyramidal cells, implying some enhancement of perisomatic inhibition of principal cells in the hyperexcitable hippocampus.
Voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels constitute a major class of plasma membrane channels through which a significant amount of extracellular Ca2+ enters neuronal cells. Their pore-forming alpha1 subunits are associated with cytoplasmic regulatory beta subunits, which modify the distinct biophysical and pharmacological properties of the alpha1 subunits. Studies in animal models indicate altered expression of alpha1 and/or beta subunits in epilepsy. We have focused on the regulatory beta subunits and have analysed the immunoreactivity patterns of the beta1, beta2, beta3 and beta4 subunits in the hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (n = 18) compared to control specimens (n = 2). Temporal lobe epilepsy specimens were classified as Ammon's horn sclerosis (n = 9) or focal lesions without alteration of hippocampal cytoarchitecture (n = 9). Immunoreactivity for the beta subunits was observed in neuronal cell bodies, dendrites and neuropil. The beta1, beta2 and beta3 subunits were found mainly in cell bodies while the beta4 subunit was primarily localized to dendrites. Compared to the control specimens, epilepsy specimens of the Ammon's horn sclerosis and of the lesion group showed a similar beta subunit distribution, except for beta1 and beta2 staining in the Ammon's horn sclerosis group: in the severely sclerotic hippocampal subfields of these specimens, beta1 and beta2 immunoreactivity was enhanced in some of the remaining neuronal cell bodies and, in addition, strongly marked dendrites. Thus, hippocampal neurons apparently express multiple classes of beta subunits which segregate into particular subcellular domains. In addition, the enhancement of beta1 and beta2 immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies and the additional shift of the beta1 and beta2 subunits into the dendritic compartment in severely sclerotic hippocampal regions indicate specific changes in Ammon's horn sclerosis. Altered expression of these beta subunits may lead to increased currents carried by voltage-dependent calcium channels and to enhanced synaptic excitability.
The hypothesis that the pathophysiology of schizophrenia may be associated with a dysfunction in GABA transmission in the human prefrontal cortex was investigated. Human post mortem brain tissue from 10 control cases and six cases of schizophrenia were processed for amino acid analysis and for radioactive in situ hybridization. Laminae III and V of three prefrontal cortical areas were examined in detail, namely Brodmann areas 9, 10 and 11. Of these three areas significant changes in GABAergic markers were found only in areas 9 and 10. Of note, a significant decrease in the tissue content of GABA was observed and this was accompanied by a marked increase in the cellular expression of the GABA(A) receptor alpha-1 subunit messenger RNA and a marked decrease in the expression of human GABA transporter-1, the messenger RNA encoding the neuronal GABA transporter protein. The amino acid analysis data provided in this study coupled with the detailed cellular study of several GABAergic markers in the human prefrontal cortex provide direct evidence in support of a disturbance in GABA transmission in the prefrontal cortex, which may be loosely termed &quot;hypofrontality&quot;.
Notch plays an important role in cell fate decisions in uncommitted proliferative cells, including neurogenesis, but is believed to not have a role in postmitotic cells. We have shown previously that Notch1 is highly expressed in embryonal mouse and human brain, but surprisingly it continues to be expressed at low levels in the adult brain. The function of Notch1 in postmitotic neurons in mammals is unknown. To better understand the potential role of Notch1 in mature central nervous system neurons we studied the effect of Notch1 transfection on neurite outgrowth in primary neocortex hippocampal neurons. Transfection at two days in vitro with full length Notch1 inhibited neurite outgrowth. Transfection at five to six days in vitro, after neurite outgrowth was established, led to apparent regression of neurites. These effects were enhanced when truncated constitutively active forms of Notch1 were introduced. Co-transfection with Numb, a physiological inhibitor of Notch, blocked Notch's effect on neurite outgrowth. We also examined whether Notch1 could activate C-promoter binding factor (CBF1) transcription factor using C-promoter binding factor-luciferase constructs, and demonstrated that this signal transduction pathway is present and can be activated in postmitotic neurons. Our results show that in postmitotic neurons Notch1 influences neurite morphology, and can activate its native signal transduction pathway. These data strongly suggest that Notch1 may play a physiologically important role in the central nervous system beyond neurogenesis.
Vestibular compensation for the postural and oculomotor deficits induced by unilateral labyrinthectomy is a model of post-lesional plasticity in the central nervous system. Just after the removal of one labyrinth, the deafferented, ipsilateral vestibular nucleus neurons are almost silent, and the discharge of the contralateral vestibular nucleus neurons is increased. The associated static disorders disappear in a few days, as normal activity is restored in both vestibular nuclei. In this study, we searched for traces of vestibular compensation in isolated whole brains taken from adult guinea-pigs. The electrophysiological responses evoked in control brains were compared to those evoked in brains taken from animals that had previously been labyrinthectomized. Guinea-pigs compensated for an initial labyrinthectomy within three days. In vivo, subsequent deafferentation of vestibular nucleus neurons on the intact side triggered &quot;Bechterew's phenomenon&quot;: a new postural and oculomotor syndrome appeared, similar to the one induced by the first lesion, but directed to the newly deafferented side. These disturbances would be caused by the new imbalance between the discharges of neurons in the two vestibular nuclei triggered by the second deafferentation. Experiments were designed to search for a similar imbalance in vitro in brains taken from labyrinthectomized animals, where the intact vestibular nerve is cut during the dissection. Isolated whole brains were obtained from young guinea-pigs at various times (one to seven days) following an initial labyrinthectomy. An imbalance between the resting activities of medial vestibular nucleus neurons on both sides of the brainstem was revealed in brains taken more than three days after the lesion: their discharge was higher on the compensated, initially lesioned side than on the newly deafferented side. In some cases, an oscillatory pattern of discharge, reminiscent of the spontaneous nystagmus associated in vivo with Bechterew's syndrome, appeared in both abducens nerves. These data demonstrate that most of the changes underlying vestibular compensation persist, and can thus be investigated in the isolated whole brain preparation. Brains removed only one day after the lesion displayed normal commissural responses and symmetric spinal inputs to vestibular nucleus neurons. However, an unusually large proportion of the neurons recorded on both sides of the preparation had very irregular spontaneous discharge rates. These data suggest that the first stages of vestibular compensation might be associated with transient changes in the membrane properties of vestibular nucleus neurons. Brains taken from compensated animals displayed a significant, bilateral decrease of the inhibitory commissural responses evoked in the medial vestibular nucleus by single-shock stimulation of the contralateral vestibular nerve. The sensitivity of abducens motoneurons on the initially lesioned, compensated side to synaptic activation from the contralesional vestibular nucleus neurons was also decreased. Both changes may explain the long-term, bilateral decrease of vestibular-related reflexes observed following unilateral labyrinthectomy. Spinal inputs to vestibular nucleus neurons became progressively asymmetric: their efficacy was increased on the lesioned side and decreased on the intact one. This last modification may support a functional substitution of the deficient, vestibular-related synergies involved in gaze and posture stabilization by neck-related reflexes.
The spontaneous and paroxysmal cerebral cortical synchronized activity was used as reference to study the cortical impact exerted on subcortical neurons. The sensorimotor cortical synchronized activity spread down to subcortical structures receiving direct cortical input, including neuronal populations that originate descending rubrospinal, tectospinal and reticulospinal motor axons, and to a somatosensory relay station, the cuneate nucleus. Lesion of the pyramidal tract abolished the cortically induced synchronization of the activity of contralateral cuneate nucleus neurons.
Semaphorins/collapsins, a family of genes with a semaphorin domain conserved from insects through to mammals, are believed to be involved in axon guidance during neuronal development. We report the expression patterns of mouse semaphorin messenger RNAs. Among secreted semaphorins, mouse semaphorin H is structurally most similar to semaphorin III/D, the first semaphorin identified as a collapsing factor for sensory axons. However, its expression patterns apparently differ from those of semaphorin III/D. The messenger RNAs are distributed in the brain widely but unevenly during development, in particular, in the main olfactory bulb, hippocampus and pontine nucleus. In the trunk, the expression level is high in mesodermal tissues surrounding the dorsal root ganglia, while it is low in the spinal cord. Moreover, we examined whether this molecule has activity to collapse growth cones of sensory neurons, as well as semaphorin III/D. Mouse semaphorin H collapsed growth cones of sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion in a dose-dependent manner, and anti-neuropilin antibodies inhibited this activity. Taken together, these results suggest that mouse semaphorin H can function as a chemorepellent to guide sensory peripheral nerves, most likely via neuropilin as a receptor.
The corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus are the final common pathway of the neuroendocrine adaptative response to a variety of stressors. To meet varied homeostatic needs, corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons exhibit a marked phenotypical plasticity, enabling them to rapidly modify their neuroendocrine output. In particular, they synthesize the neuropeptides vasopressin and neurotensin. Under many experimental circumstances, it is observed that corticotropin-releasing hormone and vasopressin are regulated in parallel, whereas the expression of neurotensin seems dissociated, in these neurons, evoking different transcriptional control over the co-existing neuropeptides depending on the adaptative response required. Using radioactive and dual-label in situ hybridization techniques, we have studied the respective expression of paraventricular corticotropin-releasing hormone, vasopressin and neurotensin messenger RNAs in the context of an immune challenge. A single intraperitoneal injection of the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide was administered to adult male rats that were killed 8 h later. Compared to control animals, lipopolysaccharide-injected rats showed elevated plasma corticosterone (614+/-65 vs 185+/-40 ng/ml in control) and increased expression of paraventricular corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA (+200%); expression of neurotensin messenger RNA was induced in about one-third of corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons, whereas vasopressin messenger RNA expression remained unchanged. Therefore, in this experimental context and at the time-point examined, co-existing corticotropin-releasing hormone and vasopressin appeared differentially expressed, and an additional stimulus (inflammation) is demonstrated to result in neurotensin expression in neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons. Neurotensin may be released in the pituitary portal blood to trigger pituitary response associated with mobilization of the immune system.
The distribution and localization of the pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) receptor the PAC1 receptor (previously called the type 1 PACAP receptor or PVR1), which binds PACAP, but not vasoactive intestinal peptide, with high affinity] were first investigated in rats with in situ hybridization for its messenger RNA, and with immunohistochemical methods during prenatal and postnatal development. The expression of PACAP receptor messenger RNA was first detected in the rat embryo at the primitive streak stage as early as embryonic day 9, and it was intensely expressed in the neural plate. PACAP receptor messenger RNA was also intensely expressed in the neuroepithelia of the mesencephalon and rhombencephalon at embryonic day 11, and expressed in the basal telencephalon, hippocampal formation neuroepithelium, cortical neuroepithelium and cerebellar neuroepithelium after embryonic day 13. It was also expressed in the olfactory bulb neuroepithelium after embryonic day 16, and in mature regions of the older embryos. In postnatal developing brains, PACAP receptor messenger RNA was intensely expressed in the olfactory bulb, hippocampal formation, cerebellum and other scattered regions. The localization of PACAP receptor-like immunoreactivity coincided well with that of the gene transcripts. We also used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction methods to determine the expression of the splice variants of the PACAP receptor gene. At each ontogenetic stage of the rat from embryonic day 9 to postnatal day 60, two major products were detected with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, a thick band (303 base pairs) corresponding to the short splice variant of the receptor that lacks both the &quot;hip&quot; and &quot;hop&quot; cassettes, and a thin band (387 base pairs) corresponding to the splice variant that contains one cassette of &quot;hop&quot; or &quot;hip&quot;. There was no evidence for the other larger splice variants. Some of the amplified products were sequenced and found to have the exact sequences of &quot;PACAP receptor&quot; and &quot;PACAP receptor-hopl&quot;, which are coupled to different signal transduction pathways. These results indicate that the PACAP receptor is actively expressed in different neuroepithelia from early developmental stages and expressed in various brain regions during prenatal and postnatal development, and that the major splice variants are &quot;PACAP receptor&quot; and &quot;PACAP receptor-hopl&quot;. The initial mapping of ontogenetic localization of the PACAP receptor provides the basis for a better understanding of the functions of PACAP and its receptors during the development of the brain.
Interleukin-1beta is a relatively small and abundant polypeptide that plays diverse roles in the central nervous system. In the present study, patterns of interleukin-1beta expression were observed in the olfactory bulbs of rats that had either undergone unilateral closure of the external naris or sham surgery on postnatal day 1 and then survived until postnatal day 30. Interleukin-1beta-immunoreactive fibers occupied distinct layers of the olfactory bulb. Dense immunostaining was found in the periglomerular and granule cell layers. Odor deprivation resulted in a noticeable reduction in interleukin-1beta immunoreactivity only in the periglomerular layer. The data demonstrate that interleukin-1beta is present abundantly in the bulbs, and that it can be regulated in an activity-dependent manner.
The neurokinin-1 receptor and its tachykinin neuropeptide ligand substance P are associated with the mediation of nociception. Substance P released from primary afferent sensory neurons activates neurokinin receptors on both central and peripheral targets that mediate specific aspects of central sensitization and inflammatory function; however, an autoreceptor function for the neurokinin-1 receptor remains highly controversial. Activation of the neurokinin-1 receptor by substance P during chronic nociception increases neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression in the spinal cord. Similarly, neurokinin-3 receptors on peripheral or target tissues or neurons could play an important role in the sensitization of sensory neurons. Therefore, this study (i) mapped the steady-state levels of substance P-encoding preprotachykinin, neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs in central and peripheral tissues including sensory ganglia, and (ii) investigated whether formalin-evoked nociception altered the quantity or location of neurokinin-1 or neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs in the sensory ganglia or inflamed peripheral targets for substance P. Solution hybridization-nuclease protection assays quantified neurokinin receptor messenger RNA levels in central and peripheral tissues from normal and formalin-inflamed rats. High concentrations of the neurokinin-1 receptor were found in whole brain, spinal cord, and peripheral target organs innervated by substance P-containing neurons. Measurable levels of neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNA were found only in brain, spinal cord and urinary bladder. Results also show that neither neurokinin-1 nor neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs were detectable in primary afferent sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia of normal or formalin-inflamed rats. Neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA levels were, however, significantly increased in hindpaw tissues inflamed by formalin for 6 h. These results indicate that the plasticity of neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression in non-neuronal peripheral cells could regulate sensitivity to substance P in a manner similar to that in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Altered neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression provides a useful marker of long-term nociceptive activation and may mediate peripheral mechanisms of hyperalgesia and cellular sensitization during inflammation. Importantly, inflammation does not induce a phenotypic change in afferent sensory neurons providing neurokinin receptor targets for the direct sensitization of these neurons by substance P.
The subfornical organ is one of a specialized group of CNS structures devoid of a significant blood-brain barrier, collectively known as the circumventricular organs. While peptides are normally excluded from access to most regions of the CNS, the subfornical organ contains neurons with a high density of receptors for many circulating peptides, including vasopressin. There is a well-established role for the subfornical organ in stimulating the release of vasopressin, and recent evidence suggests that it may also play an important role in mediating the negative feedback actions of vasopressin. The aim of this study was to determine the direct effects of vasopressin on subfornical organ neurons through patch-clamp studies in a dissociated subfornical organ preparation. In current-clamp studies, bath application of 10 nM vasopressin caused depolarizations in 61%, hyperpolarizations in 11%, and no significant change in membrane potential in 28% of neurons tested. We then sought to determine the specific ion channels involved in regulating the vasopressin-induced excitability of subfornical organ neurons through voltage-clamp studies. Vasopressin (10 nM) decreased the peak outward current at +40 mV by 50% (n=7), which was blocked by pretreatment with a V1 receptor antagonist (n=5). Based on these findings, we carried out a systematic characterization of two subformical organ K+ channels, the delayed rectifier (I(K)) and the transient outward current (I(A)). Through voltage isolation of I(K), we found that vasopressin inhibited the steady-state current, by 33+/-7% (n=9). Vasopressin also inhibited the peak I(A) by 27+/-5% (n=8). These data provide the first evidence of a role for K+ channels in mediating the excitatory effects of vasopressin on subfornical organ neurons. The exact physiological roles and sources of vasopressin which may act on subfornical organ neurons are not completely understood at present.
Neuropeptide plasticity in the gracile nucleus is thought to play a role in the development of neuropathic pain following nerve injury. Two weeks after chronic constriction injury of adult rat sciatic nerve, galanin, neuropeptide Y and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivities were increased in fibers and cells in the gracile nucleus ipsilateral to injury. At the electron microscopic level, this increased neuropeptide immunoreactivity was localized in myelinated axons, boutons, dendrites, neurons and glial cells. Galanin-, neuropeptide Y- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive boutons were frequently presynaptic to dendrites of both immunoreactive and non-immunoreactive neurons. However, no neuropeptide Y, galanin and calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was detected in the injured side gracile nuclei by in situ hybridization. These results show that partial nerve injury to the sciatic nerve induces increases in the content of galanin, neuropeptide Y and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivities in synaptic terminals within the gracile nucleus, which suggests that there may be increased release of these neuropeptides following sensory or spontaneous stimulation of large-diameter primary afferents following partial nerve injury, perhaps one mechanism involved in neuropathic pain. We also show an apparent transfer of these neuropeptides to the cells of the gracile nucleus, both neurons and glial cells, an intriguing phenomenon of unknown functional significance.
The lesion scar formed after CNS injury is an impediment to axonal regeneration and leads to growth arrest or misrouting of sprouting axons. Our previous study showed that pharmacological reduction of basal membrane formation within the scar can overcome this scar impermeability [Stichel C. C. et al. (1999) Eur. J. Neurosci. 11, 632-646]. The aim of the present study was to characterize the basal membrane-depleted scar and to analyse its relationships with penetrating axons. The experiments comprised two groups of animals in which the left postcommissural fornix was transected; in addition, one group received a local immediate injection of the collagen IV-reducing agent dipyridyl, while the other group received an injection of phosphate-buffered saline. Immunohistochemical methods were used to characterize scar formation and scar-axon relationships. Animals receiving dipyridyl showed reduction of collagen IV-immunopositive basal membrane in the lesion center, which was accompanied by: (i) a decrease in laminin, as well as chondroitin and heparan sulfate proteoglycan, deposition in the lesion center; (ii) an increase in chondroitin and keratan sulfate proteoglycan expression in the perilesional area; (iii) a typical activation pattern of astrocytes and microglia/macrophages; (iv) axons regenerating through this modified scar were closely associated with various glial cell types and crossed a prominent chondroitin/keratan sulfate proteoglycan matrix. Our results suggest that neither the formation of a reactive astroglial network nor the accumulation of microglia/macrophages or the deposition of chondroitin and keratan sulfate proteoglycans in the perilesional area represent a barrier to regrowing axons. The present approach demonstrates that the lesion-induced basal membrane itself is the primary determinant of scar impermeability.
The neuronal redox status influences the expression of genes involved in neuronal survival. We previously showed that antioxidants may reduce the number of dying ganglion cells following axotomy in chick embryos. In the present study, we show that various antioxidants, including the new spin trap azulenyl nitrone and 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea, protect axotomized ganglion cells, confirming that neuronal death involves an imbalance of the cellular redox status towards oxidation. However, high concentrations of antioxidants did not protect ganglion cells, suggesting that excessive reduction is detrimental for neurons. Simultaneous injections of two different antioxidants gave results only partly supporting this view. Combinations of azulenyl nitrone and N-acetyl cysteine in fact gave greater protection than either antioxidant alone, whereas N-acetyl cysteine lost its neuroprotective effects and diminished those of alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone when the two compounds were injected simultaneously. The results of the combined treatments suggest that azulenyl nitrone and alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone do not have the same chemical effects within the ganglion cells. Moreover, N-acetyl cysteine's own antioxidant properties enhance the spin trapping effects of azulenyl nitrone but potentiate the toxicity of alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone. Our main conclusion is that neuronal survival requires the maintenance of the redox status near an optimal set-point. &quot;Reductive stress&quot; may be as dangerous as oxidative stress.
A decline in the ability to discriminate speech from noise due to age-related hearing loss (presbycusis) may reflect impaired auditory information processing within the central nervous system. Presbycusis may result, in part, from functional loss of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. The present study assessed age-related changes of the GABA(A) receptor in the inferior colliculus of young-adult, middle-aged, and aged rats related to: (i) receptor subunit composition and (ii) receptor function. Western blotting was used to measure protein levels of selected GABA(A) receptor subunits in preparations obtained from the inferior colliculus of Fischer 344 and Fischer 344/Brown-Norway F1 hybrid rats. In both strains, the aged group exhibited significant increases in gamma1 subunit protein and a decrease in alpha1 subunit protein. To examine the functional consequence of this putative age-related subunit change, we measured the ability of exogenous GABA to flux/translocate chloride ions into microsac preparations derived from Fischer 344 inferior colliculus. GABA-mediated chloride influx was significantly increased in samples prepared from the inferior colliculus of aged animals. Together with previous studies, these results strongly suggest an age-related change in GABA(A) receptor composition. These changes may reflect a compensatory up-regulation of inhibitory function in the face of significant loss of presynaptic GABA release. These findings provide one example of plastic neurotransmitter receptor changes which can occur during the ageing process.
Postnatal development of neurons in the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii of rats was studied using the Golgi-Cox technique and whole-cell recordings. Two cell classes were defined on the basis of somatic and dendritic morphology. Elongated neurons have two thick primary dendrites originating from the long axis of the soma. The primary dendrites, tapering distally, give rise to one to four secondary dendrites. Multipolar neurons have pyramidal somas. Extending from each apex of the cell body was a long primary dendrite, which gave rise to a variable number of secondary dendrites. The relative proportion of the two classes was rather constant from birth to adulthood. During the first two postnatal weeks, dendritic length and area of influence increase, but neuronal geometry is not altered in either class. Dendritic appendages appear by postnatal day 5, reach a peak at postnatal day P12 and then almost disappear in adult neurons. Combined intracellular injection of neurobiotin and whole-cell recordings indicate that morphological alteration of caudal nucleus tractus solitarius neurons occurs in parallel with changes in passive properties and spike characteristics. However, the firing pattern of discharge is not correlated with morphology. The physiological significance of these results is discussed.
Glutamate uptake is coupled to counter-transport of K+, and high external K+ concentrations can induce reversal of glutamate uptake in whole-cell patch-clamp and isolated membrane preparations. However, high external K+ causes little or no reversal of glutamate uptake in intact astrocytes, suggesting a regulatory mechanism not evident in membrane preparations. One mechanism by which intact cells could limit the effects of altered extracellular ion concentrations on glutamate transport is by compensatory changes in intracellular Na+ concentrations. This possibility was examined using astrocyte cultures treated in two ways to reduce the driving force for glutamate uptake: incubation in high K+ (with reciprocal reduction in Na+), and incubation with metabolic inhibitors to induce ATP depletion. ATP depletion produced a rise in intracellular Na+, a collapse of the membrane sodium gradient and a massive reversal of glutamate uptake. By contrast, incubation in high K+/low Na+ medium did not significantly alter the sodium gradient and did not induce glutamate uptake reversal. The sodium gradient was shown to be maintained under these conditions by compensatory reductions in intracellular Na+ that approximately matched the reductions in extracellular Na+. These findings suggest a mechanism by which astrocytes may limit reversal of glutamate uptake under high K+/low Na+ conditions, and further suggest a general mechanism by which Na(+)-dependent transport processes could be shielded from fluctuating extracellular ion concentrations.
he arrest of axonal transport by colchicine administration has been extensively used in immunocytochemical studies to increase the levels of neuroactive compounds in neuronal somata. In order to study the accumulation rates of a variety of proteins with location and physiological action at the synaptic terminal, we analysed, by immunocytochemical methods, the neuronal cell body content of these synaptic proteins in colchicine-injected rats. In sham-injected animals, all synaptic proteins tested were essentially observed in nerve fibres and terminal boutons. After colchicine administration, intense SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was found in many neuronal cell bodies throughout the CNS. In contrast, immunostaining for the rest of the synaptic proteins analysed (syntaxin 1A and 1B, synaptobrevin I and II, Rab3A, synaptophysin, synapsin I, synaptotagmin I and GAP-43) was virtually absent in neuronal cell bodies in treated animals. Furthermore, northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis revealed an increase in SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b messenger RNA isoforms in the brains of adult colchicine-administered animals. In addition, colchicine administration in five-day-old rat pups induced a notable increase in both SNAP-25 transcript isoforms. The present results indicate that in vivo colchicine administration, under conditions known to inhibit axoplasmic transport, upregulates SNAP-25 expression in the rat brain.
In the ventral mesencephalon, two neurotrophic factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, have been shown previously to have similar effects on the survival of dopaminergic neurons. Here, we compared the signaling mechanisms for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, focusing on the mitogen-associated protein kinase and the transcription factor cyclic-AMP responsive element-binding protein. Double-staining experiments indicated that many neurons co-expressed the receptors for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, c-RET and TrkB, suggesting that they are responsive to both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Although both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor induced a rapid phosphorylation of mitogen-associated protein kinase and cyclic-AMP, responsive element-binding protein, there were significant differences in the kinetics and pharmacology of the phosphorylation. The phosphorylation of mitogen-associated protein kinase by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was transient; within 2 h, the level of mitogen-associated protein kinase phosphorylation returned to baseline. In contrast, the effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was long lasting; the mitogen-associated protein kinase remained phosphorylated for up to 4 h after brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment. PD098059, a specific inhibitor for mitogen-associated protein kinase kinase, completely blocked the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor signaling through mitogen-associated protein kinase, but had no effect on brain-derived neurotrophic factor-induced mitogen-associated protein kinase phosphorylation. Both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor induced the phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP responsive element-binding protein in the nuclei of ventral mesencephalon neurons. However, PD098059 blocked the cyclic-AMP responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation induced by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, but not that by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These results indicate that, although both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor act on ventral mesencephalon neurons, the two factors have different signaling mechanisms, which may mediate their distinctive biological functions.
We have investigated nerve growth factor-dependent neurite growth from adult sensory neurons using the compartmented culture system. The requirement of both TrkA and the p75 neurotrophin receptors in neurite growth was examined using several experimental interventions. Inhibition of TrkA activation using K252a resulted in a total block of distal neurite extension into nerve growth factor-containing compartments. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the anti-p75 monoclonal antibody MC192 have been shown to interfere with the binding of nerve growth factor to p75. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which binds p75 but not TrkA, competes with nerve growth factorforp75, while the anti-p75 antibody MC192 has been shown to decrease the interaction of nerve growth factor with TrkA. The addition of brain-derived neurotophic factor to nerve growth factor-containing distal compartments inhibited, but did not totally block, distal neurite extension. MC192, on the other hand, totally inhibited nerve growth factor-dependent neurite growth. To test whether MC192 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor might be influencing Trk activation, TrkA phosphorylation was examined biochemically. Both compounds were found to attenuate nerve growth factor-induced Trk phosphorylation, although neither inhibited the activation completely. The possibility that MC192 or brain-derived neurotrophic factor might activate p75 signaling directly (and potentially antagonize TrkA signaling) was also investigated. This was assessed by quantitating the activation and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NFkB using immunocytochemistry. Only treatment with the anti-p75 antibody MC192 resulted in prolonged and significant increase in the number of neurons displaying nuclear staining for NFkB. Our results demonstrate that both TrkA and p75 play a role in neurite growth response to nerve growth factor, and further suggest that any alteration in optimal TrkA-p75 interactions, or direct activation of p75 at the expense of TrkA, results in an inhibition of nerve growth factor-dependent neurite growth in adult sensory neurons.
Based on their rearing response to a novel open field, male Wistar rats were divided into two sub-groups with either high or low behavioural activity (high rearings, versus low rearings). These sub-groups were repeatedly exposed to the same open field and tested for behavioural habituation. Since we previously found neurochemical evidence for different cholinergic reactivities in such high rearing and low rearing rats, their behavioural responses to the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg) were also investigated in the open field. Additionally, they were exposed to the elevated plus-maze to test for possible differences in measures of anxiety. After behavioural testing, tissue concentrations of biogenic amines were determined in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle), frontal cortex, striatum, hippocampus and amygdala. The results show that the higher rearing responses of high rearing rats in the novel open field were paralleled by higher locomotor activity. These behavioural differences between groups decreased with repeated open field exposure, an effect which was largely due to between-session habituation in high rearing rats. Thereby, high rearing rats approached the lower levels of low rearing rats, in which locomotor activity and rearings did not habituate between testing. Nevertheless, habituation was also observed in low rearing rats, especially in the measure of thigmotactic scanning, since the levels of scanning declined both between and within test sessions. The anticholinergic challenge with scopolamine induced a general pattern of behavioural activation. Furthermore, scopolamine partly reinstated the behavioural differences between high and low rearing rats that had been observed in the novel open field, since high rearing rats showed more rearing behaviour than low rearing rats under scopolamine. In contrast to the open field, there were no significant differences between high and low rearing rats in the plus-maze. The neurochemical analysis revealed, among others, higher dopamine levels in the ventral striatum of high rearing rats together with lower serotonin levels in the medial frontal cortex. The current findings thus indicate that high and low rearing rats not only differ in their behavioural response to a novel environment, but also in their patterns of behavioural habituation, and with respect to behaviour induced by an anti-cholinergic challenge. These differential behavioural profiles of high and low rearing animals are discussed with respect to the role of dopaminergic mechanisms in the forebrain, and the potential impact of cholinergic mechanisms.
Wistar rats were fed a fish oil-deficient diet through three generations. The young (five-week-old) male rats of the third generation were randomly divided into two groups. Over 10 weeks, one group was perorally administered docosahexaenoic acid dissolved in 5% gum Arabic solution at 300 mg/kg/day; the other group received a similar volume of vehicle alone. Five weeks after starting the administration, the rats were tested for learning ability related to two types of memory, reference memory and working memory, with the partially (four of eight) baited eight-arm radial maze. Reference memory is information that should be retained until the next trial. Working memory is information that disappears in a short time. Entries into unbaited arms and repeated entries into visited arms were defined as reference memory errors and working memory errors, respectively. Docosahexaenoic acid administration over 10 weeks significantly reduced the number of reference memory errors, without affecting the number of working memory errors, and significantly increased the docosahexaenoic acid content and the docosahexaenoic acid/arachidonic acid ratio in both the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. In addition, the ratio demonstrated a significantly negative correlation with the number of reference memory errors. These results suggest that chronic administration of docosahexaenoic acid is conducive to the improvement of reference memory-related learning ability, and that the docosahexaenoic acid/arachidonic acid ratio in the hippocampus or the cerebral cortex, or both, may be an indicator of learning ability.
Neurotensin is a tridecapeptide, present in the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract in man and animals. Previous studies in mice selectively bred for differences in hypnotic sensitivity to ethanol have provided data to suggest that neurotensinergic systems may mediate differences in ethanol's actions in these animals. The present study sought to determine if brain neurotensin levels differed between two lines of rats which have been selectively bred for alcohol preferring or non-preferring behaviors. In addition, electroencephalographic and event-related potential responses to intracerebroventricular saline and neurotensin (10 or 30 microg) were evaluated between the rat lines. Similar to human subjects at high genetic risk for alcoholism, preferring rats were found to have more electroencephalographic fast frequency activity and lowered amplitude of the P3 component of the event-related potential in cortical sites under the saline condition. Overall, electrophysiological response to neurotensin, in the two rats lines, was substantially similar to what has been reported previously in outbred Wistar rats, and consisted of dose-related decreases in overall electroencephalographic spectral power concomitant with increases in amplitude and decreases in the latency of the N1 component of the event-related potential. However, differences in neurotensin responses between the preferring and non-preferring rat lines were also found. The differences in electroencephalographic high-frequency activity and in P3 amplitude seen between the rat lines under control conditions were eliminated by administration of neurotensin. In addition, preferring rats appeared to be more sensitive to neurotensin-induced increases in N1 amplitude. Brain neurotensin concentrations were also found to differ between the lines. Significantly lower concentrations of neurotensin were found in the frontal cortex of preferring rats when compared to non-preferring rats or outbred Wistars. Taken together, these studies suggest that differences in the regulation of neurotensin neurons may contribute to the expression of behavioral preference for ethanol consumption in selective rat lines. Additionally, drugs targeting the neurotensinergic system may plausibly be of utility in the treatment of alcoholism.
Microinjection of a cholinergic agonist, carbachol, into the pontine reticular formation of chronically instrumented intact or acutely decerebrate rats and cats has been used extensively to study rapid eye movement sleep mechanisms. In this study, we sought to develop a reduced carbachol model of rapid eye movement sleep-like neural events exhibiting multiple physiological markers of this state, and allowing for the use of invasive electrophysiological techniques. Accordingly, we investigated whether pontine carbachol could produce rapid eye movement sleep-like motor atonia and electrocortical changes in urethane-anaesthetized rats. We recorded cortical and hippocampal electroencephalograms and genioglossus and inspiratory intercostal muscle activities in 13 urethane-anaesthetized, spontaneously breathing, tracheotomized and vagotomized rats. In steady-state periods with high-voltage/low-frequency electroencephalogram activity, carbachol microinjections (15-40 nl, 10 mM) were placed in the medial pontine reticular formation. In 12 rats, carbachol elicited episodes of stereotyped hypotonia of genioglossus but not intercostal muscle activity, typical of rapid eye movement sleep, with a latency and duration of 2.2+/-0.3min (mean+/-S.E.M.) and 11.0+/-2.9 min, respectively. In four of these rats, also similar to rapid eye movement sleep, the major suppression of genioglossus activity (-74+/-9%) was accompanied by electroencephalogram desynchronization, appearance of hippocampal theta rhythm, and a respiratory rate increase (+ 14+/-3%). In the remaining eight rats, the stereotyped suppression of genioglossus activity (-48+/-3%) occurred without electroencephalogram desynchronization and hippocampal theta, and was accompanied by a respiratory rate decrease (-6+/-2%); a pattern of response typical of decerebrate animals. Within a rat, similar patterns of response to repeated carbachol injections at the same anatomical site were obtained. Pontine atropine prevented responses to subsequent carbachol injections. Thus, in urethane-anaesthetized rats, pontine carbachol consistently produced a differential suppression of pharyngeal versus respiratory pump muscle activity, and in a subset of animals, this was also accompanied by cortical and hippocampal electrographic changes typical of rapid eye movement sleep. This shows that complex and stereotyped neuronal events underlying both ascending and descending signs of rapid eye movement sleep can be pharmacologically activated under general anaesthesia. Such a reduced preparation may be useful for studies into the central neuronal mechanisms underlying generation of rapid eye movement sleep; particularly for studies requiring techniques that are difficult to implement in intact, naturally sleeping animals. The acceleration of the respiratory rate observed only when carbachol induced electroencephalogram desynchronization suggests that neural events associated with electrocortical changes contribute to the respiratory rate increases observed in natural rapid eye movement sleep.
Light-dark periodicity and luminance play important roles in regulating sleep-wake cycles. We recently identified a discrete cluster of sleep-active cells in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus that we hypothesize plays a central role in sleep regulation. These ventrolateral preoptic nucleus neurons are GABAergic and galaninergic and innervate the monoaminergic cell groups that contribute to the ascending arousal system. To determine whether there are retinal inputs to sleep-active ventrolateral preoptic nucleus neurons, we injected 5 microl of 1% cholera toxin B subunit into one eye in a series of rats. We found anterogradely labeled axons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus bilaterally, with a contralateral predominance. Using Fos to identify sleep-active neurons, we found that the cholera toxin B subunit-labeled retinal fibers gave rise to terminals that were distributed among the Fos-positive, sleep-active ventrolateral preoptic nucleus neurons. Combining cholera toxin B subunit staining with galanin immunoreactivity, we found that the retinal terminals formed appositions with the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of galaninergic ventrolateral preoptic nucleus neurons. Following Fluorogold injection into the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus region, we found retrogradely labeled neurons in the superior part of the peripheral retina contralateral to the injection site and in the superior temporal quadrant of the peripheral retina ipsilateral to the injection site. The size of labeled retinal ganglion cells suggested that they belonged to the type III or W type, which provide luminance input, e.g., to the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The retinal projection to the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus may provide an anatomical substrate by which luminance levels may directly influence sleep.
The pontine reticular formation connected with the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi was studied in the rat using anterograde and retrograde tracer techniques. The area reciprocally connected with the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi was evident in the pontine reticular formation of the rat. The region had intensive reciprocal connections with the ipsilateral subthalamic region, the contralateral pontine reticular formation and the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi. Furthermore, it was confirmed that the region received cholinergic projections mainly from the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and aminergic projections from the dopaminergic cell groups A13 and A11, noradrenergic cell groups A7, A6 and A5, and the serotoninergic B9 cell group. This region in the rat was considered to be the preoculomotor structure in the function of horizontal gaze corresponding to the paramedian pontine reticular formation in other animals.
The ultrastructural characteristics of non-degenerating GABAergic neurons in rostrolateral medial vestibular nucleus were identified in monkeys following midline transection of vestibular commissural fibers. In the previous papers, we reported that most degenerated cells and terminals in this tissue were located in rostrolateral medial vestibular nucleus, and that many of these neurons were GABA-immunoreactive. In the present study, we examined the ultrastructural features of the remaining neuronal elements in this medial vestibular nucleus region, in order to identify and characterize the GABAergic cells that are not directly involved in the vestibular commissural pathway related to the velocity storage mechanism. Such cells are primarily small, with centrally-placed nuclei. Axosomatic synapses are concentrated on polar regions of the somata. The proximal dendrites of GABAergic cells are surrounded by boutons, although distal dendrites receive only occasional synaptic contacts. Two types of non-degenerated GABAergic boutons are distinguished. Type A terminals are large, with very densely-packed spherical synaptic vesicles and clusters of large, irregularly-shaped mitochondria with wide matrix spaces. Such boutons form symmetric synapses, primarily with small GABAergic and non-GABAergic dendrites. Type B terminals are smaller and contain a moderate density of round/pleomorphic vesicles, numerous small round or tubular mitochondria, cisterns and vacuoles. These boutons serve both pre- and postsynaptic roles in symmetric contacts with non-GABAergic axon terminals. On the basis of ultrastructural observations of immunostained tissue, we conclude that at least two types of GABAergic neurons are present in the rostrolateral portion of the monkey medial vestibular nucleus: neurons related to the velocity storage pathway, and a class of vestibular interneurons. A multiplicity of GABAergic bouton types are also observed, and categorized on the basis of subcellular morphology. We hypothesize that &quot;Type A&quot; boutons correspond to Purkinje cell afferents in rostrolateral medial vestibular nucleus, &quot;Type B&quot; terminals represent the axons of GABAergic medial vestibular nucleus interneurons, and &quot;Type C&quot; boutons take origin from vestibular commissural neurons of the velocity storage pathway.
The purpose of the present study was to visualize the synaptic interactions of GABAergic neurons involved in the mediation of velocity storage. In the previous report, ultrastructural studies of degenerating neurons were conducted following midline section of rostral medullary commissural fibers with subsequent behavioral testing. The midline lesion caused functionally discrete damage to the velocity storage component, but not to the direct pathway, of the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex, and the degenerating neurons were interpreted as potential participants in the velocity storage network. We concluded that at least some of the commissural axons mediating velocity storage originate from clusters of neurons in the lateral crescents of the rostral medial vestibular nucleus. In the present report, immunocytochemical evidence is presented that many vestibular commissural neurons, putatively involved in mediating velocity storage, are GABAergic. These cells have large nuclei, small round or narrow tubular mitochondria, occasional cisterns and vacuoles, but few other organelles. Their axons are thinly-myelinated, and terminate in boutons containing mitochondria of similar ultrastructural appearance and a moderate density of round/pleomorphic synaptic vesicles. Such terminals often form axoaxonic synapses, and less frequently axodendritic contacts, with non-GABAergic elements. On the basis of the present results, we conclude that a portion of the commissural neurons of the velocity storage pathway is GABAergic. The observation of GABAergic axoaxonic synapses in this pathway is interpreted as a structural basis for presynaptic inhibition of medial vestibular nucleus circuits by velocity storage-related commissural neurons. Conversely, substantial ultrastructural evidence for postsynaptic inhibition of non-GABAergic commissural cells argues for a dual role for GABAergic terminals mediating velocity storage: presynaptic inhibition of non-GABAergic vestibular cells by GABAergic velocity storage commissural axons, and postsynaptic inhibition of non-GABAergic velocity storage cells by GABAergic axons. Both pre- and postsynaptic inhibitory arrangements could provide the morphologic basis for disinhibitory activation of the velocity storage network within local neuronal circuits.
The angular vestibulo-ocular reflex maintains gaze during head movements. It is thought to be mediated by two components: direct and velocity storage pathways. The direct angular vestibulo-ocular reflex is conveyed by a three neuron chain from the labyrinth to the ocular motoneurons. The indirect pathway involves a more complex neural network that utilizes a portion of the vestibular commissure. The purpose of the present study was to identify the ultrastructural characteristics of commissural neurons in the medial vestibular nucleus that are related to the velocity storage component of the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex. Ultrastructural studies of degenerating medial vestibular nucleus neurons were conducted in monkeys following midline section of rostral medullary commissural fibers with subsequent behavioral testing. After this lesion, oculomotor and vestibular functions attributable to velocity storage were abolished, whereas the direct angular vestibulo-ocular reflex pathway remained intact. Since this damage was functionally discrete, degenerating neurons were interpreted as potential participants in the velocity storage network. Ultrastructural observations indicate that commissural neurons related to velocity storage are small and medium sized cells having large nuclei with deep indentations and relatively little cytoplasm, which are located in the lateral crescents of rostral medial vestibular nucleus. The morphology of degenerating dendritic profiles varied. Some contained numerous round or tubular mitochondria in a pale cytoplasmic matrix with few other organelles, while others had few mitochondria but many cisterns and vacuoles in dense granular cytoplasm. The commissural nature of these cells was further suggested by the presence of two different types of degenerating axon terminals in the rostral medial vestibular nucleus: those with a moderate density of large spherical synaptic vesicles, and those with pleomorphic, primarily ellipsoid synaptic vesicles. The recognition of two types of degenerating terminals further supports our interpretation that at least two morphological types of commissural neurons participate in the velocity storage network. The degenerating boutons formed contacts with a variety of postsynaptic partners. In particular, synapses were observed between degenerating boutons and non-degenerating dendrites, and between intact terminals and degenerating dendrites. However, degenerating pre- and postsynaptic elements were rarely observed in direct contact, suggesting that additional neurons are interposed in the indirect pathway commissural system. On the basis of these ultrastructural observations, it is concluded that vestibular commissural neurons involved in the mediation of velocity storage have distinguishing ultrastructural features and synaptology, that are different from those of direct pathway neurons.
The pharynx is a common conduit for the passage of both ingested material and respiratory gases and may receive a dual control from medullary structures regulating deglutition and respiration. We sought both to compare the pattern of reflex response following stimulation of pharyngoesophageal and peripheral chemoreceptors and to assess whether these afferents converge in the nucleus of the solitary tract. In an arterially perfused working heart-brainstem preparation of mature rat, pharyngoesophageal receptors were stimulated by distension of the pharyngeal-oesophageal junction, whereas chemoreceptors were activated by sodium cyanide solution. In peripheral studies we recorded electromyographic activity from genioglossus, mylohyoideus and the lower thoracic oesophagus as well as hypoglossal, laryngeal and phrenic motor discharge. Sub-glottal pressure was also measured at constant airflow. In central studies, nucleus of the solitary tract neurons were recorded with blind whole-cell techniques. In peripheral studies spontaneous irregular electromyographic discharges (cycle length 99+/-26 s) occurred sequentially in genioglossus and mylohyoideus muscles (during the inter-phrenic nerve activity interval) and subsequently the oesophagus; these were accompanied by post-inspiratory discharges in both hypoglossal and laryngeal motor nerves and an atropine-sensitive bradycardia (-39+/-5 beats/min). Components of the reflex response elicited following stimulation of both pharyngoesophageal receptors and chemoreceptors were qualitatively similar and included: (i) expiratory-related increases in laryngeal pressure; (ii) sequential electromyographic discharge in genioglossus, mylohyoideus muscles and oesophagus; (iii) post-inspiratory burst discharge in hypoglossal, recurrent and superior laryngeal motor nerves; and (iv) an atropine-sensitive bradycardia (-38 to -95 beats/min). The chemoreceptor reflex-evoked responses were abolished after sinoaortic denervation. Of 135 whole-cell recordings of nucleus of the solitary tract neurons, 31 received a synaptic input from pharyngoesophageal receptors (22 excitatory and nine inhibitory). Cells excited by pharyngoesophageal receptor stimulation were either &quot;spontaneously&quot; bursting, which occurred during the inter-phrenic nerve activity interval (cycle length 79+/-22 s; n=9), or non-bursting (n=13). Of the 22 nucleus of the solitary tract neurons excited by pharyngoesophageal receptor stimulation, 77% received a convergent excitatory synaptic input from chemoreceptors (eight bursting and nine non-bursting neurons). Thus, stimulation of pharyngoesophageal receptors and chemoreceptors evoked common reflex response components including activation of hypoglossal, laryngeal adductor, cardiac vagal motoneurons and swallowing. Moreover, some excitatory pharyngoesophageal and chemoreceptors inputs typically converged on nucleus of the solitary tract neurons. The possibility that this convergence manifests a defensive reflex reaction is discussed.
Tetrodotoxin (10 pmol in 300 nl of Ringer), injected bilaterally into the region of the amygdala in conscious rabbits, virtually abolished the sudden falls in ear pinna blood flow that normally occur in response to salient environmental stimuli (touching the animal's fur, slightly moving its cage, or applying or removing a drape covering the cage). Time spent at 0-20% of maximum flow values during a 10 min observation period, commencing 15 min after injection of tetrodotoxin, significantly decreased compared with the pre-injection control period (30+/-14 s compared with 286+/-24 s, P&lt;0.01, n=8 rabbits) and the time spent at 70-100% of maximum flow values significantly increased (521+/-36 s compared with 127+/-29 s, P&lt;0.01). Vehicle was injected on the day before tetrodotoxin injections in four of eight rabbits and on the day after tetrodotoxin injections in the other four rabbits, in a counterbalanced design. Rabbits fully recovered from the effects of tetrodotoxin in one day. Vehicle did not significantly affect the time spent at different flow percentage values. Falls in ear blood flow elicited by noxious stimuli (ear pinch, inhalation of formaldehyde vapor) occurred in a normal pattern after tetrodotoxin. Amygdaloid circuitry is thus necessary for the production of falls in ear pinna blood flow that occur in response to unconditioned non-noxious stimuli, but not for the falls that occur in response to unconditioned noxious stimuli in rabbits. In humans, the amygdaloid region may also be involved in co-ordinating falls in cutaneous blood flow occurring in response to salient or anxiety-evoking stimuli. Thus, discovery of the neural pathways by which amygdaloid circuitry alters ear pinna blood flow in rabbits may elucidate the manner in which similar cardiovascular changes occur in humans during anxiety reactions.
Spermine and other endogenous polyamines potentiate, block and permeate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel. To identify structural determinants of the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel that mediate spermine's actions, we generated mutant receptors with asparagine (N) to glutamine (Q) or arginine (R) substitutions in the selectivity filter of the channel. We demonstrate that mutation of the three critical asparagines in this domain differentially affects block by phencyclidine and both potentiation and block by spermine. N-to-Q and N-to-R mutations in the N site of the NR1 subunit (N598 in NR1(011), N619 in NR1(100)) and N-to-Q mutations in the N and N + 1 sites (N595 and N596 in NR2A, respectively) of the NR2 subunit (Q/NN, R/NN, N/QN, N/NQ, Q/QN and Q/NQ receptors) reduced affinity for phencyclidine. The Q/NN receptor showed markedly reduced potentiation by spermine, with little or no change in spermine block. The R/NN receptor showed markedly reduced spermine potentiation and affinity for spermine at its block site. The N/QN, N/NQ and Q/QN mutant receptors showed somewhat enhanced spermine block, while the Q/ NQ double mutant exhibited significantly more enhanced spermine block. Thus, the asparagine residues critical to Ca2+ permeability and Mg2+ block of N-methyl-D-aspartate channels are also critical to block by spermine and phencyclidine. To examine the interaction of spermine and phencyclidine within the channel, we performed competition studies. Spermine appeared to compete with phencyclidine for binding to the receptor; however, blocks by phencyclidine and by spermine were not additive. The findings suggest that spermine can bind to a site in the external vestibule of the channel to impede phencyclidine binding, but allow Na+ influx.
Status epilepticus, prolonged intermittent or continuous seizure activity lasting 30 min or longer, is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The longer a seizure persists, the more refractory to treatment it becomes. The pilocarpine model of status epilepticus in rodents develops refractoriness to many first-line treatments as seizure duration increases, rendering it a good model to study refractory status epilepticus. This study was initiated to study the development of refractoriness of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus to diazepam. Early pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus responded rapidly to diazepam treatment, whereas status epilepticus of longer duration became increasingly less responsive to treatment. Dizocilpine maleate-pretreated animals responded rapidly to diazepam treatment, even after 60 min of status epilepticus. Animals administered dizocilpine maleate at 15, 30 or 60 min after the onset of status epilepticus also demonstrated a rapid response to diazepam compared to pilocarpine-alone-treated animals. The longer the status epilepticus progressed prior to dizocilpine maleate injection, the longer the status epilepticus lasted after diazepam treatment. However, in all cases where dizocilpine maleate was administered, one injection of diazepam was able to terminate the status epilepticus, in contrast to the animals that did not receive dizocilpine maleate, in which the seizure was only attenuated. The results indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation plays a role in the seizure-induced refractoriness to benzodiazepines in status epilepticus, and blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation converts refractory status epilepticus to a seizure responsive to benzodiazepine therapy. These findings offer insights into developing novel therapeutic interventions to improve the treatment of status epilepticus. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that mediate the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation on the development of resistance to treatment in status epilepticus will provide rational insights into more rapid methods to terminate seizure activity in this condition.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from 119 pyramidal neurons localized in prelimbic cortex, five in the dorsal cingulate cortex, one in the infralimbic cortex, one in the border of prelimbic and cingulate cortex and two in the border of prelimbic and infralimbic cortex. The passive membrane properties of these pyramidal neurons (i.e. resting membrane potential, input membrane resistance, shape of the tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials, spike frequency adaptation with a prominent postspike afterhyperpolarization, tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward rectification in the depolarizing direction and the absence of bursting) suggested that they resembled regular spiking or intrinsically bursting pyramidal neurons. Bath application of dopamine (EC50 of 1.8 microM) produced a reversible facilitatory effect on all 119 pyramidal neurons localized in the middle layer of the prelimbic cortex. No consistent change in membrane potential was detected during the application of dopamine. No effect of dopamine was noted on the nine pyramidal neurons that were not localized in the prelimbic cortex. The facilitatory effect of dopamine in prelimbic cortex was concentration dependently antagonized by haloperidol, risperidone, quetiapine, clozapine and by the selective D4 dopaminergic receptor antagonist L-745,870, but not by the selective D2/D3 dopaminergic receptor antagonist (-)-sulpiride. (+)-SCH 23390, which is a selective D1/D5 dopamine receptor antagonist, produced, similarly to dopamine, a facilitatory effect per se, and an additive effect when co-administered with dopamine. These results provide evidence that dopamine has a facilitatory effect specifically on pyramidal neurons localized in the middle layer of prelimbic cortex. Antipsychotic drugs and L-745,870 block this effect of dopamine.
Most in situ hybridization histochemistry studies of messenger RNA in human brain have been carried out on frozen tissue. Recently, autoclaving has been reported to enable routinely processsed material to be used for in situ localization of messenger RNA. We have investigated whether autoclaving also permits in situ hybridization histochemistry to be used quantitatively. To do this, we targeted synaptophysin messenger RNA with a 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probe in autoclaved, formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded sections of the hippocampal formation of 11 schizophrenics and 11 controls. We compared the results with those seen on frozen sections from adjacent blocks, which had been used previously to demonstrate a loss of the messenger RNA in schizophrenia. Synaptophysin messenger RNA was readily detected in the autoclaved sections. The hybridization signal correlated strongly with that seen in the frozen sections. We found a similar pattern and magnitude of decreased synaptophysin messenger RNA in schizophrenia in the autoclaved sections as we had in the frozen sections, including the selective preservation of synaptophysin messenger RNA in CA1. The reduction of synaptophysin messenger RNA was replicated when six subjects with schizophrenia not included in the earlier study were considered separately. We conclude that autoclaving renders formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded sections of human brain suitable for quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. This has considerable implications, given the wider availability, better morphology and easier handling of fixed than frozen human brain tissue. Using this material, we confirmed the finding of decreased synaptophysin messenger RNA in the hippocampal formation in schizophrenia, furthering the evidence for synaptic pathology in this region in the disorder.
We recently reported the existence of medium and large intemeurons immunoreactive for the calcium-binding protein calretinin in the human striatum. We also showed a selective sparing of all medium, but not all large, calretinin-immunoreactive striatal neurons in Huntington's disease striatum. Because glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity has been implicated in the massive loss of striatal projection neurons that characterizes Huntington's disease, we have applied a double-antigen localization procedure to post mortem tissue from eight normal human subjects to determine the expression of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate glutamate receptor subunits 1/2/4 by the calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons. The two types of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were found to display various patterns of glutamate receptor subunit expression and a specific regionalization was also noted in the expression of these glutamate receptor subunits. Approximately half of the large calretinin-immunoreactive neurons displayed immunoreactivity for glutamate receptor subunits 1 and 2, and about the same proportion of medium calretinin-immunoreactive neurons expressed glutamate receptor subunits 1 and 4. These double-labeled neurons were rather uniformly distributed in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, as much as 70.1% of the large calretinin-immunoreactive neurons displayed glutamate receptor subunit 4 immunoreactivity in the postcommissural portion of the putamen, an area that corresponds to the sensorimotor striatal territory. For their part, the medium calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were markedly enriched with glutamate receptor subunit 2, 76% of them being double labeled in the caudate nucleus, which corresponds to the striatal associative territory, compared with 85.5% in the postcommissural putamen. Receptor subunit composition plays a key role in determining the functional properties of glutamate receptors, including their permeability to calcium and susceptibility to excitotoxic insults. Thus, the differential expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate glutamate receptor subunits reported here may help to explain the selective sparing of certain types of calretinin-immunoreactive striatal interneurons in Huntington's disease, although other factors, such as post-transcriptional editing, are also likely to be involved.
A short period of sublethal preconditioning ischemia (3 min) followed by two days of reperfusion provides almost complete protection against ischemic cell death induced by a second (9 min) lethal ischemic episode. Here, we have investigated the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, two kinases known to activate gene transcription and to be of importance for cell survival, after sublethal preconditioning ischemia in the rat hippocampal CA1 region. The activation levels of these two kinases were also studied after a second ischemic episode both in preconditioned and nonconditioned brains. An increased phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase was found in neuronal cell bodies, particularly in the nucleus, 30 min, 4 h and two days of reperfusion after preconditioning ischemia. Two days after preconditioning ischemia both extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase were markedly phosphorylated. During the early reperfusion period (30 min) after the second ischemic insult the phosphorylation levels of these two kinases were increased in both nonconditioned and preconditioned brains. In the late reperfusion time (one day), the phosphorylation levels of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase were decreased in preconditioned brains, but remained elevated in nonconditioned brains. We conclude that phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase after sublethal ischemia correlates with the neuroprotection induced by preconditioning, possibly by transcriptional activation of neuroprotective genes. Also, preconditioning enhances normalization of the disturbed cell signaling through the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase cascade induced by lethal ischemia.
The induction of transient global cerebral ischemia by permanent vertebral occlusion and temporary carotid ligation (four-vessel occlusion) is widely accepted as a valid tool for the study of pathogenesis and treatment of ischemia. The neural damage inflicted by this intervention is often assessed by measuring pyramidal cell loss in the CA1 hippocampal field. Nevertheless studies using this model in rats often fail to control variables that are relevant to the outcome, and/or apply biased methods to quantitate histological damage. We have applied unbiased stereological methods to estimate absolute numbers of surviving neurons in CA1 in Wistar rats subjected to either 10 or 20 min global ischemia using the Sugio et al. variant of the original four-vessel occlusion model. Animal mortality was high at both times, with neuron losses averaging 39% and 31%, respectively. Post-operative mortality was reduced substantially by using decompressive craniectomies and, even more effectively, by pre-treating the rats with low doses of phenytoin. Both maneuvers led to a severely increased CA1 neuron loss, which reached 50%, after an ischemia of 10 min. This finding strongly supports that mortality biases the sample. Other noteworthy findings that emerged from this study were a linear relationship between per-ischemic blood pressure increments and animal survival, and a negative correlation between cell survival and preferentially left-sided damage.
Levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta are known to be elevated in patients with chronic disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. We have investigated the effects of interleukin-1beta on long-term potentiation and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated field potentials in the rat dentate gyrus in vitro utilizing field extracellular recordings obtained from the middle third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Presynaptic stimulation was applied to the commissural/association pathway at a frequency of 0.05 Hz and at a distance of 50 microm from the granule cell body layer. As previously reported, interleukin-1beta (1 ng/ml) caused an inhibition of long-term potentiation (108+/-2% of baseline 1 h following application of tetanic stimulation compared with 145+/-5% in vehicle control slices). This action of interleukin-1beta on long-term potentiation, as well as an inhibition of N-methyl-D aspartate receptor-mediated field potentials, was attenuated by pre-treatment of slices with the p38 mitogen-associated protein kinase inhibitor SB203580 (1 microM). SB203580 alone had no significant affect on long-term potentiation, but did cause an increase in baseline synaptic transmission [107+/-2% of baseline, 1 h after SB203580 (1 microM) treatment]. The p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade inhibitor PD98059 (50 microM) did not inhibit the interleukin-1beta-induced inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated field potentials. The cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (50 microM) was found to attenuate the interleukin-1beta-induced effects on both long-term potentiation and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated field potentials. The lipid second messenger analogue C2 ceramide (20 microM) was found to attenuate the expression of long-term potentiation (108+/-3% of baseline 1 h following tetanic stimulation), and this effect was not blocked by pre-treatment with SB203580. To investigate a possible role for interleukin-1beta in the normal expression of long-term potentiation, the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (25 ng/ml) was applied during the maintenance phase of long-term potentiation. This was found to depress the sustained expression of long-term potentiation (116+/-6% of baseline 1 h following tetanic stimulation). Our results indicate possible signalling mechanisms by which interleukin-1beta at pathophysiological concentrations may serve to inhibit long-term potentiation, and also suggests a role for IL-1beta in the physiological expression of synaptic plasticity in the rat dentate gyrus in vitro.
A majority (24/32) of the extracellularly recorded dorsal hippocampus field CA1 putative GABAergic interneurons were excited in conjunction with theta activation on formalin injection (5%, 0.05 ml, s.c. into right hind-paw) in urethane (1.0 g/kg, i.p.)-anaesthetized rats. An increase in activity was observed to the 10th minute (n=24) and also at later time-periods at which a few of the neurons were recorded following injection of formalin. The mean peak increase in activity within 5 min of formalin injection was 6.43+/-0.81 Hz over the average background activity for these neurons (6.46+/-1.04 Hz). Of 24 neurons, 14 exhibited an increase in activity which was rhythmically modulated with theta. With a concurrent administration of formalin and morphine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), the presumed interneurons recorded displayed an initial increase in discharge rate (mean peak increase within 5 min of 6.95+/-1.10 Hz) which then declined with a decrease in theta activity. The effect of concurrent morphine was naloxone reversible. Morphine administration alone resulted in an immediate decrease in the interneuronal firing rate. In presence of the medial septal region lesions, formalin did not evoke an excitation of intemeurons or theta activation. Further, such lesions prevented the decrease in intemeuron activity to morphine administration. The above data are consistent with the notion that (i) the field CA1 interneurons participate in a noxious stimulus-induced and medial septal region mediated pyramidal cell suppression, and (ii) morphine affects CA1 nociceptive responses partly in a fashion consistent with the effect of the drug on septohippocampal neural network processing.
Prolonged flurazepam exposure regulates the expression of selected (alpha1, beta2, beta3) GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs in specific regions of the hippocampus and cortex with a time-course consistent with benzodiazepine tolerance both in vivo and in vitro. In this report, the immunostaining density of six specific GABA(A) receptor subunit (alpha1, beta2, beta1-3 and gamma2) antibodies was measured in the hippocampus and cortex, among other brain areas, in slide-mounted brain sections from flurazepam-treated and control rats using quantitative computer-assisted image analysis techniques. In parallel with the localized reduction in alpha1 and beta3 subunit messenger RNA expression detected in a previous study, relative alpha1 and beta3 subunit antibody immunostaining density was significantly decreased in flurazepam-treated rat hippocampal CA1, CA3 and dentate dendritic regions, and in specific cortical layers. Quantitative western blot analysis showed that beta3 subunit protein levels in crude homogenates of the hippocampal dentate region from flurazepam-treated rats, an area which showed fairly uniform decreases in beta3 subunit immunostaining (16-21%), were reduced to a similar degree (18%). The latter findings provide independent support that relative immunostaining density may provide an accurate estimate of protein levels. Consistent with the absence of the regulation of their respective messenger RNAs immediately after ending flurazepam administration, no changes in the density of alpha2, beta1 or beta2 subunit antibody immunostaining were found in any brain region. gamma2 subunit antibody staining was changed only in the dentate molecular layer. The selective changes in GABA(A) receptor subunit antibody immunostaining density in the hippocampus suggested that a change in the composition of GABA(A) receptors involving specific subunits (alpha1 and beta3) may be one mechanism underlying benzodiazepine anticonvulsant tolerance.
The systemic administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in preferential but transient expression of the transcription factor activator protein-1 in the granule cell layers of the dentate gyrus in the murine hippocampus by maximally 700% 1 h later, without markedly affecting that in the pyramidal cell layers of the CA1 and CA3 subfields for 4 h. The potentiation was completely prevented by prior administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker dizocilpine at 10 mglkg. By contrast, kainate (40 mg/kg, i.p.) potentiated activator protein-1 DNA binding in adjacent areas around the pyramidal and granule cell layers, in addition to potentiating that in neuronal cell layers of the CA1 and CA3 subfields and the dentate gyrus. Light microscopic analysis revealed that kainate, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate, induced marked losses of the pyramidal cells in the CAI and CA3 subfields, without affecting the dentate granule cells, for 14 days after administration. Limited proteolysis by V8 protease and supershift, as well as immunoblotting assays using antibodies against c-Fos and c-Jun, invariably gave support for differential expression by N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate of the activator protein-1 complex consisting of different partner proteins. Moreover, two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting analysis revealed the expression of several nuclear proteins immunoreactive with the anti-c-Fos antibody at molecular weights and isoelectric points clearly different from those of c-Fos itself in response to kainate, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate, in the hippocampus. These results suggest that in vivo N-methyl-D-aspartate signals are predominantly transduced into cell nuclei to express activator protein-1 complex through molecular mechanisms different from those for kainate signals in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus in the murine hippocampus.
The cellular and subcellular localization of the two synaphin isoforms, proteins associated with the docking/fusion complex crucial to neurotransmitter release, was studied in the rat central nervous system by using light microscopic and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies specific to each isoform. Synaphin 1 (complexin II) was predominantly expressed in neurons of the central nervous system regions such as cerebral cortex (the II, III and VI cortical layers), claustrum, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, amygdaloid nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, superior colliculus, pontine reticulotegmental nucleus and inferior olive, whereas synaphin 2 (complexin I) was in the cerebral cortex (the IV cortical layer), thalamus, locus coeruleus, gigantocellular reticular field, cuneate nucleus and cerebellar basket and stellate cells. In some regions, including the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, pontine reticular nucleus, cerebellar nuclei and spinal gray matter, synaphin 1 was mainly present in small or medium-sized neurons, while synaphin 2 was in large cells. Medial habenular nucleus and cerebellar granule cells showed both immunoreactivities. In the neuropil of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, synaphin 1 expression was accentuated in the axon terminals of axospinal and axodendritic synapses, while synaphin 2 was predominant in the axon terminals of axosomatic synapses. In the axon terminals, both immunolabelings were associated with synaptic vesicles and the plasma membrane, being accentuated in the vicinity of synaptic contacts. In the cerebral cortex, both immunoreactivities were also present occasionally in dendrites and dendritic spines, associated with microtubules and the plasma membrane including the postsynaptic densities. These results suggest that the two isoforms of synaphin are involved in synaptic function at the distinct presynaptic regions in the central nervous system, and that some dendrites are another functional site for the proteins.
Previous work has shown that the dopaminergic defect in Parkinson's disease is involved, to some extent, in the &quot;frontal&quot;-like impairment in spatial working memory and attentional set-shifting functions. We investigated whether an alpha2 agonist, clonidine (0.5 and 2 microg/kg, per os), could alleviate spatial working memory and attentional set-shifting defect in Parkinson's disease patients. We observed that 2 microg/kg clonidine stimulated spatial working memory accuracy, but had no effect on attentional set shifting or visual recognition memory. Clonidine was also effective in stimulating spatial working memory after withdrawal of dopaminergic drugs, and when this was done, its effect was greater in severe Parkinson's disease patients. In contrast, clonidine failed to stimulate visual recognition memory. These results suggest that disrupted activation of alpha2 adrenoceptors may contribute to the impairment of spatial working memory in Parkinson's disease.
We investigated the effect of the alpha2-agonist, clonidine (orally: 0.5 and 2 microg/kg), administration on parameters assessing attention and short-term recognition memory in Alzheimer's disease patients. Clonidine 2 microg/kg, but not 0.5 microg/kg, disrupted memory accuracy in delayed matching to sample test delay-dependently in nine out of 28 patients. The volumes of the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex of those Alzheimer's disease patients who were sensitive to clonidine administration were larger than those whose performance was unaffected by clonidine. These two groups of Alzheimer's disease patients performed equally in measures of attention after placebo or clonidine administration. Clonidine 2 microg/kg disrupted attention only at levels of testing that were demanding for the individual patients. Our results suggest that the disruptive effect of clonidine on short-term memory in Alzheimer's disease patients may be mediated via the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex. Furthermore, the deleterious effect of clonidine on effortful attention is mediated via different brain systems from those involved in the modulation of memory function.
P19 embryonal carcinoma cells are pluripotential and able to differentiate into a variety of cell types, including neurons, glia and fibroblast-like cells, upon retinoic acid treatment and cellular aggregation. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, ligand binding and immunocytochemical methods, kappa- and delta-opioid receptors were detected in undifferentiated P19 cells. The mu-opioid receptor was not observed until one day after plating, following one essential step of differentiation, but increased in number in the four days after plating. Several different expression patterns were detected in these differentiated cells. Some cells exhibited mu- and delta-opioid receptors co-expressed, with or without K-opioid receptor; whereas some of the cells expressed only K-opioid receptor. All three opioid receptors are detected on aggregated cells which are postmitotic and also expressing neurofilaments, indicating neuronal characteristics. Furthermore, those cells expressing mu and delta-opioid receptors also expressed glutamate decarboxylase, characteristic of the GABAergic phenotype. Based on these findings, we propose that P19 cells may serve as a model system to study the developmental regulation of opioid receptors, and in particular their relationship with GABA.
Exposure to a cold environment may increase the activity of the sympathetic nervous system inducing an elevation of plasma norepinephrine and may result in hyperglycemia. In the present study, we found that a hypoglycemic effect was produced in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats after cold-exposure at 4 degrees C for 1 h. In addition to the blockade of this hypoglycemic effect by guanethidine (a ganglion-blocking agent) and prazosin (an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist), an increase of plasma norepinephrine was also observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats receiving this cold-stress. Participation of sympathetic hyperactivity can thus be considered. Furthermore, naloxone, in a dose (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) sufficient to block opioid receptors, reversed this hypoglycemia. Also, an increase of plasma beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity was observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats receiving this cold-stress. Intravenous injection of beta-endorphin into streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats produced a lowering of plasma glucose. Administration of methoxamine at a dose sufficient to activate the alpha1-adrenoceptors produced hypoglycemia and a similar increase of plasma beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. However, plasma beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity level was not modified by similar treatment with methoxamine or cold-stress in normoglycemic rats. Therefore, beta-endorphin appears to be responsible for the induction of hypoglycemic effects in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats after cold exposure which is different to the response in normal rats.
Thermosensitive cold cells were identified in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from newborn rats. The neurons were loaded with a calcium indicator, Fura-PE3, and the change in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) of the neurons was measured with microfluorimetry. Thirteen per cent of the cells responded to the cold stimulation. The diameter of the responder cells was 16.3+/-3.2 microm (mean+/-S.D., n = 25). The lowering of the temperature from 35 degrees C to 20 degrees C increased [Ca2+]i from 59.6+/-10.6 nM to 203.4+/-14.8 nM (n = 25). The [Ca2+]i response was dependent on the intensity of the cold stimulation. The depletion of extracellular Ca2+ diminished the Ca2+ elevation. However, a Na(+)-free condition did not influence the response. We concluded that the cold stimulation opens Ca2(+)-permeable channels in putative cold cells from dorsal root ganglion neurons.
The effects of altering extracellular pH on late Na+ currents were investigated in large dorsal root ganglion neurons from rats (100-300 g), using patch-clamp techniques. The late current amplitude was steeply dependent upon pH over a range which included normal physiological values: raising the pH from 7.3 to 8.3 approximately doubled the amplitude. Whole-cell late currents 60 ms after depolarization to - 30 mV were blocked with an apparent pKa of 6.96. The pH-dependent changes in current amplitude could not be accounted for by the effects of altered surface charge. In recordings of unitary Na+ currents from outside-out membrane patches, acidification promoted channel opening to a reduced conductance level, near one-half of its maximal value. Acidification to pH &lt; 6.0 also changed the kinetics of the current recruited with the lowest threshold from non-inactivating to inactivating, with the elimination of late openings. We conclude that lowering pH from an initial alkaline or neutral value blocks late Na+ current by reducing the number of contributing channels while also reducing the single channel conductance. The pH dependence of late Na+ current helps to explain clinically relevant changes in neuronal excitability in response to small (i.e. &lt; 1 unit) perturbations in extracellular pH.
Ca2(+)-independent voltage-activated potassium currents were investigated during the differentiation of rat retinal ganglion cells. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of Ca2(+)-independent voltage-activated potassium currents and their individual current components, i.e. a sustained, tetraethylammonium-sensitive current, a transient, 4-aminopyridine-sensitive current, and a slowly decaying current that was blocked by Ba2+, revealed distinct ontogenetic modifications in current densities and in activation and inactivation parameters. All three current types were expressed simultaneously at embryonic day 17/18 and were present in all retinal ganglion cells thereafter without showing any significant changes until the end of the first postnatal week. Ca2(+)-independent voltage-activated potassium current densities then increased strongly from postnatal day 8 onwards. Tetraethylammonium-sensitive current density increased about eightfold from 74 pA/pF in embryonic stages to 586 pA/pF in adult cells, whereas the transient potassium currents blocked by 4-aminopyridine increased only about 2.5-fold from 174 pA/pF to 442 pA/pF. The Ba2(+)-sensitive current increased simultaneously from 35 pA/pF to 332 pA/pF. The much higher increase in the sustained current components during retinal ganglion cell differentiation accounted for the changes in decay kinetics of Ca2(+)-independent voltage-activated potassium current observed in later postnatal stages. Alterations in current densities were paralleled by pronounced changes in current kinetics. From postnatal day 8 onwards, activation of Ca2(+)-independent voltage-activated potassium current was right-shifted for about 10 mV owing to a shift in tetraethylammonium-sensitive current-activation, whereas activation of other K+ components remained unaltered. Tetraethylammonium-sensitive current steady-state inactivation was incomplete at all developmental stages. About 50% of the tetraethylammonium-sensitive current elicited by a depolarization to +36 mV did not inactivate after prepulse potentials positive to -10 mV. In contrast, transient potassium current blocked by 4-aminopyridine almost fully inactivated during embryonic stages, whereas in adult retinal ganglion cells about 40% of this current component did not inactivate after prepulse potentials positive to -20 mV. Parallel investigation of the resting membrane potential during retinal ganglion cells differentiation showed an exponential increase from -3 mV at embryonic day 15/16 when no voltage-activated ion currents were expressed to a final value of -58 mV at postnatal day 8. These results show that fundamental potassium current modifications occur relatively late in retinal ganglion cell development and only after the resting potential is at its final value.
The Ca2(+)-binding proteins of the EF-hand type, S100B and S100A1, were detected in the outer segment of bovine retina photoreceptors where they are localized to disc membranes, as investigated by immunofluorescence and immunogold cytochemistry. S100B and S100A1 stimulate a membrane-bound guanylate cyclase activity associated with photoreceptor disc membranes in dark-adapted retina in a Ca2(+)-dependent manner, although with different Ca2+ requirements, as investigated by an ultracytochemical approach. Other retinal cell types express S100B and S100A1 as well. S100B is detected in the outer limiting membrane, fine cell processes in the outer nuclear layer and the outer plexiform layer, cell bodies in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer, and the inner limiting membrane, whereas S100A1 has a more discrete distribution. S100B and S100A1 also stimulate a membrane-bound guanylate cyclase activity in photoreceptor cell bodies and Muller cells, but their effect appears independent of the light- or dark-adapted state of the retina and is observed at relatively high Ca2+ concentrations. These data represent the ultrastructural counterpart of recent biochemical observations implicating S100B and, possibly, S100A1 in the Ca2(+)-dependent stimulation of a photoreceptor membrane-bound guanylate cyclase activity [T. Duda, R. M. Goraczniak and R. K. Sharma (1996) Molecular characterization of S100A1-S1000B protein in retina and its activation mechanism of bovine photoreceptor guanylate cyclast. Biochemistry 35, 6263-6266; A. Margulis, N. Pozdnyakov and A. Sitaramayya (1996) Activation of bovine photoreceptor guanylate cyclast by S100 proteins. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 218, 243-247]. Our data suggest that at least S100B may take part in the regulation of a membrane-bound guanylate cyclase-based signalling pathway in both photoreceptors and Muller cells.
The present experiments focused on the influence of prenatal stress on the development of neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in the fetal rat, including corticotropin-releasing factor-containing neurons. Prenatal stress was administered by restraining pregnant rats in a small cage for either 30 (30-min stress group) or 240 min (240-min stress group) daily for three days from embryonic day 15 to 17, and the fetal brains were taken on embryonic day 18 for later analysis. Golgi-impregnated neurons of the paraventricular nucleus in the 240-min stress group revealed that the total length of the processes was significantly shorter than in the control (unstressed) and 30-min stress groups. In addition, the 240-min stress group showed an increase in the number of apoptotic cells in the fetal paraventricular nucleus. On the other hand, Golgi-impregnated neurons of the paraventricular nucleus in the 30-min stress group had a greater degree of cell differentiation as manifested by an increase in both the number of branch points and the total length of the processes from the cell body. Furthermore, the fetal paraventricular nucleus in the 30-min stress group showed enhanced corticotropin-releasing factor messenger RNA expression, while the varicosities of corticotropin-releasing factor-containing axons at the median eminence revealed more matured morphology such as shorter intervals between the varicosities. These findings suggest the duration-dependent effects of prenatal stress on the development of fetal hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus neurons, including corticotropin-releasing factor-containing neurons: long-lasting stress causes neurotoxic changes of fetal paraventricular nucleus neurons, whereas short-lasting stress facilitates the development of these fetal brain neurons. These morphological changes induced by prenatal stress may contribute to behavioral changes of the offspring after birth.
Ca2(+)-sensitive 85,000 mol. wt cytosolic phospholipase A2 plays an essential role in the selective and stimulus-dependent release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids. Cytosolic phospholipase A2-catalysed lipid mediators including arachidonic acid and its metabolites have been suggested to be involved in a variety of neuronal functions in the CNS. Since the cellular localization of cytosolic phospholipase A2 is still controversial and obscure, we tried an improved method of rapid processing of each specimens and succeeded in obtaining intense signals of cytosolic phospholipase A2 messenger RNA in the normal rat brain by northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. Northern blot analysis showed the abundant distribution of cytosolic phospholipase A2 messenger RNA in most regions of the brain, with intense signals observed in the pineal gland and pons. Macroautoradiographs prepared after in situ hybridization with three different antisense riboprobes gave essentially similar patterns of localization; significant signals were widely detected in the gray matter of various regions, i.e. the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, several thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei and cerebellum. Microautoradiographs showed that most of the intense signals were predominant in neurons, and that faint signals were from glial cells and other non-neuronal cells in the choroid plexus, inner surface cells of veins and the leptomeninges. In addition, the cycloheximide treatment increased the cytosolic phospholipase A2 messenger RNA level in the same cell populations originally possessing messenger RNA signals. Predominant expression of cytosolic phospholipase A2 messenger RNA in neurons may provide the basis for the contribution of cytosolic phospholipase A2-catalysed lipid mediators to a variety of neurotransmission and synaptic functions in the CNS.
The mechanisms of glutamate-induced changes in intracellular free calcium concentration in Bergmann glial cells in mouse cerebellar slices were investigated by Fura-2-based microfluorimetry. Extracellular applications of glutamate, quisqualate and kainate triggered an increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration, whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate were ineffective. The calcium elevation triggered by kainate was completely blocked by removal of calcium ions from the external solutions or by slice incubation with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Conversely, both glutamate- and quisqualate-induced intracellular calcium transients were only slightly attenuated by slice incubation with either 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or calcium-free solution, suggesting the intracellular origin for calcium ions. The glutamate-triggered cytosolic calcium increases were inhibited by slice incubation with thapsigargin, the inhibitor of intracellular calcium pumps, or by intracellular perfusion of Bergmann glial cells with heparin, the antagonist of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-gated calcium release channels. Therefore the calcium release from inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive intracellular stores plays the major role in glutamate-induced calcium signalling. We concluded that Bergmann glial cells express calcium permeable ionotropic glutamate receptors, which might be important for generation of fast calcium signals. However, slow glutamate-evoked calcium signals are mostly determined by inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent intracellular signalling chain.
An increased response to the activation of receptors mediating excitatory effects may be involved in some forms of epilepsy. In this study, it has been tested whether B1 bradykinin receptors (which mediate excitatory effects in the peripheral nervous system and have little constitutional expression in the central nervous system) may be proposed in this role. Two experimental models of epilepsy (kindling and kainate) have been employed, and glutamate outflow experiments have been performed in hippocampal and cortical slices taken from control, kindled and kainate-treated rats. The endogenous B1 receptor agonist Lys-des-Arg9-bradykinin (10(-7) M) did not affect electrically-evoked glutamate overflow in control animals, but concentration-dependently increased it in kindled rats (maximal effect +40 to + 50%) and, to a lesser extent (+20%), in kainate-treated rats. These effects were fully prevented by the selective B1 receptor antagonist R-715 (10(-6) M), but not by the selective B2 receptor antagonist Hoe 140 (10(-6) M). The observed changes in B1 bradykinin receptor biological activity may play a role in epileptic hyperexcitability.
An appropriate detecting technique is necessary for the early detection of neurodegenerative diseases. 3-Nitropropionic acid-intoxicated rats serve as the animal model for one neurodegenerative disease, Huntington's disease. Non-invasive diffusion- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging were applied to study temporal evolution and spatial distribution of brain lesions which were produced by intravenous injection of 3-nitropropionic acid in rats. Lesions in the striatum, hippocampus, and corpus callosum but not in the cortex were observed 3 and 4.5 h after 3-nitropropionic acid injection (30 mg/kg) on the diffusion- and T2-weighted images, respectively (n = 6). The results demonstrated that the diffusion-weighted imaging is not only superior to T2-weighted imaging in detecting onset of 3-nitropropionic acid-induced excitotoxic brain damage but also differentiates lesion and non-lesion areas with better spatial resolution than T2-weighted imaging. Additionally, to correlate structural alterations with pathophysiological conditions, dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging was performed before and 4 h after 3-nitropropionic acid administration (n = 8). The relative cerebral blood volume was significantly elevated in the striatum (P &lt; 0.001) but not in the cortex after 3-nitropropionic acid administration. The changes in regional relative cerebral blood volume were well correlated to the changes in signal intensities in the corresponding areas on the diffusion- and T2-weighted images. The combined structural and functional information in this study may provide new insights and therapeutic strategies in treating neurodegenerative diseases.
Volatile odors from estrous female rats are necessary and sufficient to induce non-contact penile erections in male rats. It is not known whether these pheromones are detected by the accessory as opposed to the main olfactory system or whether they are processed by forebrain regions that receive olfactory inputs. Using nuclear Fos immunoreactivity as a marker of neuronal activation, we asked how the detection and processing of distal cues from inaccessible estrous females, which elicited non-contact penile erections, compared with the processing of sensory cues from soiled estrous bedding which did not elicit non-contact penile erections. In Experiment 1, groups of sexually experienced males were given one of five treatments. A control group was placed on clean bedding. A second group displayed non-contact penile erections when exposed to the smell, sight and sound of an estrous female restrained behind a permeable barrier. A third group was exposed to the same stimuli as the second (an estrous female) but failed to exhibit non-contact penile erections during the first hour of testing. A fourth group was placed on soiled estrous bedding, and a fifth group was allowed two ejaculations with an estrous female. All males were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde 2 h after the onset of these respective treatments, and their brains were later processed for Fos immunoreactivity. Non-contact penile erections were observed in males that were exposed to distal cues from an estrous female but not in males exposed to soiled estrous bedding. Males that displayed non-contact penile erections or that were exposed to estrous bedding showed significantly more neuronal Fos immunoreactivity than clean-bedding controls in the nucleus accumbens core and shell, anterior and posterior medial amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic nucleus. Even greater neuronal Fos responses occurred in these regions in mated males. In Experiment 2 these same treatments were given to another cohort of sexually experienced males. Increased neuronal Fos immunoreactivity was observed in the granule and mitral cell layers of the accessory olfactory bulb of males that were either mated or exposed to estrous bedding, but not in males that displayed non-contact penile erections in response to distal cues from an estrous female. The volatile odors which presumably caused non-contact penile erections failed to stimulate significant neuronal Fos immunoreactivity in five main olfactory bulb sites examined. Even so, it seems likely that these pheromones are detected via the main olfactory system and are subsequently processed by the same projection circuit that responds to other pheromones present in estrous bedding that are incapable of eliciting non-contact penile erections.
Rats were injected with 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (&quot;Ecstasy&quot;) and assessed for changes in locomotor activity and for the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos throughout the brain. A dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity was seen with 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (0, 5 and 20 mg/kg) that continued for at least 2 h following administration. Dose-dependent increases in c-fos expression were seen in much of the cortex, forebrain, brainstem and cerebellum in rats given 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine. Expression was pronounced in 5-hydroxytryptamine terminal regions including the medial prefrontal cortex, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, islands of Calleja, lateral septum, paraventricular hypothalamus and paraventricular thalamus. High levels of c-fos expression were also seen in the supraoptic and median preoptic nuclei, regions involved in the control of fluid balance and body temperature, respectively. This is potentially important since deaths in 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine users have been linked to hyperthermia and hyponatremia. In the brainstem, two regions of high c-fos expression were Barrington's nucleus, which is involved in micturition, and the pontine reticular nucleus oralis, a region involved in motor control of mastication. Activation of this latter structure may partly explain the bruxism (grinding of the jaw) reported by human 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine users. Robust c-fos expression was seen in the cerebellum, particularly in the flocculus, and this may explain the reported deleterious effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine on balance and co-ordination. Significant c-fos expression was also seen in the ventral tegmental area, amidst the cell bodies of mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons, and in the median and dorsal raphe, where the serotonergic innervation of the forebrain originates. Double-labelling of fos-positive neurons with 5-hydroxytryptamine showed that only a small number of serotonergic neurons in the raphe expressed c-fos following 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine. The widespread distribution of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced c-fos expression seen in this study can be linked to the profound alterations in physiological function, mood and behaviour produced by this drug.
The physiological role of 5-hydroxytryptamine6 receptors in the central nervous system has not yet been elucidated. The high affinity of various psychotropic drugs for 5-hydroxytryptamine6 receptors has led to the suggestion that this receptor type may be a novel target in neuropsychiatry. We have found that continuous intracerebroventricular administration of a 5-hydroxytryptamine6 receptor antisense oligonucleotide, but not of a missense oligonucleotide, produced an anxiogenic-like response in rats using two different models of anxiety, the social interaction test and the elevated plus-maze. Neither oligonucleotide treatment modified locomotor activity, rectal temperature or food intake, suggesting a low or null neurotoxicity. The effectiveness of the treatment with the designed antisense oligonucleotide to block the synthesis of the protein encoded by the target mRNA was assessed by immunolabelling 5-hydroxytryptamine6 receptors in the nucleus accumbens, where this receptor is highly expressed, using previously characterized specific antibodies. The density of the immunostaining was quantified by means of an unbiased three-dimensional stereologic procedure, which revealed a significant reduction (-25%) in the number of immunolabelled neuronal elements. These results suggest that, in addition to other 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtypes, 5-hydroxytryptamine6 receptors in the nucleus accumbens may participate in anxiety-related neurobiological mechanisms.
The monosialoganglioside GM1 exerts neurotrophic-like activity in vitro and in vivo. In particular, it improves cholinergic neuron morphology and chemistry and learning abilities of cognitively impaired aged rats and young animals with cholinergic lesions, and restores neurochemical, pharmacological, morphological and behavioral parameters in animal models of Parkinson's disease. Our studies present evidence that GM1 reverses dopaminergic deficits in the nigrostriatal neurons of aged rats. GM1 administered to aged Sprague-Dawley rats for 30 days reversed the decreased activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in the midbrain and striatum, elevated the reduced protein content and mRNA levels of the enzyme in the midbrain, and reversed the decrements of dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content in both the midbrain and striatum. Tyrosine hydroxylase activity of the midbrain, but not of the striatum, remained elevated for 15 days after discontinuing GM1. The count profiles of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons, the size of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons and the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers were decreased in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area of aged rats. GM1 corrected the morphology of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and partially improved it in the ventral tegmental area. These findings support the notion that the aged striatal dopaminergic neurons respond to GM1, and strengthen the utility of using this compound for combating age-associated neuronal deficits.
This study was carried out to clarify the role of alpha2-adrenoceptors in the regulation of pineal melatonin synthesis. Medetomidine, a selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, was previously found to be a potent suppressor of nocturnal melatonin levels in rats. Medetomidine and alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists atipamezole and yohimbine were injected into rats in different conditions, and their pineal melatonin contents were measured by radioimmunoassay. Experiment 1: Blocking the alpha2-adrenoceptors and possible non-adrenergic binding sites with atipamezole did not counteract the light-induced suppression of nocturnal melatonin. These receptors are, thus, not essential for the suppression of melatonin by light. Experiment 2: Blocking the alpha2-adrenoceptors with atipamezole or yohimbine did not sensitize the pineal melatonin synthesis to daytime darkness in the light/dark-entrained rats. The binding sites are not involved in keeping the daytime melatonin levels low, even in darkness. Experiment 3: The rats were sensitized to daytime darkness by keeping them for seven days in constant light. The dark-elicited melatonin rise was suppressed by a lower dose of medetomidine than the normal nocturnal rise in light/dark-entrained rats, while atipamezole had no effect. The results showed that alpha2-adrenoceptor insufficiency is not involved in the constant light-induced pineal supersensitivity. In summary, the experiments indicated that the physiological regulation of melatonin synthesis by ambient lighting in rats does not depend on alpha2-adrenergic mechanisms.
Neostriatal GABAergic neurons projecting to the globus pallidus synthesize the opioid peptide enkephalin, while those innervating the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the entopeduncular nucleus synthesize dynorphin. The differential control exerted by dopamine on the activity of these two efferent projections concerns also the biosynthesis of these opioid peptides. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we investigated the role of opioid co-transmission in the regulation of neostriatal and pallidal activity. The expression of the messenger RNAs encoding glutamate decarboxylase-the biosynthetic enzyme of GABA-and the precursor peptides of enkephalin (preproenkephalin) and dynorphin (preprodynorphin) were measured in rats after a sustained blockade of opioid receptors by naloxone (s.c. implanted osmotic minipump, eight days, 3 mg/kg per h), and/or a subchronic blockade of D2 dopamine receptors by haloperidol (one week, 1.25 mg/kg s.c. twice a day). The density of mu opioid receptors in the neostriatum and globus pallidus was determined by autoradiography. Naloxone treatment resulted in a strong up-regulation of neostriatal and pallidal mu opioid receptors that was not affected by the concurrent administration of haloperidol. Haloperidol alone produced a moderate down-regulation of neostriatal and pallidal micro opioid receptors. Haloperidol strongly stimulated the expression of neostriatal preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin messenger RNAs. This effect was partially attenuated by naloxone, which alone produced moderate increases in preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin messenger RNA levels. In the neostriatum, naloxone did not affect either basal or haloperidol-stimulated glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA expression. A strong reduction of glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA expression was detected over pallidal neurons following either naloxone or haloperidol treatment, but concurrent administration of the two antagonists did not result in a further decrease. The amplitude of the variations of mu opioid receptor density and of preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin messenger RNA levels suggests that the regulation of neostriatal and pallidal micro opioid receptors is more susceptible to a direct opioid antagonism, while the biosynthesis of opioid peptides in the neostriatum is more dependent on the dopaminergic transmission. The down-regulation of mu opioid receptors following haloperidol represents probably an adaptive change to increased enkephalin biosynthesis and release. The haloperidol-induced increase in neostriatal preprodynorphin messenger RNA expression might result from an indirect, intermittent stimulation of neostriatal D1 receptors. The haloperidol-induced decrease of pallidal glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA expression suggests, in keeping with the current functional model of the basal ganglia, that the activation of the striatopallidal projection produced by the interruption of neostriatal dopaminergic transmission reduces the GABAergic output of the globus pallidus. The reduction of pallidal glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA expression following opioid receptor blockade indicates an indirect, excitatory influence of enkephalin upon globus pallidus neurons and, consequently, a functional antagonism between the two neuroactive substances (GABA and enkephalin) of the striatopallidal projection in the control of globus pallidus output. Through this antagonism enkephalin could partly attenuate the GABA-mediated effects of a dopaminergic denervation on pallidal neuronal activity.
Previous research has shown that corticospinal as well as rubrospinal neurons express the high-affinity trkB and trkC receptors but not the high-affinity trkA receptor. To determine if bulbospinal neurons in other brainstem areas show the same pattern of trk receptor expression, bulbospinal cells were labelled via the injection of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold into the spinal cord. Brainstem sections were then processed for in situ hybridization using oligonucleotide probes to the trkA, trkB, and trkC receptors. The results indicated that, although trkA expression occurred in brainstem areas that contain bulbospinal neurons (e.g., the vestibular nuclei, and the pontine reticular formation), very few FluoroGold-labelled cells expressed the trkA receptor. In contrast, at least 90% of bulbospinal cells in each brainstem area examined expressed the trkB receptor. Quantitative analysis indicated differences in the level of trkB labelling between bulbospinal cells in different brainstem areas, with the highest levels seen in the locus coeruleus and magnocellular portion of the red nucleus, and the lowest levels seen in the medial and superior vestibular nuclei and the raphe obscurus. With the exception of the accessory trigeminal nucleus, over 84% of bulbospinal cells in each brainstem area also expressed the trkC receptor. TrkC receptor expression was greatest in the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus and lowest in the accessory trigeminal nucleus, the raphe magnus, and the vestibular nuclei. Results indicate that, as with other descending pathways, virtually all bulbospinal pathways should be amenable to treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-4/5 or neurotrophin-3, but not nerve growth factor, following spinal cord damage.
In rats, recovery from short intense stress usually involves a sleep rebound characterized by an increase in slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep duration. However, a large body of evidence indicates that stressful situations lasting for several days or weeks can have deleterious effects on sleep quantity and quality, probably leading to an impairment of the sleep rebound. In this study, using immobilization as a stress model in the rat, we sought to determine the stress duration beyond which the sleep rebound disappears, as well as the mechanisms responsible for this suppression. In a first series of experiments, rats were immobilized for 30 min, 1h, 2h or 4 h. Slow-wave sleep rebounds evidenced after the different immobilization periods were, respectively, +32%, +25%, +9% and -0.2% and paradoxical sleep rebounds +57%, +88%, +103% and +21% compared with control recordings of the same animals. The sleep rebound thus disappeared when the duration of immobilization reached 4 h. In a second series of experiments, adrenalectomized rats were subjected to a 1 h immobilization, and showed an increased slow-wave sleep rebound ( + 44% compared to intact ones), whereas the paradoxical sleep rebound was slightly decreased and delayed. When glucocorticoid action was replaced by an intramuscular injection of dexamethasone, a glucocorticoid receptor agonist, the sleep rebound was suppressed (-3% in slow-wave sleep and -37% in paradoxical sleep). Lastly, in a third series of experiments, plasma corticosterone concentration was evaluated at different times in rats immobilized for 1 h or 4 h. Corticosterone concentration was higher in stressed animals than in control ones (+92%) and returned to baseline 4 h earlier in animals immobilized for 1 h compared with those stressed for 4 h. Therefore, corticosterone is probably involved in the suppression of the sleep rebound after long immobilization periods since (i) dexamethasone suppressed the stress-induced sleep rebound, and (ii) corticosterone was elevated for a longer period in the 4 h immobilization group. It is concluded that the reparative sleep rebound is suppressed after long and intense stress periods and that a prolonged glucocorticoid secretion could be one of the factors responsible for this effect. This deleterious effect on sleep could impair normal recovery and quick adaptation to a new situation, and could participate in the development of stress-related pathologies in humans.
Previous studies have shown that the vertex-recorded P13 auditory evoked potential in the rat appears to be the rodent equivalent of the human P1 (or P50) potential. This sleep state-dependent potential appears to be generated, at least in part, by cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus projections. The present studies used localized microinjections of neuroactive compounds into the region of the pedunculopontine nucleus in order to modulate the vertex-recorded P13 potential. Both the GABAergic agonist, muscimol, and the noradrenergic alpha2 receptor agonist, clonidine, were found to reduce the amplitude of the P13 potential in a dose-dependent manner. The suppressive effect of clonidine on P13 potential amplitude was blocked by pretreatment with the noradrenergic alpha2 receptor antagonist, yohimbine. In addition, habituation of the P13 potential, measured using a paired stimulus paradigm, was increased by micro-injection of a dose of muscimol or clonidine which did not change the amplitude of the P13 potential induced by the first stimulus of a pair. In contrast, microinjection of yohimbine decreased habituation of the P13 potential. These results show that the vertex-recorded P13 potential and its habituation can be modulated by activation of known inhibitory synapses, both GABAergic and noradrenergic, at the level of the pedunculopontine nucleus. This provides further evidence that the P13 potential is generated, at least in part, by pedunculopontine nucleus outputs.
Widespread brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression has been detected in the region of catecholamine groups of the rat lower brainstem, while few brain-derived neurotrophic factor-immunoreactive cells were found in this area. In the present study, a double-color immunofluorescence technique for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and tyrosine hydroxylase after colchicine treatment was employed to evaluate the possible presence of brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in the catecholaminergic cells of the rat lower brainstem. We detected many new brain-derived neurotrophic factor-immunoreactive cells in the A1, A2, A4, A6-A10 and C1-C3 cell groups and in the other lower brainstem nuclei where, without colchicine treatment, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was expressed, but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity. In addition, the catecholaminergic neurons were found to express brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity with the co-existence being greatest, in percentage terms, in medullary catecholaminergic cell groups. Hypotensive hemorrhage, which activates medullary catecholaminergic neurons, induced the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in catecholaminergic neurons (A1/C1 and C2). The results demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is regulated by neuronal activity in medullary catecholaminergic cell groups involved in central cardiovascular regulation.
Stimulation of cervical vagal afferents inhibits central sympathetic outflows in part by inhibiting the ongoing activity of putative baroreceptive neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata. The aim of the present study was to examine the electrophysiological characteristics of vagal responses and their interactions with responses elicited by stimulation of the aortic nerve in neurons there. The study focused on the role of the long-lasting, late-onset vagal inhibition, which is likely to play an important role in the tonic inhibitory effects of vagal afferent stimulation. In vivo intracellular recordings were obtained from 33 neurons that received convergent inputs from aortic and vagal afferents. Sixty-four percent of these neurons exhibited a late inhibition following electrical stimulation of myelinated vagal afferents (mean onset latency of 100+/-5 ms). The average duration of late inhibition (294+/-19 ms) exceeded the duration of the cardiac cycle. As a consequence of this, sustained vagal stimulation diminished the effect of rhythmic baroreceptor inputs in neurons that exhibited late vagal inhibition. Simultaneous activation of aortic and vagal afferents significantly increased the magnitude of late inhibition, even in those neurons where stimulation of the aortic nerve alone did not elicit a response (n = 15). This suggested that the convergence between vagal and aortic afferent inputs occurred in inhibitory inteneurons antecedent to the recorded rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata neurons. Focal stimulation of the caudal part of the nucleus of the solitary tract also elicited a late-onset inhibition in 73% of the neurons that responded to stimulation of the aortic nerve. This inhibition appeared to be similar to the late vagal inhibition, except for its shorter average onset latency (64+/-7 ms). Based on this observation, it is proposed that inhibitory inteneurons that mediate late inhibition to rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata neurons may lie within the caudal part of the nucleus of the solitary tract. The present study established that activation of myelinated vagal afferents exerts a complex modulation over the ongoing and evoked activity of neurons that respond to stimulation of the aortic nerve. The complex interaction that occurs between aortic and vagal inputs in neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla may be implicated in long-term modulation of sympathetic outflows in response to changes in the activation of visceral receptors supplied by vagus afferents. The modulation elicited by late vagal inhibition may help to adjust cardiovascular outflows according to requirements set by the thoraco-abdominal visceral environment.
Stimulation of cervical vagal afferents elicits long-lasting inhibitory effects in a variety of neuronal populations, although little is known concerning the cellular mechanisms that are involved in these effects. In the present study, the electrophysiological characteristics of responses elicited by cumulative activation of vagal afferents were examined in neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata, which play an important role in the coordination of cardiovascular and other visceral activities. The study has focused on the late-onset, slow inhibitory component of vagal responses, which is likely to affect the temporal modulation of postsynaptic effects. Vagal stimulation elicited four distinct response patterns in intracellularly penetrated neurons (n = 78): excitation, inhibition, excitation-inhibition and inhibition-inhibition. The late inhibitory component was encountered in 43 (55%) of the cells, including five putative medullospinal neurons. It was due to a postsynaptic hyperpolarization which reversed at potentials more negative than -83 mV. The voltage dependency, as well as the average onset latency (93+/-3.0 ms), duration (270+/-16.5 ms) and amplitude (1.3+/-0.2 mV as measured at resting membrane potentials), of late inhibition were clearly different from those of the short-latency inhibitory response. The differences in the voltage dependency and time-course of the short-latency responses and the late inhibition indicate that they are mediated by different central relays. In the majority of neurons, late inhibition could be elicited by stimulating only myelinated vagal afferents. The magnitude of the response was, however, significantly enhanced in 63% of the examined cells when the intensity of stimulation was raised to recruit further myelinated and non-myelinated fibres. This indicates that late vagal inhibition is often elicited by a cumulative activation of convergent afferent inputs. The intracellularly labelled vagally responsive neurons were present at all rostrocaudal levels of the rostral ventrolateral medulla, with an accumulation in the region of the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus. Neurons that exhibited late vagal inhibition were dominant in the juxtafacial region of this nucleus. Due to its slow time-course, late vagal inhibition may contribute to a tonic modulation of the activity of neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata. It is proposed that late vagal inhibition plays an important role in the temporal integration of sensory inputs in neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata. The time-course and strength of this modulatory effect are related to the level of activity in those visceral sensory inputs that converge onto the inhibitory interneurons that mediate late inhibition to rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata neurons.
In previous studies we have shown that electrical stimulation of the nucleus submedius inhibits the rat radiant heat-induced tail flick reflex, and that this antinociceptive effect is mediated by the ventrolateral orbital cortex and periaqueductal gray. The aim of the present study was to examine whether electrical stimulation of the nucleus submedius could inhibit the rat jaw-opening reflex, and to determine whether electrolytic lesions of the ventrolateral orbital cortex or the periaqueductal gray could attenuate the nucleus submedius-evoked inhibition. Experiments were performed on pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. The jaw-opening reflex elicited by electrical stimulation of the tooth pulp or the facial skin was monitored by recording the evoked digastric electromyogram. Conditioning stimulation was delivered unilaterally to the nucleus submedius 90 ms prior to each test stimulus to the tooth pulp. After that, electrolytic lesions were made in ventrolateral orbital cortex or periaqueductal gray, and the effect of nucleus submedius stimulation on the jaw-opening reflex was re-examined. Unilateral electrical stimulation of nucleus submedius was found to significantly depress the jaw-opening reflex (mean threshold of 28.0+/-1.4 microA, n = 48), and the magnitude of inhibition increased linearly when the stimulus intensity was increased from 20 to 70 microA, resulting in depression of the digastric electromyogram amplitude from 18.4+/-5.4% to 74.0+/-4.9% of the control (P &lt; 0.01, n = 37). The onset of inhibition occured 60 ms after the beginning of nucleus submedius stimulation and lasted about 100 ms, as determined by varying the conditioning-test time interval. Furthermore, ipsilateral lesions of the ventrolateral orbital cortex or bilateral lesions of the lateral or ventrolateral parts of periaqueductal gray eliminated the nucleus submedius-evoked inhibition of the jaw-opening reflex. These data suggest that the nucleus submedius plays an important role in modulation of orofacial nociception, and provide further support for a hypothesis that the antinociceptive effect of nucleus submedius stimulation is mediated by ventrolateral orbital cortex and activation of a descending inhibitory system in the periaqueductal gray.
Evoked release of acetylcholine and subsequent cell-cell adhesive contacts between growth cones and acetylcholine sensing neurons were observed using cultured neurons dissociated from the diagonal band of Broca of the rat. Stimulation to the soma of the diagonal band of Broca neurons evoked release of acetylcholine from the growth cones. The release of acetylcholine was monitored using whole-cell patch-clamp recording from acetylcholine receptor-rich superior cervical ganglion neuron positioned on the growth cone as a sensor of acetylcholine release. By measuring changes in fluorescence from the growth cone using Ca2(+)-sensitive dye while voltage-clamping the superior cervical ganglion neuron, transient intracellular Ca2+ concentration increase and acetylcholine release from growth cone were recorded simultaneously. Video-enhanced differential interference contrast imaging of the growth cones demonstrated tether formation between the growth cone and superior cervical ganglion cell soma when the superior cervical ganglion cell soma was moved away from the growth cone after acetylcholine release, suggesting formation of adhesive contacts between the growth cone and the sensor neuron. Adhesive contacts between growth cones and sensor neurons were also detected when a high K+ solution or alpha-latrotoxin was applied to the growth cone. Adhesions were also observed between growth cones and latex beads, when growth cones were exposed to high K+ solution. The properties of the adhesive contacts at the growth cone were studied by optically manipulating a latex bead attached to the growth cone surface. These results suggest that growth cones exhibit cell-cell adhesion after neurotransmitter release.
Peripheral nerve injury results in plastic changes in the dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord, and is often complicated with neuropathic pain. The mechanisms underlying these changes are not known. We have now investigated the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the dorsal root ganglia with histochemical and biochemical methods following sciatic nerve lesion in the rat. The percentage of neurons immunoreactive for brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia was significantly increased as early as 24 h after the nerve lesion and the increase lasted for at least two weeks. The level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was also significantly increased in the ipsibut not contralateral dorsal root ganglia. Both neurons and satellite cells in the lesioned dorsal root ganglia synthesized brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA after the nerve lesion. There was a dramatic shift in size distribution of positive neurons towards large sizes seven days after sciatic nerve lesion. Morphometric analysis and retrograde tracing studies showed that no injured neurons smaller than 600 microm2 were immunoreactive for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, whereas the majority of large injured neurons were immunoreactive in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia seven days postlesion. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor-immunoreactive nerve terminals in the ipsilateral spinal cord were reduced in the central region of lamina II, but increased in more medial regions or deeper into laminae III/IV. These studies indicate that sciatic nerve injury results in a differential regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in different subpopulations of sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia. Small neurons switched off their normal synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, whereas larger ones switched to a brain-derived neurotrophic factor phenotype. The phenotypic switch may have functional implications in neuronal plasticity and generation of neuropathic pain after nerve injury.
In this study we have evaluated the primary astroglial reactivity to an injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the right sensorimotor cortex, as well as the secondary astroglial response in the thalamic ventrobasal complex, caused by the anterograde degeneration of descending corticothalamic fibres and/or target deprivation of the developing thalamic neurons. The astroglial response was evaluated from 4 h to 30 days post-lesion, by the immunocytochemical detection of the cytoskeletal proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, and the antioxidant and metal binding protein metallothionein I-II. In the lesioned cortex, hypertrophied reactive astrocytes showed increased glial fibrillary acidic protein labelling that correlated with a strong expression of vimentin and metallothionein I-II. Maximal astrocytic response was seen at one week post-lesion. The glial scar that formed later on remained positive for all astroglial markers until the last survival time examined. In contrast, in the anterogradely/retrogradely affected thalamus, the induced astroglial secondary response was not as prominent as in the cortex and was characteristically transitory, being undetectable by 14 days post-lesion. Interestingly, thalamic reactive astrocytes showed increased glial fibrillary acidic protein expression but no induction of vimentin and metallothionein I-II. In conclusion, in the young brain, the pattern of astroglial reactivity is not homogeneous and is strongly dependent on the grade of tissue damage: both in response to primary neuronal death and in response to retrograde/anterograde secondary damage, reactive astrocytes show hypertrophy and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein expression. However, astroglial vimentin and metallothionein I-II expression are only observed in areas undergoing massive neuronal death, where glial scar is formed.
We investigated the effects of dizocilpine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, on spatial reference and working memory in a radial arm maze task in rats with a unilateral hippocampal lesion. At a dose of 0.2 mg/kg to intact rats, dizocilpine significantly impaired both reference and working memory, and produced ataxia and impairment of food intake; at 0.1 mg/kg, dizocilpine had no effect on performance. Unilateral hippocampal lesion induced by quinolinic acid produced a marked working memory deficit concomitant with a slight but significant impairment of reference memory when mnemonic ability was examined one week after the lesion. The spatial memory deficits in the rats with a unilateral hippocampal lesion were ameliorated by repeated daily trainings over a 21-day period. Following recovery of the spatial memory deficits produced by the brain lesion (four weeks after the brain lesion), dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg) significantly impaired both reference and working memory, without affecting general behavior or food intake in the brain-lesioned rats. An impairment of working memory, but not reference memory, by dizocilpine was observed six weeks after the brain lesion. However, the disrupting effect of dizocilpine at 0.1 mg/kg on spatial working memory had disappeared at eight weeks after the lesion. Ten weeks after the brain lesion, dizocilpine at 0.2 mg/kg was necessary to induce spatial memory impairment, which was accompanied by motor and food intake deficits, as in intact rats. In sham-operated rats, the dose-response effects of dizocilpine did not differ from those in intact rats at any time after the operation. These results suggest that two phases of behavioral plasticity take place, depending on demand, to compensate for brain dysfunction after the unilateral lesion of the hippocampus in rats.
We examined the potential for changes in cortical connectivity to accompany long-term plastic changes in functional cortical representations of mystacial vibrissae. Plasticity in the barrel cortex of young adult mice was evoked by vibrissectomy that spared row C of whiskers. We found that 2-deoxyglucose brain mapping causes a progressive expansion of cortical representation of the spared vibrissae. Two months after vibrissectomy, when the width of the cortical map of the spared row of vibrissae doubled, living cortical slices of the barrel cortex were injected with fluorescent dextrans. The injections were centered on spared, deprived and control vibrissal columns. The injections labeled three intracortical projection systems: (i) local connections from one vibrissal column to neighboring columns; (ii) long-range projections running in the septa and walls of the barrels and spanning several barrels; and (iii) very-long-range fibers running horizontally in the lower part of layer V. The local, short-range projection system was analysed following small injections into the centers of columns in layers III and IV. We found that injections into spared barrels labeled axons extending for significantly greater distances in all layers (except layer V), and labeled cell bodies situated significantly further, than after injections into deprived or control barrels. Also, the total axonal density labeled by injections into the spared barrel was higher by 70% than for the deprived or control barrels. Alterations of topographical maps in adult somatosensory cortex may occur immediately after functional denervation, but may also increase with time, as in the case of our experimental situation. Our results indicate that persistent, long-term plastic change can remodel connectivity in the barrel cortex.
In the human brain, the distribution of perineuronal nets occurring as lattice-like neuronal coatings of extracellular matrix proteoglycans ensheathing several types of non-pyramidal neurons and subpopulations of pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex is largely unknown. Since proteoglycans are presumably involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, we analysed the distribution pattern of extracellular chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans in cortical areas, including primary motor, primary auditory and several prefrontal and temporal association areas, in normal human brains and in those showing neuropathological criteria of Alzheimer's disease. In both groups, neurons with perineuronal nets were most numerous in the primary motor cortex (approximately 10% in Brodmann's area 4) and in the primary auditory cortex as a representative of the primary sensory areas. Their number was lower in secondary and higher order association areas. Net-associated pyramidal cells occurred predominantly in layers III and V in motor areas, as well as throughout lower parts of layer III in the primary auditory cortex and neocortical association areas. In the entorhinal cortex, net-associated pyramidal cells were extremely rare. In brains showing hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, the characteristic patterns of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, stained with the AT8 antibody, largely excluded the zones abundant in perineuronal nets and neuropil-associated chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans. As shown in double-stained sections, pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons ensheathed by perineuronal nets were virtually unaffected by the formation of neurofibrillary tangles even in severely damaged regions. The distribution patterns of amyloid B deposits overlapped but showed no congruence with that of the extracellular chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans. It can be concluded that low susceptibility of neurons and cortical areas to neurofibrillary changes corresponds with high proportions of aggregating chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans in the neuronal microenvironment.
With the rapid development of wireless communication technology over the last 20 years, there has been some public concern over possible health effects of long-term, low-level radiofrequency exposure from cellular telephones. As an initial step in compiling a database for risk analysis by government agencies, the effects of 1-h exposure of mice to a 1.6-GHz radiofrequency signal, given as either a continuous wave or pulse modulated at 11 Hz with a duty cycle of 4:1 and a pulse duration of 9.2 ms IRIDIUM), on c-fos gene expression in the brain was investigated. The IRIDIUM signal is the operating frequency for a ground-to-satellite-to-ground cellular communications web which has recently become fully operational, and was named as such due to the original designed employment of the same number of low orbiting satellites as there are electrons orbiting the nucleus of an iridium atom. The expression of c-fos was not significantly elevated in the brains of mice until exposure levels exceeded six times the peak dose and 30 times the whole body average dose as maximal cellular telephone exposure limits in humans. Higher level exposure using either continuous wave (analog) or IRIDIUM signals elevated c-fos to a similar extent, suggesting no obvious pulsed modulation-specific effects. The pattern of c-fos elevation in limbic cortex and subcortex areas at higher exposure levels is most consistent with a stress response due to thermal perception coupled with restraint and/or neuron activity near thermoregulatory regions, and not consistent with any direct interaction of IRIDIUM energy with brain tissue.
The localization of 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors in the lumbosacral spinal cord of the rat was investigated using selective antibodies raised against the carboxyl-terminal part of the rat receptor. The distribution of immunoperoxidase labelling at the light microscope level revealed numerous labelled neurons in the gray matter, with a higher intensity in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, the dorsal gray commissure and particularly the motoneurons of the ventral horn. Confocal microscope analysis showed that immunostaining was mainly intracellular (motoneurons), but could also be associated with the membrane of cell bodies and dendrites. Actually, electron microscope immunogold experiments demonstrated an exclusive staining of the cis-Golgi apparatus. Following pseudo-rabies virus transsynaptic retrograde labelling from the corpus cavernosum, labelled neurons were found in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus and the dorsal gray commissure of the L6-S1 segments. All virus-labelled neurons exhibited 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor immunoreactivity. These results indicate that all parasympathetic preganglionic neurons and their related interneurons which contribute to the innervation of cavernosal tissue bear 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors. In the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, most neurons which were retrogradely-labelled from the pelvic ganglion with Fast Blue also showed 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor immunoreactivity. In the ventral horn, motoneurons retrogradely labelled from the ischiocavernosus muscle and the bulbospongiosus muscle, both of which are involved in erection and ejaculation, were also 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor-immunopositive. The supraspinal serotoninergic control of erection at the lumbosacral level therefore appears to be strongly associated with the activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptors, consistent with the proerectile properties of 5-hydroxytryptamine2C agonists.
In bullfrog sympathetic ganglia, the ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ store and mitochondria modulate [Ca2+] within nerve terminals. We used caffeine (10 mM) and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (10 microM) to assess how these Ca2+ stores affect release of a neuropeptide, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, from these nerve terminals. Release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone was evoked by electrical stimulation to presynaptic nerves and was monitored as a late slow excitatory postsynaptic potential in ganglionic neurons. Caffeine increased release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone similarly whether the release was evoked by 4 or 20 Hz stimulations (by 2.7 +/- 1.1- and 3.2 +/- 0.9-fold, mean +/- S.E.M., n = 27, respectively). Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone augmented release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone evoked by 4 Hz stimulation much more strongly (by 11.8 +/- 1.8-fold) than it increased the release evoked by 20 Hz stimulation (by 3.6 +/- 1.3-fold, n = 25). We detected spontaneous release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone as a slow hyperpolarization in response to a brief application of an antagonist to the receptors for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in 65% (34 of 52) and 39% (11 of 28) of the ganglionic B and C neurons, respectively. Caffeine increased spontaneous release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone by 2.3 +/- 0.7-fold (n = 6) whereas carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone increased this release by 4.27- and 1.76-fold (n = 2). Facilitation of Ca2+ release from the intracellular store by caffeine and inhibition of mitochondrial Ca2+ removal by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone increased spontaneous as well as evoked release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. Moreover, caffeine increments of evoked release did not depend on the firing frequency of the nerve whereas carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone augmentations of evoked release strongly depended on the firing frequency.
The neural connections and neurotransmitter content of the suprachiasmatic nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet have been characterized thoroughly in only a few mammalian species, primarily nocturnal rodents. Few data are available about the neural circadian timing system in diurnal mammals, particularly those for which the formal characteristics of circadian rhythms have been investigated. This paper describes the circadian timing system in the diurnal rodent Octodon degus, a species that manifests robust circadian responses to photic and non-photic (social) zeitgebers. Specifically, this report details: (i) the distribution of six neurotransmitters commonly found in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet; (ii) the retinohypothalamic tract; (iii) the geniculohypothalamic tract; and (iv) retinogeniculate projections in O. degus. Using immunocytochemistry, neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, serotonin-immunoreactive and [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers and terminals were detected in and around the suprachiasmatic nucleus; vasopressin-immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the dorsomedial and ventral suprachiasmatic nucleus; vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive cell bodies were located in the ventral suprachiasmatic nucleus; [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive cells were located sparsely throughout the suprachiasmatic nucleus; and substance P-immunoreactive fibers and terminals were detected in the rostral suprachiasmatic nucleus and surrounding the nucleus throughout its rostrocaudal dimension. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive and [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive cells were identified in the intergeniculate leaflet and ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, as were neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive, serotonin-immunoreactive and substance P-immunoreactive fibers and terminals. The retinohypothalamic tract innervated both suprachiasmatic nuclei equally; in contrast, retinal innervation to the lateral geniculate nucleus, including the intergeniculate leaflet, was almost exclusively contralateral. Bilateral electrolytic lesions that destroyed the intergeniculate leaflet depleted the suprachiasmatic nucleus of virtually all neuropeptide Y- and [Met]enkephalin-stained fibers and terminals, whereas unilateral lesions reduced fiber and terminal staining by approximately half. Thus, [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cells project equally and bilaterally from the intergeniculate leaflet to the suprachiasmatic nucleus via the geniculohypothalamic tract in degus. This is the first report examining the neural circadian system in a diurnal rodent for which formal circadian properties have been described. The data indicate that the neural organization of the circadian timing system in degus resembles that of the most commonly studied nocturnal rodents, golden hamsters and rats. Armed with such data, one can ascertain differences in the functional organization of the circadian system between diurnal and nocturnal mammals.
Following unilateral inner ear lesion, astrocytes undergo hypertrophy in the deafferented vestibular and cochlear nuclei as shown by an increase in the level of glial fibrillary acid. The present study extends our understanding of vestibular and cochlear system plasticity by examining microglial changes in these deafferented nuclei. The microglial reaction was studied 1, 2, 4, 8, 14, 21, 28 and 42 days following the lesion with a monoclonal OX-42 antibody and lectins (Griffonia simplicifolia, B4 isolectin) labelled with horseradish peroxidase or fluorescein. The deafferented nuclei were also examined for apoptotic cells by terminal transferase-mediated nick end labelling of nuclear DNA fragments. In control and sham-operated rats, the distribution of the resting microglial cells was uniform in both the vestibular and cochlear nuclei. In the deafferented vestibular complex, the microglial cells increased in number, became hypertrophied and were distributed in the medial, lateral, superior and inferior vestibular nuclei. Reactive microglial cells were also detected in the ipsilateral cochlear nuclei. Some of the immunostained cells were hypertrophic whereas others presented an ameboid morphology with few short and stout processes. The microglial reaction was confined to the antero- and posteroventral cochlear nuclei. Finally, reactive microglia was also observed in the prepositus hypoglossi ipsilateral to the lesion. The microglial reactions within the prepositus hypoglossi, the vestibular and the cochlear nuclei were detectable as early as one day after the lesion and persisted several weeks in both the vestibular and cochlear nuclei. Apoptotic cells were not detected in the vestibular nuclei at any stage following the lesion. In contrast, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated digoxygenin-11-dUTP nick end labelling-positive cells were first detected in the deafferented cochlear nuclei on the 3rd day following the lesion. They reached an apparent maximum by day 8 and then declined until day 24. Double labelling experiments demonstrate that these cochlear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated digoxygenin-11-dUTP nick end labelling-positive cells were also lectin-positive suggesting that reactive cochlear lectin-positive microglia cells were eliminated by a programmed cell death. Our results establish the two experimental models as reliable tools to understand the role of microglia in adult brain plasticity. The cochlear microglial reaction was probably induced by the degeneration of the acoustic nerve which follows the acoustic ganglion destruction. Interestingly, the same reasoning cannot apply to the vestibular microglial reaction following unilateral labyrinthectomy: the vestibular ganglion was spared and the primary vestibular neurons did not degenerate, at least during the first week following the lesion.
In the present study, we found that amyloid-beta peptide enhanced glutamate release from primary cultured rat microglia via the Na+-dependent glutamate transporter, which was activated by extracellular K+. Glutamate transport current was measured by a conventional whole-cell patch recording mode under voltage-clamp conditions. With the pipette solution containing 10 mM glutamate and 100 mM Na+, an increase of the external K+ concentration from 0 to 10 mM evoked an outward current, resulting from co-extrusion of glutamate and Na+. The inward current, reflecting forward glutamate transport, was also activated by external glutamate. Both these reverse and forward glutamate transport currents were three-fold greater in microglia incubated with a relatively low concentration of amyloid-beta peptide (25-35) (5 microM) for four days. The glutamate-activated inward current was blocked by D,L-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate in a dose-dependent manner (ranging from 0.001 to 1 mM), but not by a high concentration of kainate (1 mM). The glutamate concentration released from microglia upon high-K+ stimulation was also significantly increased (up to 170 microM) after treatment with amyloid-beta peptide (25-35). These results suggest that, at the pathological sites where extracellular K+ concentration may increase, the activation of microglia by amyloid-beta peptide causes an increase in extracellular glutamate concentration via reverse glutamate transporter, and therefore this mechanism may contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal dysfunction and death in Alzheimer's disease.
The generation of reactive oxygen species has been implicated in the neurotoxicity of amyloid beta-peptide, the main constituent of the senile plaques that accumulates in the brain of Alzheimer's disease victims. In this study, we have compared the toxicity of amyloid beta-peptide on cultured cortical neurons from control mice and transgenic mice expressing either human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase or human Bcl-2, two proteins that protect cells against oxidative damage. Copper-zinc superoxide dismutase overexpression failed to protect cortical neurons against the toxicity of amyloid beta-peptide(25-35) [the minimal cytotoxic fragment of amyloid beta-peptide(1-42)] as assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction and an enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay using an antibody directed against microtubule-associated protein-2 (a specific neuronal protein), ruling out a role for superoxide anion and peroxynitrite in amyloid beta-peptide-evoked neurotoxicity. On the contrary, cortical neurons expressing human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase exhibited increased apoptotic nuclei in both untreated and amyloid beta-peptide(25-35)-exposed neurons. Transgenic neurons expressing human Bcl-2 were partially protected against amyloid beta-peptide-induced neuronal death. This neuroprotection appears to be related to the complete inhibition of apoptosis induced by both amyloid beta-peptide(25-35) and amyloid beta-peptide(1-42). This study may be relevant for developing neuroprotective gene therapy to inhibit neuronal apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease.
It is well documented that prolonged seizures (status epilepticus) can cause neuronal injury and result in synaptic reorganization in certain brain regions. However, the effect of recurrent, relatively short seizures in young animals on subsequent brain development is not known. To study the consequences of recurrent seizures on the developing brain, we subjected immature rats to a total of 50 flurothyl-induced seizures from postnatal day 11 until day 23. Immunohistochemistry for c-fos was performed to characterize the pattern of neuronal activation following the seizures. Cell counting of dentate granule cells, CA3, CA1, and hilar neurons, using unbiased stereological methods, and the silver impregnation method were used to evaluate neuronal death following the recurrent seizures. Timm and Golgi staining were performed four weeks after the 50th seizure to evaluate the effects of recurrent seizures on synaptic organization. Our results show that recurrent flurothyl-induced seizures progressively increased excitability of the brain, as revealed by a dramatic increase in the extent and intensity of c-fos immunostaining. While no cell loss was detected in the hippocampus with either Cresyl Violet or silver stains, animals experiencing multiple daily seizures developed increased mossy fiber sprouting in both the supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus and the infrapyramidale layer of the CA3 region. Golgi staining confirmed that there was an increase in mossy fibers in the pyramidal cell layer. Our results suggest that serial recurrent seizures in the immature brain can lead to significant changes in mossy fiber distribution even though the seizures do not cause significant hippocampal cell loss.
Activation of a member of the caspase family of cysteine proteases is thought to be required for the execution of apoptosis in neurons and other cell types. We describe here an antibody (Ab127) reactive with a neoantigenic site on caspase substrate proteins degraded during apoptosis, and its characterization as a biochemical and histochemical probe for apoptosis-associated proteolysis in growth factor-deprived neural cells in vitro and the developing postnatal rat brain. Neuronally differentiated PC12 cells became strongly Ab127 immunoreactive only during apoptosis following nerve growth factor withdrawal. Apoptosis-associated caspase proteolysis was detectable on western blots as markedly increased immunoreactivity of a approximately 46,000 mol. wt polypeptide, a product also generated by caspase-3 treatment of cell-free extracts. In the postnatal rat brain, intense immunoreactivity indicative of caspase activation was exhibited by small proportions of neurons and glia in distinct regional and temporal patterns. The degenerating nature of these cells was confirmed by their argyrophilia, cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for c-jun and fragmented processes. Combined immunofluorescence and Hoechst 33342 staining demonstrated that cells immunopositive for caspase activation have apoptotic nuclear morphologies. Caspase proteolysis was observed throughout the neuraxis in a minority of progenitor cells in germinal zones, postmitotic neurons in the parenchyma, and glia in the corpus callosum and other white matter tracts, but was observed rarely in the adult brain. These data characterize a new approach for evaluating apoptosis in physiological and pathological neurodegeneration, and demonstrate that caspase-associated apoptosis is a widespread mechanism for the programmed death of neurons and glia in the postnatal rat brain.
We report temporal profiles of cytoplasmic proteolysis and genomic DNA cleavage after cerebral ischemia of different severity in gerbils. Global forebrain ischemia by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion for 5 min with reperfusion, severe unilateral hemispheric ischemia by unilateral common carotid artery occlusion for 30 min with reperfusion, and complete ischemia by decapitation were used. The hippocampus was examined for proteolysis by using immunohistochemistry for microtubule-associated protein 2, DNA cleavage by using in situ nick-end labelling, and nuclear morphology by Hematoxylin staining. During evolution of delayed neuronal death after transient forebrain ischemia, loss of the immunoreaction for microtubule-associated protein 2 occurred almost in parallel with DNA cleavage in the CA1 region. In contrast, disappearance of the immunoreaction for microtubule-associated protein 2 was much faster than genomic DNA cleavage after unilateral hemispheric ischemia and reperfusion. The microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was completely lost before development of changes in nuclear morphology or DNA cleavage after complete ischemia. The present study demonstrated the differences between necrosis and delayed neuronal death, but the nuclear morphology in the latter was not exactly the same as seen in apoptosis. Some elements of both necrotic and apoptotic machineries may work following transient ischemia, and the degree of ischemic insult may determine the character of cell death process.
The expression of cyclooxygenase-2, a key enzyme in prostaglandin and thromboxane synthesis in inflammation, was studied immunohistochemically in in vivo models of acute and chronic inflammatory responses in rat central nervous system. In the acute inflammatory response to intracranial injection of heat-killed bacillus Calmette-Gurin as well as in the immune-mediated, delayed-type hypersensitivity response to the same pathogen, cyclooxygenase-2 expression was restricted to major infiltrating haematogenous cell populations such as neutrophils and mononuclear phagocytes, while the expression of the enzyme by brain non-neuronal resident cells (astrocytes, microglia, perivascular cells) appeared to be limited to perivascular cells of the blood vessels in the vicinity of the lesion and in the surrounding area. On the basis of their morphology and location, these perivascular cells were identified as perivascular macrophages, but we could not rule out the possibility that some endothelial cells also expressed cyclooxygenase-2. The constitutive neuronal cyclooxygenase-2 was not affected by the ongoing inflammation. Interestingly, in spite of the extensive astrocyte and microglial reaction occurring over a broad area surrounding the inflammatory lesions, there was no obvious cyclooxygenase-2 staining in these cells. These data indicate that the up-regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 expression in acute and chronic, immune-mediated lesions in the brain parenchyma is remarkably restricted to the lesion site. Since cyclooxygenase metabolites can regulate important functions of resident as well as infiltrating cells, the increased synthesis of prostaglandins and thromboxanes, which is likely to occur as a consequence of the expression of cycloxygenase-2 at the lesion site, might represent an important component of the inflammatory processes within the brain.
The labelled steroid hormones [3H]hydrocortisone and [14C]testosterone, being injected into the gray matter of the rat spinal cord L5-L6 segments, were shown to be transported at a high velocity along the ventral (anterograde) and dorsal (retrograde) root fibres. The maximum velocity of axonal transport along the ventral and dorsal roots in adult rats was, on average, 3006 +/- 101 and 3028 +/- 48 mm/day for [3H]hydrocortisone and 4594 +/- 186 and 5185 +/- 485 mm/day for [14C]testosterone, respectively. In old rats, axonal transport of steroid hormones was markedly slower. Its maximum velocity along the ventral and dorsal roots averaged to 756 +/- 64 and 738 +/- 48 mm/day for [3H]hydrocortisone and 624 +/- 54 and 608 +/- 80 mm/day for [14C]testosterone, respectively. In old rats the amount of labelled hydrocortisone incorporated into the ventral root fibres was sharply reduced (by more than an order of the value) as compared to that in adult animals. At the same time, the intensity of the labelled testosterone incorporation into the ventral root fibres did not demonstrate any significant age-related difference. The injection of low doses of steroid hormones (from less than one microgram to a few micrograms) into the lumbar spinal cord resulted in a significant hyperpolarization several hours later first of the gastrocnemius and then of deltoideus muscle fibres. In old rats, such a hyperpolarization occurred much later. It is suggested that axonal transport of steroid hormones is one of the mechanisms responsible for the effects of hormones on the tissues, which undergoes considerable changes with ageing.
Although the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide has been extensively studied in the spinal cord, little is known about the precise subcellular localization of receptors for calcitonin gene-related peptide. The present study was undertaken to localize calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors in both the dorsal and ventral horns of the rat spinal cord. Immunocytochemical localization with specific monoclonal antibodies was performed at the light and electron microscopic levels. Calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor was expressed in neuronal but not glial elements. Discrete postsynaptic localization of receptor for the calcitonin gene-related peptide was evident in the cells and dendrites of the superficial dorsal horn. Some of the terminal endings apposing the stained synapses formed the central terminals of glomerular complexes. The endings were scallop shaped (Type I), typical of primary afferent terminations. Other dorsal horn structures with postsynaptic labeling were contacted by dome-shaped or elongated axonal endings. Presynaptic localization on some dorsal horn terminations may serve an autoreceptor function. Motoneurons, on the other hand, were contacted by axonal terminals with presynaptic calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors. These data suggest that (i) dorsal horn neurons are capable of direct primary afferent, calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor-mediated interactions and (ii) neuronal terminals contacting motor horn cells can be influenced through presynaptic paracrine-like calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor-mediated interactions. Thus, calcitonin gene-related peptide can have multiple modulatory effects on spinal cord neurons through site-specific receptors.
The present study was designed to determine whether neurons within cardiovascular control nuclei of the rat brainstem that become activated following a hypotensive insult also possess the capacity to utilize neuropeptide Y. Adult male Wistar-Kyoto rats were injected with glyceryl trinitrate (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle, and 4 h later anaesthetized (pentobarbitone, 60 mg/kg, i.p.) and transcardially perfused. The brains were removed and processed by standard two-colour peroxidase immunohistochemistry. Activated cells were determined by incubation with a primary antibody to Fos protein, which was followed by a second incubation with a primary antibody to neuropeptide Y for double labelling of Fos-positive cells. Compared to vehicle, glyceryl trinitrate-induced hypotension caused a marked induction of Fos protein in the caudal one-third of the nucleus tractus solitarius (bregma -14 to -13.3 mm), which tailed off rapidly in more rostral sections. Following hypotension, significant populations of activated cells were also observed in the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medulla. In the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius and the posterior part of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius, respectively, 15 of 104 and 40 of 120 Fos-positive cells exhibited cytoplasmic neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity following hypotension, compared to seven of 40 and 15 of 40 in vehicle-treated rats, indicating a significant (two- to three-fold) increase in double-labelled cells following systemic glyceryl trinitrate (P &lt; 0.05, unpaired t-test). In contrast, in the anterior part of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius, the number of double-labelled cells did not change following hypotension. An increase in double-labelled cells was also observed in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (2.5-fold increase compared to vehicle) and caudal ventrolateral medulla (5.8-fold increase compared to vehicle) following hypotension. These data indicate that, in the rat, neuropeptide Y-containing neurons are involved in the central response to a hypotensive challenge. The primary regions where neuropeptide Y-containing neurons appear to be activated are the caudal one-third of the nucleus tractus solitarius and the caudal ventrolateral medulla/rostral ventrolateral medulla, which are key nuclei associated with the integration of the baroreceptor heart rate reflex and sympathetic vasomotor outflow.
Kindling is an animal model of human temporal lobe epilepsy in which excitability in limbic structures is permanently enhanced by repeated stimulations. Kindling also increases the expression of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor messenger RNAs in both the hippocampus and cerebral cortex and causes structural changes in the hippocampus including hilar hypertrophy. We have recently shown that intraventricular nerve growth factor infusion enhances the development of kindling, whereas blocking nerve growth factor activity retards amygdaloid kindling. Furthermore, we have shown that nerve growth factor protects against kindling-induced hilar hypertrophy. The physiological role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in kindling is not as clear. Acute injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases neuronal excitability and causes seizures, whereas chronic brain-derived neurotrophic factor infusion in rats slows hippocampal kindling. In agreement with the latter, we show here that intrahilar brain-derived neurotrophic factor infusion delays amygdala and perforant path kindling. In addition, we show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, unlike nerve growth factor, does not protect against kindling-induced increases in hilar area. To test the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor suppresses kindling by increasing inhibition above normal levels, we performed paired-pulse measures in the perforant path-dentate gyrus pathway. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor infused into the hippocampus had no effect on the stimulus intensity function (input/output curves); there was also no significant effect on paired-pulse inhibition. We then kindled the perforant path 10 days after the end of brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment. Once again, kindling was retarded, showing that the brain-derived neurotrophic factor effect is long-lasting. These results indicate that prolonged in vivo infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor reduces, rather than increases, excitability without increasing inhibitory neuron function, at least as assessed by paired-pulse protocols. This effect may be mediated by long-lasting effects on brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor regulation.
The effects of the mu-receptor agonist fentanyl on extracellular levels of dopamine in rat nucleus accumbens were studied in awake animals by in vivo brain microdialysis. Fentanyl dose-dependently increased the levels of dopamine when given intravenously (microg/kg) or via a microdialysis probe placed into the ventral tegmental area or the nucleus accumbens (nmol). The effect of fentanyl given into the nucleus accumbens was blocked by systemic administration of the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone and by accumbens administration of D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Om-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH2 (nmol), a mu-opioid receptor antagonist, and naltrindole (nmol), a non-selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist, in a dose-dependent manner. The delta2-opioid receptor antagonist, naltriben (nmol), also blocked the effects of fentanyl, whereas the delta1-opioid receptor antagonist, (E)-7-benzylidenenaltrexone (nmol), was ineffective. When marginally effective doses of D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH2 and naltriben were given simultaneously, the effect of fentanyl was nearly fully blocked; the pretreatment itself had no effect. Administration of the mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (nmol), the delta1-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen2,5]-enkephalin (nmol) or the delta2-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin (nmol) into the nucleus accumbens enhanced the amount of accumbal dopamine. This study provides evidence that not only activation of delta1- and delta2-opioid receptors, but also activation of mu-opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens increases the release of accumbal dopamine in freely moving rats. We suggest that the effect of intra-accumbens administration of fentanyl upon accumbal release of dopamine is either due to the simultaneous activation of mu-opioid receptors and delta2-opioid receptors or due to activation of mu-opioid receptors that interact with delta2-opioid receptors in a complex manner.
The present study investigated the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the dorsal striatum on a five choice serial reaction time task which assesses visual sustained and divided attention. Striatal dopamine loss by itself produced no deficits in accuracy on the standard form of the task, but lengthened response latencies and increased omissions and perseverative behaviour. Reducing the temporal predictability of the visual event led to impaired accuracy, contrasting with previously published effects of ventral striatal dopamine depletion. To further investigate the interactions between dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems within the basal ganglia, we have tested the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions in animals bearing subthalamic nucleus lesions. Previous evidence [C. Baunez and T. W. Robbins, (1997) Eur. J. Neurosci. 9, 2086-2099] has revealed multiple deficits after bilateral lesions of the subthalamic nucleus. The present study replicated these effects. In combination with subthalamic nucleus lesions, striatal dopamine loss antagonised the increase in premature responding but did not counteract any of the other impairments. These results show the involvement of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in motor attention and arousal. Furthermore, they underline the independence of subthalamic nucleus lesion-induced effects from dopaminergic systems.
Corticospinal neurons were identified in primary cultures of cortical neurons established from rats that had been injected with a fluorescent tracer to retrogradely label the corticospinal tract. We measured neurite outgrowth from corticospinal neurons after they had been co-cultured with astrocytes derived from either the cerebral cortex (homotopic region) or spinal cord (target region) of postnatal rats. The axon length of corticospinal neurons was increased when they were cultured on astroglial monolayers compared to a control monolayer (fibroblasts). However, no difference in axon length was noted on cortical versus spinal cord-derived astrocytes. On the other hand, total dendritic length was increased on cortical compared to spinal cord astrocytes. This increase in total dendrite length was not the result of differences in the length of primary dendrites, but primarily of a higher number of dendrites and increased branching on the cortical astroglia. If the corticospinal neurons were co-cultured without physical contact with the astrocytes, axonal and dendritic outgrowth were not stimulated when compared to the fibroblast control. The data indicate that dendritic growth from corticospinal neurons is preferentially promoted by astrocytes from the cerebral cortex, whereas axonal growth is not influenced by the anatomical origin of the astrocytes. The impact of these findings on our understanding of the role of astrocytes in the development and regeneration of the corticospinal tract is discussed.
Cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from newborn rats were mechanically deformed with a fine-tipped glass capillary, and the change in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was recorded by Fura-2-based microfluorimetry. The deformation evoked elevation in [Ca2+]i from 18.7 +/- 5.4 nM (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 35) to 137.1 +/- 15.2 nM in some subpopulations of cells, especially those larger than 20 microm in diameter. The largest mechanosensitive cell group was that of cells 20-25 microm in diameter; 56% of the mechanosensitive cells were of this cell size. All of the cells larger than 25 microm in diameter displayed the Ca2+ increase when prodded. The depletion of extracellular Ca2+ diminished the Ca2+ elevation. Verapamil and nickel, blockers of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, did not influence the Ca2+ response, whereas gadolinium, a relatively selective blocker of mechanosensitive channels, diminished the response. Na+-free conditions did not influence the response. We concluded that the mechanical stimulation induced a Ca2+ influx in large dorsal root ganglion neurons through mechanosensitive Ca2+-permeable channels.
The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate and noradrenaline on intracellular Ca2+ concentration in slices of rat visual cortex were studied using a fluorescent indicator, Fura-2. Bath application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1-100 microM) increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration in a dose-dependent manner, especially in layers II/III. Noradrenaline (1-100 microM) also increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration in a dose-dependent manner, especially in layers I and IV. However, the maximum increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration after 100 microM noradrenaline application was less than half of that after 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate application in slices obtained from animals in the sensitive period. The effect of noradrenaline was most prominent in slices of the sensitive period, whereas the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced intracellular Ca2+ concentration response decreased with age. Additive effects from application of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and noradrenaline on intracellular Ca2+ concentration were found only in the neonatal stage. Pharmacological experiments showed that alpha1-adrenergic receptors play a major role in the noradrenaline-induced intracellular Ca2+ concentration response, although both alpha2- and beta-adrenergic receptors were also partially involved. The release of Ca2+ from intracellular storage underlay the early phase of the noradrenaline-induced intracellular Ca2+ concentration response, while extracellular Ca2+ influxes contributed to the sustained phase. Experiments using a gliotoxin, fluorocitric acid, suggested that the function of glial cells is involved in the noradrenaline-induced increase of intracellular Ca2+ concentration. The larger intracellular Ca2+ concentration response to noradrenaline during the sensitive period may modulate the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration by N-methyl-D-aspartate to maintain a higher level of cortical plasticity during this period.
Gel retardation electrophoresis revealed that cytosolic fractions contained DNA binding activity of the transcription factor activator protein-1 with profiles different from those reported in nuclear extracts in murine brain. In particular, activator protein-1 DNA binding was almost undetectable at 25 degrees C in the presence of both KCl and MgCl2 in cytosol fractions. Moreover, cytoplasmic activator protein-1 binding occurred at three different mobilities on the gel when determined at 2 degrees C in the absence of MgCl2. Systemic administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate led to marked potentiation of cytoplasmic activator protein-1 binding detected as slow bands in the murine hippocampus, without markedly affecting that as a fast band. Immunoblotting and supershift assays revealed much higher expression of both immunoreactive c-Jun and c-Fos in hippocampal cytosolic fractions in response to the administration of kainate than N-methyl-D-aspartate. These results suggest that activator protein-1 may be constitutively expressed in the cytoplasm with DNA binding activity and responsiveness to ionotropic glutamate signals in a manner different from that in the nucleus in the murine hippocampus.
We examined the effects of repeated subcutaneous injections of an acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment analog, [Ala16] acidic fibroblast growth factor (1-29), on learning and memory and on the choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity of forebrain neurons in senescence-accelerated mice. One group of accelerated senescence-prone mice (accelerated senescence-prone-8) received [Ala16] acidic fibroblast growth factor (1-29), whereas the other group of accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice and a group of accelerated senescence-resistant mice (control) received vehicle solution. Injections began at three weeks after birth and were given weekly for 10 months. In a passive avoidance test, the mean retention latency at three, six and nine months of age was significantly longer in controls (vehicle-treated accelerated senescence-resistant-1) and acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 than in vehicle-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice, and the latency in acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice was significantly shorter than that in controls only at nine months of age. In the Morris water maze task, the mean latency to climb onto the platform was significantly longer in acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment- and vehicle-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice than in controls. However, the mean latency in the third and fourth trial blocks was significantly shorter for acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 than for vehicle-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice. In the probe trials, controls and acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice spent significantly more time in the quadrant in which the platform had previously been located than in the other three quadrants. In acidic fibroblast growth factor fragment-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice, the density of medial septum neurons intensely stained for choline acetyltransferase was significantly greater than that in vehicle-treated accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice, but significantly less than that in controls. The results indicate that the beneficial effect of [Ala16] acidic fibroblast growth factor (1-29) on learning and memory function in accelerated senescence-prone-8 mice may be related to a preservation of function in medial septum cholinergic neurons.
Impairments in cholinergic neurotransmitter systems of the basal forebrain are a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. The presence of the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E was recently implicated as a major risk factor in both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease. The present study examined the integrity of cholinergic and non-cholinergic systems in apolipoprotein E-deficient, memory-impaired mice. Choline acetyltransferase activity, hippocampal acetylcholine release, nicotinic and muscarinic (M1 and M2) receptor binding sites and acetylcholinesterase cell or terminal density showed no signs of alteration in either three-month or 9.5-month-old apolipoprotein E-deficient mice compared to controls. In contrast, long-term potentiation was found to be markedly reduced in these mice, but increases in the strength of stimulation induced the same level of long-term potentiation as that observed in controls. These alterations did not appear to be the consequence of modifications in the binding properties of glutamatergic receptors (N-methyl-D-aspartate and [RS]-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid) but from defective regulation of the (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid receptor by phospholipase A2 activity. These results support the notion that apolipoprotein E plays a fundamental role in neuronal plasticity, which could in turn affect cognitive performance through imbalances in extra- and intracellular lipid homeostasis.
We investigated mechanisms involved in the modulation of long-term potentiation by low concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. When applied for 5 min prior to and during tetanic stimulation, 1 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate inhibited long-term potentiation induction. Studies examining paired-pulse facilitation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses suggest that the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate result in part from a presynaptic mechanism. This conclusion is supported by the observation that 1 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate failed to diminish N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic currents and that agents that enhance glutamate release, including high extracellular concentrations of calcium and an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, overcome the long-term potentiation inhibition. Furthermore, the calcineurin inhibitors, FK-506 and cyclosporin A, as well as the phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitor, okadaic acid, blocked the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate on long-term potentiation suggesting a role for phosphatase activation in modulating the induction of long-term potentiation. These results show that the inhibition of long-term potentiation by untimely N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation is reversed by treatments that enhance glutamate release and suggest that adenosine release and diminished calcium influx during tetanic stimulation coupled with phosphatase activation contribute to the modulation of synaptic plasticity.
The physiological and morphological properties of interneurons in infragranular layers of rat visual cortex have been studied in organotypic cortex monocultures and thalamus-cortex co-cultures using intracellular recordings and biocytin injections. Cultures were prepared at the day of birth and maintained for up to 20 weeks. Twenty-nine interneurons of different types were characterized, in addition to 170 pyramidal neurons. The cultures developed a considerable degree of synaptically driven &quot;spontaneous&quot; bioelectric activity without epileptiform activity. Interneurons in cortex monocultures and thalamus-cortex co-cultures had the same physiological and morphological properties, and also pyramidal cell properties were not different in the two culture conditions. All interneurons and the majority of pyramidal cells displayed synaptically driven action potentials. The physiological group of fast-spiking interneurons included large basket cells, columnar basket cells (two cells with an arcade axon) and horizontally bitufted cells. The physiological group of slow-spiking interneurons included Martinotti cells and a &quot;long-axon&quot; cell. Analyses of the temporal patterns of activity revealed that fast-spiking interneurons have higher rates of spontaneous activity than slow-spiking interneurons and pyramidal cells. Furthermore, fast-spiking interneurons fired spontaneous bursts of action potentials in the gamma frequency range. We conclude from these findings that physiological and morphological properties of interneurons in organotypic mono- and co-cultures match those of interneurons characterized in vivo or in acute slice preparations, and they maintain in long-term cultures a well-balanced state of excitation and inhibition. This suggests that cortex-intrinsic or cell-autonomous mechanisms are sufficient for the expression of cell type-specific electrophysiological properties in the absence of afferents or sensory input.
The excitation of densely packed mammalian central neurons is followed by a substantial transitory elevation of external K+ concentration. This phenomenon may have a different functional significance depending on how the resting membrane conductance mechanisms react to the changes in the gradient of these ions. We have found that in the hippocampal and cortex neurons of rat a large fraction of the membrane conductance in the vicinity of the resting potential is provided by the K+ permeability mechanism which is gated by external K+ and Na+. The responses of acutely isolated pyramidal neurons to rapidly altered external [K+] were investigated using the whole-cell patch clamp and concentration clamp techniques. Elevation of [K+]out induced a biphasic inward current at membrane potentials more negative than the reversal potential for K+ ions. This current consisted of an &quot;instantaneously&quot; increased leakage component and a slowly activated current (tau = 48 ms at 21 degrees C) designated below as I(deltaK). The latter demonstrated a first order activation kinetics with a remarkably high Q10 = 7.31. I(deltaK) was absent in the peripheral sensory neurons as well as in the Purkinje neurons. Slow activation of I(deltaK) was critically dependent on [Na+]out: substitution of the extracellular Na+ with choline chloride or Li+ led to the &quot;instantaneous&quot; reaction of the membrane to the changes in [K+]out. By slowing down potassium influx, I(deltaK) may be of importance in preserving densely packed pyramidal neurons from immediate excitation following rapid increases in [K+]out.
Miniature, spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents were studied using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique on synaptically connected cultured hippocampal neurons, at a holding potential of -75 mV. All experiments were done in tetrodotoxin-containing solution to exclude an action potential generation. Spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were observed in Ca2+-free solution. The distribution of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was skewed to larger current amplitudes and could be fitted reliably by one Gaussian with the mean at 10.0 +/- 1.2 pA (n = 7). Spontaneously occurring whole-cell spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents were recorded in physiological solution (Ca2+ 2 mM). The average amplitude of spontaneously occurring currents depended on membrane potential and reversed at -18 +/- 5 mV (n = 5). The amplitude distribution of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents had one peak clearly detectable with the mean of 20.0 +/- 2.0 pA (n = 6) or 10.0 +/- 2.0 pA (n = 2). Inhibitory postsynaptic stimulus-evoked currents arose in responses to gradual activation of neurotransmitter release by direct extracellular electrical stimulation of a single presynaptic bouton by short depolarizing pulses. The current-voltage relation of the averaged amplitudes of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents was linear and reversed at potential predicted by the Nernst equation for corresponding intra- and extracellular Cl- concentrations. The time-course of decay of miniature, spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents was fitted by a sum of two exponents and their time-constants were the same in the range of standard deviation. The stimulus-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents fluctuated with regard to the discrete aliquot values of their peak amplitudes in all the investigated synapses from a measurable minimum of about 8 pA to 200 pA. The evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents were assumed as superimposition of statistically independent quantal events. Fitting amplitude histograms of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents with several Gaussian curves resulted in peaks that were equidistant with the mean space of 20 +/- 3 pA (n = 10), which was assumed as one quantum (quantum size) to construct the Poisson's distribution. A possibility of simultaneous multiquantal release at single inhibitory synapses of rat hippocampal neurons was discussed.
Dual intracellular recordings in slices of adult rat neocortex and hippocampus investigated slow, putative GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In most pairs tested in which the interneuron elicited a fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential in the pyramid, this GABA(A) receptor mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential was entirely blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin (3:3 in neocortex, 6:8 in CA1, all CA1 basket cells), even when high-frequency presynaptic spike trains were elicited. However, in three of 85 neocortical paired recordings involving an interneuron, although no discernible response was elicited by single presynaptic interneuronal spikes, a long latency (&gt; or =20 ms) inhibitory postsynaptic potential was elicited by a train of &gt; or =3 spikes at frequencies &gt; or =50-100 Hz. This slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was insensitive to bicuculline (one pair tested). In neocortex, slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential duration reached a maximum of 200 ms even with prolonged presynaptic spike trains. In contrast, summing fast, GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, elicited by spike trains, lasted as long as the train. Between four and 10 presynaptic spikes, mean peak slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude increased sharply to 0.38, 2.6 and 2.9 mV, respectively, in the three neocortical pairs (membrane potential -60 to -65 mV). Thereafter increases in spike number had little additional effect on amplitude. In two of eight pairs in CA1, one involving a presynaptic basket cell and the other a putative bistratified interneuron, the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential was blocked by bicuculline revealing a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential that was greatly reduced by 100 microM CGP 35348 (basket cell pair). The sensitivity of this slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential to spike number was similar to that of neocortical 'pure' slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, but was of longer duration, its plateau phase outlasting 200 ms spike trains and its maximum duration exceeding 400 ms. Computational models of GABA release, diffusion and uptake suggested that extracellular accumulation of GABA cannot alone account for the non-linear relationship between spike number and inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude. However, cooperativity in the kinetics of GABA(B) transduction mechanisms provided non-linear relations similar to experimental data. Different kinetic models were considered for how G-proteins activate K+ channels, including allosteric models. For all models, the best fit to experimental data was obtained with four G-protein binding sites on the K+ channels, consistent with a tetrameric structure for the K+ channels associated with GABA(B) receptors. Thus some inhibitory connections in neocortex and hippocampus appear mediated solely by fast GABA(A) receptors, while others appear mediated solely by slow, non-ionotropic, possibly GABA(B) receptors. In addition, some inhibitory postsynaptic potentials arising in proximal portions of CA1 pyramidal cells are mediated by both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. Our data indicate that the GABA released by a single interneuron can saturate the GABA(B) receptor mechanism(s) accessible to it and that 'spillover' to extrasynaptic sites need not necessarily be proposed to explain these slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential properties.
The immunohistochemical distribution and subcellular localization of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor was determined in the adult monkey using a polyclonal antiserum raised against the amino terminus of the rat CB1 receptor. At the level of light microscopy, our results generally parallel earlier studies investigating CB1 distribution in rodent brain with a few differences. In particular, high levels of receptor were found in the cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, cerebellum. However significant differences were also noted. The most striking differences were high levels of CB1 receptor in the monkey substantia nigra pars compacta, cerebellar Purkinje cells, and the principal cells of the hippocampus, while few receptors were found in the globus pallidus or substantia nigra pars reticulata. In contrast, in a previous study investigating the rat, using the same antibody, the opposite staining pattern was observed. At the electron microscopic level CB1 receptor was restricted to neurons. Here it was found both pre- and postsynaptically, particularly on dendritic spines and axon terminals. The CB1 receptor is widely distributed in higher brain regions in the monkey. While its distribution is similar to that in the rat, there are major differences, some of which may be significant when extrapolating the behavioral effects of cannabinoids observed in rodents to primates (e.g., humans). The ultrastructural localization of the CB1 receptor suggests that it modulates neuronal excitability by both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms.
Cannabinoids modulate nociceptive processing through central and peripheral mechanisms. The present study was conducted to evaluate axonal flow of cannabinoid receptors from the dorsal root ganglion to the periphery and to identify the putative involvement of CB1 and/or CB2 receptor subtypes. The sciatic nerve was tightly ligated to dam the flow of cannabinoid receptors to the periphery. The densities of cannabinoid receptors proximal and distal to one or two tightly constrictive ligatures was evaluated using in vitro receptor binding and high-resolution emulsion autoradiography. In both models, [3H]CP55,940 binding accumulated proximal as opposed to distal to the ligature. These data indicate that axonal transport of cannabinoid receptors to the periphery was occluded by tight constriction of the sciatic nerve. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that dorsal root ganglia cells synthesize CB1 but not CB2 receptor messenger RNA. By contrast, CB2 messenger RNA was highly expressed in sections of rat spleen that were processed together with the dorsal root ganglia, as previously described. These data demonstrate that neuronal cannabinoid CB1 receptors are synthesized in cells of the dorsal root ganglia and inserted on terminals in the periphery.
There is evidence to suggest that the olfactory and circadian systems are linked, functionally, and that olfactory stimuli can modulate circadian rhythms in mammals. Furthermore, olfactory bulb removal can alter free-running rhythms in animals housed in constant darkness and can attenuate the effect of social stimuli on photic entrainment of circadian rhythms. The mechanisms through which olfactory stimuli influence circadian rhythms are not known. One possibility is that olfactory stimuli influence circadian rhythms by modulating the activity of the circadian clock located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus. To study this, we assessed the effect of olfactory stimulation on free-running rhythms and on photic resetting of the circadian clock in rats using phase shifts in wheel-running rhythms and expression of the transcription factor Fos in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. We found that brief exposure to an olfactory stimulus, cedar wood essence, in the subjective day or subjective night had no effect on either free-running rhythms or Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but that when presented in combination with light, the odor dramatically enhanced light-induced phase shifts and Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Olfactory stimulation alone induced Fos expression in several structures that innervate the suprachiasmatic nucleus, pointing to ways by which stimulus information transmitted in the olfactory pathways could gain access to the suprachiasmatic nucleus to modulate photic resetting. These findings, showing that clock resetting by light can be facilitated by olfactory stimulation, point to a mechanism by which olfactory cues can modulate entrainment of circadian rhythms.
Low-voltage activated Ca2+ channels, which possess unique properties quite different from those of common (high-voltage activated) channels, were discovered 15 years ago but the first alpha1 subunit has only recently been identified which might provide their structural basis. However, simultaneously, extensive data are being accumulated on the functional diversity of low-voltage activated Ca2+ currents with regard to their pharmacological sensitivity, ionic selectivity, activation and inactivation kinetics. Such diversity corresponds to equally prominent heterogeneity in the location and function of the channels. This commentary summarizes the data available in an attempt to predict a possibly wider structural subdivision of low-voltage activated Ca2+ channels into subtypes.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute changes due to cerebral contusion in the large vessels and microvasculature in the rat. Thirty adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent craniectomy performed in the left parietal region, producing a burr hole approximately 8-12 mm in diameter. The dura was left intact and a solid glass rod with a base diameter of 6 mm and weighing 5.2 g was dropped on the brain. Silicone rubber perfusion was performed at 24 h (10 rats) and 48 h (10 rats). Ten rats served as normal controls. The perfused brains were cleared using the alcohol-methylsalicylate technique. The results showed that the arterial and venous systems were clearly visualized by silicone rubber microangiography in the normal rat. Silicone rubber microangiography provided an excellent three-dimensional method for defining the distribution of the vasculature of the normal and contusioned rat brain, and was helpful in elucidating the pathophysiology of post-traumatic ischemia and hemorrhages of the brain. The brain displayed marked ischemia and hemorrhage at the contusion site. The hemorrhages were distributed throughout regions of white and gray matter at the injury site. All contusioned animals of those superficial arteries were irregularly filled or unfilled. The present study suggests that the pathogenesis of the post-traumatic brain may be related to damage of the superficial arteries and their arterial branches. Comparison of the brains from animals killed at 24 and 48 h following contusion revealed that the contusion was more severe 24 h after the vascular damage than after 48 h. Therefore, in the brains that were killed at 48 h, the contusion site was less avascular than those at the earlier times.
The immunohistochemical localization of alpha1A, alpha1B, alpha1C, alpha1D and alpha1E voltage-gated calcium channel subunits was investigated in the chinchilla cristae ampullaris and Scarpa's ganglia at the light and electron microscopy level with the use of specific antipeptide antibodies directed against these subunits. The stereocilia membrane of type I and type II hair cells was immunoreactive for alpha1B along its entire length. The basolateral membrane of both types of hair cells was alpha1B, alpha1C and alpha1D immunoreactive. Neurons in the Scarpa's ganglia and afferent nerve terminals in the cristae were immunoreactive for alpha1C and alpha1B. No specific immunoreactivity to alpha1A or alpha1E was seen in the sensory epithelia or ganglia. These findings are consistent with the presence of alpha1B (N-type channel), alpha1C and alpha1D (L-type channels) in the vestibular hair cells, and alpha1B (N-type channel) and alpha1C (L-type channel) in primary vestibular neurons.
The proteins munc18-1 and DOC2 are assumed to play a role in docking of synaptic vesicles in neurotransmitter exocytosis at the presynaptic junction. As the proteins are known to interact, they should co-exist within neurons. We have tested this hypothesis for exocytosis of both classical and peptidergic messengers, by investigating the distribution of the messenger RNAs of munc 18-1 and DOC2 homologues in the brain and pituitary gland of the clawed toad Xenopus laevis, using in situ hybridization. For this purpose we cloned a partial complementary DNA encoding Xenopus unc18 (xunc18) and used a corresponding RNA probe, together with an RNA probe for Xenopus DOC2. At the messenger RNA level DOC2 and xunc18 were found to be expressed throughout the Xenopus brain. All brain nuclei expressing DOC2-messenger RNA showed xunc18-messenger RNA expression as well. Co-expression was shown at the individual cell level in consecutive sections of large-sized neurons. A strong expression was demonstrated in the suprachiasmatic and magnocellular nuclei and in peptidergic endocrine cells in the intermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary gland, suggesting roles of DOC2 and xunc18 in messenger release from peptidergic secretory systems. Combined in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical analyses show that neuropeptide Y-containing cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus also express DOC2 and xunc18 messenger RNAs. Since these cells have a high secretory activity, controlling the activity of the pituitary pars intermedia, the levels of expression of DOC2 and xunc18 may be indicators for neuronal secretory activity. The present data represent the first evidence for the co-existence of DOC2 and munc18-1 and suggest co-ordinate action of these proteins at the level of brain nuclei, individual neurons and endocrine cells.
Simultaneous intracellular microelectrode recording and Fura-2 imaging was used to investigate the relationship between intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) and excitability of tonic S neurons in intact myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum. S neurons were impaled in myenteric ganglia, at locations near connections with internodal strands. The calcium indicator Fura-2 was loaded via the recording microelectrode. The estimated [Ca2+]i of these neurons was approximately 95 nM (n = 25). Intracellular current injection (200 ms pulses, 0.2 nA, delivered at 0.05 Hz) resulted in action potential firing throughout the stimulus pulse, accompanied by transient increases in [Ca2+]i (to approximately 240 nM, n = 12). Increasing the number of evoked action potentials by increasing stimulus duration (100-500 ms) or intensity (0.05-0.3 nA) produced correspondingly larger [Ca2+]i transients. Single action potentials rarely produced resolvable [Ca2+]i events, while short bursts of action potentials (three to five events) invariably produced resolvable [Ca2+]i increases. Some neurons demonstrated spontaneous action potential firing, which was accompanied by sustained [Ca2+]i increases. Action potential firing and [Ca2+]i increases were also observed by activation of slow synaptic input to these neurons, in cases where the slow depolarization initiated action potential firing. Action potentials (evoked or spontaneous) and associated [Ca2+]i transients were abolished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). Omega-conotoxin GVIA (100 nM) reduced [Ca2+]i transients by approximately 67%, suggesting that calcium influx through N-type calcium channels contributes to evoked [Ca2+]i increases. The S neurons in this study showed prominent afterhyperpolarizations following bursts of action potential firing. The time-course of afterhyperpolarizations was correlated with the time-course of evoked [Ca2+]i transients. Afterhyperpolarizations were blocked by tetrodotoxin and reduced by omega-conotoxin GVIA, suggesting that calcium influx through N-type channels contributes to these events. The electrical properties of Fura-2-loaded neurons were not significantly different from properties of neurons recorded without Fura-2 injection, suggesting that Fura-2 injection alone does not significantly influence the electrical properties of these cells. These data indicate that myenteric S neurons in situ show prominent, activity-dependent increases in [Ca2+]i. These events can be generated spontaneously, or be evoked by intracellular current injection or synaptic activation. [Ca2+]i transients in these neurons appear to involve action potential-dependent opening of N-type calcium channels, and the elevation in [Ca2+]i increase may underlie afterhyperpolarizations and regulate excitability of these enteric neurons.
Recent data suggest that interleukin-1-induced enhancement of non-rapid eye movement sleep is mediated, in part, by the serotonergic system. To determine if sleep changes induced by interleukin-1 are mediated by a specific serotonergic receptor subtype, we evaluated interleukin-1 effects on sleep in rats pretreated with the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-2 receptor antagonist ritanserin. Ritanserin (0.63 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) by itself did not alter sleep-wake behavior, although it did reduce cortical brain temperature. Interleukin-1 (5 ng, intracerebroventricularly) enhanced non-rapid eye movement sleep, suppressed rapid eye movement sleep, and induced a moderate febrile response. Pretreatment with ritanserin completely blocked the febrile response to interleukin-1 and abolished the interleukin-1-induced enhancement in non-rapid eye movement sleep that occurred during postinjection hours 3-4, without altering interleukin-1 effects on rapid eye movement sleep. The present data suggest that serotonin may partially mediate interleukin-1 effects on sleep by interacting with 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-2 receptors. These results also suggest that interactions between the serotonergic system and interleukin-1 may be important in regulating sleep-wake behavior.
Rxt1, a member of the Na+/Cl- orphan transporter family, exhibits numerous features suggesting a role as plasma membrane transporter. Despite numerous attempts, its substrate has not yet been identified, although immunocytochemical studies have shown that Rxt1 distribution generally matches that of glutamate or GABA. In order to further characterize Rxt1, its detailed immunocytochemical distribution in the rat spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia was studied at both light microscope and ultrastructural levels. The widespread distribution of Rxt1 in spinal cord and ganglia cannot be correlated with any known classical or peptidergic transmitter. Rxt1 is expressed in a subpopulation of glutamatergic primary afferent fibers, in large and medium-sized ganglion cells, while small glutamate cells exhibit generally no Rxt1-like immunoreactivity. In the spinal cord, Rxt1-immunoreactive cell body distribution is quite ubiquitous since Rxt1 is expressed in all laminae in various neuronal types like interneurons, some projection neurons and motoneurons. Some of these neurons are cholinergic. At the electron microscope level, the peroxidase labeling was never localized to the plasma membrane, but rather associated with different organelles including the outer membrane of small synaptic vesicles and large granular vesicles. This localization resembles that of vesicular transporters detected with the same method and suggests that Rxt1, in contrast to other Na+/Cl- transporters, is expressed on vesicles. This was confirmed using a pre-embedding silver-intensified colloidal gold method. Indeed, most gold particles appeared to be localized into the axoplasm on synaptic vesicle accumulations; only few gold particles were observed close to the plasma membrane. These results suggest that Rxt1, despite its molecular characteristics predicting a plasma membrane localization, might be a vesicular transporter.
Throughout rat embryogenesis we analysed the expression patterns of the three mature transcripts generated from the two calcitonin gene-related peptide genes: calcitonin, alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide, and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs. In addition, we examined in parallel the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide and calcitonin immunoreactivity. Of the three transcripts, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was first detected in sensory ganglia on embryonic day 14, and by embryonic day 15 was seen to a lesser degree in motor neurons and autonomic ganglia. Starting at embryonic day 16, however, the highest levels of beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA were found in motor neurons rather than sensory ganglia. Alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was first detected on embryonic day 16 in both sensory ganglia and motor neurons, but at lower levels than beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide, particularly in the motor neurons of the spinal cord. By embryonic day 20, transcripts for alpha- and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide were expressed in distinct brain regions. High levels of alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA were detected in hypoglossal, facial, and parabrachial nuclei, and moderate levels in the trigeminal motor and ambiguus nuclei. By contrast, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was detected at low levels in hypoglossal, ambiguus, facial, and parabrachial nuclei, and at high levels in the trigeminal nucleus. In the oculomotor-trochlear nucleus, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was the sole isotype expressed. Low levels of messenger RNA for both calcitonin gene-related peptide transcripts were appreciated in the inferior olive. Outside the nervous system, alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was weakly expressed in the thyroid gland and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in the thymus. Throughout embryogenesis, calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity usually followed the expression of either alpha- or beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA. Calcitonin messenger RNA and protein were detected only in the thyroid gland from embryonic day 18 onward. This work shows that of the three mature transcripts produced by the two calcitonin gene-related peptide genes, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA is the predominant transcript produced early in rat embryogenesis. However, by perinatal stages alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide shows the highest expression in the brain and spinal cord. In autonomic ganglia, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide is either the sole or the predominant transcript. Unlike the chick embryo in which calcitonin messenger RNA is expressed early in the CNS, in rat it was only expressed outside the nervous system in the thyroid gland during the last days of embryogenesis.
There is little information about neurotrophic regulation in the developing rat hypothalamus. In the present study, we therefore examined the expression of neurotrophin receptor TrkC in the developing forebrain and hypothalamus. In situ hybridization of coronal sections revealed that on the 15th day of gestation, trkC messenger RNA expression is homogeneously distributed over the neocortex, septum, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, rhinencephalon and the amygdala. Exceptions were the anteroventral nucleus of the hypothalamus and the striatum, which showed higher levels of trkC messenger RNA expression, and the germinal zones which were devoid of trkC messenger RNA. After birth, the homogeneous staining pattern changes into a heterogeneous staining pattern like that found in adulthood. TrkC expression is observed in the area of the suprachiasmatic nucleus as early as E17 and continues until adulthood. The presence of the TrkC receptor in the E17 suprachiasmatic nucleus suggests that neurotrophin-3 plays a role in development of this structure and that application of neurotrophin-3 could stimulate neuronal survival and neuritic outgrowth in a suprachiasmatic nucleus transplantation model.
The present study was conducted to elucidate the long-term effects of exposure to hypoxia of dopaminergic neurons during the early developmental period. Primary mesencephalic cell cultures prepared from fetal rats and containing 0.5-2% of dopaminergic neurons were exposed to hypoxia between in vitro days 1 and 6, the putative critical developmental period. Changes in the content, release and uptake of dopamine were found to depend on the degree of hypoxia and on the duration of exposure. Following moderate hypoxia (7 h, 5% O2) on two consecutive days between in vitro days 1 and 3, the cultures showed a small increase in the dopamine levels, by 16%. After severe hypoxia (0% O2/95% N2 for 24 h), during the same time window, the cellular dopamine content was elevated by 100%. Moreover, severe hypoxia produced long-lasting modulations of the dopaminergic system. On in vitro day 14, cells exhibited increased levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid (by 34% and 55%, respectively), and elevations of both the spontaneous and potassium-stimulated dopamine release by 70%. The dopamine transport and metabolism of cells exposed to hypoxia between in vitro days 4 and 6 remained unchanged with regard to long-term effects. The present study provides strong evidence for the induction of long-term changes in dopaminergic cells due to hypoxia during the critical developmental period in mesencephalic culture. The developmental period capable of inducing long-lasting changes in dopamine metabolism is restricted to in vitro days 1-3.
To study the efficacy of methylprednisolone/vitamin E in reducing cerebral edema and improving the ultimate neuropathological outcome in perinatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia, 40 seven-day postnatal rats were subjected to right common carotid artery ligation followed by exposure to 8% oxygen at 37 degrees C for 3 h. The animals were divided into groups. Twenty rat pups received an intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg/kg body weight methylprednisolone and vitamin E (100 U/kg) immediately following cerebral hypoxia-ischemia. Control animals received either no therapy (n = 10) or an equivalent volume of normal saline (n = 10). After 72 h of recovery from hypoxia-ischemia, the animals were killed and their brains were examined to measure the water contents in the right and left hemispheres (29 rat pups), whereas the others were killed at 21 days for neuropathological examination. Methylprednisolone/vitamin E-treated rats had significantly less water content in the right hemisphere (87.08 +/- 0.28%, mean +/- S.E.M.) than saline-treated animals (89.07 +/- 0.37%, mean +/- S.E.M., P &lt; 0.0001). Methylprednisolone/vitamin E significantly reduced water content in the right hemisphere of the brain. Neuropathological study was performed on nine rat pups. The brains of four methylprednisolone/vitamin E- and five saline-treated pups were examined at the end of the 21-day recovery period. Two groups of the right cerebral cortex included thinning of the cortex. Significantly less damage was seen in the methylprednisolone/vitamin E-treated pups. Our study suggests that trials of methylprednisolone/vitamin E might be effective if they are given to the mother at risk of fetal hypoxia during labor or to the hypoxic infant right after delivery in preventing hypoxic brain damage.
The present study tests the hypothesis that Mg2+ modification of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion channel opening is altered during hypoxia and correlates with the progressive decrease in cerebral energy metabolism induced by hypoxia. Studies were performed in five normoxic and nine hypoxic ventilated piglets. In the hypoxic group, varying degrees of cerebral energy metabolism were achieved by administration of different fractions of inspired oxygen (FiO2) (5-9%) for varying durations of time and were documented by cortical tissue phosphocreatine levels. [3H]Dizocilpine maleate binding was performed with increasing concentrations of MgSO4 from 0.01 to 15 mM in cortical P2 membrane fractions. Mg2+ percentage activation and Mg2+ 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC50) were determined. The mean +/- S.D. phosphocreatine value was 3.0 +/- 1.3 micromol/g brain in the normoxic group and 1.4 +/- 1.0 micromol/g brain in the hypoxic group (P &lt; 0.01). Low concentrations of Mg2+ (0.01-1 mM) increased [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding in the normoxic group (to 137 +/- 26% of baseline), significantly greater than in the hypoxic group (109 +/- 13%, P &lt; 0.05). Receptor activation correlated with brain tissue levels of phosphocreatine, with percentage maximal activation decreasing linearly as phosphocreatine levels decreased (r=0.7). Higher levels of Mg2+ (1.5-15 mM) caused inhibition of [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding, with IC50 levels significantly higher in the normoxic group (3.2 +/- 1.1 mM) than in the hypoxic group (1.9 +/- 0.4 mM). Mg2+ IC50 values decreased in a linear fashion as phosphocreatine values decreased (r=0.9). The data demonstrate that, as brain cell energy metabolism decreases during hypoxia, maximal receptor activation by low levels of Mg2+ decreases and receptor inhibition by high levels of Mg2+ increases in a linear fashion. We speculate that, during hypoxia, dephosphorylation of the ion channel of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor increases Mg2+ blockade of the receptor by increasing Mg2+ accessibility to its binding site and that receptor modification may be initiated by subtle decreases in cortical oxygenation in the newborn brain.
Excitotoxic neuronal death is mediated primarily by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. N-methyl-D-aspartate induces two forms of excitotoxicity in CA1 pyramidal neurons of cultured rat hippocampal slices: the rapidly developing form that depends on external Na+ and Cl-, and the delayed form that requires external Ca2+ but not Cl-. Consistent with this notion, replacement of external Cl- with glucuronate, isethionate or methylsulfate attenuated or delayed selectively the rapid excitotoxicity. However, gluconate substituting for Cl- blocked both rapid and delayed forms of excitotoxicity. Gluconate also reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced membrane currents recorded from CA1 neurons in a dose-dependent manner. This dose-dependence was remarkably similar to that observed for protection of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced neuronal death by gluconate. Although gluconate chelated Ca2+ most strongly among the four Cl- substitutes examined, excitotoxic neuronal death could be protected by 7 mM gluconate without Ca2+ chelating action. The voltage-dependent Mg2+ block of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was not affected by gluconate. Gluconate suppressed the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory synaptic currents evoked in CA1 neurons. We conclude that protection of excitotoxic neuronal death by gluconate at low doses (&lt;20 mM) is due to its antagonistic action on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Gluconate is a widely used substitute for Cl-. Our unexpected findings give a warning that the results of any of the experiments concerning excitotoxicity or glutamate receptors obtained by gluconate substituting for Cl- must be interpreted with caution.
This study investigated the transport rate of the tracer, cholera toxin B subunit, within the retinofugal pathway of the chick hatchlings. Following intraocular injections, the chicks were allowed to survive for various time-periods. The immunoreactivity of cholera toxin B subunit was then examined in the retinofugal pathways. Two hours post-injection, retinal ganglion cells began to take up the tracer and transport it to the most rostroventral portion of the optic tectum. After a 4 h survival period, the labeled retinal axons progressively innervated all retinofugal targets. Within the tectum, the labeling density varied from layer to layer with heavily labeled terminals in layer 5b, less label in layer 7 and the most diffuse label in layers 2-4. Scattered labeling was seen in the nucleus dorsolateralis anterior thalami, pars lateralis, the nucleus geniculatus lateralis, pars ventralis, the nucleus basal optic root, the nucleus lateralis anterior thalami, and the pretecal lentiformis nucleus of mesencephalon. After 6- and 8 h survival periods, increased labeling was seen in all retinofugal nuclei. There were increased numbers of retinal terminals in all retinorecipient layers of the tectum. It was noted that some of the retinal axons &quot;overshot&quot; into layers deeper than layer 7. In addition, retinal projections were found scattered throughout the ipsilateral nucleus basal optic root. Maximal labeling in all retinofugal targets was observed at a 10 h survival period. The present study suggests that cholera toxin B subunit can be used to trace retinal axons along their retinofugal paths up to the small terminal zones at a rate of 4.25 mm/h or 102 mm/day. Also, evidence of synchronous retinal terminations in layers 5b and 7 indicates that the transport of cholera toxin B subunit is independent of axon diameters of retinal ganglion cells. Finally, given the changing status of the embryo, the rapid transport of cholera toxin B subunit can be applied for tracing developing pathways.
The release and depletion of neurotensin in sympathetic preganglionic axon terminals and internalization in principal ganglion cells were investigated in the cat stellate ganglion by means of combined immunohistochemical staining, image analysis and confocal microscopy. Neurotensin stored in preganglionic boutons was released by 40 or 5 Hz electrical stimulation of preganglionic nerves, being depleted to 7.4 and 19.2% of control levels by continuous stimulation lasting 20 or 160 min (both stimuli delivered 48,000 pulses). Once released, neurotensin was internalized by the principal ganglion cells as evidenced by a ring of bright spot-like granules in the perinuclear region indicating the sites of intracellular neurotensin accumulation. Neurotensin internalization was time-dependent, thus, different content was found when the time between the end of stimulation and start of perfusion was varied. The onset of neurotensin internalization appeared in the first minutes, intracellular accumulation was evident at 20 min, maximal internalization occurred at 120 min and, 24 h later internalized neurotensin content had faded. Internalization was partially blocked by the nonpeptide neurotensin antagonist SR48692. These data provide evidence of presynaptic neurotensin release and depletion by electrical stimulation with varied frequencies. They also provide evidence for in situ receptor-mediated internalization of endogenously released neurotensin, raising the possibility that internalization may represent, in addition to some kind of turnover dynamics, an important part of the mechanisms of neuropeptide signaling.
Prohormone convertase 5 is an endoprotease of the kexin/subtilisin-like family, which has been postulated to play a role in the proteolytic maturation of a variety of pro-peptides in the mammalian brain. In order to gain insight into the functional role of prohormone convertase 5 in the central nervous system, the regional, cellular and subcellular distributions of the enzyme were investigated by immunohistochemistry in rat brain using an N-terminal-directed specific antibody shown previously to recognize both the mature and unprocessed forms of the enzyme. Throughout the brain, prohormone convertase 5 immunoreactivity was concentrated within nerve cell bodies and proximal dendrites. No prohormone convertase 5 immunoreactivity was associated with astrocytes, as confirmed by the absence of prohormone convertase 5 immunolabeling in cells immunopositive for the glial protein S-100alpha. Within neurons, prohormone convertase 5 immunoreactivity was concentrated within the Golgi apparatus, as revealed immunohistochemically within the same sections using antibodies against the medial cisternae protein MG-160. It was also present within small vesicular-like elements distributed throughout the cytoplasm of perikarya and dendrites, but not of axons, as confirmed by its lack of co-localization with the synaptic terminal marker Dynamin-1. These results suggest that prohormone convertase 5 is active within early compartments of the neuronal regulated secretory pathway and that it is unlikely to be released with its processed substrates. At the regional level, prohormone convertase 5-immunoreactive perikarya were distributed extensively throughout the forebrain. The most numerous and intensely labeled were detected in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, globus pallidus, endopeduncular and subthalamic nuclei, septum, diagonal band of Broca, magnocellular and medial preoptic areas, supraoptic and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus, and anterodorsal, laterodorsal, paraventricular and reticular nuclei of the thalamus. Moderate to dense neuronal labeling was also evident in the olfactory tubercle, caudate-putamen, claustrum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, substantia innominata, hippocampus, amygdala, and remaining thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei. This widespread distribution suggests that prohormone convertase 5 is involved in the processing of a variety of neuropeptide and/or neurotrophin precursors in mammalian brain.
To date, only a few studies indicate that nitric oxide may play a role in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. However, data reported are controversial and the part played by nitric oxide in sleep-wake cycle regulation still remains uncertain. In the present report, we studied the effects on sleep amounts of two different nitric oxide synthase inhibitors: N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and 7-nitro-indazole, a specific inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The above compounds were administered via two routes, i.e. intraperitoneally or locally in the dorsal raphe nucleus, a structure involved in sleep regulation. In order to evaluate their efficiency to inhibit nitric oxide synthesis in the rat brain, they were first administered intraperitoneally to a group of animals, and the cortical release of nitric oxide was determined by means of voltammetric measurements. N-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect the cortical release of nitric oxide, whereas it increased both slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep durations. On the contrary, 7-nitro-indazole (40 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased the cortical release of nitric oxide (-25%) and paradoxical sleep duration. Furthermore, following microinjection of either N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or 7-nitro-indazole at 100 ng/0.20 microl into the nitric oxidergic cell area of the dorsal raphe nucleus, decreases in paradoxical sleep duration were obtained (-32.8% and -25.3%, respectively). The results obtained support the existence of a duality in the sleep regulation modalities exerted by nitric oxide, i.e. a peripheral inhibiting influence and a central facilitating role for the nitric oxide-serotoninergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus.
Intraspecific confrontation has been used to study effect of depleting central serotonin on the adaptation of male rats to repeated social stress (social defeat). Four groups of adult male rats were used (serotonin depletion/sham: stressed; serotonin depletion/sham: non-stressed). Central serotonin was reduced (by 59-97%) by a single infusion of the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxtryptamine (150 microg) into the cerebral ventricles; levels of dopamine and noradrenaline were unaltered (rats received appropriate uptake blockers prior to neurotoxic infusions). Sham-operated animals received solute only. Rats were then either exposed daily for 10 days to a second larger aggressive male in the latter's home cage, or simply transferred to an empty cage (control procedure). Rats with reduced serotonin failed to show the increased freezing behaviour during the pre-defeat phase of the social interaction test characteristic of sham animals. There was no change in the residents' behaviour. Core temperature increased during aggressive interaction in sham rats, and this did not adapt with repeated stress. By contrast, stress-induced hyperthermia was accentuated in serotonin-reduced rats as the number of defeat sessions increased. Basal core temperature was unaffected by serotonin depletion. Heart rate increased during social defeat, but this did not adapt with repeated stress; serotonin depletion had no effect on this cardiovascular response. Basal corticosterone was increased in serotonin-depleted rats, but the progressive reduction in stress response over days was not altered. C-fos expression in the brain was not altered in control (non-stressed) rats by serotonin reduction in the areas examined, but there was increased expression after repeated social stress in the medial amygdala of 5-HT depleted rats. These experiments show that reduction of serotonin alters responses to repeated social stress in male rats, and suggests a role for serotonin in the adaptive process.
The regional and cellular distribution of serotonin type 2C receptor messenger RNA was investigated in autopsy samples of human brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The main sites of serotonin receptor type 2C messenger RNA expression were the choroid plexus, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, some components of the basal ganglia, the substantia nigra, the substantia innominata and the ventromedial hypothalamus, suggesting that this receptor might be involved in the regulation of different brain functions. Interestingly, in all regions examined, the serotonin type 2C receptor messenger RNA was always restricted to subpopulations of cells, suggesting a specific role, perhaps determined by regionality. A comparison of the in situ hybridization results with those previously obtained by means of radioligand binding experiments suggested that in most of the areas analysed the serotonin type 2C receptors were located at axon terminals.
The medial septum/diagonal band complex is composed predominantly of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, and it projects to the hippocampal formation. A proportion of the GABAergic neurons contain parvalbumin, a calcium-binding protein that has previously been localized in fast-spiking, non-accommodating GABAergic neurons in the cerebral cortex and neostriatum. The aim of the present study was to determine whether parvalbumin is localized preferentially in a similar electrophysiological class of neuron in the medial septum/diagonal band complex. The study was carried out using in vitro intracellular recording, intracellular biocytin filling and parvalbumin immunocytochemistry. Three main classes of neurons were identified according to standard criteria: burst-firing, slow-firing and fast-firing neuronal populations. The fast-firing neurons were subdivided into two subpopulations based on whether or not they displayed accommodation. The fast-spiking, non-accommodating cells were furthermore found to be spontaneously active at resting potentials, and to possess action potentials of significantly (P &lt; 0.05) shorter duration (half width: 0.61 +/- 0.12 ms) than those of the regular-spiking, accommodating neurons (1.0 +/- 0.34 ms). Of the neurons that were successfully filled with biocytin and processed for parvalbumin immunoreactivity, 82% of the fast-spiking, non-accommodating cells possessed parvalbumin immunoreactivity, while none of the regular-spiking, accommodating neurons were found to be immunoreactive for parvalbumin. The slow-firing neurons, shown previously to be cholinergic, did not stain for parvalbumin immunoreactivity, in agreement with studies showing parvalbumin to be localized solely in GABAergic neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band complex. In conclusion, these findings suggest the presence of a previously uncharacterized population of neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band complex that generate high-frequency, non-adaptive discharge. This property correlates with the localization of parvalbumin in these neurons, which suggests that parvalbumin fulfils the same role in the medial septum/diagonal band complex that it does in other parts of the brain. The fast-spiking neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band complex may play an essential role in the GABAergic influence of the septum on the hippocampal formation.
The neurosteroids pregnenolone sulfate and allopregnanolone affect memory processes in an opposite manner, pregnenolone sulfate acts as a potent memory-enhancer whereas allopregnanolone impairs memory performance. The mechanisms underlying these memory modulating properties have yet to be elucidated. We have previously reported that infusions of either neurosteroid into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, one of the main forebrain cholinergic nuclei, differentially affect spatial memory in rats. The relationships between memory performance and paradoxical sleep are well documented, therefore we investigated whether neurosteroids infused into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis affected the sleep-wakefulness cycle in rats, measured by electroencephalographic recordings. Results show that pregnenolone sulfate (5 ng) increased by 12%, whereas allopregnanolone (2 ng) decreased by 24%, the duration of paradoxical sleep in the 24 h interval following injection compared to control recordings. Pregnenolone sulfate inhibits GABA(A) receptors whereas allopregnanolone stimulates them. Since cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis are GABA-modulated, it may be postulated that these neurosteroids modify paradoxical sleep by acting on the cholinergic transmission. This may account, at least in part, for the memory modulating properties of these compounds.
In this study, the mechanism of transferrin-free iron uptake by brain neuronal cells was investigated using the cultured cerebellar granule cells. Effects of incubation time, iron concentration, temperature and other divalent metals on the cellular uptake were determined. After five days of plating, the cells were incubated with different concentrations of transferrin-free iron in isotonic sucrose solution at different temperatures for a certain time. The cellular transferrin-free iron uptake was analysed by measuring the cellular radioactivity with a gamma-counter. The result showed that the cultured cerebellar granule cells had the capacity to acquire transferrin-free iron at pH 6.5, at which it was demonstrated that transferrin binds iron very poorly and only very little transferrin can be internalized by reticulocytes and HeLa cells. The iron uptake by cells increased with incubation time in a linear manner at a rate of 0.1076 pmol/microg protein/min within the first 10 min. The uptake was time- and temperature-dependent, iron concentration saturable, and inhibited by several divalent metal ions, such as Co2+, Zn2+, Mn2+ and Ni2+. These characteristics of transferrin-free iron uptake by the cultured cerebellar granule cells observed in this study, similar to those obtained from cells outside of the brain, implied that a carrier-mediated iron transport system might be present on the membrane of this type of brain neuronal cells. In addition, no significant difference in malondialdehyde measurement was found when the cells were incubated without or with the lower concentrations of iron (&lt; 4 microM) for 20 min at 37 degrees C, demonstrating that this system was valid for studying membrane iron transport in this type of brain neuronal cell.
In primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells, transcripts of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels have been amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and identified by sequencing of subcloned polymerase chain reaction products. In these neurons cultured for six to eight days in vitro, fragments of the three major transcripts alpha1C, alpha1A, and alpha1E are detected using degenerated oligonucleotide primer pairs under highly stringent conditions. Whole-cell Ca2+ current recordings from six to eight days in vitro granule cells show that most of the current is due to L-type (25%), P-type (33%) and R-type (30%) Ca2+ channels. These data support the correlation between alpha1A and P-type Ca2+ channels (G1) and between alpha1E and R-type channels (G2 and G3). By including specific primer pairs for alpha1E the complimentary DNA fragments of indicative regions of alpha1E isoforms are amplified corresponding to the three most variable regions of alpha1E, the 5'-end, the II/III-loop, and the central part of the 3'-end. Although the complementary DNA fragments of the 5'-end of rat alpha1E yield a uniform reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction product, its structure is unusual in the sense that it is longer than in the cloned rat alpha1E complementary DNA. It corresponds to the alpha1E isoform reported for mouse and human brain and is also expressed in cerebellum and cerebrum of rat brain as the major or maybe even the only variant of alpha1E. While fragments of a new rat alpha1E isoform are amplified from the 5'-end, three known fragments of the II/III-loop and two known isoforms homologue to the 3'-coding region are detected, which in the last case are discriminated by a 129 base pair insertion. The shift of the alpha1E expression from a pattern seen in cerebellum (alpha1Ee) to a pattern identified in other regions of the brain (alpha1E-3) is discussed. These data show that: (i) alpha1E is expressed in rat brain as a structural homologue to the mouse and human alpha1E; and (ii) rat cerebellar granule cells in primary culture express a set of alpha1E isoforms, containing two different sized carboxy termini. Since no new transcripts of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels genes are identified using degenerate oligonucleotide primer pairs, the two isoforms differentiated by the 129 base pair insertion might correspond to the two R-type channels, G2 and G3, characterized in these neurons. Functional studies including recombinant cells with the different proposed isoforms should provide more evidence for this conclusion.
The mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons are sensitive to physical, pharmacological and psychological stressors. In this report, the role of these neurons in the response to classical fear conditioning was investigated. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex reduced dopamine levels to about 13% of controls but did not alter behavior during the acquisition of fear conditioning. As expected, conditioned fear increased dopamine metabolism (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio) in the nucleus accumbens in sham-lesion rats. The medial prefrontal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions did not alter this effect. During the expression, however, lesioned rats demonstrated a delayed extinction of the conditioned response without an overall increase in the initial conditioned response. This effect was consistent in rats receiving 6-hydroxydopamine lesions before or after the acquisition period. The calculated rates of extinction showed that the 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats had a reduced rate of extinction, but not acquisition, of fear conditioning. The results presented in this manuscript indicate that the mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons are involved in co-ordinating the normal extinction of a fear response but do not alter the acquisition of fearful behaviors. These data are consistent with the conclusion that the mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons are involved in maintaining the animal's response adaptability with regards to stress-related changes in the external environment.
It has been suggested that nucleus accumbens dopamine is involved in the process of enabling organisms to overcome work-related response costs. One way of controlling work requirements in operant schedules is to use fixed ratio schedules with different ratio requirements. In the present study, the effects of nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions were assessed using four schedules: fixed ratio 1, 4, 16, and 64. Rats with nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions showed behavioral deficits that were highly dependent upon the ratio value; there were no effects of dopamine depletions on fixed ratio 1 lever pressing, but as ratio value got larger, the impairment became much greater. In a separate experiment, pre-feeding to reduce food motivation was shown to produce a different pattern, such that performance on all ratio schedules was substantially impaired. Thus, aspects of food reinforcement that are involved in fixed ratio 1 performance are highly sensitive to food motivation, but are largely unaffected by nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions. Nevertheless, nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions affected the elasticity of demand for food, and enhanced &quot;ratio strain&quot;, i.e. they exacerbated the response-suppressing effects of increasing ratio value.
Subthalamic neuronal activity is controlled by a dopaminergic innervation, which may act via D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. This study investigates the effect of apomorphine and the selective D1 and D2 agonists, SKF 82958 and quinpirole respectively, in normal and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. The effect of microinjection of these drugs into the subthalamic nucleus was assessed by recording unit activity and the expression of the c-Fos-immunoreactive protein in the subthalamic nucleus. Dopaminergic agonists reduced the discharge rate and did not induce c-Fos expression in the normal rat. Apomorphine and quinpirole increased the discharge rate and induced a strong expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactive proteins, whereas SKF 82958 induced a decrease of the discharge rate and a slight expression of c-Fos in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. The striking contrast in the changes obtained with apomorphine and quinpirole in normal and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats is discussed in relation to a hyperexpression of D2 dopaminergic receptors on the GABAergic terminals into the subthalamic nucleus. These results show that, in normal rats, dopamine agonists exert an inhibitory control on subthalamic neurons via D1 and D2 receptors. However, in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, the hyperactivity of subthalamic neurons is also reduced by D1 receptor agonist but not by D2 dopamine agonists. This last result points out one aspect of the complex mechanisms underlying the physiopathology of Parkinson's disease.
The entorhinal cortex, which is involved in neural systems related to memory, is selectively degenerated in early Alzheimer's disease. Here, we examined neuropathological changes in the eight entorhinal subfields in post mortem Alzheimer's disease subjects using Thionin and Bielschowsky stains and parvalbumin, calretinin and calbindin-D28k immunohistochemistry. Both histological stains revealed the most dramatic cell loss and neurofibrillary tangle formation to be in layers II and V of the lateral, intermediate and caudal subfields. In accordance, immunohistochemical staining showed that neurons and fibres that contain calcium-binding proteins were also more frequently altered in these subfields than in the rostromedial subfields. Detailed analysis further revealed that non-principal cells containing parvalbumin or calbindin-D28k showed morphological alterations early in the entorhinal pathology of Alzheimer's disease, whereas non-principal neurons containing calretinin were better preserved even in Alzheimer's disease patients with severe entorhinal pathology. The degeneration of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons and basket-like networks and calbindin-positive non-principal neurons was observed mainly in layer II, where the calretinin-positive non-principal neurons formed aggregates especially at late stages of the disease. The pyramidal-shaped neurons containing either calretinin or calbindin-D28k were often preserved, although morphological alterations were observed. Our findings indicate that specific subfields of the entorhinal cortex involving neurons that contain distinct calcium-binding proteins are differentially vulnerable in Alzheimer's disease. This could have an impact on the topographically organized inputs and outputs of the entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's patients.
Investigation of the integrity of the ryanodine receptor in Alzheimer's disease is important because it plays a critical role in the regulation of calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum in brain, impairment of which is believed to contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The present study compared ryanodine receptor levels and their functional modulation in particulate fractions from control and Alzheimer's disease temporal cortex, occipital cortex and putamen. Relationships between ryanodine receptor changes and the progression of Alzheimer's disease pathology were determined by examining autoradiographic [3H]ryanodine binding in entorhinal cortex/anterior hippocampus sections from 22 cases that had been staged for neurofibrillary changes and beta-amyloid deposition. A significant (P &lt; 0.02) 40% decrease in the Bmax for [3H]ryanodine binding and significantly higher IC50 values for both magnesium and Ruthenium Red inhibition of [3H]ryanodine binding were detected in Alzheimer's disease temporal cortex particulate fractions compared to controls. Immunoblot analyses showed Type 2 ryanodine receptor holoprotein levels to be decreased by 20% (P &lt; 0.05) in these Alzheimer's disease cases compared to controls. No significant differences were detected in [3H]ryanodine binding comparing control and Alzheimer's disease occipital cortex or putamen samples. The autoradiography study detected increased [3H]ryanodine binding in the subiculum, CA2 and CA1 regions in cases with early (stage I-II) neurofibrillary pathology when compared to Stage 0 cases. Analysis of variance of data with respect to the different stages of neurofibrillary pathology revealed significant stage-related declines of [3H]ryanodine binding in the subiculum (P &lt; 0.02) with trends towards significant decreases in CA1, CA2 and CA4. Post-hoc testing with Fisher's PLSD showed significant reductions (74-94%) of [3H]ryanodine binding in the subiculum, and CA1-CA4 regions of the late isocortical stage (V-VI) cases compared to the early entorhinal stage I-II cases. [3H]Ryanodine binding also showed significant declines with staging for beta-amyloid deposition in the entorhinal cortex (P &lt; 0.01) and CA4 (P &lt; 0.05) with trends towards a significant decrease in the dentate gyrus. We conclude that alterations in ryanodine receptor binding and function are very early events in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and may be fundamental to the progression of both neurofibrillary and beta-amyloid pathologies.
We compared the effects of the D1/D5 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 with the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol on the persistence of long-term potentiation in the CA1 and dentate gyrus subregions of the hippocampus. In slices, SCH-23390 but not propranolol reduced the persistence of long-term potentiation in area CA1 without affecting its induction. The drugs exerted reverse effects in the dentate gyrus, although in this case the induction of long-term potentiation was also affected by propranolol. The lack of effect of SCH-23390 on the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus was confirmed in awake animals. The drug also had little or no effect on the expression of inducible transcription factors. In area CA1 of awake animals, SCH-23390 blocked persistence of long-term potentiation beyond 3 h, confirming the results in slices. To rule out a differential release of catecholamines induced by our stimulation protocols between brain areas, we compared the effects of the D1/D5 agonist SKF-38393 with the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol on the persistence of a weakly induced, decremental long-term potentiation in CA1 slices. SKF-38393 but not isoproterenol promoted greater persistence of long-term potentiation over a 2-h period. In contrast, isoproterenol but not SKF-38392 facilitated the induction of long-term potentiation. These data demonstrate that there is a double dissociation of the catecholamine modulation of long-term potentiation between CA1 and the dentate gyrus, suggesting that long-term potentiation in these brain areas may be differentially consolidated according to the animal's behavioural state.
We investigated the expression pattern of two immediate-early genes, zif268 and c-fos, under various visual conditions using immunohistochemical and northern blot analysis in the visual cortex of young rats. The basal expression of c-fos was low and was further reduced by dark rearing that lasted for one week. A marked and transient increase was induced upon visual stimulation applied immediately after dark rearing. Zif268 showed a relatively high basal level. Its expression was reduced by dark rearing of the animals, but returned rapidly to the basal expression level following the introduction of light. Administration of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine, a selective noradrenergic neurotoxin, suppressed the basal expression of c-fos messenger RNA. The response of c-fos to photo-stimulation was also significantly lower in the visual cortex of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine-treated young rats. In contrast, no significant change in zif268 expression was detected between normal and N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine-treated animals. These findings suggest that differential expression of these immediate-early genes is involved in the activity-dependent regulation of cortical function. One possibility is that the noradrenergic system controls cortical function, including plasticity, by modifying the expression of c-fos.
The perirhinal cortex is crucially important in several forms of memory. Whilst it is important to understand the underlying mechanisms of this role in memory, little is known about the synaptic physiology or plasticity of this region of transitional cortex. In this study, we recorded evoked field potentials in superficial layers (approximately layer I) of the perirhinal cortex in vitro. One stimulating electrode was placed on the temporal side and the other on the entorhinal side of the rhinal sulcus in either the superficial or intermediate layers (approximately layers II/III). Paired stimuli resulted in depression of the second response. Paired-pulse depression was maximal at a 200-ms interpulse interval. Low-frequency stimulation resulted in synaptic depression, which returned to baseline within 60 min. The magnitude of both paired-pulse depression and low-frequency stimulation-induced depression was significantly greater at synapses activated from the temporal intermediate pathway than the other three pathways. Long-term potentiation, stable for at least 60 min, was induced by high-frequency stimulation of intermediate but not superficial pathways. Long-lasting depression (depotentiation) was induced by low-frequency stimulation following the induction of long-term potentiation. The induction of both long-term potentiation and depotentiation was N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dependent. The group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine was without effect on either of these forms of plasticity. Thus, both long- and short-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity exist at synapses in the perirhinal cortex, and these may mediate the changes in neuronal responses associated with visual recognition memory.
A hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance contributes to the membrane properties of a variety of cell types. In the thalamus, a prominent hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance exists in thalamocortical cells, and this current is implicated in the neuromodulation of complex firing behaviors. In contrast, the GABAergic cells in the reticular nucleus in the thalamus appear to lack this conductance. The presence and role of this cation conductance in the other type of thalamic GABAergic cells, local interneurons, is still unclear. To resolve this issue, we studied 54 physiologically and morphologically identified local interneurons in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus using an in vitro whole-cell patch recording technique. We found that hyperpolarizing current injections induced depolarizing voltage sags in these geniculate interneurons. The I-V relationship revealed an inward rectification. Voltage-clamp study indicated that a slow, hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance was responsible for the inward rectification. We then confirmed that this slow conductance had properties of the hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance described in other cell types. The slow conductance was insensitive to 10 mM tetraethylammonium and 0.5 mM 4-aminopyridine, but was largely blocked by 1-1.5 mM Cs+. It was permeable to both K+ and Na+ ions and had a reversal potential of -44 mV. The voltage dependence of the hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance in interneurons was also studied: the activation threshold was about -55 mV, half-activation potential was about -80 mV and maximal conductance was about 1 nS. The activation and deactivation time constants of the conductance ranged from 100 to 1000 ms, depending on membrane potential. The depolarizing voltage sags and I-V relationship were further simulated in a model interneuron, using the parameters of the hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance obtained from the voltage-clamp study. The time-course and voltage dependence of the depolarizing voltage sags and I-V relationship in the model cell were very similar to those found in geniculate interneurons in current clamp. Taken together, the results of the present study suggest that thalamic local interneurons possess a prominent hyperpolarization-activated cation conductance, which may play important roles in determining basic membrane properties and in modulating firing patterns.
Oscillatory patterns in neocortical electrical activity show various degrees of large-scale synchrony depending on experimental conditions, but the exact mechanisms underlying these variations of coherence are not known. Analysis of multisite local field potentials revealed that the coherence of spindle oscillations varied during different states. During natural sleep, the coherence was remarkably high over cortical distances of several millimeters, but could be disrupted by artificial cortical depression, similar to the effect of barbiturates. Possible mechanisms for these variations of coherence were investigated by computational models of interacting cortical and thalamic neurons, including their intrinsic firing patterns and various synaptic receptors present in the circuitry. The model indicates that modulation of the excitability of the cortex can affect spatiotemporal coherence with no change in the thalamus. The highest level of coherence was obtained by enhancing the excitability of cortical pyramidal cells, simulating the action of neuromodulators such as acetylcholine and noradrenaline. The underlying mechanism was due to cortex-thalamus-cortex loops in which a more excitable cortical network generated a more powerful and coherent feedback onto the thalamus, resulting in highly coherent oscillations, similar to the properties measured during natural sleep. In conclusion, these experiments and models are compatible with a powerful role for the cortex in triggering and synchronizing oscillations generated in the thalamus, through corticothalamic feedback projections. The model suggests that intracortical mechanisms may be responsible for synchronizing oscillations over cortical distances of several millimeters through cortex-thalamus-cortex loops, thus providing a possible cellular mechanism to explain the genesis of large-scale coherent oscillations in the thalamocortical system.
In hippocampal slices, high-frequency (125-333 Hz) synchronized oscillations have been shown to occur amongst populations of pyramidal neurons, in a manner that is independent of chemical synaptic transmission, but which is dependent upon gap junctions. At the intracellular level, high-frequency oscillations are associated with full-sized action potentials and with fast prepotentials. Using simulations of two pyramidal neurons, we previously argued that the submillisecond synchrony, and the rapid time-course of fast prepotentials, could be explained, in principle, if the requisite gap junctions were located between pyramidal cell axons. Here, we use network simulations (3072 pyramidal cells) to explore further the hypothesis that gap junctions occur between axons and could explain high-frequency oscillations. We show that, in randomly connected networks with an average of two gap junctions per cell, or less, synchronized network bursts can arise without chemical synapses, with frequencies in the experimentally observed range (spectral peaks 125-182 Hz). These bursts are associated with fast prepotentials (or partial spikes and spikelets) as observed in physiological recordings. The critical assumptions we must make for the oscillations to occur are: (i) there is a background of ectopic axonal spikes, which can occur at low frequency (one event per 25 s per axon); (ii) the gap junction resistance is small enough that a spike in one axon can induce a spike in the coupled axon at short latency (in the model, a resistance of 273 M omega works, with an associated latency of 0.25 ms). We predict that axoaxonal gap junctions, in combination with recurrent excitatory synapses, can induce the occurrence of high-frequency population spikes superimposed on epileptiform field potentials.
The amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials and currents increases with membrane potential hyperpolarization. This has been attributed to an increase in the driving force when the membrane potential deviates from the equilibrium potential of the respective ions. Here we report that in a subset of neocortical and hippocampal synapses, postsynaptic hyperpolarization affects traditional measures of transmitter release: the number of failures, coefficient of variation of response amplitudes, and quantal content, suggesting increased presynaptic release. The result is compatible with the hypothesis of Byzov on the existence of electrical (or &quot;ephaptic&quot;) linking in purely chemical synapses. The linking, although negligible at neuromuscular junctions, could be functionally significant in influencing transmitter release at synapses with high resistance along the synaptic cleft. Our findings necessitate reconsideration of classical amplitude-voltage relations for such synapses. Thus, synaptic strength may be enhanced by hyperpolarization of the postsynaptic membrane potential. The positive ephaptic feedback could account for &quot;all-or-none&quot; excitatory postsynaptic potentials at some cortical synapses, large evoked and spontaneous multiquantal events and a high efficacy of large &quot;perforated&quot; synapses whose number increases following behavioural learning or the induction of long-term potentiation.
Hydra (Cnidaria) is the first animal organism to have developed a neural network, which has been proposed to control, inter alia, the &quot;feeding response&quot;, i.e. a mechanism through which the coelenterate opens and then closes its mouth in the presence of prey and/or glutathione. Here, we report that Hydra contains: (i) selective cannabinoid binding sites; (ii) the endogenous cannabinoid receptor ligand, anandamide (arachidonoylethanolamide); (iii) a fatty acid amide hydrolase-like activity catalysing anandamide hydrolysis; and (iv) the putative biosynthetic precursor of anandamide, N-arachidonoylphosphatidylethanolamine. We suggest that this &quot;endogenous cannabinoid system&quot; is involved in the modulation of the &quot;feeding response&quot;. Anandamide (1 nM-1 microM) potently inhibited (up to 45%) the glutathione-induced &quot;feeding response&quot; by accelerating Hydra vulgaris mouth closure. The effect was maximal at 100 nM anandamide and was reversed by the selective antagonist of the CB1 subtype of mammalian cannabinoid receptors, SR 141716A (50-100 nM). Specific cannabinoid binding sites were detected in membranes from Hydra polyps by using [3H]SR 141716A (Kd= 1.87 nM, Bmax = 26.7 fmol/mg protein), and increasing anandamide concentrations were found to displace the binding of [3H]SR 141716A to these membranes (Ki = .505 nM). Hydra polyps were also found to contain amounts of anandamide (15.6 pmol/g) and N-arachidonoylphosphatidylethanolamine (32.4 pmol/g), as well as the other &quot;endocannabinoid&quot; 2-arachidonoylglycerol (11.2 nmol/g), comparable to those described previously for mammalian brain. Finally, a fatty acid amide hydrolase activity (Vmax = 3.4 nmol/min/mg protein), with subcellular distribution, pH dependency and sensitivity to inhibitors similar to those reported for the mammalian enzyme, but with a lower affinity for anandamide (Km = 400 microM), was also detected in Hydra polyps. These data suggest that the endocannabinoid signalling system plays a physiological role in Hydra that is to control the feeding response. Hydra is the simplest living organism described so far to use this recently discovered regulatory system.
Transport of lactic acid and other monocarboxylates such as pyruvate and the ketone bodies through cellular membranes is facilitated by specific transport proteins. We used chicken polyclonal antibodies to the monocarboxylate transporters-1 and -2 to determine their cellular and subcellular distributions in rat retina, and we compared these distributions to those of the glucose transporters-1 and -3. Monocarboxylate transporter-1 was most highly expressed by the apical processes of retinal pigment epithelium that surround the outer segments of the photoreceptor cells. In contrast to glucose transporter-1, monocarboxylate transporter-1 was not detected on the basal membranes of pigment epithelium. The luminal and abluminal endothelial plasma membranes in retina also exhibited heavy labeling by antibody to monocarboxylate transporter-1. In addition, this transporter was associated with the Mller cell microvilli, the plasma membranes of the rod inner segments, and all retinal layers between the inner and external limiting membranes. Monocarboxylate transporter-2 was found to be abundantly expressed on the inner (basal) plasma membrane of Mller cells and by glial cell processes surrounding retinal microvessels. This transporter was also present in the plexiform and nuclear layers but was not detected beyond the external limiting membrane. Recent studies have shown that lactic acid transport is of particular importance at endothelial and epithelial barriers where membranes of adjoining cells are linked by tight junctions. Our results suggest that monocarboxylate transporter-1 functions to transport lactate between the retina and the blood, both at the retinal endothelium and the pigment epithelium. The location of monocarboxylate transporter-2 on glial foot processes surrounding retinal vessels suggests that this transporter is also important in blood-retinal lactate exchange. In addition, the abundance of these transporters in Mller cells and synaptic (plexiform) layers suggests that they function in lactate exchange between neurons and glia, supporting the notion that lactate plays a key role in neural metabolism.
The purpose of this study was to determine the plasticity of spinal motoneuron size and succinate dehydrogenase activity in response to increased levels of neuromuscular activation and/or increased target size. The plantaris muscles of adult rats were functionally overloaded for one or 10 weeks via the removal of the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles bilaterally. In addition, one group of functionally overloaded rats at each time period was trained daily (1 h/day) on a treadmill. The plantaris muscle on one side in each rat was injected with the fluorescent tracer Nuclear Yellow two days prior to the end of the study to retrogradely label the associated motor pool. At one week, the plantaris weight was increased compared to control, whereas there was no change in motoneuron size. Succinate dehydrogenase activity was unaffected in either the muscle or motoneurons. At 10 weeks, the plantaris muscle weight was larger and the succinate dehydrogenase activity lower in the functionally overloaded rats compared to age-matched controls. Training further increased the hypertrophic response, whereas the succinate dehydrogenase activity returned to control levels. In contrast, mean motoneuron size and succinate dehydrogenase activity were similar among the three groups. These data indicate that overload of a specific motor pool, involving both an increase in activation and an increase in target size, had a minimal effect on the size or the oxidative potential of the associated motoneurons. Thus, it appears that the spinal motoneurons, unlike the muscle fibers, are highly stable over a wide range of levels of chronic neuromuscular activity.
The inhibition of hypoglossal motoneurons innervating the styloglossus muscle during transient jaw closing, the so-called jaw-closing reflex, was studied in cats. The application of diffuse pressure stimulation to the posterior palatal surface produced the jaw-closing reflex and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the styloglossus motoneurons, indicating that mechanosensory inputs from the posterior palatal mucosa sent inhibitory synaptic inputs to styloglossus motoneurons. We also demonstrated that, during the palatally induced jaw-closing reflex, the tongue extended at jaw closure and was still extended forward in the initial part of the opening phase. In all of 22 styloglossus motoneurons studied, the depression of firing was elicited after the onset of jaw closure. In 14 of 22 styloglossus motoneurons, the depression of firing was elicited in the closing phase, and in the remaining cells it was elicited in the occlusal phase. By increasing the intracellular concentration of chloride ions, the inhibitory postsynaptic potential elicited in the styloglossus motoneuron converted to a depolarizing potential. It is concluded that the inhibition of styloglossus motoneurons may be involved in the maintenance of tongue protrusions during the palatally induced jaw-closing reflex, and that inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked in the styloglossus motoneurons are partly due to a chloride-dependent inhibitory postsynaptic potential.
Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse induces long-lasting behavioural sensitization, which is thought to play a role in the persistence of drug-seeking behaviour. Recently, we showed that repeated exposure of rats to cocaine resulted in a long-lasting (weeks) sensitization of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, i.e. hypersecretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone and of the glucocorticoid corticosterone. Moreover, we found that the administration of a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist abolished the expression of psychostimulant-induced behavioural sensitization. In the present study we tested whether stressor- or drug-induced long-term hypersecretion of corticosterone is associated with the long-term expression of behavioural sensitization to psychostimulant drugs. To that end, groups of male Wistar rats were exposed once to interleukin-1beta or to footshocks, treatments that are known to induce long-term sensitization of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, or were treated with amphetamine or morphine, according to protocols known to induce long-lasting behavioural (locomotor) sensitization. Three weeks later, the groups and their controls were challenged with amphetamine or vehicle. Previous exposure to interleukin-1beta or footshocks enhanced adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone responses, but did not affect the long-term locomotor sensitization to amphetamine. Prior amphetamine treatment enhanced the locomotor response and the adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone responses to amphetamine. Prior morphine treatment resulted in long-term locomotor sensitization, whereas the adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone responses to amphetamine were decreased. From these findings and the absence of within-group correlation between corticosterone and locomotor responses in interleukin-1beta and morphine-pretreated rats, we conclude that there is no correlation between sensitization of the corticosterone response and behavioural sensitization to amphetamine. Apparently, sensitization of the corticosterone response is not a prerequisite for the long-term expression of behavioural sensitization, which suggests that drug-induced long-term behavioural sensitization may involve corticosteroid receptor-dependent (central) mechanisms that occur independent of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis responsiveness.
We have analysed some behavioral, neuroendocrine and serotonergic consequences of a single (30-min) social defeat followed by 14-18 h of sensory contact with the aggressor, in Lewis rats, an inbred strain highly sensitive to chronic social stressors [Berton O. et al. (1998) Neuroscience 82, 147-159]. In addition, we have investigated how the aforementioned consequences are affected by pretreatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine (7.5 mg/kg/day for 21 days). A single social defeat triggered hypophagia and body weight loss, and increased anxiety in the elevated plus-maze. It did not affect baseline plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone levels and renin activity, but decreased plasma corticosterone levels. On the other hand, the responses of the latter variables to subsequent acute forced swim stress were blunted (corticosterone) or amplified (adrenocorticotropic hormone, renin activity) by prior defeat. The density of hippocampal serotonin transporters, but not that of hippocampal serotonin-1A and cortical serotonin-2A receptors, was decreased by a single social defeat; in addition, neither tryptophan availability and serotonin synthesis/metabolism, nor serotonin-1A autoreceptor-mediated functions (inhibition of serotonin synthesis, hyperphagia) were affected. Fluoxetine pretreatment diminished social defeat-induced hypophagia, body weight loss and anxiety without affecting these variables in control animals. This pretreatment increased plasma corticosterone levels in resting and acutely stressed rats, but abolished social defeat-elicited corticosterone hyporesponsiveness to acute forced swim stress. Except for a decrease in midbrain serotonin transporter density, fluoxetine did not affect the other serotonergic indices analysed herein, i.e. serotonin-1A and serotonin-2A receptor densities, serotonin synthesis/metabolism. A single social defeat in Lewis rats produces behavioral and endocrine alterations that may model some aspects of human anxiety disorders. In this paradigm, prior fluoxetine treatment is endowed with adaptive behavioral, and possibly neuroendocrine, effects without affecting the key elements of central serotonergic systems analysed herein.
The presence of an intrinsic afferent innervation of nerves and their connective tissues (nervi nervorum) suggests that these neural elements participate in sensation and pathological processes affecting nerves. Primary afferent nociceptors contain and release neuropeptides including calcitonin gene-related peptide, implicated in inflammatory vasodilatation. We sought to evaluate the ability of different peripheral nerve components, in vitro, to release calcitonin gene-related peptide and prostaglandin E2 in response to electrical and noxious chemical stimuli, using sensitive enzyme immunoassays. We observed significant increases in both calcitonin gene-related peptide and prostaglandin E2 in response to a mixture of inflammatory mediators (bradykinin, histamine, and serotonin; 10(-5) M) applied to the intact nerves (+37% and +700%, respectively) and isolated sheaths (35% and 430%, respectively), but not when this mixture was applied to isolated axons. Proximal (antidromic) but not distal (orthodromic) electrical stimulation also evoked a comparable release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (+30%) from intact nerves. These results suggest that nervi nervorum nociceptors participate in neural inflammation. Capsaicin (10(-6) M) elicited a very large release of calcitonin gene-related peptide when applied to either the intact nerve (+400%), isolated sheaths (+500%), or isolated axons (1400%). The latter effect was substantially but not completely blocked by Ruthenium Red and capsazepine, and was completely blocked using a calcium-free bathing solution. The results support the presence of capsaicin receptors in peripheral nerves that can effect calcitonin gene-related peptide release from axons as well as from terminals.
Inflammation of peripheral tissues evokes spontaneous pain and an increased responsiveness to external stimuli known as hyperalgesia, produced by both peripheral and central changes. The central component is initiated by a sustained afferent barrage produced by sensitized peripheral nociceptors, but it is unclear to which extent ongoing nociceptive input is required to maintain these central changes. Here, we have used an isolated preparation of the spinal cord in vitro obtained from eight- to 12-day-old rats to examine spinal plasticity in the absence of naturally occurring afferent inputs. Spinal reflex responses in preparations obtained from naive rats were compared with those from animals with carrageenan-induced inflammation of one hindpaw of 3 h, 6 h and 20 h duration prior to the extraction of the cord. Measurements of thermal (heat) and mechanical hyperalgesia in awake animals were also made at the same time-points. At 6 h post-carrageenan, there was a significant increase in the wind-up evoked by trains of high-intensity (C-fibre) stimuli, and at 20 h increased responses to both trains and single high-intensity stimuli, and a novel wind-up to low-intensity (Abeta-fibre) trains were observed. In contrast, maximal behavioural hyperalgesia was observed by 3 h post-carrageenan, and thermal hyperalgesia had resolved by 20 h, although mechanical hyperalgesia remained. These results show that the induction of spinal plasticity independent of peripheral input is a progressive process with a slow time-course, since significant hyperreflexia in the isolated spinal preparation appears 6 h after inflammation and develops further within 20 h. We conclude that during the first 3 h following inflammation, hyperalgesia is the result of peripheral sensitization and of central mechanisms that depend on an ongoing peripheral input and thus changes were not observed in the isolated spinal cord.
In the central nervous system glutamate dehydrogenase appears to be strongly involved in the metabolism of transmitter glutamate and plays a role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. In order to identify unequivocally the neural cell types expressing this enzyme, non-radioactive in situ hybridization, using a complementary RNA probe and oligonucleotide probes, was applied to sections of the rat central nervous system and, for comparison with peripheral neural cells, to cervical spinal ganglia. The results were complemented by immunocytochemical studies using a polyclonal antibody against purified glutamate dehydrodenase. Glutamate dehydrogenase messenger RNA was detectable at varying amounts in neurons and glial cells (i.e. astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, Bergmann glia, ependymal cells, epithelial cells of the plexus choroideus) throughout the central nervous system and in neurons and satellite cells of spinal ganglia. In some neuronal populations (e.g., pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, motoneurons of the spinal cord and spinal ganglia neurons) messenger RNA-labelling was higher than in other central nervous system neurons. This is remarkable because the immunostaining of neurons in the central nervous system regions studied was at best weak, whereas a predominantly high level of immunoreactivity was detected in astrocytes (and Bergmann glia). Thus, in neurons of the central nervous system, the detected levels of glutamate dehydrogenase messenger RNA and protein seem to be at variance whereas in peripheral neurons of spinal ganglia both in situ hybridization labelling and immunostaining are intense.
Urocortin, a novel 40 amino acid neuropeptide, is a member of the corticotropin-releasing factor family. With 45% homology to corticotropin-releasing factor, urocortin binds with similar affinity to the corticotropin-releasing factor- and corticotropin-releasing factor-2 receptors and may play a role in modulating many of the same systems as corticotropin-releasing factor. To assess whether urocortin and corticotropin-releasing factor are localized in the same regions of the brain, we compared the distribution of urocortin- and corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactivities in the rat central nervous system. Polyclonal antibodies to rat corticotropin-releasing factor and rat urocortin were generated and utilized to map the distribution of corticotropin-releasing factor- and urocortin-like immunoreactivities throughout the rat forebrain and brainstem. Characterization of the antibodies by radioimmunoassay showed no cross-reactivity with related peptides. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with colchicine for 18-24 h. Following colchicine treatment, the rats were perfused with paraformaldehyde-lysine-periodate fixative and their brains removed. Serial coronal sections were taken throughout the rat brain and processed for either corticotropin-releasing factor- or urocortin-like immunoreactivity. Urocortin-like immunoreactivity shows a discrete localization within several regions including the supraoptic nucleus, the median eminence, Edinger-Westphal nucleus and the sphenoid nucleus. This is in contrast to the more abundant corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactivity. Regions containing high levels of corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactivity include the lateral septum, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, median eminence and locus coeruleus. There are a few regions that contain both urocortin-immunoreactive and corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive cells, such as the supraoptic nucleus and the hippocampus. Therefore, urocortin and corticotropin-releasing factor appear to have different distribution patterns which may be indicative of their respective physiological functions.
Several pharmacological studies have suggested that the large median raphe serotonergic projection to the circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus may modulate circadian rhythm phase. The present experiments studied the role of dorsal and median raphe nuclei as regulators of circadian rhythmicity by evaluating the ability of electrical stimulation to shift rhythm phase or to alter photic induction of FOS protein synthesis. Male hamsters implanted with bipolar electrodes in either the median or dorsal raphe nucleus were stimulated during the early subjective night coincident with exposure to a saturating light pulse. About 90 min later, animals were anesthetized, perfused and the brains processed for FOS protein immunoreactivity. As previously demonstrated, light alone induces FOS immunoreactivity in nuclei of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. This was significantly attenuated by stimulation of either the median or dorsal raphe nucleus, with the extent of attenuation proportional to the intensity of stimulation. Electrical stimulation without light exposure had no effect on FOS expression. The effect of light on FOS expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was not modified by pre-treatment with the 5-HT1/2 serotonin receptor antagonist, metergoline, although it greatly reduced electrical stimulation-induced FOS expression in the hippocampus. In a second experiment, hamsters housed with running wheels in constant light were electrically stimulated in the median or dorsal raphe nucleus 6 h prior to (CT6) or 2 h after (CT14) expected activity onset. Regardless of which raphe nucleus was electrically stimulated, approximately 22 min phase advances were elicited at CT6 and 36 min phase delays were elicited at CT14. Despite the fact that the sole direct projection from the raphe complex to the suprachiasmatic nucleus is from the median nucleus, the present data do not distinguish between the median and dorsal raphe with respect to their impact on circadian rhythm regulation. Instead, two possible roles for each raphe nucleus are demonstrated. One main effect is that both raphe nuclei modulate rhythm phase. The second is an interaction between raphe efferent activity and light which, in the present studies, is demonstrated by the ability of raphe stimulation to modulate the action of light on the circadian system. While serotonin is a likely neurotransmitter mediating one or both effects, alternatives such as GABA, must be considered.
Astrocytes are coupled via gap junctions, predominantly formed by connexin-43 proteins, into cellular networks. This coupling is important for the propagation of intercellular calcium waves and for the spatial buffering of K+. Using the scrape-loading/dye transfer technique, we studied gap junction permeability in rat astrocytes cultured from four different brain regions. The cultures were shown to display regional heterogeneity with the following ranking of the gap junction coupling strengths: hippocampus = hypothalamus &gt; cerebral cortex = brain stem. Similar relative patterns were found in connexin-43 messenger RNA and protein levels using solution hybridization/RNase protection assay and western blots, respectively. The percentages of the propagation area of mechanically induced intercellular calcium waves for cortical, brain stem and hypothalamic astrocytes compared with hippocampal astrocytes were approximately 77, 42, and 52, respectively. Thus, the extent of calcium wave propagation was due to more than just gap junctional permeability as highly coupled hypothalamic astrocytes displayed relatively small calcium wave propagation areas. Incubation with 5-hydroxytryptamine decreased and incubation with glutamate increased the calcium wave propagation area in hippocampal (67% and 170% of the control, respectively) and in cortical astrocytes (82% and 163% of the control, respectively). Contrary to hippocampal and cortical astrocytes, the calcium wave propagation in brain stem astrocytes was increased by 5-hydroxytryptamine incubation (158% of control), while in hypothalamic astrocytes, no significant effects were seen. Similar effects from 5-hydroxytryptamine or glutamate treatments were observed on dye transfer, indicating an effect on the junctional coupling strength. These results demonstrate a strong relationship between connexin-43 messenger RNA levels, protein expression, and gap junction permeability among astroglial cells. Furthermore, our results suggest heterogeneity among astroglial cells from different brain regions in intercellular calcium signaling and in its differential modulation by neurotransmitters, probably reflecting functional requirements in various brain regions.
Stimulation of the medial prefrontal cortex in the rat produces events in midbrain dopaminergic neurons which resemble natural bursts, and which are closely time-locked to the stimulation, albeit with a very long latency. As a consequence, we have previously argued that such bursts are polysynaptically generated via more proximal excitatory amino acidergic afferents, arising, for example, from the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. In the present study, single-pulse electrical stimulation applied to this nucleus (and other sites in the rostral pons) was found to elicit responses in the majority of substantia nigra (A9) dopaminergic neurons. Responses usually consisted of long-latency, long-duration excitations or inhibition-excitations. Thirty-seven percent of responses (currents combined) elicited by stimulation of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus contained time-locked bursts, the bursts being embedded in the long-duration excitatory phases of excitation and inhibition-excitation responses. Stimulation sites located within 0.5 mm of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus were also effective at eliciting time-locked bursts (although less so than sites located in the nucleus itself), whereas more distal sites were virtually ineffective. For responses containing time-locked bursts, a higher percentage of stimulations produced a burst when the response was elicited from within the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus than when it was elicited from outside: the bursts themselves having a very long latency (median of 96.2 ms; shorter than that of medial prefrontal cortex-induced bursts). Finally, although there was no difference in the distribution within the substantia nigra pars compacta of cells which exhibited time-locked bursting and those which did not, stimulation-induced bursts were elicited more frequently in dopaminergic neurons which were classified as &quot;bursting&quot; on the basis of their basal activity. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus appears to be a critical locus in the rostral pons for the elicitation of time-locked bursts in A9 dopaminergic neurons. Since time-locked bursts were more often elicited from cells which exhibited bursting under basal conditions, this suggests that rostral pontine sites, in particular the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, may play a role in the natural burst activity of dopaminergic neurons. Given that bursts in dopaminergic neurons are generated in response to primary and secondary reinforcers, the projection from the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus could be one means by which motivationally relevant information (arising, for example, from the medial prefrontal cortex) reaches these cells.
Neuropharmacological investigations aimed at understanding the electrophysiological correlates between drug effect and action potential trains have usually been carried out with the analysis of firing rate and bursting activity. In this study, a selective alteration of neural circuits providing inputs to ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons has been produced, and the corresponding electrophysiological correlates have been investigated by nonlinear dynamical analysis. The nonlinear prediction method combined with Gaussian-scaled surrogate data has been used to show the chaotic structure in the time-series corresponding to the electrical activity of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons, extracellularly recorded in vivo. A decrease in chaos of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons was found in a group of rats lesioned with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, a neurotoxin which selectively destroys serotonergic terminals. The chaos content of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons in the control group and the decrease of chaos in the lesioned group cannot be explained in terms of standard characteristics of neuronal activity (firing rate, bursting activity). Moreover, in the control group a positive correlation has been found between the density-power-spectrum of the interspike intervals and the chaos content measured by nonlinear prediction S score; this relation was lost in the lesioned group. It is concluded that the impaired serotonergic tone induced by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine reduces the chaotic behaviour of the dopaminergic cell firing pattern, while retaining many standard interspike interval characteristics. The functional role of this behaviour in a neuronal coding problem context and the implications for the pathophysiology of some mental disorders are discussed.
The bone morphogenetic proteins have been implicated in several inductive processes throughout vertebrate development including nervous system patterning. Recently, these proteins have also emerged as candidates for regulating survival of mesencephalic dopaminergic and sympathetic neurons. Interestingly, we have found that several bone morphogenetic proteins can be detected in developing embryonic day 14 rat dorsal root ganglia by means of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemistry. To further elucidate their potential role during the period of ontogenetic neuron death, serum-free cultures of dorsal root sensory neurons from developing chick and rat embryos were treated with distinct bone morphogenetic proteins with or without simultaneous addition of other &quot;established&quot; neurotrophic factors. Our results show that bone morphogenetic proteins exert survival promoting effects on their own, and that they can positively modulate the effects of neurotrophins on sensory neurons. In particular, growth/differentiation factor-5, bone morphogenetic protein-2, -4, -7 and -12 significantly increased the survival promoting effects of neurotrophin-3 and nerve growth factor on cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. These results fit well into the current concept that neurotrophic factors may act synergistically in ensuring neuronal survival. Moreover, these data suggest potential instructive interactions of bone morphogentic proteins and neurotrophins during sensory neuron development. Finally, the documented neurotrophic capacity of bone morphogenetic protein family members may have potential relevance for the treatment of peripheral neuropathies.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether age-dependent changes in axonal conduction velocity occur in pyramidal tract neurons. A total of 260 and 254 pyramidal tract neurons were recorded extracellularly in the motor cortex of adult control and aged cats, respectively. These cells were activated antidromically by electrical stimulation of the medullary pyramidal tract. Fast- and slow-conducting neurons were identified according to their axonal conduction velocity in both control and aged cats. While 51% of pyramidal tract neurons recorded in the control cats were fast conducting (conduction velocity greater than 20 m/s), only 26% of pyramidal tract neurons in the aged cats were fast conducting. There was a 43% decrease in the median conduction velocity for the entire population of pyramidal tract neurons in aged cats when compared with that of pyramidal tract neurons in the control cats (P &lt; 0.001, Mann-Whitney U-test). A linear relationship between the spike duration of pyramidal tract neurons and their antidromic latency was present in both control and aged cats. However, the regression slope was significantly reduced in aged cats. This reduction was due to the appearance of a group of pyramidal tract neurons with relatively shorter spike durations but slower axonal conduction velocities in the aged cat. Sample intracellular data confirmed the above results. These observations form the basis for the following conclusions: (i) there is a decrease in median conduction velocity of pyramidal tract neurons in aged cats; (ii) the reduction in the axonal conduction velocity of pyramidal tract neurons in aged cats is due, in part, to fibers that previously belonged to the fast-conducting group and now conduct at slower velocity.
Recent pharmacological studies and receptor analyses have suggested that dopamine neurotransmission is enhanced in mutant dystonic hamsters (dt(sz)), a model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia which displays attacks of generalized dystonia in response to mild stress. In order to further characterize the nature of dopamine alterations, the present study investigated possible changes in the number of dopaminergic neurons, as defined by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry, as well as binding to the dopamine transporter labelled with [3H]WIN 35,428 in dystonic hamsters. No differences in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were found within the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of mutant hamsters compared to non-dystonic control hamsters. Similarly, under basal conditions, i.e. in the absence of a dystonic episode, no significant changes in [3H]WIN 35,428 binding were detected in dystonic brains. However, in animals killed during the expression of severe dystonia, significant decreases in dopamine transporter binding became evident in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area in comparison to controls exposed to the same external stimulation. Since stimulation tended to increase [3H]WIN 35,428 binding in control brains, the observed decrease in the ventral tegmental area appeared to be due primarily to the fact that binding was increased less in dystonic brains than in similarly stimulated control animals. This finding could reflect a diminished ability of the dopamine transporter to undergo adaptive changes in response to external stressful stimulation in mutant hamsters. The selective dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909 (20 mg/kg) aggravated dystonia in mutant hamsters, further suggesting that acute alterations in dopamine transporter function during stimulation may be an important component of dystonia in this model.
Huntington disease is characterized by the selective loss of striatal neurons, particularly of medium-sized spiny glutamate decarboxylase67 staining/GABAergic projection neurons which co-contain the calcium binding protein calbindin. Lesioning of the adult rat striatum by intrastriatal injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinic acid (100 nmol) results in a pattern of striatal neuropathology seven days later that resembles that seen in the Huntington brain. Using this animal model of human Huntington's disease we investigated the effect of daily intrastriatal infusion of the nerve cell survival molecule ActivinA (single bolus dose of 0.73 microg daily for seven days) on the quinolinic acid-induced degeneration of various striatal neuronal phenotypes. By seven days, unilateral intrastriatal infusion of quinolinic acid produced a partial but significant loss (P &lt; 0.01) in the number of striatal neurons immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase (to 51.0+/-5.8% of unlesioned levels), calbindin (to 58.7+/-5.1%), choline acetyltransferase (to 68.6+/-6.1%), NADPH-diaphorase (to 47.4+/-5.4%), parvalbumin (to 58.8+/-4.1%) and calretinin (to 60.6+/-8.6%) in adult rats that were administered intrastriatal phosphate-buffered saline for seven days following quinolinic acid. In contrast, in rats that received intrastriatal recombinant human ActivinA once daily for seven days following quinolinic acid, phenotypic degeneration was significantly attenuated in several populations of striatal neurons. Treatment with ActivinA had the most potent protective effect on the striatal cholinergic interneuron population almost completely preventing the lesion induced decline in choline acetyltransferase expression (to 95.1+/-5.8% of unlesioned levels, P &lt; 0.01). ActivinA also conferred a significant protective effect on parvalbumin (to 87.5+/-7.7%, P &lt; 0.01) and NADPH-diaphorase (to 77.5+/-7.5%, P &lt; 0.01) interneuron populations but failed to prevent the phenotypic degeneration of calretinin neurons (to 56.6+/-5.5%). Glutamate decarboxylase67 and calbindin-staining nerve cells represent largely overlapping populations and both identify striatal GABAergic projection neurons. We found that ActivinA significantly attenuated the loss in the numbers of neurons staining for calbindin (to 79.7+/-6.6%, P &lt; 0.05) but not glutamate decarboxylase67 (to 61.1+/-5.9%) at seven days following quinolinic acid lesioning. Taken together these results suggest that exogenous administration of ActivinA can rescue both striatal interneurons (labelled with choline acetyltransferase, parvalbumin, NADPH-diaphorase) and striatal projection neurons (labelled by calbindin) from excitotoxic lesioning with quinolinic acid. Longer-term studies will be required to determine whether these surviving calbindin-expressing projection neurons recover their ability to express the glutamate decarboxylase67/GABAergic phenotype. These results therefore suggest that treatment with ActivinA may help to prevent the degeneration of vulnerable striatal neuronal populations in Huntington's disease.
As a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease, viral vector-mediated over-expression of striatal L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase was tested in an attempt to facilitate the production of therapeutic levels of dopamine after peripheral L-dihydroxyphenylalanine administration. The results of microdialysis and enzyme activity assays indicate that striatal decarboxylation of peripherally administered L-dihydroxyphenylalanine was enhanced by recombinant adeno-associated virus-mediated gene transfer of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase in unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. This gene transfer-induced increase in striatal decarboxylase activity was shown to remain undiminished over a six-month period and transgene expression was demonstrated to persist for at least one year. Unlike previous approaches involving delivery of either tyrosine hydroxylase, or tyrosine hydroxylase and L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase transgenes together to accomplish unregulated dopamine delivery, the current study proposes a pro-drug strategy (peripheral L-dihydroxyphenylalanine administration after L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase transduction). This strategy for dosage control could potentially allow lowered L-dihydroxyphenylalanine doses and potentially obviate complicated transcriptional regulation paradigms. These data suggest that the use of the non-pathogenic adeno-associated virus to transfer the L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase gene into the striatum of Parkinson's disease patients may be an attractive gene therapy strategy.
A synthetic fragment 31-35 of beta-amyloid peptide was used in cultured cortical neurons to examine whether this smaller sequence could trigger apoptotic degeneration in vitro by using morphological, biochemical and flow-cytometric examinations. The results showed that: (i) neurons treated with fragment 31-35 of beta-amyloid peptide exhibited membrane blebbing, compaction of nuclear chromatin, nuclear shrinkage and nuclear fragmentation; (ii) a typical DNA ladder was revealed by agarose gel electrophoresis following fragment 31-35 of beta-amyloid peptide exposure; (iii) the internucleosome DNA fragmentation was also detected by flow-cytometric examination following fragment 31-35 of beta-amyloid peptide exposure; and (iv) the DNA fragmentation induced by fragment 31-35 of beta-amyloid peptide in the above two examinations could be blocked by co-treatment with aurintricarboxylic acid or actinomycin D. It is suggested that fragment 31-35 of the beta-amyloid peptide may be a shorter sequence of beta-amyloid peptide responsible for triggering an apoptotic process in cultured neurons.
In the present study, we investigated in the human cerebral cortex whether, as in the rat, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons innervate cortical microvessels and nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons and, further, we compared the status of this innervation between aged controls and neuropathologically confirmed cases of Alzheimer's disease. Using immunocytochemistry of choline acetyltransferase coupled to reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry, we show in young human subjects the presence of a cholinergic input to the cortical microcirculation, and of numerous perisomatic and peridendritic contacts between cholinergic nerve terminals and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase neurons. A regional cholinergic denervation of both cortical microvessels and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase neurons was found in Alzheimer's disease patients as compared to aged controls, and it paralleled the loss of total cholinergic nerve terminals in the corresponding areas of the cerebral cortex. The vascular denervation was more severe in the temporal (77%, P &lt; 0.05) than in the frontal (48%, not significant) cortex, and the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase intracortical neurons were similarly deprived of their cholinergic input (P &lt; 0.01) in both regions. Interestingly, a significant increase in luminal diameter (48%, P &lt; 0.01) and area (&gt; 160%, P &lt; 0.01) of perfused microvessels was found in Alzheimer's tissues, possibly a consequence of both loss of neurogenic input and structural changes in blood vessel walls. The data indicate that intracortical microvessels and nitric oxide neurons in Alzheimer's disease are deprived of a cholinergic neurogenic control, a situation which is likely to result in a compromised ability to adapt cortical perfusion to neuronal activation during functional tasks related to cognition, arousal and attention. We conclude that such deficits in neurovascular regulation are likely to be an important pathogenic factor underlying cerebral blood flow dysfunctions in Alzheimer's disease.
In the visual, auditory and somatosensory systems, insight into the synaptic arrangements of specific types of neurons has proven useful in understanding how sensory processing within that system occurs. The neurotransmitter GABA is present in the nucleus of the solitary tract and based on the fact that the vast majority of cells respond to GABA, its agonists and antagonists, and that over 45% of synaptic terminals in the rostral subdivision of the nucleus of the solitary tract are GABA-immunoreactive, GABA is thought to play an important role in gustatory processing. The following study was carried out to establish the distribution of GABA-immunoreactive terminals within the nucleus of the solitary tract. Specifically, the distribution on to physiologically-identified gustatory neurons was determined using post-embedding electron immuno-histochemistry. GABA-immunoreactive terminals synapse with gustatory neuronal somata and all portions of their dendrites, but non-GABAergic terminals synapse only with distal dendrites of the gustatory cells and on to correspondingly small unidentified dendritic profiles in the neuropil. There is a differential distribution of two subtypes of GABA-immunoreactive terminals on to proximal and distal portions of the gustatory neurons as well. Finally, a model for the synaptic arrangements involving gustatory and GABAergic neurons is proposed.
L-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is probably a transmitter of the primary baroreceptor afferents terminating in the nucleus tractus solitarii; L-DOPA functions tonically to activate depressor sites of the caudal ventrolateral medulla, which receives input from the nucleus tractus solitarii [Misu Y. et al. (1996) Prog. Neurobiol. 49, 415-454]. We have attempted to clarify whether or not L-DOPAergic components within the caudal ventrolateral medulla are involved in baroreflex neurotransmission in anesthetized rats. Electrolytic lesions of the right nucleus tractus solitarii (1 mA d.c. for 10 s, 10 days before measurement) selectively decreased by 45% the tissue content of L-DOPA in the dissected ipsilateral caudal ventrolateral medulla. Electrolytic lesions did not decrease dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine levels. During microdialysis of the right caudal ventrolateral medulla, extracellular levels of L-DOPA, norepinephrine, epinephrine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were consistently detectable using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. However, extracellular dopamine levels were lower than the assay limit. Baroreceptor activation by i.v. phenylephrine selectively evoked L-DOPA without increasing the levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. This L-DOPA release was suppressed by acute lesion in the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarii. Intermittent stimulation of the right aortic depressor nerve (20 Hz, 3 V, 0.3 ms duration, for 30 min) repetitively and constantly caused L-DOPA release, hypotension and bradycardia, without increases in levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Local inhibition of L-DOPA synthesis with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (30 microM) infused into the ipsilateral caudal ventrolateral medulla gradually decreased basal levels of L-DOPA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid without decreasing norepinephrine and epinephrine. The inhibition of L-DOPA synthesis interrupted L-DOPA release and decreased by 65% depressor responses elicited by aortic nerve stimulation; however, it produced no effect on bradycardic responses. CoCl2 (119 ng), a mainly presynaptic inhibitory transmission marker, and L-DOPA methyl ester (1 microg), a competitive L-DOPA antagonist, when microinjected into depressor sites of the right caudal ventrolateral medulla, reduced by 60% depressor responses to transient ipsilateral stimulation of the aortic nerve (20 Hz, 3 V, 0.1 ms duration, for 10 s). No changes in bradycardic responses were observed. There may exist an L-DOPAergic relay from the nucleus tractus solitarii to the caudal ventrolateral medulla. L-DOPAergic components in the caudal ventrolateral medulla are involved in baroreflex neurotransmission via a baroreceptor-aortic depressor nerve-nucleus tractus solitarii-caudal ventrolateral medulla relay in the rat.
We have proposed that L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system [Misu Y. et al. (1996) Prog. Neurobiol. 49, 415-454]. Herein, we attempt to clarify whether lesions in the posterior hypothalamic nucleus decrease the tissue content of L-DOPA in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. We also attempt to clarify whether or not endogenous L-DOPA is evoked by electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus. It is possible that evoked L-DOPA functions as a transmitter candidate to activate pressor sites of the rostral ventrolateral medulla in anesthetized rats. Electrolytic lesions were made in the bilateral posterior hypothalamic nucleus by a monopolar direct current of 2 mA for 10 s, 10 days before measurements. The effect of the lesions was to selectively decrease the tissue content of L-DOPA by one-half in the right rostral ventrolateral medulla. Decreases in the amounts of dopamine, noradrenaline or adrenaline were not observed. Decreases were also not evident in the right caudal ventrolateral medulla. During microdialysis of the right rostral ventrolateral medulla, extracellular basal levels of L-DOPA and three types of catecholamine were consistently detectable by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Tetrodotoxin (1 microM) perfused into the right rostral ventrolateral medulla gradually decreased basal levels of L-DOPA by 25%; it decreased basal levels of noradrenaline and adrenaline by 25-30% and dopamine levels by 40%. Intensive electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral posterior hypothalamic nucleus (50 Hz, 0.3 mA, 0.1 ms duration, twice for 5 min at an interval of 5 min) selectively caused the release of L-DOPA in a repetitive and constant manner. The stimulation was accompanied by hypertension and tachycardia. However, catecholamines were not released. Tetrodotoxin suppressed the release of L-DOPA, but partially inhibited hypertension with only a slight inhibition of tachycardia evoked by stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus. L-DOPA methyl ester, a competitive L-DOPA antagonist, was bilaterally microinjected into pressor sites of the rostral ventrolateral medulla at 1.5 microg x 2 and 3 microg x 2. The antagonist dose-dependently and consistently antagonized pressor and tachycardiac responses to mild transient stimulation of the unilateral posterior hypothalamic nucleus (33 Hz, 0.2 mA, 0.1 ms duration, for 10 s). In addition, the antagonist alone (3 microg x 2) elicited hypotension and bradycardia. These results show that an L-DOPAergic relay may project from the posterior hypothalamic nucleus directly to pressor sites of the rostral ventrolateral medulla and/or indirectly to certain neurons near pressor sites in microcircuits of the same region. When released, L-DOPA appears to function tonically to activate pressor sites; it also appears to be involved in the maintenance and regulation of blood pressure and heart rate.
Prepulse inhibition refers to the inhibition by a weak prepulse of the startle response to an intense stimulus. Prepulse inhibition is thought to provide an operational measure of sensorimotor gating, a putative central inhibitory process by which an organism filters information from its environment. Prepulse inhibition deficits are observed in schizophrenia patients and in rats treated with psychotomimetic compounds, such as the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists phencyclidine or dizocilpine maleate. In rats, phencyclidine-induced prepulse inhibition deficits are blocked by clozapine, olanzapine and quetiapine, which are multireceptor antagonists and atypical antipsychotics, or by prazosin, which is a selective alpha1-adrenergic antagonist. The dorsal hippocampus and amygdala are two of the brain regions shown to contribute to the disruption of prepulse inhibition produced by non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists. The present study tested the hypotheses that quetiapine or prazosin would prevent deficits in prepulse inhibition produced by dizocilpine infusion into the dorsal hippocampus or amygdala. In separate groups of rats, either quetiapine (0 or 5.0 mg/kg, s.c.) or prazosin (0 or 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 15 min prior to bilateral infusion of dizocilpine (0 or 6.25 microg/0.5 microl/side) into either the dorsal hippocampus or amygdala. Rats were placed into startle chambers immediately after intracerebral drug infusion and prepulse inhibition was assessed. Confirming previous studies, prepulse inhibition was decreased after either intra-dorsal hippocampus or intra-amygdala infusions of dizocilpine. Both quetiapine and prazosin blocked the prepulse inhibition deficits produced by intracranial dizocilpine administration. Startle reactivity was increased by dizocilpine infusion into either region; these effects were not blocked by either quetiapine or prazosin. These results indicate that non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists may disrupt sensorimotor gating via actions within the dorsal hippocampus or amygdala, and that alpha1-adrenergic receptors distal to these sites might mediate this effect.
Regional cerebral blood flow was measured in six right-handed volunteers using positron emission tomography during tasks involving repetitive self-paced finger tapping at five different frequencies. The contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex, the pre-supplementary motor area and the cingulate motor area showed significant activation during self-paced finger tapping tasks, compared with the resting state. A positive correlation between the regional cerebral blood flow and the movement frequency was found only in the primary sensorimotor cortex. In the pre-supplementary motor area and the cingulate motor area, however, activity increased when the subject employed movement frequencies faster or slower than his own pace. The same tendency was noted with respect to the relative variability of the inter-tapping interval. The results therefore indicate that the activity of the pre-supplementary motor area and the cingulate motor area may well be related to the increased difficulty in motor control rather than to the execution of the movement itself.
The integrity of the prefrontal cortex is critical for the expression of working memory. The prefrontal cortex is innervated by dopaminergic afferents from the ventral tegmental area and glutamatergic afferents from the mediodorsal thalamus. To determine the role of dopaminergic and glutamatergic afferents in the regulation of working memory, rats were trained to perform a spatial delayed alternation task in a T-maze. The microinjection of the ionotropic glutamate antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or 3-(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-propyl-1-phosphonic acid into the prefrontal cortex impaired working memory. Consistent with a role for glutamate receptor activation, microinjecting the GABA(B) agonist baclofen into the mediodorsal thalamus produced a dose-dependent disruption of working memory. In contrast, inhibition of the mesocortical dopamine projection was without effect on working memory. The blockade of D1 and/or D2 dopamine receptors with SCH-23390 and sulpiride was without effect on working memory. Likewise, the microinjection of baclofen into the ventral tegmental area did not impair working memory. However, stimulating mu-opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area with [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin produced a dose-dependent impairment of working memory that was reversed by blocking D1 dopamine receptors with SCH-23390 in the prefrontal cortex. These data demonstrate that increased dopamine tone or reduced glutamate tone in the prefrontal cortex disrupts working memory in a spatial delayed alternation task.
The adult brain contains a large population of oligodendrocyte precursor cells that can be identified using antibodies against the NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. The functions of this newly recognized class of glial cells in the normal or pathological brain are not well understood. To begin to elucidate these functions, we have examined the morphology and distribution of oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the hippocampus and neocortex of normal and kainate-lesioned rats by anti-NG2 immunocytochemistry using light and electron microscopy. Large numbers of oligodendrocyte precursor cells were present in all layers of the neocortex and hippocampus. These cells differed in their morphology from astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia. The processes of these cells often surrounded unlabeled areas of clear cytoplasm. At the electron microscopic level, some of the profiles that were enclosed by oligodendrocyte precursor cell processes contained synaptic vesicles. Other enclosed profiles were dendrites or dendritic spines. NG2-immunopositive processes were also observed to interpose between axon terminals containing round vesicles and dendrites with thick postsynaptic densities. After kainate injection, the NG2-positive oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the hippocampus displayed reactive changes characterized by swollen cell bodies, an increased number of small, filopodial-like processes, and higher levels of immunodetectable NG2. Both viable and degenerating oligodendrocyte precursor cells were observed with electron microscopy. These observations emphasize the dynamic nature of the oligodendrocyte precursor cell and suggest that, in addition to participating in the glial reactions to excitotoxic damage, oligodendrocyte precursor cells may regulate the stability, structure and function of synapses in the normal central nervous system.
Studies were conducted to characterize a chronic epileptic condition that follows recurrent seizures induced by intrahippocampal tetanus toxin injection in infancy. Wistar rat pups received a single injection of tetanus toxin in the right CA3 region on postnatal day 10. Animals were monitored for epileptiform activity by video electroencephalographic or visual observation during the following three to five days. Repeat evaluation six months later demonstrated interictal discharges in 79% (11 of 14) and electrographic seizures in 42% (six of 14) of adult rats with tetanus toxin-induced seizures in infancy. Five of the animals had interictal activity which occurred focally in either the left (n = 2) or right (n = 3) hippocampus. One animal had focal interictal activity independently in these regions and in the left and right cortical regions. The remaining five animals had interictal activity in the hippocampus and synchronously in the ipsilateral cortex or the contralateral hippocampus. Electrographic seizures were focal (nine of 14) or bilateral (five of 14) in onset. The behaviors that accompanied these seizures were quite variable. Clonic face and forelimb movements were observed in some animals. However, a significant portion of rats had electrographic seizures with no associated behavioral change. Timm staining was performed on hippocampal sections from experimental and control animals. There was a significantly greater Timm score (aberrant Timm granules) in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in tetanus toxin-treated rats than in control rats. Our findings suggest that intrahippocampal tetanus toxin injection in infant rats results in a chronic focal epilepsy that persists for at least six months and is associated with aberrant mossy fiber sprouting in the dentate gyrus. The model described here contributes significantly to the evidence for chronic effects of recurrent seizures in early life, and provides a model for investigation of the molecular and cellular events that contribute to the development of chronic epilepsy.
Depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition is a transient decrease in GABAergic input to a hippocampal pyramidal cell following a brief depolarization of that cell. When recorded under whole-cell voltage clamp, monosynaptic, bicuculline-sensitive, GABA(A)-mediated currents are suppressed for a period lasting up to 1 min in response to a retrograde signal released by the pyramidal cell. The depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition process affects spontaneous, action-potential-dependent inhibitory postsynaptic currents, but suppression of these currents is seldom observed in the absence of carbachol, a cholinergic agonist. Because of the central roles played by cholinergic and GABAergic transmission in the regulation of hippocampal rhythmic activity, it will be important to understand the mechanism by which carbachol facilitates the appearance of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition. As preliminary steps in the investigation of cholinergic actions on depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition, it is necessary to determine which cholinergic receptors are involved and the degree to which activation of these receptors is required for depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition. Nicotine did not mimic the effects of carbachol, and mecamylamine, a nicotinic receptor antagonist, did not block them. In contrast, the actions of carbachol were abolished by atropine and other muscarinic receptor antagonists. The actions of antagonists with relative selectivities for various subtypes of muscarinic receptors [4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide, pirenzepine, 11-([2-1-piperidinyl]acetyl)-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido[2,3-b][1,4]benzod iaz epine-6-one] suggested that cholinergic facilitation of the occurrence of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition is likely to be mediated through muscarinic receptors of the M1 or M3 rather than M2 subtype. Despite its potent facilitation of the occurrence of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition, muscarinic stimulation was not required for expression of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition. Occasionally, depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents occurred in the absence of carbachol and could not be blocked by atropine, and hence was not likely to be mediated by endogenous acetylcholine. Also, depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition of monosynaptically evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents occurred without carbachol perfusion, and this was also insensitive to atropine. Therefore, the mechanism of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition is not dependent on muscarinic receptor activation. Nevertheless, in vivo, septal cholinergic input to the hippocampus may provide the necessary activation of interneurons to allow depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition to occur.
Experiments were carried out to investigate the functional and anatomical relationships between neuronal elements and cerebral microvessels in 300-350-microm thick coronal hippocampal slices maintained at 33-35 degrees C, obtained from 150-200 g male Wistar rats. Cerebral arterioles (9-22 microm in diameter) were visualized in situ and pre-constricted by 22.0+/-6.6% by the addition of the thromboxane A2 agonist U46619 (75 nM), to the bathing medium. The glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.01-1 mM) produced a dose-related increase in luminal diameter of pre-constricted vessels. In the presence of 4 microM haemoglobin to scavenge nitric oxide from the extravascular environment of the slice, the increase in diameter evoked by 0.1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate was significantly reduced from 17.5+/-4.6% to 4.8+/-1.7% indicating that N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced vasodilatation of cerebral microvessels is mediated via a mechanism which involves neuronally-derived nitric oxide. In a parallel anatomical study, beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent diaphorase staining was used to reveal the enzyme nitric oxide synthase in vascular endothelium and neurons in slices. A small subpopulation (&lt; 11 cells per slice) of darkly-stained multipolar neurons, 21-32 microm in diameter was observed to give rise to a dense network of fine diaphorase-reactive nerve fibres that ramified throughout the whole of the hippocampus and appeared to come into close apposition with arterioles. Morphometric analysis of the relationship between cerebral microvessels, beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, reduced form-dependent diaphorase-reactive neuronal elements and individual pyramidal layer neurons, identified by filling with biocytin, revealed that for a given point on a pyramidal layer neuron, the proximity of the nearest diaphorase-reactive nerve fibre was less than 10 microm, whilst the distance to the nearest arteriole (the smallest functional unit for controlling blood flow) was in excess of 70 microm. Such a distance would probably preclude diffusion of vasoactive metabolites in effective concentrations from the area of increased neuronal activity. We therefore propose that the diaphorase-reactive nerve network constitutes the functional link. It is possible that during periods of increased neuronal activity, spillover of glutamate from synapses may activate the diaphorase-reactive network. Release of nitric oxide from the network in the vicinity of local cerebral arterioles may then produce relaxation of the vascular smooth muscle, enabling increased blood flow into the capillary network supplying the region of increased metabolic activity. This study has shown that the process whereby increases in neuronal activity elicit a local change in cerebral blood flow remains functionally intact in hippocampal slice preparations. Nitric oxide of neuronal origin appears to be involved in mediating the coupling between neurons and cerebral arterioles. Stereological analysis of the relationship between neuronal and vascular elements within hippocampal slices suggested that a small subpopulation of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons which give rise to a diffuse network of fine nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve fibres that lie in close apposition to cerebral arterioles may provide the anatomical substrate for coupling of blood flow to metabolism.
Changes in interneuron distribution and excitatory connectivity have been investigated in animals which had survived 12-14 months after complete forebrain ischemia, induced by four-vessel occlusion. Anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin revealed massive Schaffer collateral input even to those regions of the CA1 subfield where hardly any surviving pyramidal cells were found. Boutons of these Schaffer collaterals formed conventional synaptic contacts on dendritic spines and shafts, many of which likely belong to interneurons. Mossy fibres survived the ischemic challenge, however, large mossy terminals showed altered morphology, namely, the number of filopodiae on these terminals decreased significantly. The entorhinal input to the hippocampus did not show any morphological alterations. The distribution of interneurons was investigated by neurochemical markers known to label functionally distinct GABAergic cell populations. In the hilus, spiny interneurons showed a profound decrease in number. This phenomenon was not as obvious in CA3, but the spiny metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-positive non-pyramidal cells, some of which contain calretinin or substance P receptor, disappeared from stratum lucidum of this area. In the CA1 region, somatostatin immunoreactivity disappeared from stratum oriens/lacunosum-moleculare-associated cells, while in metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-stained sections these cells seemed unaffected in number. Other interneurons did not show an obvious decrease in number. In stratum radiatum of the CA1 subfield, some interneuron types had altered morphology: the substance P receptor-positive dendrites lost their characteristic radial orientation, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-expressing cells became extremely spiny. The loss of inhibitory interneurons at the first two stages of the trisynaptic loop coupled with a well-preserved excitatory connectivity among the subfields suggests that hyperexcitability in the surviving dentate gyrus and CA3 may persist even a year after the ischemic impact. The dorsal CA1 region is lost; nevertheless hyperactivity, if it occurs, may have a route to leave the hippocampus via the longitudinally extensive axon collaterals of CA3 pyramidal cells, which may activate the subiculum and entorhinal cortex with a relay in the surviving ventral hippocampal CA1 region.
CA1 is the major output area for the hippocampus, and current evidence shows that it is excited primarily from ipsilateral and contralateral CA3 pyramidal cells in the rat. Direct connections from the midline thalamic nuclei to the hippocampus have been described anatomically, but the physiological role of these connections has not been reported until the recent observation that these inputs may have a mild excitatory effect (subthreshold for population spikes). In this study, we report a more powerful excitatory effect of thalamic stimulation on the response of the CA1 neurons in the urethane-anesthetized rat. Electrical stimulation to the midline thalamus induced responses similar to responses from stimulation of the contralateral hippocampus (CA3), with well-developed field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and large population spikes. The latency of the CA1 response suggested that the thalamic connection was monosynaptic, and there was a laminar CA1 response profile that depended on the site of stimulation (contralateral CA3 or thalamus). In an initial examination of possible differences in the physiological effects of these two pathways on the CA1 region, we tested both sites for long-term potentiation of CA1, for the effects of repetitive stimulation on CA1 responses (e.g., possible augmenting responses) and for the effect of paired-pulse stimulation. In these three measures, there were clear and statistically significant differences between the effects of CA3 and thalamic stimulation on CA1 responses. This study demonstrates that the well-described thalamic connection to the hippocampus allows for the direct and powerful excitation of the CA1 region. This thalamohippocampal connection bypasses the trisynaptic/commissural pathway that has been thought to be the exclusive excitatory drive to CA1. In addition, preliminary data indicate that the thalamus and CA3 inputs have different physiological effects on CA1 pyramidal cells.
The effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists against apoptosis induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation or colchicine were studied in the primary cultures of mature cerebellar granule cells. Oxygen-glucose deprivation (90 min) or addition of colchicine (1 microM) resulted in neuronal damage as revealed by Trypan Blue assay 12 h later. Further analysis demonstrated that the cells exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation or colchicine exhibit typical features of apoptosis: internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, condensation and fragmentation of chromatin and typical DNA ladder on agarose gel electrophoresis. Metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, (1S,3R)-1-aminocycloheptane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, acting at group I and II receptors, and selective agonist, (2S,1'R,2R',3R')-2(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine, acting at group II receptors, added to cells recovering from oxygen-glucose deprivation exerted neuroprotective action against oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced apoptosis. Similar neuroprotective effects of metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists were observed against colchicine-induced apoptosis. The results thereby provide evidence that metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists have therapeutic potential in the treatment of pathologies associated with increased neuronal apoptosis. The selective protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide (100 nM) abolished the neuroprotective action of (1S,3R)-1-aminocycloheptane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, whereas the activator of adenylyl cyclase forskolin (10 microM) abolished the neuroprotective action of (2S,1'R,2R',3R')-2(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (30 microM) against colchicine-induced apoptosis. It is concluded that both phosphoinositide hydrolysis with consequent activation of protein kinase C and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase seem to contribute to the neuroprotective action of metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists against neuronal apoptosis in the primary culture of cerebellar granule cells.
Recent reports have outlined that cerebellar long-term depression requires the activation of subtype 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, since long-term depression is impaired in subtype 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1) knockout mice. In order to better define the role of mGluR1-activated signal transduction pathways, we attempted to rescue cerebellar long-term depression in mGluR1 knockout mice by direct activation of subsequent intracellular cascades. The present results demonstrate that the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate signal transduction pathway remains functional in mGluR1 knockout mice, that calcium release from internal stores evoked by the combined photolytic release of inositol- 1,4,5-trisphosphate/pairing protocol is sufficient to rescue long-term depression in these mutants, and that this long-term depression is sensitive to a protein kinase C inhibitor. Therefore, our results provide compelling evidence that the impairment of long-term depression observed in mGluR1 knockout mice is not a consequence of developmental abnormalities, but is directly due to mGluR1 gene inactivation.
Sympathetic ganglia in the adult rat contain various populations of nerve cells which demonstrate plasticity with respect to their transmitter phenotype. The plasticity of the neuronal cell bodies and of the small intensely fluorescent cells in the superior cervical and stellate ganglia in response to hypoxia in vivo (10% O2 for seven days) was assessed by studying the expression of catecholamines and vasoactive intestinal peptide. The levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity were determined. In addition, the density of the immunohistochemical staining of cells for tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide was evaluated. In the intact superior cervical ganglion, hypoxia increased the dopamine level as well as the density of small intensely fluorescent cells immunolabelled for tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide. In the axotomized ganglion, hypoxia elicited a twofold rise in the level of the vasoactive intestinal peptide as well as enhancing the density of neuronal cell bodies immunostained for this peptide. Thus, the effect of hypoxia on the expression of vasoactive intestinal peptide expression in neurons was dependent on neural interactions. In the intact stellate ganglion, hypoxia alone induced a 1.5-fold increase in the density of neuronal cell bodies immunostained for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Thus, ganglia-specific factors appeared to play a role in determining changes in neuronal phenotype in response to hypoxia. The present study provides evidence for the involvement of dopamine and vasoactive intestinal peptide in ganglionic responses to long-term hypoxia as well as for differential responses by the two ganglionic cell populations, i.e. neuronal cell bodies and small intensely fluorescent cells. Changes in the expression of the vasoactive intestinal peptide during long-term hypoxia may be of energetic, trophic and/or synaptic significance. Hypoxia may be considered to be a vasoactive intestinal peptide-inducing factor in sympathetic ganglia.
Glutamate and the selective agonists at ionotropic glutamate receptors N-methyl-D-aspartate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) and kainate release ATP from superfused primary cultures of rat cortical astrocytes. The mechanism of this release was investigated. The release of ATP elicited by N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate was abolished or greatly reduced in the absence of external calcium as well as in the presence of cadmium (1 mM) and nicardipine (10 microM). The release of ATP elicited by AMPA, in contrast, was not changed by these interventions. The calcium ionophore ionomycin (5 microM) released ATP in the presence but not in the absence of external calcium. No release was obtained with alpha-latrotoxin. Of several compounds tested as potential blockers of ATP transporters or channels only glibenclamide (100 microM) and diphenylamine-2-carboxylate (500 microM), which block the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, caused any change: both reduced the effect of AMPA without changing the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate and (only glibenclamide tested) kainate. Lithium (1 mM) abolished the release of ATP evoked by glutamate and AMPA and significantly reduced the release evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate. The three glutamate receptor agonists did not increase the release of lactate dehydrogenase. The results confirm the previous observation that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate, AMPA and kainate receptors induces release of ATP from astrocytes in culture. Two different mechanisms seem to be involved. The N-methyl-D-aspartate- and kainate-induced release of ATP requires an influx of calcium, is not due to neuron-like exocytosis, is not mediated by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator or a mechanism regulated by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, and is reduced (by an unknown mechanism) but not abolished by lithium. The AMPA-induced release does not require extracellular calcium, may be mediated by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator or a mechanism regulated by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, and is abolished (by an unknown mechanism) by lithium. The ability of astrocytes to both release ATP and respond to ATP suggests that ATP may act as an autocrine or paracrine messenger between these glial cells.
This study was performed to investigate the distribution of chromogranin B in the human central nervous system. We used an antiserum raised against a synthetic peptide (PE-11) present in the chromogranin B molecule. PE-11-like immunoreactivity was characterized by molecular size exclusion and reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Its localization was studied using immunocytochemistry. Only the free peptide and an N-terminally elongated peptide were detected by molecular size exclusion high-performance liquid chromatography, indicating that proteolytic processing of chromogranin B is quite extensive. PE-11-like immunoreactivity was present in differently shaped fibers, varicosities and neurons, but not in glial cells. Its density varied throughout the brain. An especially high density was observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central and cortical nuclei of the amygdala, the hypothalamus, the hippocampus, the raphe complex, the nucleus interpeduncularis, the nucleus of the solitary tract, and laminae I and II of the spinal cord. This study demonstrates a significant processing of chromogranin B and indicates that chromogranin B constitutes a precursor for smaller peptides which are derived by endoproteolytic processing. It provides the neuroanatomical basis to investigate the chromogranin B molecule as a widespread component of large dense-core vesicles in the human central nervous system.
We report that a small population of neurons expresses both choline acetyltransferase and classical estrogen receptor immunoreactivity and they are found primarily in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In short-term ovariectomized ageing mice (24 months, n = 5) there were 41.0 +/- 4.1% fewer of these double-labeled cells than in young (five months, n = 5) short-term ovariectomized C57BL/6J mice. To study cholinergic neuron estrogen responsiveness, young mice (n = 8) were ovariectomized at puberty (five weeks). After three months half of the mice (n = 4) were given physiological levels of 17beta estradiol for 10 days. Bed nucleus double-labeled neurons increased by 32.9% (P &lt; or = 0.003) in the young mice given estrogen. In a gel shift assay, double-stranded oligonucleotides with putative estrogen response elements from the choline acetyltransferase gene were used as competitors against estrogen receptor binding to consensus estrogen response elements. A sequence with 60% homology to the vitellogenin estrogen response element was found to compete at 500- and 1000-fold excess. Young mice (five months) with ovaries demonstrated significantly (P &lt; or = 0.04) better performance in the spontaneous alternation T-maze test than did old (19 month) mice with ovaries (young = 66.3 +/- 3.3% correct choices; vs old = 55.0 +/- 4.0% in old mice with ovaries). Young mice (five months old), ovariectomized for one month and treated with estrogen, showed significantly more spontaneous alternation than ovariectomized controls (69.1 +/- 2.8% vs 58.3 +/- 3.9%; P &lt; or = 0.04). Estrogen also increased spontaneous alternation in old, short-term ovariectomized mice (61.5 +/- 2.7% vs 48 +/- 3.3%; P &lt; or = 0.005). In either young or old ovariectomized mice, estrogen increased spontaneous alternation to levels seen in young animals with ovaries. Estrogen increases the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and choline acetyltransferase/estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cells in old or young mice lacking estrogen, and enhances working memory in old or young mice lacking estrogen. Our data suggest that estrogen may act at the level of the choline acetyltransferase gene, but in view of the limited distribution of cholinergic cells expressing the classical estrogen receptor, it is unlikely that these cells can account for a memory enhancing effect of estrogen replacement.
The aim of the present study was to determine, at the light microscopic level, whether the serotonergic fibers originating from the dorsal raphe nucleus (B7), median raphe nucleus (B8) and ventral tegmentum (B9) make putative synaptic contacts with cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and substantia innominata. For this purpose, we utilized: (i) the anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin combined with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry; (ii) choline acetyltransferase/tryptophan hydroxylase double immunohistochemistry; and (iii) the FluoroGold retrograde tracer technique combined with tryptophan hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Following iontophoretic injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in the dorsal raphe nucleus, labeling was observed primarily in the ventral aspects of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and in the intermediate region of the substantia innominata. When Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was combined with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry, a close association between the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-positive fibers and cholinergic neurons was observed, even though the majority of the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-immunoreactive terminals seemed to establish contact with non-cholinergic elements. Following Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injection in the median raphe nucleus, very few labeled fibers with no evident close contact with nucleus basalis magnocellularis and substantia innominata cholinergic neurons were observed. After tryptophan hydroxylase/choline acetyltransferase double immunohistochemistry, a plexus of serotonergic (tryptophan hydroxylase-positive) fibers in the vicinity of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons of the substantia innominata and nucleus basalis magnocellularis was observed, and some serotonergic terminals have been shown to come into very close contact with the cholinergic cells. Most of the tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals seem to establish contacts with non-cholinergic cells. Following FluoroGold injection in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and substantia innominata, the majority of retrogradely labeled neurons was observed mainly in the ventromedial cell group of the dorsal raphe nucleus. In this area, a minority of the FluoroGold-positive neurons was tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactive. These findings show that serotonergic terminals, identified in very close association with the cholinergic neurons in the substantia innominata and nucleus basalis magnocellularis, derive primarily from the B7 serotonergic cell group of the dorsal raphe nucleus, and provide the neuroanatomical evidence for a direct functional interaction between these two neurotransmitter systems in the basal forebrain.
Experiments were undertaken to examine the role of ovarian steroids in peripartum programming of oxytocin sensitivity of limbic neurons implicated in oxytocin-induced facilitation of the milk-ejection reflex. In vivo recordings of neurons in the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis and ventrolateral septum of pre-parturient rats which had undergone prior ovariectomy and hysterectomy showed that oestradiol significantly increased the excitatory responses of bed nuclei/ventrolateral septum neurons to intracerebroventricular oxytocin, compared to oil-treated controls. Oestradiol also increased the excitation of bed nuclei neurons to the selective oxytocin agonist, [Thr4,Gly7]oxytocin in brain slices from steroid pre-treated ovariectomized hysterectomized rats, so that both the proportion of responsive neurons, and the magnitude of their responses were significantly increased. Parallel autoradiographic studies showed that oxytocin binding in the medial bed nuclei and ventrolateral septum was selectively increased following oestradiol treatment. Progesterone pre-treatment had no effect on either oxytocin sensitivity of bed nuclei/ventrolateral septum neurons recorded in vivo, or on oxytocin binding in the medial bed nuclei and ventrolateral septum, compared to oil-treated controls. Mean responses to [Thr4,Gly7]oxytocin in bed nuclei neurons recorded in slices from progesterone-treated rats were larger than controls, but this effect was highly variable. These results demonstrate that oestradiol greatly enhances oxytocin receptor expression and sensitivity of bed nuclei/ventrolateral septum neurons to oxytocin over the peripartum period, consistent with involvement of this steroid in enhancing oxytocin regulation of neuroendocrine and behavioural adaptations required for lactation.
The present studies used anatomical tract-tracing techniques to delineate the organization of pathways linking the medial preoptic area and the ventral medulla, two key regions involved in neuroendocrine, autonomic and sensory regulation. Wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections into the ventromedial medulla retrogradely labeled a large number of neurons in the medial preoptic area, including both the median and medial preoptic nuclei. The termination pattern of preoptic projections to the medulla was mapped using the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextran amine. Tracer injections into the preoptic area produced a dense plexus of labeled fibers and terminals in the ventromedial and ventrolateral pons and medulla. Within the caudal pons/rostral medulla, medial preoptic projections terminated heavily in the nucleus raphe magnus; strong anterograde labeling was also present in the pontine reticular field. At mid-medullary levels, labeled fibers focally targeted the nucleus paragigantocellularis, in addition to the heavy fiber labeling present in the midline raphe nuclei. By contrast, very little labeling was observed in the caudal third of the medulla. Experiments were also conducted to map the distribution of ventral pontine and medullary neurons that project to the medial preoptic area. Wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections in the preoptic area retrogradely labeled a significant population of neurons in the ventromedial and ventrolateral medulla. Ascending projections from the medulla to the preoptic area were organized along rostral-caudal, medial-lateral gradients. In the caudal pons/rostral medulla, retrogradely labeled cells were aggregated along the midline raphe nuclei; no retrograde labeling was present laterally at this level. By contrast, in the caudal half of the medulla, cells retrogradely labeled from the medial preoptic area were concentrated as a discrete zone dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus; labeled cells were not present in the ventromedial medulla at this level. The present findings suggest that the medial preoptic area and ventral midline raphe nuclei share reciprocal connections that are organized in a highly symmetrical fashion. By contrast, preoptic-lateral medullary pathways are not reciprocal. These preoptic-brainstem circuits may participate in antinociceptive, autonomic and reproductive behaviors.
Innervation of diencephalic neurons producing melanin-concentrating hormone by choline acetyltransferase-containing axons was examined using double immunohistochemistry. In the rostromedial zona incerta and perifornical regions of the lateral hypothalamic area, many choline acetyltransferase-positive fibers were detected in the immediate vicinity of melanin-concentrating hormone perikarya and their proximal dendrites. Putative contact sites were less abundant in the far lateral hypothalamus, and only scattered close to the third ventricle. After injections of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold, most of these projections appeared to originate in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. Finally, to determine the putative effect of acetylcholine on the melanin-concentrating hormone neuron population, the cholinergic agonist carbachol was added to the medium of hypothalamic slices in culture. Using competitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, carbachol was found to induce a rapid increase in the melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA expression. This response was abolished by both atropine, a muscarinic antagonist, and hexamethonium, a nicotinic antagonist. Thus, the bulk of these results indicates that the diencephalic melanin-concentrating hormone neurons are targeted by activating ascending cholinergic projections.
Subnuclear localization of neurokinin B receptor (NK3) in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus was immunohistochemically investigated in the rat. In the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, intense neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity was found in the posterior magnocellular part, moderate to weak neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity was seen in the other parts. In the supraoptic nucleus, intense neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity was distributed in its principal part, and a few neurons with neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity were found in the retrochiasmatic part. Co-localization of neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity with vasopressin-like immunoreactivity was examined through serial adjacent sections. Neurons with both neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity and vasopressin-like immunoreactivity were primarily found in the supraoptic nucleus and posterior magnocellular part of the pavaventricular nucleus. A small number of neurons with neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactivity and vasopressin-like immunoreactivity were also seen in the circular nucleus and the region surrounding blood vessel in the anterior hypothalamus. Many neurokinin B receptor-containing neurons in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, as well as in circular nucleus and the region surrounding the blood vessel, expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity after intravenous injection of hypertonic saline. The present study demonstrated that a large proportion of neurokinin B receptor-like immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic and supraoptic nuclei contained vasopressin-like immunoreactivity, and expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity after intravenous administration of hypertonic saline. The results suggest that neurokinin B receptor in the two nuclei may be involved in modulation of the release of vasopressin when the internal environment is disturbed.
Endothelins, due to their potent vasoactivity and mitogenicity, appear to play an important role in the brain, where all components of the endothelin system, peptides, receptors and converting enzyme, are expressed. To further elucidate the role of the cerebral endothelin system, astrocytes and cerebral vessels from sl/sl rats, devoid of functional endothelin B receptors, have been employed. Astrocytes from sl/sl rats display the following abnormalities as compared to wild-type (+/+) cells: (i) elevated basal extracellular endothelin-1 levels; (ii) exclusive presence of functional endothelin A receptors; (iii) increased extracellular endothelin-1 levels upon endothelin A receptor blockade; (iv) augmented basal endothelin-converting enzyme activity; (v) altered calcium response to endothelin-1. The basilar artery of sl/sl rats shows an enhanced constricting response to endothelin-1 and fails to dilate in response to endothelin-3, shifting the endothelin vasomotor balance to constriction. In conclusion, endothelin B receptors may be essential for restricting extracellular endothelin-1 levels in the brain, as well as for a balanced cerebral vasomotor action of endothelins.
RNA was previously shown to be transported into both dendritic and axonal compartments of nerve cells, presumably involving a ribonucleoprotein particle. In order to reveal potential mechanisms of transport we investigated the axonal transport of the major vault protein of the electric ray Torpedo marmorata. This protein is the major protein component of a ribonucleoprotein particle (vault) carrying a non-translatable RNA and has a wide distribution in the animal kingdom. It is highly enriched in the cholinergic electromotor neurons and similar in size to synaptic vesicles. The axonal transport of vaults was investigated by immunofluorescence, using the anti-vault protein antibody as marker, and cytofluorimetric scanning, and was compared to that of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein SV2 and of the beta-subunit of the F1-ATPase as a marker for mitochondria. Following a crush significant axonal accumulation of SV2 proximal to the crush could first be observed after 1 h, that of mitochondria after 3 h and that of vaults after 6 h, although weekly fluorescent traces of accumulations of vault protein were observed in the confocal microscope as early as 3 h. Within the time-period investigated (up to 72 h) the accumulation of all markers increased continuously. Retrograde accumulations also occurred, and the immunofluorescence for the retrograde component, indicating recycling, was weaker than that for the anterograde component, suggesting that more than half of the vaults are degraded within the nerve terminal. High resolution immunofluorescence revealed a granular structure-in accordance with the biochemical characteristics of vaults. Of interest was the observation that the increase of vault immunoreactivity proximal to the crush accelerated with time after crushing, while that of SV2-containing particles appeared to decelerate, indicating that the crush procedure with time may have induced perikaryal alterations in the production and subsequent export to the axon of synaptic vesicles and vault protein. Our data show that ribonucleoprotein-immunoreactive particles can be actively transported within axons in situ from the soma to the nerve terminal and back. The results suggest that the transport of vaults is driven by fast axonal transport motors like the SV2-containing vesicles and mitochondria. Vaults exhibit an anterograde and a retrograde transport component, similar to that observed for the vesicular organelles carrying SV2 and for mitochondria. Although the function of vaults is still unknown studies of the axonal transport of this organelle may reveal insights into the mechanisms of cellular transport of ribonucleoprotein particles in general.
Nerve growth factor-inducible B is a closely related member of the steroid-thyroid hormone receptor family of ligand-activated transcription factor. Recent evidence suggests a close relationship between nerve growth factor-inducible B and the dopamine system. Basal expression of messenger RNA for nerve growth factor-inducible B is relatively high in the striatum. The aims of the present study were: (i) to study the basal distribution and the modulation of striatal nerve growth factor-inducible B messenger RNA expression by dopamine and serotonin agonists, and (ii) to investigate the effects of combined administration of dopamine (D) and serotonin (5-HT) agonists. First, we investigated the effects of SKF38393 (D1), quinpirole (D2), 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylaminotetralin) (5-HT1A) and 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (5-HT2A/2C) administered alone on striatal nerve growth factor-inducible B messenger RNA expression. In a second series of experiments, the effects of a combined administration of dopamine D1 and serotonin 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C agonists were studied. The goal of the last series of experiments was to determine the effects of a combined administration of the dopamine D2 agonist and either serotonin 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C agonists. Our results show that: (i) striatal nerve growth factor-inducible B messenger RNA expression exhibited a lateral-medial gradient in drug-naive rats, (ii) quinpirole and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylaminotetralin) administered alone induced a significant decrease in striatal nerve growth factor-inducible B messenger RNA expression while 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane significantly increased it, (iii) complex interactions were found when dopamine D1 and serotonin 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C agonists were administered in combination, and (iv) combined administration of quinpirole and 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane resulted in a significant decrease in nerve growth factor-inducible B expression. Taken together, these results demonstrate that striatal nerve growth factor-inducible B messenger RNA expression can be modulated by both dopamine and serotonin agonists. They also point out the existence of complex interactions between dopamine and serotonin in regard to striatal expression of the immediate-early transcription factor nerve growth factor-inducible B.
The insulin-like growth factors-I and -II have neurotrophic properties and act through specific membrane receptors. High levels of binding sites for these growth factors are distributed discretely throughout the brain, being concentrated in the hippocampal formation. Functionally, the insulin-like growth factors, in addition to their growth-promoting actions, are considered to play important roles in normal cell functions, as well as in response to pharmacological or surgical manipulations. In adult rats, we have previously shown that systemic injection of kainate produces an overall decrease, in a time-dependent manner, in insulin-like growth factor-I and -II receptor binding sites in the hippocampus [Kar S. et al. (1997) Neuroscience 80, 1041-1055]. Given the evidence that insulin-like growth factors play a critical role during the early stages of brain development, the present study is a logical extension of this earlier report and established the effect of neonatal kainate injection on the developmental profile of insulin-like growth factor receptors. We have evaluated the time-course alteration of these receptors following systemic injection of kainate to newborn rats. After injection of a sublethal dose of kainate (5 mg/kg, i.p.) to postnatal one-day-old pups, [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I, [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II and [125I]insulin binding sites were studied at different postnatal days (7, 14, 21, 28 and 35) using receptor autoradiography. In the developing hippocampus, insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin binding sites are concentrated primarily in the dentate gyrus and the CA2/CA3 subfields, whereas insulin-like growth factor-II binding is discretely localized to the pyramidal layer and the granular layer of the dentate gyrus. Following kainate injection, we observed a slight increase in insulin-like growth factor-I binding sites in given hippocampal subfields starting at postnatal day 14, being significant at day 21. At later days, a progressive decrease was noted. This transient increase may represent an attempt for neuronal plasticity by up-regulating receptor levels. In contrast, insulin-like growth factor-II and insulin receptor binding sites are found to be decreased in various regions of the hippocampus in kainate-treated pups. Taken together, these results provide further evidence for the existence and differential alterations of insulin-like growth factor-I, insulin-like growth factor-II and insulin receptors in the developing rat hippocampus following kainate-induced lesion, suggesting possible involvement of these growth factors in brain plasticity.
We have examined by immunoassay and immunohistochemistry, the expression of nerve growth factor in the rat hippocampus, one to 28 days after transient forebrain ischemia. In the CA1 area, the overall level of nerve growth factor expression remained constant over the first three days of reperfusion while it increased by about 45% of control levels after longer postischemic periods. In contrast, a slight decrease in nerve growth factor levels, which was most prominent at three days postlesion, was observed in the other hippocampal regions. Immunohistochemical analysis of the distribution of nerve growth factor showed that its expression was up-regulated in astrocytes but not in microglia of the postischemic CA1 region and that the intensity and temporal profile of the changes in nerve growth factor immunostaining in these cells, was consistent with that observed in the immunoassay. Interestingly, the regulation of the nerve growth factor expression in reactive astrocytes of the postischemic CA1 area closely parallels that of kainate receptor subunits GluR5-7, raising the possibility of a cause-effect relationship. These results indicate that after ischemia nerve growth factor expression is up-regulated in reactive astrocytes suggesting that these cells may contribute to rescuing damaged neurons by means of increasing nerve growth factor production.
Neurotrophins are known to be involved in experience-dependent plasticity of the visual cortex. Here, we have characterized in detail the effects of intraventricular nerve growth factor infusion in monocularly deprived rats by using immunostaining for the immediate-early gene product Zif268 as a marker of functional activity with cellular resolution. We have taken advantage of the rapid regulation of Zif268 by visual input to reveal the cortical units that are responsive to the deprived eye after a period of monocular deprivation. We found that responses to the deprived eye were significantly preserved in the cortex of monocularly deprived rats infused with nerve growth factor. The effects of nerve growth factor were greater for cortical cells located in deep layers and with more peripheral receptive fields. Results from Zif268 staining correlated very well with those obtained by single-cell recordings from the visual cortex. Our results demonstrate that exogenous nerve growth factor preserves the functional input from the deprived eye, enabling cortical neurons to activate immediate-early gene expression in response to stimulation of the deprived eye. Furthermore, we show that the intraventricular infusion of nerve growth factor differentially affects the ocular dominance of cells at various depths and eccentricities in the developing cortex.
A role for apolipoprotein E is implicated in regeneration of synaptic circuitry after neural injury. The in vitro mouse organotypic hippocampal slice culture system shows Timm's stained mossy fiber sprouting into the dentate gyrus molecular layer in response to deafferentation of the entorhinal cortex. We show that cultures derived from apolipoprotein E knockout mice are defective in this sprouting response; specifically, they show no sprouting in the dorsal region of the dentate gyrus, yet retain sprouting in the ventral region. Dorsal but not ventral sprouting in cultures from C57B1/6J mice is increased 75% by treatment with 100 pM 17beta-estradiol; this response is blocked by both progesterone and tamoxifen. These results show that neuronal sprouting is increased by estrogen in the same region where sprouting is dependent on apolipoprotein E. Sprouting may be stimulated by estrogen through its up-regulation of apolipoprotein E expression leading to increased recycling of membrane lipids for use by sprouting neurons. Estrogen and apolipoprotein E may therefore interact in their modulation of both Alzheimer's disease risk and recovery from CNS injury.
The distribution of prepronociceptin messenger RNA, the recently identified endogenous ligand of the ORL1 receptor (opioid receptor-like-1), has been studied in the adult mouse central nervous system using in situ hybridization. Prepronociceptin is a new peptide precursor that generates, upon maturation, at least three bioactive peptides: nociceptin, noc2 and the recently described nocistatin. Considering both the density of labeled neurons per region and their intensity of labeling, the distribution of prepronociceptin messenger RNA-containing neurons can be summarized as follows: the highest level of prepronociceptin messenger RNA expression was detected in the septohippocampal nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central amygdaloid nucleus, and in selective thalamic nuclei such as the parafascicular, reticular, ventral lateral geniculate and zona incerta. High to moderate levels of prepronociceptin messenger RNA expression were detected in the lateral, ventral and medial septum, and were evident in brainstem structures implicated in descending antinociceptive pathways (e.g., the gigantocellular nucleus, raphe magnus nucleus, periaqueductal gray matter), and also observed in association with auditory relay nuclei such as the inferior colliculi, lateral lemniscus nucleus, medioventral preolivary nucleus and lateral superior nucleus. A moderate level of prepronociceptin messenger RNA expression was observed in the medial preoptic nucleus, ventromedial preoptic nucleus, periventricular nucleus, pedonculopontine tegmental nucleus, solitary tract nucleus and spinal trigeminal nucleus. A weak level of prepronociceptin messenger RNA expression was present in some areas, such as the cerebral cortex, endopiriform cortex, hippocampal formation, medial amygdaloid nucleus, anterior hypothalamic area, medial mammillary hypothalamic nuclei, retrorubral field and substantia nigra pars compacta. No labeled cells could be found in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area. The present data confirm that nociceptin is expressed in a broad array of regions of the central nervous system. In good correlation with the presently known physiological actions of nociceptin, they include, amongst others, brain areas conveying/integrating pain and auditory sensory afferences.
Stimulation of neurons in the ventromedial medulla produces antinociception in part by inhibiting nociceptive dorsal horn neurons. This antinociceptive effect is mediated in part by spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons located in the A7 catecholamine cell group. Methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons in the ventromedial medulla project to an area that includes the A7 cell group, and these enkephalin neurons may mediate part of the antinociception produced by stimulation of sites in the ventromedial medulla. This possibility was tested by determining the effects of microinjecting morphine near the A7 cell group on nociceptive foot and tail responses. Microinjection of a 3.75 nmol dose of morphine in the A7 region did not alter nociceptive responses, but a higher dose of 7.5 nmol facilitated these responses. In contrast, a higher dose of 15 nmol of morphine did not alter nociceptive responses. Selective alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists were injected intrathecally to determine whether the hyperalgesia produced by morphine is mediated by spinally projecting noradrenergic A7 neurons. Intrathecal injection of the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine did not alter the hyperalgesic effect produced by the 7.5 nmol dose of morphine, but the alpha1 antagonist WB4101 reversed the hyperalgesia and produced antinociception that lasted for nearly 30 min. Although the 15 nmol dose of morphine did not alter nociceptive responses, intrathecal injection of yohimbine after the microinjection of morphine produced a significant facilitation of nociception, and intrathecal injection of WB401 produced a significant antinociceptive effect. Intrathecal injection of the antagonists alone did not consistently alter nociception. These findings, and those of published reports, suggest that morphine indirectly activates two populations of spinally projecting A7 noradrenergic neurons that have opposing effects on nociception. One of these populations facilitates nociception by an action mediated by alpha1-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn and the other population inhibits nociception by an action mediated by alpha2-adrenoceptors. These results suggest that some of the methionine-enkephalin neurons located in the ventromedial medulla that project to the A7 cell group can exert bidirectional control of nociceptive responses.
The present study was carried out to evaluate the effect of morphine, cocaine and ethanol on the density of opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of rat brain. The animals were injected i.p. with morphine in a single dose 20 mg/kg, or twice daily for 10 days in increasing doses of 20-100 mg/kg. Cocaine was administered in a dose of 60 mg/kg/day following the &quot;binge&quot; paradigm, every hour for 3 h, one day (single treatment) or five days (chronic treatment). Ethanol was administered in drinking water at increasing concentrations of 1-6% v/v, for one month. As shown by receptor autoradiography, single morphine and cocaine administration did not influence the binding density of the selective ligand of delta2 receptors [3H]Ile5,6deltorphin b, but single administration of cocaine decreased binding density of a highly selective antagonist of delta receptors, [3H]H-Tyr-Tic psi[CH2-NH]Phe-Phe-OH. Repeated morphine administration decreased the receptor density after both ligands of the delta receptor in the nucleus accumbens after 3, 24 and 48 h, and in the striatum after 24 and 48 h. The density of [3H]Ile5,6deltorphin b binding remained unchanged in both structures following repeated cocaine administration. After repeated cocaine administration either no changes (3 h) or a decrease in the binding of [3H]H-Tyr-Tic psi[CH2-NH]Phe-Phe-OH in the nucleus accumbens and striatum were observed after 24 and 48 h. Ethanol did not influence the binding density of [3H]H-Tyr-Tic psi[CH2-NH]Phe-Phe-OH and [3H]Ile5,6deltorphin b in the nucleus accumbens and striatum at any time-point studied. In the nucleus accumbens and striatum, no changes were found in the binding density of [3H]Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol following single or repeated morphine administration. At 3 h after single or repeated &quot;binge&quot; cocaine administration, the binding of [3H]Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol was not changed in either structure, but after 24 h the density of mu opioid receptors was decreased in both structures. Ethanol given to rats in drinking water decreased the binding of [3H]Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol at the time of exposure to ethanol, yet in the nucleus accumbens only. Ethanol withdrawal decreased the density of the mu receptor in both structures after 24, 48 and 96 h. The above data indicate that repeated administration of morphine evokes a long-lasting down-regulation of the density of delta1 and delta2 opioid receptors, whereas cocaine affects in a similar way only the delta1 subtype in the nucleus accumbens, and to a lesser extent in the striatum. A long-term intake of ethanol solution down-regulates mu opioid receptors in both structures, but has no effect on any type of delta receptors. Thus changes in the particular opioid receptor depend on the type of drug used. Furthermore, the most profound changes are observed after late withdrawal, which may play some role in maintaining the state of dependence.
Patch-clamp recordings in whole-cell configuration were made from ventrolateral medulla neurons of brainstem slices from 8-12-day-old rats. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (3-30 microM) concentration-dependently suppressed excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked by focal stimulation. An augmentation of inhibitory synaptic currents by 5-hydroxytryptamine was noted in a small number of neurons. 5-Hydroxytryptamine depressed synaptic currents with or without causing a significant change in holding currents and membrane conductances; the inward or outward currents induced by exogenously applied glutamate or GABA/glycine were also not significantly changed by 5-hydroxytryptamine. In paired-pulse paradigms designed to evaluate a presynaptic site of action, 5-hydroxytryptamine suppressed synaptic currents but enhanced the paired-pulse facilitation. 5-Hydroxytryptamine reduced the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents without significantly affecting the amplitude. 5-Carboxamidotryptamine, 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, sumatriptan and N-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine which exhibit 5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptor agonist activity, depressed synaptic currents with different potencies, with 5-carboxamidotryptamine being the most potent. The non-selective 5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptor antagonist pindolol attenuated the presynaptic effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine, whereas the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A antagonist pindobind-5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor antagonist ketanserin were ineffective. Our results indicate that 5-hydroxytryptamine suppressed synaptic transmission in ventrolateral medulla neurons by activating presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptors, probably the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B/5-hydroxytryptamine1D subtype. In addition, 5-hydroxytryptamine augmented inhibitory synaptic currents in a small number of neurons the site and mechanism of this potentiating action are not known.
Extracellular and intracellular recording techniques were used to assess possible changes in the functional properties of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A receptors in brain slices prepared from rats subjected to different stress paradigms. Whereas a 30-min restraint stress did not alter the inhibitory influence of ipsapirone on the firing of serotoninergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus, the same session followed by a 24-h isolation produced a significant decrease in the potency of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A agonist to inhibit the electrical activity of these cells. Similarly, exposure of the animals to novel uncontrolled environmental conditions for 16 h significantly reduced the potency of ipsapirone to decrease the firing rate of serotoninergic neurons in brain stem slices. The effects of the latter two stressful paradigms were observed in slices from intact rats, but not in those from adrenalectomized animals. Intracellular recording showed that exposure of the animals to novel uncontrolled environmental conditions markedly reduced the potency of 5-carboxamidotryptamine to hyperpolarize serotoninergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus and to decrease the input resistance of their plasma membrane. In contrast, the same stressful paradigm exerted no significant influence on the membrane effects of this 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A agonist on pyramidal cells in the CA1 hippocampal area. These data show that, like the direct application of corticosterone on to brain slices [Laaris N. et al. (1995) Neuropharmacology 34, 1201-1210], the stress-induced in vivo elevation of serum levels of endogenous corticosterone is associated with desensitization of somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A receptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus. The differential changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A receptor sensitivity due to stress in the latter area versus the hippocampus further support the idea that somatodendritic and postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A receptors are regulated differently in the rat brain.
Current models of basal ganglia function predict that dopamine agonist-induced motor activation is mediated by decreases in basal ganglia output. This study examines the relationship between dopamine agonist effects on firing rate in basal ganglia output nuclei and rotational behavior in rats with nigrostriatal lesions. Extracellular single-unit activity ipsilateral to the lesion was recorded in awake, locally-anesthetized rats. Separate rats were used for behavioral experiments. Low i.v. doses of D1 agonists (SKF 38393, SKF 81297, SKF 82958) were effective in producing rotation, yet did not change average firing rate in the substantia nigra pars reticulata or entopeduncular nucleus. At these doses, firing rate effects differed from neuron to neuron, and included increases, decreases, and no change. Higher i.v. doses of D1 agonists were effective in causing both rotation and a net decrease in rate of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. A low s.c. dose of the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg) produced both rotation and a robust average decrease in firing rate in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, yet the onset of the net firing rate decrease (at 13-16 min) was greatly delayed compared to the onset of rotation (at 3 min). Immunostaining for the immediate-early gene Fos indicated that a low i.v. dose of SKF 38393 (that produced rotation but not a net decrease in firing rate in basal ganglia output nuclei) induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in the striatum and subthalamic nucleus, suggesting an activation of both inhibitory and excitatory afferents to the substantia nigra and entopeduncular nucleus. In addition, D1 agonist-induced Fos expression in the striatum and subthalamic nucleus was equivalent in freely-moving and awake, locally-anesthetized rats. The results show that decreases in firing rate in basal ganglia output nuclei are not necessary for dopamine agonist-induced motor activation. Motor-activating actions of dopamine agonists may be mediated by firing rate decreases in a small subpopulation of output nucleus neurons, or may be mediated by other features of firing activity besides rate in these nuclei such as oscillatory firing pattern or interneuronal firing synchrony. Also, the results suggest that dopamine receptors in both the striatum and at extrastriatal sites (especially the subthalamic nucleus) are likely to be involved in dopamine agonist influences on firing rates in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and entopeduncular nucleus.
Three experiments were conducted to investigate the behavioral functions of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and ventrolateral striatum. In the first experiment, dialysis probes were implanted in the nucleus accumbens or ventrolateral striatum of rats previously trained to respond on fixed interval lever pressing schedules for food reinforcement. During the dialysis test session, both schedule- and site-dependent effects on dopamine release were observed. Overall, lever pressing on a fixed interval 30-s schedule produced a greater increase in extracellular dopamine than did responding on a fixed interval 120-s schedule. The fixed interval 30-s schedule was also accompanied by a higher rate of lever pressing. Rats with nucleus accumbens probe placements showed significantly higher increases in dopamine release than rats with ventrolateral striatal placements. An additional dialysis experiment showed that baseline levels of dopamine were suppressed by 1.0 microM tetrodotoxin to a similar extent in the nucleus accumbens and ventrolateral striatum. In the third experiment, 6-hydroxydopamine was injected locally into either the nucleus accumbens or the ventrolateral striatum in order to deplete dopamine. Nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions produced only a minor decrease in operant responding, whereas rats with ventrolateral striatal dopamine depletions showed low levels of responding that differed from both the control group and from the group that had accumbens dopamine depletions. Thus, these results are somewhat paradoxical, in that the structure that showed the greatest increase in dopamine release (i.e. the nucleus accumbens) was also the terminal region at which dopamine depletions had very little effect on operant responding. Ventrolateral striatal dopamine appears to be largely permissive over lever pressing, in that normal levels of dopamine in the ventrolateral striatum are critical for responding, although dopamine levels do not fluctuate much during behavioral sessions.
Within the D2-class of dopamine receptors, the D2 and D3 subtypes share the highest degree of similarity in their primary structure. However, the extent to which these two receptor subtypes have similar or different functional properties is unclear. The present study used gene targeting to generate mice deficient for D2, D3, and D2/D3 receptors. A comparative analysis of D2 and D3 single mutants and D2/D3 double mutants revealed that D2/D3 double mutants develop motor phenotypes that, although qualitatively similar to those seen in D2 single mutants, are significantly more severe. Furthermore, increased levels of the dopamine metabolites dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid and homovanillic acid are found in the dorsal striatum of D2 single mutants. The levels of these metabolites, however, are significantly higher in mice lacking D2 and D3 receptors. In addition, results of immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that D2 single mutants express higher levels of D3 receptor proteins during later stages of their postnatal development. These results suggest that D3 receptors compensate for some of the lacking D2 receptor functions and that these functional properties of D3 receptors, detected in mice with a D2 mutant genetic background, remain masked when the abundant D2 receptor is expressed.
Functional regions of the rat striatum related to identified cortical territories were injected ionophoretically with wheat germ agglutinin coupled to horseradish peroxidase. Coronal serial sections were cut throughout the substantia nigra. The distributions of labelled striatal projections and nigrostriatal neurons were studied. Using software developed in our laboratory, three-dimensional reconstructions were calculated which confirmed and extended the organizational scheme of striatonigral projections already reported by our group. These projections were organized as a set of longitudinal lamellae spatially organized so as to segregate the flow of information emanating from striatal regions affiliated to sensorimotor and associative-limbic cortical areas. In addition, the relationship between the striatonigral projections and the nigrostriatal neurons was studied by three-dimensional reconstruction. For each striatal injection site, two populations of retrogradely labelled nigral neurons could be discriminated by their position with respect to the striatal projection field. The first one occupied a proximal position, in register with the labelled striatal projections, while the second was more distal. The populations of proximal neurons which innervate different functional striatal sectors were segregated both mediolaterally, dorsoventrally and rostrocaudally, while the populations of distal neurons were more scattered and showed a lesser degree of spatial segregation. The organization of these two populations with respect to the striatal projection fields suggests that the substantia nigra might control the flow of cortical information through the striatum via two different modalities, based respectively on a closed nigrostriatal loop involving the proximal neurons, and an open loop involving the distal ones.
This study investigated how the simulated response of dopamine neurons to reward-related stimuli could be used as reinforcement signal for learning a spatial delayed response task. Spatial delayed response tasks assess the functions of frontal cortex and basal ganglia in short-term memory, movement preparation and expectation of environmental events. In these tasks, a stimulus appears for a short period at a particular location, and after a delay the subject moves to the location indicated. Dopamine neurons are activated by unpredicted rewards and reward-predicting stimuli, are not influenced by fully predicted rewards, and are depressed by omitted rewards. Thus, they appear to report an error in the prediction of reward, which is the crucial reinforcement term in formal learning theories. Theoretical studies on reinforcement learning have shown that signals similar to dopamine responses can be used as effective teaching signals for learning. A neural network model implementing the temporal difference algorithm was trained to perform a simulated spatial delayed response task. The reinforcement signal was modeled according to the basic characteristics of dopamine responses to novel stimuli, primary rewards and reward-predicting stimuli. A Critic component analogous to dopamine neurons computed a temporal error in the prediction of reinforcement and emitted this signal to an Actor component which mediated the behavioral output. The spatial delayed response task was learned via two subtasks introducing spatial choices and temporal delays, in the same manner as monkeys in the laboratory. In all three tasks, the reinforcement signal of the Critic developed in a similar manner to the responses of natural dopamine neurons in comparable learning situations, and the learning curves of the Actor replicated the progress of learning observed in the animals. Several manipulations demonstrated further the efficacy of the particular characteristics of the dopamine-like reinforcement signal. Omission of reward induced a phasic reduction of the reinforcement signal at the time of the reward and led to extinction of learned actions. A reinforcement signal without prediction error resulted in impaired learning because of perseverative errors. Loss of learned behavior was seen with sustained reductions of the reinforcement signal, a situation in general comparable to the loss of dopamine innervation in Parkinsonian patients and experimentally lesioned animals. The striking similarities in teaching signals and learning behavior between the computational and biological results suggest that dopamine-like reward responses may serve as effective teaching signals for learning behavioral tasks that are typical for primate cognitive behavior, such as spatial delayed responding.
We describe the responses of single units in the awake (24 cells) or urethane-anesthetized (37 cells) rat somatosensory cortex during repeated iontophoretic pulses (1.0 s, 85 nA) of acetylcholine, both before and after systemic treatment with the irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor diisopropylfluorophosphate (i.p., 0.3-0.5 LD50). The time-course of the response to acetylcholine pulses differed among cortical neurons but was characteristic for a given cell. Different time-courses included monophasic excitatory or inhibitory responses, biphasic (excitatory-inhibitory, inhibitory-excitatory, excitatory-excitatory, and inhibitory-inhibitory), and triphasic (excitatory-excitatory-inhibitory, inhibitory-inhibitory-excitatory, and inhibitory-excitatory-inhibitory) responses. Although the sign and time-course of the individual responses remained consistent, their magnitude fluctuated across time; most cells exhibited either an initial increase or decrease in response magnitude followed by oscillations in magnitude that diminished with time, gradually approaching the original size. The time-course of the characteristic response to an acetylcholine pulse appeared to determine direction and rate of change in response magnitude with successive pulses of acetylcholine. Diisopropylfluorophosphate treatment, given 1 h after beginning repeated acetylcholine pulses, often resulted in a gradual increase in spontaneous activity to a slightly higher but stable level. Superimposed on this change in background activity, the oscillations in the response amplitude reappeared and then subsided in a pattern similar to the decay seen prior to diisopropylfluorophosphate treatment. Our results suggest that dynamic, homeostatic mechanisms control neuronal excitability by adjusting the balance between excitatory and inhibitory influences within the cortical circuitry and that these mechanisms are engaged by prolonged increases in extracellular acetylcholine levels caused by repeated pulses of acetylcholine and by acetylcholinesterase inhibition. However, this ability of neurons in the cortical neuronal network to rapidly adjust to changes in extracellular levels of acetylcholine questions the potential efficacy of therapeutic treatments designed to increase ambient levels of acetylcholine as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease or to enhance mechanisms of learning and memory.
Interleukin-1beta (10 U) was injected into the nucleus basalis of adult male Wistar rats. The inflammation-induced changes in glial cell morphology and expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the injected area, the release of acetylcholine, GABA and glutamate from the ipsilateral cortex, the production of nitrite levels in the injected area and ipsilateral cortex, and changes in motor activity were investigated. Saline-injected rats were used as control. Interleukin-1beta induced an activation of both microglia and astrocytes which was already evident 24 h after injection. Seven days after injection, many reactive microglial cells and astrocytes were seen in the injected area and in other brain regions of the same hemisphere. Microglia reaction, but not astrocyte activation, disappeared 30 days post-injection. Seven days after interleukin-1beta injection, many cells immunopositive for inducible nitric oxide synthase were found surrounding the injection site. Inducible nitric oxide synthase-positive cells were identified, by double staining immunohistochemistry, in the reactive microglial cells and, by electron microscope examination, in the perineuronal subpopulation of resident activated microglia. Microdialysis investigations revealed a transient increase in reactive nitrogen intermediates (at seven days post-injection), a delayed (at 30 days post-injection) increase in GABA and glutamate release, and no changes in acetylcholine release in the ipsilateral cortex in interleukin-1beta, but not saline, injected rats. Inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase expression by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester administration prevented the increase in nitrogen intermediates and GABA release, but not in glutamate release. Our findings suggest that an inflammatory reaction of the basal forebrain facilitates GABA release through the production of nitric oxide.
A mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP/RK) designed to interfere with processing by alpha-secretase caused a severe phenotype in transgenic mice, including behavioural abnormalities, i.e. neophobia, aggression, hypersensitivity to kainic acid, hyposensitivity to N-methyl-D-aspartate, and premature death [Moechars D. et al. (1996) Eur. molec. Biol. Org. J. 15, 1265-1274]. We now demonstrated that the APP/RK transgene did not disturb the expression of several other genes, i.e. endogenous amyloid precursor protein and amyloid precursor protein-like proteins, members of the low density lipoprotein receptor lipoprotein receptor family and several of their ligands, including apolipoprotein E, but expression of alpha-2-macroglobulin was never detected. Neither amyloid deposits nor neurofibrillary tangles were detected in the brain of APP/RK transgenic mice, even when 15-months-old. The tendency for seizures and hyposensitivity for N-methyl-D-aspartate was not due to or reflected in the distribution of the three major types of glutamate receptors. The major and consistent finding in transgenic APP/RK mice that died prematurely was extensive neurodegeneration and apoptosis, mainly in hippocampus and cortex, and accompanied by astrocytosis throughout the brain. Reduced synaptic density and dendritic damage was only observed in three transgenic mice that were killed shortly after positive observation of seizures. In addition, the distribution of cathepsin D and ubiquitin was abnormal in these mice.
In rats which were rendered monocular amblyopic by lid suturing one eye during a critical period, the intensity of neuronal activation in parts of the monocular segments of the striate cortex (layers 4 and 6) and lateral geniculate nucleus, and in the visual segment of the thalamic reticular nucleus, was determined after exploration of a novel-complex environment. Quantitative analysis of the number of Fos-labelled neurons per unit area showed that, in comparison to the structures contralateral to the normal eye, in the side contralateral to the deprived amblyopic eye there is a gradient of diminished activation. The strongest activation asymmetry was observed in the visual reticular segment, while in layers 6 and 4 of the visual cortex the activation asymmetry was less strong and weakest, respectively. In the lateral geniculate there was no Fos-detectable activation asymmetry. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between the time rats spent in exploration and the degree of activation asymmetry in the visual reticular segment. From these results it is concluded: (1) Activation of the visual segment of the thalamic reticular nucleus in the alert, attentive animal is predominantly under visual cortical control via the cortico-reticulo-geniculate pathway originating in layer 6, because this layer showed activation asymmetry while the other visual input to reticularis, the geniculate, did not show this asymmetry. (2) Activation of the visual reticularis is a function of attention to the environment because its activation asymmetry was correlated to the amount of exploratory attentional behaviour. (3) Diminished activity in the cortico-reticulo-geniculate pathway originating in layer 6, and of visual reticularis, caused by visual deprivation during the critical period should be considered as additional etiological factors of the resulting amblyopia. The functional significance of these results is explained by a 'focal attention' hypothesis postulating that the observed activation of visual reticularis in exploring animals is necessarily a reflection of activation of the corticogeniculate pathway, because these axons innervate both the geniculate and the visual reticular segment. Mechanistically, a focus of animal's attention is transmitted in a top-down fashion from the extrastriate cortex, and from upper cortical layers, into striate cortex layer 6. In turn, activation of layer 6 cells corresponding to attentional foci generates a core of excitation in the geniculate by the direct glutamatergic corticogeniculate axons, and a surround inhibition by the disynaptic cortico-reticulo-geniculate (ultimately GABAergic) pathway. In the temporal domain, in light of recent results, activation of thalamic reticular nucleus visual segment will contribute to the induction of gamma oscillations in geniculocortical pathways and in their cortical targets. All together, these interactions result in increased effectiveness of thalamocortical transmission of features from the focalized visual scene. The postulated attention-dependent spatiotemporal influences on thalamocortical transmission would be a main function of the corticothalamic pathways in the awake, attentive animal.
Self-stimulation has been considered as an intensely rewarding behavioural experience, being perhaps even more influential than feeding or sexual behaviour. Our earlier studies have demonstrated a self-stimulation rewarding experience-induced increase in dendritic branching points, intersections and spine densities in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons. In the present study, we report self-stimulation-induced alterations in the numerical density of synapses in the hippocampus and motor cortex. A self-stimulation experience was provided 1 h daily for a period of 10 days through bipolar electrodes, implanted bilaterally in the lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area, stereotaxically. The results revealed a significant (P &lt; 0.001) increase in the number of synapses in the CA3 region of hippocampus and the molecular layer of the motor cortex in self-stimulation-experienced rats. The increased synaptic number may be due to the activation of afferent pathways to the hippocampus and motor cortex following self-stimulation, which may lead to the induction of long-term potentiation. Long-term potentiation is known to cause structural changes by strengthening the existing synapses or resulting in the formation of new synapses. These changes may be related to the improved cognitive functions observed in self-stimulation-experienced rats.
Regional differences in the redox ratio were studied in the gerbil brain. Brains were frozen using an in situ funnel-freezing method, and sliced coronally for scanning of mitochondrial redox imaging. The relative local redox ratio of nicotinamide-adenosine dinucleotide to its reduced form was calculated from fluorescence signals of intrinsic fluorochromes, i.e. reduced nicotinamide-adenosine dinucleotide and flavoproteins, using a high resolution fluorometer developed in our laboratory. Twelve consecutive coronal images were obtained from each of 10 gerbils. The mean value of the regional redox ratio in both the cerebral and cerebellar gray matter were found to be significantly lower than that in the cerebral and cerebellar white matter (P &lt; 0.01, Mann-Whitney test). Local differences in the redox ratio were also found among subregions of gray matter. The redox ratio in the globus pallidus was significantly higher than values in other subregions of gray matter (P &lt; 0.01, Mann-Whitney test) We postulate that a high concentration of the reduced form of pyridine nucleotide is maintained to provide redox energy for rapid turnover of ATP in the areas of high energy consumption.
The effect of muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonists was investigated on the ascending neural pathways activated by electrical stimulation in the guinea-pig ileum. For comparison, prejunctional and postjunctional effects of muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonists were also studied on circular smooth muscle. A two-compartment (oral and anal compartments) bath was used to study the ascending neural pathways. These were activated by electrical field stimulation in the anal compartment and the resulting contraction of the intestinal circular muscle in the oral compartment was recorded isotonically. Pirenzepine (10-300 nM), a muscarinic M1 cholinoceptor antagonist, reduced the ascending neural contractions in a concentration-dependent fashion when applied either to the oral or anal compartments (11-52% and 13-55% inhibition, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). Pirenzepine inhibited (31+/-7%, P &lt; 0.05) the acetylcholine (100 nM)-induced contractions at a higher non-selective concentration (300 nM), while its effect on the electrically-induced contractions was biphasic (10 and 30nM: 8-15% increase, P&lt;0.05; 100 and 300 nM: 16-28% inhibition, P&lt;0.05). The muscarinic M2 cholinoceptor antagonist methoctramine (3-100 nM) did not modify the contractions produced by 100 nM acetylcholine, electrically-induced contractions and the ascending neural contractions (when applied to either compartment). Parafluorohexahydrosiladifenidol (3-100 nM), a muscarinic M3 cholinoceptor antagonist, inhibited the contractions produced by 100 nM acetylcholine (19-81% and 15-69%), electrically-induced contractions (11-71% and 12-72%) and the ascending neural contractions (13-76% and 866%) when applied to the oral compartment, but it was without effect when applied to the anal compartment. These studies suggest that in the enteric ascending neural pathway, muscarinic M1 receptors are involved in neuroneuronal transmission, muscle contraction is mediated by muscarinic M3 cholinergic receptors, whereas muscarinic M2 receptors do not seem to participate.
The startle reflex is evoked by strong acoustic or tactile stimuli, or by electrical stimulation of acoustic or tactile pathways. To dissociate the contributions of acoustic and tactile pathways, stimulating electrodes were placed in adjacent cochlear and trigeminal nuclei. The currents needed to evoke startle-like responses were an order of magnitude lower in ventral trigeminal sites (12-80 microA for a 0.1-ms pulse) than in cochlear nucleus sites (150-800 microA). At low threshold sites in both areas, brief acoustic stimuli were followed 0-4 ms later by a single electrical pulse and the current required to evoke startle was measured at several interstimulus intervals. Summation between the acoustic and electrical stimuli for startle was strong in both cochlear and trigeminal sites. Collision effects were found in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus when the electrical stimulus followed the ipsilateral acoustic stimulus by 2.0 ms, suggesting that acoustic startle is mediated by axons in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus. Collision effects were found at 4.0 ms if the electrical stimulus was presented in the contralateral pontine reticular formation, suggesting that acoustic signals mediating startle mainly cross to the pontine reticular formation. Collision effects were not found in medial or posterior sites in the cochlear nucleus, or trigeminal sites, suggesting that the neurons that mediate startle in these sites do not mediate acoustic startle. Therefore, acoustic startle is mediated through high threshold cochlear nucleus sites, while low threshold sites are non-acoustic, probably as a result of trigeminal or vestibular stimulation.
Episodic ataxia type 1 is a rare, autosomal dominant neurological disorder caused by missense mutations of the Kv1.1 gene from the Shaker K+ channel subfamily. To study the functional effects of the disease-causing mutations in a robust K+ channel background, we introduced seven different episodic ataxia type 1 substitutions into the corresponding, conserved residues of the Shaker K+ channel. K+ channel currents expressed in Xenopus oocytes were studied by electrophysiology. All episodic ataxia type 1 mutations produced functional K+ channels. In a Shaker N-terminal deletion mutant with fast inactivation removed, current amplitudes were significantly reduced in channels harboring an episodic ataxia type 1 mutation. Six of the seven mutations also showed depolarizing shifts (+9 to +36 mV) in the conductance voltage dependence. One mutation (F307I) shifted the midpoint of the conductance-voltage relationship by 23 mV in the hyperpolarizing direction. Episodic ataxia type 1 mutations were also expressed in ShakerH4 with intact N-terminal inactivation. In this construct, current amplitudes for episodic ataxia type 1 mutants were not significantly different from wild-type channels. All mutations altered the voltage range of steady-state inactivation; most changes were coupled to the changes in activation gating. Some episodic ataxia type 1 mutants also caused significant changes in the kinetics of N-type (F307I, E395D) or C-type (F307I, E395D, V478A) inactivation. These results suggest that episodic ataxia type 1 mutations may change K+ channel function by two mechanisms: (i) reduced channel expression and (ii) altered channel gating.
Chemosensory cues known as pheromones play a key role in rodent reproductive physiology and social interactions. Pheromone molecules are detected by receptor cells located in the vomeronasal organ and conveyed exclusively to the accessory olfactory bulb, and then to limbic and hypothalamic sites for integration with other factors modulating reproductive physiology. We report here that chemosensory cues from the female mouse selectively activate a subpopulation of cells located in the anterior part of the accessory olfactory bulb of the male mouse. Exposure of male mice to female-soiled bedding resulted in a massive induction of c-fos expression, which was primarily confined to neurons located in the anterior part of the accessory olfactory bulb and was eliminated by removal of the vomeronasal organ. Exposure of the male to soiled bedding from a different stain of male mice also elevated c-fos expression, but immunoreactive cells were more evenly distributed along the anterior-posterior axis of the accessory olfactory bulb. No treatment effects were observed in the main olfactory bulb. Previous studies have indicated that vomeronasal receptor neurons are divided into two populations based on location within the organ, site of termination in the accessory olfactory bulb, second messenger content and putative pheromone receptor expression. The present study suggests that the two populations of vomeronasal receptor neurons detect different chemosensory stimuli. Since male mouse- and female mouse-specific urinary substances modulate different aspects of male mouse behavior, the present results suggest that anatomically segregated populations of vomeronasal organ receptor cells modulate distinct behavioral patterns.
The effect on axonal outgrowth of inhibition of phospholipase A2 activity was studied in a recently developed in vitro model, where dorsal root ganglia with attached spinal roots and nerve stumps from young adult mice were cultured in an extracellular matrix material (Matrigel). The phospholipase A2 inhibitors 4-bromophenacyl bromide and oleyloxyethyl phosphorylcholine dose-dependently reduced axonal outgrowth from the sciatic nerve stump. A similar inhibitory effect was seen when only the cut nerve end was exposed to the inhibitors in a compartmental culture system. The local effect of phospholipase A2 inhibition was further investigated on axons established in culture, using time-lapse recording. Exposure to phospholipase A2 inhibitors caused the retraction of filopodia extensions and a reduction in growth cone motility within a few minutes. After removal of inhibition, normal growth cone motility and axonal growth were regained. Nerve cell bodies and axons, in contrast to Schwann cells, showed immunoreactivity after staining with an antiserum against secretory phospholipase A2, and elevated levels of the enzyme could be detected after culture for 24 h. The immunoreactive protein was of approximately 170,000 molecular weight (phospholipase A2-170) as determined by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. The localization of phospholipase A2-170 in axons growing into the Matrigel was also demonstrated by use of a whole-mount technique. The results of this study show the importance of continuous phospholipase A2 activity for growth cone motility and axonal outgrowth in the mammalian peripheral nerve, and suggest the involvement of an axonally localized enzyme.
Cultured cerebellar granule cells grown in medium containing 10 mM K+ (K10) underwent apoptosis after four to five days in vitro, unless they were rescued by the addition of insulin-like growth factor-I. The few GABAergic neurons present in the cultures were more resistant to apoptotic degeneration, as indicated by double fluorescent staining with the chromatin dye Hoechst 33258 and with glutamate decarboxylase-67 antibodies. As compared with sister cultures grown in 25 mM K+, K10 cultures showed an increased expression of the Egr-1 protein and a reduced expression of the Fos protein. The increase in Egr-1 was more substantial in granule cells than in GABAergic neurons, and was not observed in K10 cultures chronically exposed to insulin-like growth factor-I. To examine the temporal relationship between the increase in Egr-1 and the development of programmed cell death, we induced apoptosis in K25 cultures at six days in vitro by replacing their medium with serum-free K10 medium. A substantial, but transient, increase in Egr- expression was observed in granule cells 6 h after switching the medium, a time that preceded the appearance of the phenotypical markers of apoptotic death. An early reduction in the Fos protein was observed after switching the medium from K25 into serum-free K10, but also after switching the medium into serum-free K25, a condition which was not associated with the development of apoptosis nor with the increase in Egr-1. We suggest that a transient induction of Egr-1 contributes to the chain of events leading to the execution phase of neuronal apoptosis in culture.
Nitric oxide may be liberated as an inflammatory mediator within injured peripheral nerve trunks. We evaluated the proximal stumps of injured peripheral nerve stumps that later form neuromas or regenerative nerve sprouts, for evidence of local nitric oxide elaboration and activity. Proximal stumps were created in male Sprague-Dawley rats by sectioning of the sciatic nerve and resection of its distal portions and branches. There was striking physiological evidence of nitric oxide activity at the tips of 48-h and 14-day-old proximal nerve stumps. We detected local nitric oxide-mediated hyperemia of both extrinsic plexus and endoneurial microvessels that was reversible, in a dose-dependent stereospecific fashion, by the broad-spectrum nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, Nomega-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester or Nomega-nitro-L-arginine, but not by 7-nitroindazole, an inhibitor with relative selectivity for neuronal nitric oxide. Immunohistochemical studies provided evidence for the localization of nitric oxide generators at the same sites. In 48-h but not 14-day stumps increased expression of two isoforms of nitric oxide synthase was detected: endothelial nitric oxide and to a much lesser extent neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Both isoforms appeared in axonal endbulb-like profiles that co-localized with neurofilament immunostaining. Western immunoblots identified a band consistent with endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression. In 14-day stumps with early neuroma formation, but not 48-h stumps, there was staining for immunological nitric oxide synthase in some endoneurial and epineurial macrophages. Total nitric oxide synthase biochemical enzymatic activity, measured by labelled arginine to citrulline conversion, was increased in 14-day but not 48-h stumps. Injured peripheral nerves have evidence of early nitric oxide action, nitric oxide synthase expression and nitric oxide activity in proximal nerve stumps. Nitric oxide may have an important impact on the regenerative milieu.
Potent antinociception can be produced by electrical stimulation of spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons in the A7 catecholamine cell group and this effect is blocked by intrathecal injection of alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists. Microinjection of substance P near A7 neurons also produces antinociception that is blocked by intrathecal injection of alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists. These observations suggest that substance P produces antinociception by activating noradrenergic A7 neurons. However, it is not known whether this effect of substance P is produced by a direct or an indirect action on A7 neurons. Although light microscopic studies have demonstrated the existence of both substance P-containing axon terminals and neurokinin-1 receptors in the region of the A7 cell group, it is not known whether substance P terminals form synapses with noradrenergic A7 neurons. These experiments used double-labeling immunocytochemical methods and electron microscopic analysis to determine whether substance P-containing axons form synapses with noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group. Pre-embedding immunocytochemistry, combined with light and electron microscopic analysis, was used to provide ultrastructural evidence for synaptic connections between substance P-immunoreactive terminals labeled with immunoperoxidase and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive A7 neurons labeled with silver-enhanced immunogold. Tyrosine hydroxylase labeling was found in perikarya and dendrites in the A7 region, and substance P labeling was found in axons and synaptic terminals. Substance P-labeled terminals formed asymmetric synapses with tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled dendrites, but only a few of these were present on tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled somata. Substance P-labeled terminals also formed asymmetric synapses with unlabeled dendrites, and many unlabeled terminals formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses with tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled dendrites. These results demonstrate that substance P neurons form a significant number of synapses with the dendrites of noradrenergic A7 neurons and support the conclusion that microinjection of substance P in the A7 cell group produces antinociception by direct activation of spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons.
Neurons likely to use endothelin as a neurotransmitter/neurohormone were mapped in the rat brain using polyclonal antibodies directed against endothelin-converting enzyme-1, endothelin-1, and endothelin-3. Anti-endothelin-converting enzyme-1 antibodies produced the most robust staining, permitting the best visualization of the distribution and morphology of neurons. Labeled neurons were found in the dorsal thalamic nuclei and reticular thalamic nuclei, medial preoptic area, pontine nucleus, and locus coeruleus. Localization of endothelin-converting enzyme-like immunoreactivity in the locus coeruleus and in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus suggests that endothelin is co-localized with norepinephrine and GABA, respectively. Additionally, endothelin-converting enzyme-like immunoreactivity was found in the globus pallidus, septal nuclei, and in both the vertical and horizontal limbs of the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca, and the ventrolateral area of the caudate-putamen. Strong endothelin-converting enzyme-like immunoreactivity was found in a continuous band of pyramidal neurons throughout the neocortex primarily in layer V, extending into the cingulate gyrus and piriform cortex. Motor nuclei, including oculomotor, facial, and trigeminal nuclei, were also endothelin-converting enzyme-immunoreactive. In the cerebellum, Purkinje cells were stained. Non-neuronal cells such as oligodendroglia, microglia, and astrocytes generally were not endothelin-converting enzyme-immunoreactive, although astrocytes were rarely stained. Endothelin-converting enzyme-, endothelin-1-, and endothelin-3-like immunoreactivities were generally found co-existing in given nuclei. The diversity of neurons immunostained for endothelin suggests multiple roles of endothelin in the CNS.
Anticonvulsant properties of furosemide have been suggested to reduce neuronal synchronization via its inhibitory effect on the Na+/K+/2Cl- co-transport system. We have studied effects of furosemide on spontaneous epileptiform activity and analysed effects of furosemide on amplitudes of stimulus-induced population-spikes, on stimulus-induced K+ changes, on extracellular pH changes at rest and during stimulation, and on changes in the extracellular space-volume. We used three different in vitro models of epilepsy in the combined hippocampal-entorhinal cortex slice preparation. Furosemide reversibly suppressed low Ca2+-induced epileptiform activity in hippocampus proper and blocked or significantly reduced different types of epileptiform discharges in the low Mg2+ model and the 4-aminopyridine model. Amplitudes of evoked field potentials underwent an initial slight increase followed by a significant reduction after prolonged treatment with furosemide. Stimulus-induced increases in extracellular potassium were also significantly reduced. Furosemide caused an alkaline shift at rest. Stimulus-induced pH transients changed from a biphasic alkalotic-acidotic sequence to a monophasic alkalotic shift. Stimulation-induced shrinkage of extracellular space-volume was reduced by furosemide, whereas no effect on baseline extracellular space-volume was seen. We conclude, that furosemide possesses strong anticonvulsive effects in various in vitro models of epilepsy. The anticonvulsive properties of furosemide cannot be explained by its effects on extracellular pH changes but appear in part to be mediated via a reduced excitability with consequent reduction of activity-induced potassium rises. Finally, partial inhibition of activity-induced extracellular space shrinkage may contribute to its anticonvulsant properties.
Neuronal death was produced in the CA1 and CA3 areas of the hippocampus, amygdala, and piriform and entorhinal cortices after intraperitioneal administration of kainic acid at convulsant doses to adult rats. To assess the involvement of members of the Bcl-2 family in cell death or survival, immunohistochemistry, western and northern blotting to Bcl-2, Bcl-x and Bax, and in situ hybridization to Bax were examined at different time-points after kainic acid treatment. Members of the Bcl-2 family were expressed in the cytoplasm of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus, and in a subset of neurons of the piriform and the entorhinal cortices, amygdala and neocortex in the normal adult brain. Dying neurons in the pyramidal cell layer of CA1 and CA3 areas, entorhinal and piriform cortices, and amygdala also expressed Bcl-2, Bax and Bcl-x following excitotoxicity, although many dying cells did not. In addition, a number of cells in the affected areas showed Bax immunoreactivity in their nuclei at 24-48 h following kainic acid administration, thus indicating Bax nuclear translocation in a subset of dying cells. Western blots disclosed no modifications in the intensity of the bands corresponding to Bcl-2, Bcl-x and Bax, between control and kainic acid-treated rats. No modifications in the intensity of the bcl-2 messenger RNA band on northern blots was observed in kainic acid-treated rats. However, a progressive increase in the intensity of the bax messenger RNA band was found in kainic acid-treated rats at 6 h, 12 h and 24 h following kainic acid administration. Interestingly, a slight increase in Bax immunoreactivity was observed in the cytoplasm of neurons of the dentate gyrus at 24-48 h, a feature which matches the increase of bax messenger RNA in the same area, as shown by in situ hybridization at 12-24 h following kainic acid injection. The present results suggest that cell death or survival does not correlate with modifications of Bcl-2, Bax and Bcl-x protein, and messenger RNA expression, but rather that kainic acid excitotoxicity is associated with Bax translocation to the nucleus in a subset of dying cells.
We used whole-cell patch recording to study 102 local interneurons in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro. Input impedance with this technique (607.0+/-222.4 MOhm) was far larger than that measured with sharp electrode techniques, suggesting that interneurons may be more electrotonically compact than previously believed. Consistent and robust burst firing was observed in all interneurons when a slight depolarizing boost was given from a potential at, or slightly hyperpolarized from, resting membrane potential. These bursts had some similarities to the low-threshold spike described previously in other thalamic neuron types. The bursting responses were blocked by Ni+, suggesting that the low-threshold calcium current I(T), responsible for the low-threshold spike, was also involved in interneuron burst firing. Compared to the low-threshold spike of thalamocortical cells, however, the interneuron bursts were of relatively long duration and low intraburst frequency. The requirement for a depolarizing boost to elicit the burst is consistent with previous reports of a depolarizing shift of the I(T) activation curve of interneurons relative to thalamocortical cells, a finding we confirmed using voltage-clamp. Voltage-clamp study also revealed an additional long-lasting current that could be tentatively identified as the calcium activated non-selective cation current, I(CAN), based on reversal potential and on pharmacological characteristics. Computer simulation of the interneuron burst demonstrated that its particular morphology is likely due to the interaction of I(T) and I(CAN). In the slice, bursts could also be elicited by stimulation of the optic tract, suggesting that they may occur in response to natural stimulation. Synaptically triggered bursts were only partially blocked by Ni+, but could then be completely blocked by further addition of (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. The existence of robust bursts in this cell type suggests an additional role for interneurons in sculpting sensory responses by feedforward inhibition of thalamocortical cells. The low-threshold spike is a mechanism whereby activity in a neuron is dependent on a prior lack of activity in that same neuron. Understanding of the low-threshold spike in the other major neuron types of the thalamus has brought many new insights into how thalamic oscillations might be involved in sleep and epilepsy. Our description of this phenomenon in the interneurons of the thalamus suggests that these network oscillations might be even more complicated than previously believed.
NAP-22 is a neuronal tissue-enriched acidic calmodulin-binding protein with a molecular mass of 22,000 and is recovered in the membrane fraction during biochemical fractionation. We observed the distribution pattern of this protein in the rat brain using an immunohistochemical method by light and electron microscopy. NAP-22 immunoreactivity was detected through the whole brain, and the most dense staining was observed in the forebrain including cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, olfactory bulb, basal ganglia and thalamus. Immunoreactivity was distributed densely at the neuropil, whereas nerve cells and nerve fibres had little or no reaction. In the brain stem, immunonegative large nerve cell bodies were surrounded by immunopositive varicosities. In the cerebellar cortex, mossy fibre terminals and parallel fibres showed immunoreactivity, whereas Purkinje cells did not. Intracellular distribution was observed in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices. NAP-22 immunoreactivity was noted in the axon terminals, dendritic spines and thin nerve fibres. In these structures, reaction products were associated mainly with synaptic vesicles, pre- and postsynaptic membranes and microtubules. This study demonstrates that the immunoreactivity of NAP-22 is distributed widely in the brain, especially in the synapse, and suggests that this protein is involved in synaptic transmission both in the pre- and postsynaptic region.
Inflammation results in a local increase in nerve growth factor production which potentially can modify the properties of nerve growth factor-responsive sensory neurons innervating the inflamed tissue. The sensitivity of primary sensory neurons to the neurotoxin capsaicin is regulated in vitro by nerve growth factor and we have now investigated the effect of complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation on the capsaicin sensitivity of adult rat sensory neurons. Dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating inflamed tissue were identified in vivo by retrograde labelling with the dye Fast Blue. Neuronal capsaicin sensitivity was measured in vitro with a quantitative cobalt-uptake densitometric technique, and was shown to increase significantly five days after inflammation. This increase in sensitivity was dependent on nerve growth factor as it could be inhibited by systemic treatment with nerve growth factor neutralizing antibodies. The enhanced capsaicin sensitivity that results from Freund's adjuvant injection may contribute to inflammatory hyperalgesia.
Whole-cell patch-clamp measurements were performed to investigate voltage-gated proton currents (I(PR)) in cultured murine microglia of distinct morphology and functional state. We studied I(PR) in ameboid microglia of untreated cultures, in ameboid microglia which had been activated by lipopolysaccharide, and in ramified microglia which had been exposed to astrocyte-conditioned medium. Proton currents of these three microglia populations did not differ regarding their activation threshold or the voltage dependence of steady-state activation. Moreover, pharmacological properties of I(PR) were similar: proton currents were sensitive to extracellularly applied Zn2+ or La3+, and could be abolished by each of those at a concentration of 100 microM. In the presence of extracellular Na+, I(PR) was decreased to a similar small extent due to activity of the Na+/H+ exchanger in all microglial populations. In contrast, proton currents of microglia differed between the three cell populations with respect to their current density and their time-course of activation: in comparison with untreated microglia, the current density of I(PR) was reduced by about 50% in microglia after their treatment with either lipopolysaccharide or astrocyte-conditioned medium. Moreover, I(PR) activated significantly more slowly in cells exposed to lipopolysaccharide or astrocyte-conditioned medium than in untreated cells. It can be concluded that the distinct H+ current characteristics of the three microglial populations do not correlate with the functional state of the cells.
Spinal motor neurons are one of the few classes of neurons capable of regenerating axons following axotomy. Injury-induced expression of neurotrophic factors and corresponding receptors may play an important role in this rare ability. A wide variety of indirect data suggests that ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha may critically contribute to the regeneration of injured spinal motor neurons. We used immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization and retrograde tracing techniques to study the regulation of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha in axotomized sciatic motor neurons. Ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha immunoreactivity, detected with two independent antisera, is increased in a subpopulation of caudal sciatic motor neuron soma one, two and six weeks after sciatic nerve transection and reattachment, while no changes are detected at one day and 15 weeks post-lesion. Ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha messenger RNA levels are augmented in the same classes of neurons following an identical lesion, suggesting that increased synthesis contributes, at least in part, to the additional ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha protein. Separating the proximal and distal nerve stumps with a plastic barrier does not noticeably affect the injury-induced change in ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha regulation, thereby indicating that this injury response is not dependent on signals distal to the lesion traveling retrogradely through the nerve or signals generated by axonal growth through the distal nerve. The prolonged increases in ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha protein and messenger RNA found in regenerating sciatic motor neurons contrast with the responses of non-regenerating central neurons, which are reported to display, at most, a short-lived increase in ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha messenger RNA expression following injury. The present data are the first to demonstrate, in vivo, neuronal regulation of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha protein in response to injury. Moreover, they suggest that the ability of a subpopulation of spinal motor neurons to regulate ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha levels in response to injury may play a role in their survival and axonal regeneration. Consistent with such a role, we also find relatively high, and probably elevated, levels of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha immunoreactivity in regenerating axons.
Cataplexy, a symptom of narcolepsy, is a loss of muscle tone usually triggered by sudden, emotionally significant stimuli. We now report that locus coeruleus neurons cease discharge throughout cataplexy periods in canine narcoleptics. Locus coeruleus discharge rates during cataplexy were as low as or lower than those seen during rapid-eye-movement sleep. Prazosin, an alpha1 antagonist, and physostigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, both of which precipitate cataplexy, decreased locus coeruleus discharge rate. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that locus coeruleus activity contributes to the maintenance of muscle tone in waking, and that reduction in locus coeruleus discharge plays a role in the loss of muscle tone in cataplexy and rapid-eye-movement sleep. Our results also show that the complete cessation of locus coeruleus activity is not sufficient to trigger rapid-eye-movement sleep in narcoleptics.
Administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (4 x 20 mg/kg) to non-transgenic CD-1 mice caused marked depletion in dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxytryptamine in the caudate-putamen. There were no significant changes in serotonergic markers in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Homozygous and heterozygous copper/zinc superoxide dismutase transgenic mice show partial protection against the toxic effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine on striatal dopaminergic markers. In addition, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine injections caused marked decreases in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase activity in the frontal cortex, caudate-putamen and hippocampus of wild-type mice. Moreover, there were concomitant 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced decreases in catalase activity in the caudate-putamen and hippocampus, decreases in glutathione peroxidase activity in the frontal cortex as well as increases in lipid peroxidation in the frontal cortex, caudate-putamen, and hippocampus of wild-type mice. In contrast, administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine to homozygous superoxide dismutase transgenic mice caused no significant changes in antioxidant enzyme activities nor in lipid peroxidation. These results provide further substantiation of a role for oxygen-based radicals in 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. The present data also suggest that free radicals generated during 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine administration may perturb antioxidant enzymes. Consequently, there might be further overproduction of free radicals with associated peroxidative damage to cell membranes and associated terminal degeneration.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) dementia is the commonest form of dementia in North American people less than 60 years of age. HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 has been implicated in the neurotoxicity observed in, and the pathogenesis of, HIV-1 dementia. Recombinant gp120 (gp120) was pressure-applied on to cultured human fetal neurons and astrocytes and, by using single-cell calcium imaging, we determined the mechanisms responsible for gp120-induced increases in the levels of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i). Significant dose-related increases in [Ca2+]i were observed in neurons and astrocytes. In neurons, 5 pM gp120 increased [Ca2+]i by 290+/-13 nM and increases of 2210+/-211 nM were found at 209 nM, the highest concentration of gp120 tested. The apparent EC50 value for gp120 of 223+/-40 pM in neurons was not significantly different from that in astrocytes. Immunoelution of gp120 with polyclonal anti-gp120 and Ca2+-free conditions blocked increases in [Ca2+]i by gp120. Increases in [Ca2+]i were significantly (P &lt; 0.005) attenuated by the Na+/H+ exchange blocker 5-(N-methyl-N-isobutyl)-amiloride in neurons and astrocytes. The L-type calcium channel blockers nimodipine, diltiazem and CdCl2 + NiCl2 significantly (P &lt; 0.005) reduced increases in [Ca2+]i in neurons, but not astrocytes. Increases in [Ca2+]i by gp120 were not significantly affected by blockers of N-, P- and Q-type calcium channels. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5), memantine and dizocilpine significantly (P &lt; 0.01) lowered gp120-induced increases in [Ca2+]i in neurons. AP5 and memantine, but not dizocilpine, significantly (P &lt; 0.01) reduced increases in [Ca2+]i by gp120 in astrocytes. Gp120 appears to activate astrocyte Na+/H+ exchangers to release glutamate and potassium and, subsequent to this, increases in [Ca2+]i in neurons and astrocytes result from activation of excitatory amino acid receptors on astrocytes and neurons, and voltage-operated calcium channels on neurons. Drugs that block gp120-induced changes in [Ca2+]i in neurons and astrocytes may help in the treatment of HIV-1 dementia.
Latent inhibition consists of a decrement in conditioning to a stimulus as a result of its prior non-reinforced pre-exposure. Based on evidence pointing to the involvement of the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens in latent inhibition disruption, it has been proposed that latent inhibition depends on the integrity of the subicular input to the nucleus accumbens. Since fibers originating in the subiculum and destined for the nucleus accumbens run through the fimbria-fornix, we assessed the effects of radiofrequency lesion or transection of the fimbria-fornix, on latent inhibition. The effectiveness of both lesions was demonstrated by the total disappearance of acetylcholinesterase staining in the hippocampus and of retrogradely labeled cells in the hippocampus/subiculum following the injection of the retrograde tracer biotin-dextran amine into the shell subregion of the nucleus accumbens. Likewise, in accord with previously documented behavioral effects of lesions to the hippocampus and related structures, both lesions increased spontaneous activity and disrupted performance in Morris water maze, and the radiofrequency lesion facilitated the acquisition of two-way active avoidance. In spite of the above, latent inhibition remained unaffected by both fimbria-fornix lesions, indicating that the critical projections subserving latent inhibition are not those traversing the fimbria-fornix from the hippocampus/subiculum to the nucleus accumbens. The implications of these results for the neural circuitry of latent inhibition and the latent inhibition model of schizophrenia are discussed.
The objective of this human post mortem study was to determine whether neurons which synthesize corticotropic-releasing hormone and serotonin form circuits implicated in the pathophysiology of major depression and suicide. For the first time, a sensitive, dual immunocytochemical procedure was used to identify circuits formed by corticotropic-releasing hormone-synthesizing and serotonergic cell groups. Corticotropic-releasing hormone-immunoreactive varicose fibers and puncta with morphological characteristics of terminals were labeled in the midline raphe, periventricular gray and pontine parabrachial complex, on single-labeled tissues processed immunocytochemically with a rabbit antibody to rat/human corticotropic-releasing hormone. Presumptive synaptic interactions with monoaminergic neurons were demonstrated with dual labeling techniques. Corticotropic-releasing hormone-immunoreactive terminals apposed neuronal somata and primary dendrites of serotonergic neurons in the pontine raphe. Serotonergic neurons were immunolabeled with a mouse antibody to phenylalanine hydroxylase, an enzyme with substantial sequence homology to tryptophan hydroxylase. Interactions in the lateral parabrachial nucleus were suggested by precise overlap of corticotropic-releasing hormone and serotonergic terminal fields. Corticotropic-releasing hormone projections were confirmed to noradrenergic neurons containing neuromelanin in the locus ceruleus. Maps of corticotropic-releasing hormone fiber trajectories suggest that these pathways may derive from the forebrain and, locally, from the human homologue of Barrington's nucleus--a neurochemically specialized division of the laterodorsal tegmental complex. Chemosensory functions were predicted by novel evidence for corticotropic-releasing hormone- and monoaminergic neurovascular and subependymal fiber plexuses. In conclusion, corticotropic-releasing hormone may influence the activity of two major monoaminergic cell systems implicated in the stress-diathesis model of mental illness, through neural and humoral mechanisms.
Subcutaneous or intracerebroventricular injection of either arginine8-vasopressin or desglycinamide9-arginine8-vasopressin has been shown to facilitate memory, reduce or reverse the effects of amnesic drugs, and maintain tolerance to some effects of ethanol. These actions of vasopressin (and, by inference, of desglycinamide9-arginine8-vasopressin) are mediated by vasopressin V1 receptors in brain, via a c-fos-dependent mechanism, but the receptors at which the desglycinamide analog acts have not been identified. The precise central sites are also not known, but evidence of several types suggested the anterior hypothalamus and septum as probable loci of vasopressin action. In the present work, this question was studied by immunocytochemistry, using antibodies against Fos and Fos-like proteins. The numbers of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were counted in several related brain regions and structures, after administration of arginine8-vasopressin, des-Gly9-[Arg8]-vasopressin or saline. A subcutaneous injection of vasopressin, but not of saline, enhanced Fos expression in the paraventricular, supraoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus, but the desglycinamide analog stimulated Fos expression only in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Vasopressin injection significantly increased the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the intermediate lateral septum, medial septum, and dorsal and ventral divisions of the lateral septum. In contrast, the desglycinamide analog increased the numbers of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the dorsal and intermediate portions of the lateral septum, but caused no change in the medial septum, and a decrease in the ventral portion of the lateral septum. Increased Fos expression was also found in the subfornical organ after subcutaneous injection of either vasopressin or the desglycinamide analog. Double labeling with antibodies against Fos protein and against vasopressin revealed that most of the vasopressin-induced Fos-immunoreactive cells in the supraoptic, paraventricular and suprachiasmatic hypothalamic nuclei are also vasopressin immunoreactive, i.e. they are vasopressin-producing neurons. These findings suggest that a circuit involving V1 receptors in the subfornical organ, connecting fibres to the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and vasopressinergic projections from the suprachiasmatic nucleus to the lateral septum, may play a central role in mediating the actions of both vasopressin and its desglycinamide analog in the maintenance of ethanol tolerance.
Properties of excitatory postsynaptic currents during increased glutamate release were investigated by means of a whole-cell voltage-clamp in CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices. Enhancement of transmitter release by 50 microM 4-aminopyridine or by elevated extracellular Ca2+ (up to 5 mM) resulted in a substantial increase in the peak excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude and in the significant stimulus-dependent prolongation of the excitatory postsynaptic current decay. The stronger the stimulus, the slower the excitatory postsynaptic current decay became. The pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid component of the excitatory postsynaptic current exhibited this phenomenon. The possible connection of such behaviour of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component to the loss of voltage control was tested in the following way: the peak of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component was enhanced under 50 microM 4-aminopyridine and then returned back to the control level by a low dose of D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. However, the decay of the decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate component remained slow suggesting another origin of the stimulus-dependent kinetics. Dihydrokainate, a non-competitive inhibitor of glutamate uptake, did not influence the kinetics of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component in control but induced its dramatic stimulus-dependent prolongation when applied on the background of a low dose of 4-aminopyridine (10 microM) which did not affect the decay by itself. We propose that the delayed stimulus-dependent kinetics of the N-methyl-D-aspartate component is due to the saturation of uptake mechanisms and subsequent activation of extrasynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Our present observations therefore support the hypothesis that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may play a role in the cross-talk between synapses by means of the transmitter spillover.
Seizures evoked by electroshock induce rapid changes in the expression of several genes in the adult brain, including those encoding for neurotrophic factors. Some of the neurotrophic factors induced by brief seizures such as basic fibroblast growth factor and nerve growth factor have been shown to have neuroprotective action. We reasoned therefore that these seizures may protect against neural injury. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effect of electroshock-induced seizures on the vulnerability to cell death in the hippocampus. Cell death was induced by adrenalectomy, which results in a highly selective apoptotic neuronal death in the dentate granule cell layer of the hippocampus. Daily electroshock seizures were administered for seven days to sham-operated and adrenalectomized rats. Neuronal degeneration was evaluated by the highly sensitive and reliable cupric-silver impregnation method. Animals experiencing electroshock seizures were completely protected against adrenalectomy-induced cell death, whereas adrenalectomized animals not exposed to electroshock seizures exhibited substantial neuronal cell degeneration in the dentate granule cell layer. Daily restraint stress did not prevent the adrenalectomy-induced neuronal death, indicating that the neuroprotective effect of the seizure treatment is not accounted for by stress. We conclude that brief controlled seizure-evoked neural activation may allow the sparing of otherwise vulnerable neuronal populations in the injured adult brain. This prompts a need to explore the possibility that controlled administration of electroshock seizures may have therapeutic potential in treating neurodegenerative disorders.
In the present study, performance in the Morris water escape task after bilateral lesioning of the dorsal hippocampus induced by the microtubule poison vincristine is discussed as a cognitive deficit model in rats. As we are especially interested in spontaneous or pharmacologically induced recovery processes after experimentally induced cognitive dysfunctions, the model should fulfil a number of criteria. Firstly, a clear dose-effect relationship between the dose of vincristine and the amount of spatial learning impairments should be present. Secondly, lesions must remain within the target area. Thirdly, there should be an observable behavioural recovery or compensation of the induced deficit. Two experiments evaluated the influence of the application volume (experiment 1) and the concentration of vincristine (experiment 2) on lesion location and size, and on spatial learning. The results of both experiments demonstrated that the effect of vincristine on the performance in the Morris water escape task seems to be characterized by an &quot;all-or-none&quot; relationship. Concentrations above a &quot;threshold&quot; value induced severe damage in the hippocampus and adjacent brain structures, whereas concentrations below the &quot;threshold&quot; value had marginal or no effects. The non-selective and highly toxic properties of vincristine make this neurotoxin an unsuitable tool for the establishment of a learning and memory deficit model.
Transient global cerebral ischemia induced in rats by four-vessel occlusion for 20 min produced an increase in the immunocontent of glial fibrillary acidic protein and a protein phosphorylation response that was different in the CA1 and dentate gyrus areas of the hippocampus. We studied different times of reperfusion (one, four, seven, 14 and 30 days) and observed that the immunocontent and in vitro rate of phosphorylation of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the CA1 region was significantly increased at all intervals after the ischemic insult, indicating that the astrocytic response was maintained for at least 30 days. After reperfusion for 14 days a significant increase in the ratio &quot;in vitro phosphorylation rate/immunocontent&quot; in the CA1 region was observed when compared to control values, to other intervals and to the dentate gyrus, suggesting a hyperphosphorylation of this intermediate filament protein at this interval. In the dentate gyrus, an area less vulnerable to the insult, labelling and immunocontent of glial fibrillary acidic protein were equally increased from four days of reperfusion and the increase remained significant until 30 days, confirming that neuronal death is not the only determining factor for gliosis to occur. In control sham-operated animals, neither the CA1 region nor the dentate gyrus showed significant increases in labelling or immunocontent. Changes in the phosphorylation of glial fibrillary acidic protein may be essential for the plastic response of astrocytes to neuronal damage, as neurons and astrocytes can act as functional units involved in homeostasis, plasticity and neurotransmission.
Hippocampal deafferentation increases the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 by microglia, and of ciliary neurotrophic factor and basic fibroblast growth factor by astroglia in fields and periods of reactive axonal growth. Glucocorticoids attenuate lesion-induced hippocampal sprouting, possibly by reducing trophic signals that stimulate growth. With an interest in this hypothesis, the present studies evaluated the influence of systemic treatment with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone on entorhinal lesion-induced increases in neurotrophic factor expression in young adult rat hippocampus. Daily dexamethasone injections almost completely blocked increases in insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA content, but did not perturb increases in ciliary neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA content, in the deafferented dentate gyrus molecular layer. To determine if the suppression of insulin-like growth factor-1 expression was secondary to a general inhibition of microglial responses, and to identify the time period of glucocorticoid sensitivity, additional rats were prepared to evaluate the effects of semi-chronic (i.e. daily) and single dexamethasone injections on microglial proliferation, ED-1 immunoreactivity (a marker of microglial reactivity) and insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA expression. Semi-chronic dexamethasone treatment attenuated all three measures of deafferentation-induced microglial reactivity. However, a single dexamethasone injection given two (but not one or three) days postlesion inhibited deafferentation-induced increases in insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA content, without having significant effects on other measures. These results demonstrate that dexamethasone treatment preferentially suppresses microglial, as opposed to astroglial, trophic responses to deafferentation, and suggest that glucocorticoids attenuate reactive axonal sprouting by inhibiting the microglial production of insulin-like growth factor-1.
The ability for the delayed effects of phencyclidine to model schizophrenia-like symptomatology was investigated by assessing the effects of phencyclidine pretreatment on amphetamine-induced behavior. Corresponding changes in striatal, nucleus accumbens and anterior cingulate cortex c-Fos induction were also assessed in order to test the hypothesis that alterations in the neurochemistry of these regions accompany phencyclidine-induced changes in amphetamine-induced behaviors. Rats were treated with 15.0 mg/kg phencyclidine or vehicle 24 h prior to behavioral testing following vehicle, 0.5, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg amphetamine. Phencyclidine pretreatment significantly increased amphetamine-induced locomotion and rearing in response to 0.5 mg/kg amphetamine. Likewise, phencyclidine pretreatment produced an increase in the number of striatal cells expressing c-Fos following treatment with 0.5 mg/kg amphetamine. Phencyclidine pretreatment did not alter c-Fos induction in the nucleus accumbens, but did decrease the basal number of c-Fos-containing cells in the anterior cingulate cortex. While stereotypy rating revealed that phencyclidine pretreatment enhanced the behavioral response to 5.0 mg/kg amphetamine over time, no other alterations in behavior or c-Fos expression in response to the higher doses of amphetamine were induced by phencyclidine pretreatment. These data demonstrate that the delayed effects of a single dose of phencyclidine alter anterior cingulate cortex neurochemistry, and enhance the behavioral and striatal c-Fos response to a low dose of amphetamine. These findings suggest that the delayed effects of a single dose of phencyclidine may produce a reasonable animal model for schizophrenia.
To determine whether growth factors of the neurotrophin family are able to regulate the phenotype of striatal projection neurons, cell lines overexpressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 or neurotrophin-4/5 were intrastriatally grafted. Striatal projection neurons were examined for the regulation of their soma areas and for the expression of glutamate decarboxylase 67, preprotachykinin A, preproenkephalin and prodynorphin messenger RNAs by in situ hybridization. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 differentially regulated the soma area of projection neurons at different distances from the graft, but did not modify their messenger RNA levels. Neurotrophin-3 induced an increase in the soma area of preproenkephalin- and preprotachykinin A-positive neurons, brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased the soma area of only preprotachykinin A-positive neurons, while neurotrophin-4/5 did not produce any effect. Because atrophy and neuronal loss are hallmarks of Huntington's disease, we next examined whether neurotrophins prevent degenerative changes in a quinolinate model of Huntington's disease. Seven days after intrastriatal quinolinate injection, we observed a halo of cell loss around the injection sites, reduced soma area of glutamate decarboxylase 67-, preproenkephalin- and preprotachykinin A-positive neurons bordering the lesion, and a decrease in the messenger RNA levels of glutamate decarboxylase 67 and these neuropeptides. Grafting of cell lines expressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 or neurotrophin-4/5 reduced the size of the lesion for preproenkephalin-, preprotachykinin- and glutamate decarboxylase 67-, but not for prodynorphin-positive neurons. Moreover, the three neurotrophins prevented the atrophy of all projection neurons, and the lesion-induced decrease in preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin A messenger RNA levels. We conclude that neurotrophins differentially regulate the phenotype of striatal projection neurons and prevent degenerative changes. The higher efficiency of neurotrophin-3 suggests a potential therapeutic application of this molecule in neurological disorders affecting striatal projection neurons, such as Huntington's disease.
Abnormalities of proteins involved in neurotransmission and neural plasticity at synapses are reported in schizophrenia, and may be markers of dysregulated neural connectivity in this illness. Studies of brain development and neural regeneration indicate a dynamic interplay between neural and oligodendroglial mechanisms in regulating synaptic plasticity and axonal sprouting. In the present study, markers of synapses (synaptophysin), plasticity (growth-associated protein-43) and oligodendrocytes (myelin basic protein) were investigated in anterior frontal cortex homogenates from individuals with schizophrenia and depression. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was reduced in schizophrenics who died of natural causes relative to controls. Myelin basic protein immunoreactivity was decreased in both schizophrenics and depressed individuals who died by suicide. Overall, no changes were observed in growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity. However, a slight increase in immunoreactivity in depressed suicides relative to control was observed. These findings support the hypothesis that synaptic abnormalities are a substrate for disordered connectivity in severe mental illness, and suggest that synaptic-oligodendroglial interactions may contribute to the mechanism of dysregulation in certain cases.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to examine the expression of 10 GABA(A) receptor messenger RNAs corresponding to the alpha1-alpha5, beta1-beta3, gamma1 and gamma2 subunits in primary somatosensory and visual areas of macaque monkey cerebral cortex from embryonic day (E) 125 to postnatal day (P) 125. Results were compared with expression patterns in adults. In the sensorimotor cortex at E125, overall levels of all subunit transcripts were low. At E137, there was a major lamina-specific increase in all subunit messenger RNAs except gamma1. For alpha1, alpha2, alpha4, beta2, beta3 and gamma2 subunit transcripts, this increase was highest in areas 3a and 3b, particularly in layers III/IV and VI. Postnatally, there were significant decreases in all transcripts. Alpha1, alpha5, beta2 and gamma2 subunit transcripts, while still at significantly lower levels than at E137, remained expressed at levels higher than other transcripts. Unlike in rodents, there was no obvious &quot;switch&quot; in the major subunits expressed in fetal and adult cortex, alpha1, alpha5, beta2 and gamma2 remaining highest throughout. In area 17, the most prominently expressed subunits at earliest ages were alpha2, alpha5, beta1, beta2, beta3 and gamma2, especially in layers II/III and VI. At E150, expression for alpha2, alpha3, beta1 and beta3 subunit transcripts in these layers decreased, but levels for alpha1, alpha4, alpha5, beta2, gamma1 and gamma2 transcripts increased, particularly within layer IV. The increase at E150 was particularly marked for alpha5 transcripts, which were expressed at levels more than four times those of other transcripts. Alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 remain highest into aduthood. Fetal area 17 displayed lamina-specific patterns of expression not found in adult animals. In particular, alpha3 messenger RNAs were present in layer IVA and gamma1 transcripts were present in layer IVC at E150, despite a lack of expression in these layers in the adult. These data demonstrate increased expression of GABA(A) receptors during the period of establishment of thalamocortical and intracortical connections, and a temporal regulation that may be associated with the period of developmental plasticity.
Both long-term depression and long-term potentiation have been described at corticostriatal synapses. These long-lasting changes in synaptic strength were classically induced by high-frequency (100 Hz) electrical stimulations of cortical afferents. The purpose of the present study was to test the ability of corticostriatal connections to express use-dependent modifications after cortical stimulation applied at the frequency of synchronization of corticostriatal inputs observed in our in vivo preparation, i.e. the barbiturate-anesthetized rat. For this study we used an identified monosynaptic corticostriatal pathway, between the orofacial motor cortex and its target region in the striatum. Intracellular recording of striatal output neurons showed spontaneous large-amplitude oscillation-like depolarizations exhibiting a strong periodicity with a narrow frequency band at 5 Hz. Using the focal electroencephalogram of the cortical region projecting to the recorded cells, we found that membrane potential oscillations in striatal neurons were in phase with episodes of spontaneous cortical spindle waves. To determine directly the pattern of activity of corticostriatal neurons, we performed intracellular recordings of electrophysiologically identified corticostriatal neurons simultaneously with the corresponding surface electroencephalogram. We found that corticostriatal cells (n = 7) exhibited periods of spontaneous 5-Hz discharges in phase with the cortical spindle waves. Therefore, we have tested the effect of repetitive cortical stimulations at this low frequency (5 Hz, 500-1000 pulses) on the corticostriatal synaptic efficacy. In 62% of cases (eight of 13 neurons tested), this conditioning was able to produce long-term potentiation in the corticostriatal synaptic efficacy. The mean increase of excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude ranged from 13.3% to 172% (mean = 67.3%, n = 8). These results provide additional support for physiological long-term potentiation at corticostriatal connections. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that corticostriatal long-term potentiation can be induced by synchronization at low frequency of cortical afferents. Our data support the concept that the striatal output neuron may operate as a coincidence detector of converging cortical information.
Psychophysiological stress has been shown to increase 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein messenger RNAs with northern blotting in rats. However, its localization is unknown. With in situ hybridization, we tested our hypothesis that restraint water-immersion stress may induce heat shock cognate protein 70 messenger RNA expression simultaneously with some morphological changes selectively in the hippocampus of rats. Stress for 6 h significantly increased heat shock cognate protein 70 messenger RNAs in the hippocampus, with maximal intensity in the CA3 subfield of the Ammon's horn and to a lesser extent in CA2. Stress for 12 h significantly increased heat shock cognate protein 70 messenger RNAs in the whole hemisphere including the cerebral cortex, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, and the hippocampus with the highest density in CA3. Heat shock cognate protein 70 messenger RNA in rats with stress for 6 h followed by recovery for 6 h significantly increased at CA3 and CA2 compared with the controls or rats stressed for 6 h without recovery. No overt histological changes were detected in neuronal or glial cells in the slides of hematoxylin-eosin or Cresyl Violet staining. These results show that psychophysiological stress induces heat shock cognate protein 70 messenger RNA in the most stress-vulnerable brain structure, hippocampal CA3, probably for cytoprotection.
Although the expression of the normal prion protein in the host is critical to the development of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, the physiological role of this protein and the processes regulating its expression remain obscure. We now report that the messenger RNA for the prion protein is regulated in the rat brain in a marked circadian manner not only in the suprachiasmatic nuclei, the principal site for the generation of mammalian circadian rhythms, but also in other forebrain regions. The data show a remarkable consistency in the concurrence of a single peak of prion protein messenger RNA at each of the sites early in the animal's phase of increased locomotor activity; behavioural arousal does not, however, appear to affect this expression. We believe this to be the first study demonstrating that the expression of prion protein messenger RNA can change over a relatively short period in vivo. The results are discussed with reference to the range of recently discovered &quot;clock-related&quot; transcripts which also have widespread tissue expression; these include the messenger RNAs for D-box binding protein and thyroid embryonic factor, transcription factors which bind to the prion protein promoter.
Although kainate has long been known as a powerful axon-sparing neurotoxin, the localization and functions of kainate receptors in the CNS are largely unknown. In the present study we examined the distribution of kainate receptor subunits in the monkey striatum using kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7 and kainate receptor subunit KA2 subunit antibodies at the electron microscope level. We found that kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7 immunoreactivity is expressed not only in neuronal perikarya and dendritic processes, but also in a large population of terminals which form axospinous and axodendritic asymmetric synapses. The ultrastructural features of these terminals resembled those of glutamatergic corticostriatal boutons. In contrast, very few kainate receptor subunit KA2-containing terminals were encountered. Although the functions of these presynaptic kainate receptors remain to be established, the present data suggest the possibility that they are located to modulate the release of glutamate from cortical afferents in the monkey striatum, and that an abnormal regulation of these presynaptic receptors might be involved in the death of striatal neurons in Huntington's disease. Accordingly, recent findings demonstrated that the variance in the age of onset of Huntington's disease could be attributed to the genotype variation of kainate receptor subunit GluR6 in humans.
Fetal neocortex or tectum transplanted to the midbrain or cortex of newborn rats develops various degrees of gliosis, i.e. increased numbers of hypertrophied, glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. In addition, there were patches or bundles of myelinated fibres positive for the oligodendrocyte and central myelin marker Rip, and increased levels of extracellular matrix molecules. Three diffusion parameters--extracellular space volume fraction alpha (alpha = extracellular volume/total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda = square root(D/ADC), where D is the free and ADC is the apparent tetramethylammonium diffusion coefficient) and non-specific uptake k'--were determined in vivo from extracellular concentration-time profiles of tetramethylammonium. Grafts were subsequently processed immunohistochemically to compare diffusion measurements with graft morphology. Comparisons were made between the diffusion parameters of host cortex and corpus callosum, fetal cortical or tectal tissue transplanted to host midbrain (&quot;C- and T-grafts&quot;) and fetal cortical tissue transplanted to host cortex (&quot;cortex-to-cortex&quot; or C-C-grafts). In host cortex, alpha ranged from 0.20 +/- 0.01 (layer V) to 0.21 +/- 0.01 (layers III, IV and VI) and lambda from 1.59 +/- 0.03 (layer VI) to 1.64 +/- 0.02 (layer III) (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 15). Much higher values were found in &quot;young&quot; C-grafts (81-150 days post-transplantation), where alpha = 0.34 +/- 0.01 and lambda = 1.78 +/- 0.03 (n = 13), as well as in T-grafts, where alpha = 0.29 +/- 0.02 and lambda = 1.85 +/- 0.04 (n = 7). Further analysis revealed that diffusion in grafts was anisotropic and more hindered than in host cortex. The heterogeneity of diffusion parameters correlated with the structural heterogeneity of the neuropil, with the highest values of alpha in gray matter and the highest values of lambda in white matter bundles. Compared to &quot;young&quot; C-grafts, in &quot;old&quot; C-grafts (one year post-transplantation) both alpha and lambda were significantly lower, and there was a clear decrease in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity throughout the grafted tissue. In C-C-grafts, alpha and lambda varied with the degree of graft incorporation into host tissue, but on average they were significantly lower (alpha = 0.24 +/- 0.01 and lambda = 1.66 +/- 0.02, n = 8) than in young C- and T-grafts. Well-incorporated grafts revealed less astrogliosis, and alpha and lambda values were not significantly higher than those in normal host cortex. The observed changes in extracellular space diffusion parameters could affect the movement and accumulation of neuroactive substances and thus impact upon neuron-glia communication, synaptic and extrasynaptic transmission in the grafts. The potential relevance of these observations to human neuropathological conditions associated with acute or chronic astrogliosis is considered.
Quantal analysis was used to characterize synaptic transmission between A and B neurons in the cerebral ganglion of Aplysia in control and during slow developing potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity exhibited by these synapses. Control values of mean quantal content (m) and quantal size (q) estimated by the method of coefficient of variation (CV) were m approximately 6, q approximately 56 microV in the solution with Ca2+/Mg2+ = 5/200 and m approximately 18, q approximately 41 microV in the solution with Ca2+/Mg2+ = 55/150. There was a good correlation between an increase in the amplitude of excitatory synaptic potential and an increase in calculated quantal content (m(cv)) during potentiation. A decrease of Ca2+/Mg2+ ratio in the bath solution allowed observation of transmission failures and in some cases regular peaks on excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude histograms. The latter provided more direct estimate of the quantal size. Induction of the potentiation in this solution, however, became difficult. In cases of successful potentiation induction, probability of failures was less than in control; distances between histogram peaks, reflecting quantal size remained the same. The results obtained in this study support a hypothesis that potentiation of the synaptic transmission between A and B neurons of Aplysia is primarily due to an increase of transmitter release.
Mood stabilizing drugs decrease central nervous system cyclic AMP signaling. We report here that chronic, but not acute treatment with lithium chloride in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, inhibits phosphorylation of cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein and cyclic AMP responsive element DNA binding induced by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin, but has no effect on constitutive expression of cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein. These results are consistent with an effect of lithium to blunt the cyclic AMP signal transduction pathway. Such an effect is not shared by the other commonly prescribed mood stabilizer, sodium valproate. Our results suggest that cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein regulated gene expression may be relevant to the long-term prophylactic effect of lithium. Furthermore, sodium valproate, which is also effective in bipolar disorder, would appear to act on other pathways to bring about its therapeutic effects.
We have used anatomical methods and whole-cell patch-clamp recording to assess the distribution of nicotinic receptors in the tectum of Xenopus frogs and to measure effects of nicotinic ligands (carbachol, cytisine and nicotine) on glutamatergic spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. Our results confirm that retinotectal axons account for the majority of nicotinic receptors in the tectum and that nicotinic agonists exert presynaptic effects that increase the rate of transmitter release on to tectal cells. The nicotinic blockers mecamylamine and methyllycaconitine reduced responses to carbachol and cytisine. A small percentage of cells also showed postsynaptic responses. We have assessed whether there are developmental changes in the frequency of occurrence of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. The first three months post-metamorphosis fall within the critical period for the dramatic plasticity displayed by binocular inputs during development in Xenopus. During this period, visual activity governs the formation of orderly maps relayed from the ipsilateral eye via the cholinergic projection from the nucleus isthmi to the tectum. In this study, we have found that critical-period tecta (two to 12 weeks postmetamorphosis) tend to have higher spontaneous activity than do older tecta (two to 69 weeks postmetamorphosis), and that nicotinic agonists increase that activity in both groups, with the result that the peak rates in response to nicotinic agonists are higher during the critical period than later. We also investigated the possible role of choline as an agonist of nicotinic receptors in the tectum. We have found that choline, as well as carbachol and cytisine, can cause a reversible increase in the rate of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. This result may help to explain how the isthmotectal projection, which accounts for the overwhelming majority of cholinergic input to the tectum, can exert effects on retinotectal terminals even though there are no morphologically identifiable synapses between the two populations. We have examined the morphology of cells filled with biocytin during the patch-clamp experiments, and we find that cells with dendrites in the stratum zonale, a layer with particularly dense input from the contralateral nucleus isthmi, have higher spontaneous activity than cells with dendrites that do not extend into that layer. Nicotinic agonists increased the activity recorded in both classes of cells. In addition, four pretectal cells were identified. Nicotinic agonists increased the rate of spontaneous activity recorded in that population. The results indicate that retinotectal transmission in the superior colliculus can be increased presynaptically by activity of the cholinergic projections of the nucleus isthmi. This modulation may be the basis for observations that blocking of cholinergic input disrupts the formation of topographic retinotectal projections. Moreover, the ability of choline to activate these receptors suggests that this metabolite of acetylcholine may permit paracrine activation of presynaptic receptors even though the tectum contains high acetylcholinesterase activity.
The ototoxic side-effects of the anti-cancer drug cisplatin (cis-diaminedichloroplatinum) have been widely investigated. However, the exact site of action remains unclear. In this study, the electroreceptor organ of the freshwater catfish Ictalurus melas is used as a model for examining the acute effects of cisplatin. The sensory cells in the electroreceptor organ are homologous to the inner hair cells in the cochlea of mammals. The effects of cisplatin administration can be investigated by in vivo recording of the spike trains from the electroreceptor organ primary afferents. Exposure of electroreceptor organs to 330 microM cisplatin for 1 h causes the spontaneous activity to drop, the overall sensitivity to diminish and the shape of the frequency characteristics to change. These effects persist in the week after administration. Control levels have returned at day 22. These results demonstrate an acute and, with considerable hysteresis, reversible cisplatin effect on the electroreceptor organs, which is to a large extent consistent with the cisplatin-induced effects in isolated hair cells in mammals. The time-course of the effect supports the hypotheses that ion channels are blocked immediately by cisplatin administration, and that cisplatin metabolites disturb enzymatic cellular processes.
We investigated the hypothesis that the Ca2+-activated protease calpain is involved in the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury, and is linked to the proteolytic degradation of cytoskeletal proteins. We report here that levels of calpain I (mu-calpain)-mediated spectrin breakdown products are increased by 15 min post-injury, with peak levels reached by 2 h post-injury. The dephosphorylated form of the neurofilament protein NF200 is substantially lost over the same time-period. A 35-g compressive injury was applied to the midthoracic rat spinal cord for 1 min, and animals were killed at 15 min, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, and 24 h post-injury. Calpain I-mediated spectrin breakdown products accumulated post-injury, with peak levels reached at 2 h. Secondly, we have demonstrated a progressive loss of the 200,000 mol. wt neurofilament protein NF200, a cytoskeletal calpain substrate, which began within 1-2 h post-injury. Densitometric analyses confirmed that loss of NF200 is a substrate-specific phenomenon, since (i) dephosphorylated NF200 was preferentially lost while phosphorylated NF200 was relatively spared, and (ii) actin, which is not a substrate for calpain, was relatively spared following spinal cord injury. Finally, we demonstrated calpain I-mediated spectrin breakdown within NF200-positive neuronal processes post-injury. We conclude that the accumulation of spectrin breakdown products is temporally and spatially correlated with loss of dephosphorylated NF200 after spinal cord injury.
Lamina I neurons of the spinal cord convey specific nociceptive activity to the brain. A subpopulation of lamina I cells bears substance P receptors (neurokinin-1) and recent studies have shown that these neurons encode for the intensity of noxious peripheral stimulation. Here, we report that cool thermal stimuli, applied to the hindpaw of anaesthetized rats, induce Fos expression in lamina I neurokinin-1 neurons that is graded with respect to the intensity of the thermal stimulus. Thus, as the temperature of the stimulus was reduced, both the total number of neurokinin-l-positive neurons expressing Fos and the proportion of Fos nuclei present within neurokinin-1 cells showed a significant increase. These data show that lamina I neurokinin-1 cells encode the intensity of noxious cooling of the skin. In laminae III and IV, although there was no correlation between neurokinin-1 cell activation and stimulus intensity, the total Fos count in these layers was inversely related to the depth of cooling. Thus, neurons in laminae III and IV may also play a role in thermoreception.
Postganglionic nerve crush of the avian ciliary ganglion induces detachment of preganglionic terminals from the soma of the injured ciliary neurons, followed by reattachment at about the same time that the postganglionic axons regenerate to their targets. In order to determine the role played by cell adhesion molecules in this response, we have studied injury-induced changes in the amount and distribution of N-cadherin and neural cell adhesion molecule, together with modifications in the expression of their messenger RNAs. Both N-cadherin and neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivities associated with postsynaptic specializations decreased between one and three days following postganglionic nerve crush, preceding the detachment of the preganglionic boutons. Immunoreactivities subsequently increased between 13 and 20 days, in parallel with restoration of synaptic contacts on the ganglion cells and the progressive reinnervation of the peripheral targets. In contrast to the rapid decrease in immunoreactivity, the messenger RNA levels of N-cadherin and neural cell adhesion molecule both increased after crush, and remained elevated throughout the 20-day period of the experiment. These results are consistent with roles for N-cadherin and neural cell adhesion molecule in the maintenance of synaptic contacts. The rapid regulation of these proteins in injury-induced synaptic plasticity occurs at the post-transcriptional level, whereas longer term regulation associated with the re-establishment of synapses may be promoted by the increased levels of gene expression.
Synaptosomal-associated protein 25 has been regarded as one of the target-associated soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptors essential for exocytosis of vesicles in synapses. We have previously reported that cleavage of syntaxin, which is another target-associated soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor, with botulinum neurotoxin C1 resulted in inhibition of neurite extension and morphological changes including growth cone collapse and large vacuole formation. As an attempt to explore the mechanism of growth cone extension, we examined the ultrastructural localization of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 in growth cones with or without treatment of botulinum neurotoxin A, which cleaves synaptosomal-associated protein 25. In dorsal root ganglion neurons, light microscopy demonstrated synaptosomal-associated protein 25 immunoreactivity throughout the neurons, including the cell bodies, neurites and growth cones. Using electron microscopy, gold signals immunoreactive for synaptosomal-associated protein 25 were identified diffusely in the cytoplasm of the growth cones. In contrast, in PC-12 cells, a large number of gold signals were localized on the plasma membranes. High levels of signal were also found in the cytoplasm in the central region of the growth cones. We also confirmed that botulinum neurotoxin A treatment reduced neurite extension by about 50%. However, both in dorsal root ganglion neurons and in PC-12 cells we found no differences in the ultrastructure nor in the localization of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 between growth cones with and without toxin treatment. These results indicate that cleavage of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 inhibits growth cone extension in a manner different than that of syntaxin cleavage. The results of this study suggest the possibility that synaptosomal-associated protein 25 is involved in growth cone extension through a process independent of vesicle fusion.
Neuroendocrine secretory protein 55 (NESP55) is a recently characterized secretory protein localized to large dense-core vesicles resembling the class of chromogranins. We investigated the distribution of the messenger RNA encoding for NESP55 in the rat brain by in situ hybridization with specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotides. NESP55 messenger RNA was detected only on neuronal but not glial cells. In the brain, expression of NESP55 messenger RNA was most prominent in several areas throughout the midbrain and brainstem, including the locus coeruleus, the raphe complex and the reticular formation. NESP55 messenger RNA-expressing cells were also found in many areas and nuclei throughout the hypothalamus. Neocortical areas, the hippocampus and the cerebellum were devoid of NESP55 messenger RNA-containing neurons. From this distribution pattern, a significant overlap of NESP55 expression with the noradrenergic, adrenergic and serotonergic transmitter systems was evident. The present study defines, for the first time, the cellular localizaton of NESP55 messenger RNA in the rat brain. The present results provide the basis for future studies defining the as yet obscure function of NESP55.
The bcl-2 family of proteins comprises both anti-apoptotic and pro-apoptotic members, which play a pivotal role in regulating cell death. Bcl-w is a recently identified member of this family, which was shown to inhibit apoptosis in haemopoietic cell lines. However, the function and expression patterns of bcl-w in the nervous system have so far not been described. We have cloned complementary DNA corresponding to rat bcl-w and analysed the expression of bcl-w messenger RNA during rat brain development, using RNA blotting and in situ hybridization techniques. We also compared the expression patterns of bcl-w with those of bcl-xL. During brain development, the levels of bcl-w messenger RNA were found to increase, with highest expression located to specific regions of the mature brain, such as hippocampus, cerebellum, piriform cortex and locus coeruleus. Bcl-w messenger RNA was expressed by neurons, as shown with double labeling with neuronal markers. In contrast to bcl-w, bcl-xL messenger RNA expression levels were highest during early development, particularly in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. During postnatal development the expression of bcl-xL messenger RNA decreased and were only detected at low levels in the adult nervous system. As shown earlier for bcl-2, the expression of bcl-w and bcl-x messenger RNA in cultured cerebellar granule cells was not altered by the deprivation of neurotrophic factors. The present results suggest that bcl-w may play an important role in the mature nervous system.
Recent biochemical studies have demonstrated that the adenomatous polyposis coli gene, initially identified via its link to colon cancer, is expressed at high levels in the brain. Furthermore, the ability of this tumor suppressor protein to bind to Discs-Large and beta-catenin, proteins implicated in organizing synaptic structure, point to a role for APC in neuronal signalling. However, anatomical studies have provided conflicting results regarding its localization in brain. In situ hybridization studies predict neuronal expression of APC, while immunostaining studies performed with a panel of N-terminal antibodies detected staining of glial cells, especially oligodendrocytes. In this study, we have examined the basis for this discrepancy and provide evidence that the glial staining pattern detected in previous studies reflects cross-reactivity with an unrelated antigen rather than the localization of APC. Furthermore, we have performed immunohistochemical studies with a C-terminal APC antibody which reveal a neuronal pattern of staining closely matching that predicted by the in situ studies. For example, in the hippocampus APC immunostaining is detected in the pyramidal neurons and dentate granule cells, which fits well with the localization of APC mRNA. Examination of APC immunostaining in other regions revealed that particularly intense staining was displayed by large neurons, including layer V cortical pyramidal neurons, cerebellar Purkinje cells, and olfactory bulb mitral cells. Within labeled neurons, APC staining was apparent in the cytoplasm, as well as in dendritic and axonal processes. To help clarify the localization of APC in brain, we have conducted additional in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical studies. These results provide compelling evidence that APC is expressed predominantly in neurons rather than in glial cells as reported previously.
Alpha-synuclein is an evolutionary highly conserved neuronal protein localized in presynaptic nerve terminals. The protein has been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, but little is known about the physiological function of the protein. In the present study we used newborn, three, 14, 93 and 710-day-old rats to examine the expression of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA and protein during development of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Using in situ hybridization and an S1 nuclease protection assay, we found a high expression of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA during early postnatal development, followed by a marked decrease between postnatal days 14 and 93. In contrast, the amount of alpha-synuclein protein, as determined by immunoblotting, continued to increase throughout development and remained at a high level for at least two years. The persistent high expression of alpha-synuclein protein throughout development suggests that the protein is involved in maintaining synaptic function. Furthermore, the discrepancy between the levels of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA and protein after postnatal day 14 indicates that the amount of alpha-synuclein is determined by post-transcriptional regulation, and not by messenger RNA expression alone. To estimate the changes of alpha-synuclein expression per synapse, we compared the developmental expression of alpha-synuclein with synaptophysin, a well-established synaptic marker. The alpha-synuclein/synaptophysin messenger RNA and protein ratio was high during early development, but low in adult (postnatal day 93) and old (postnatal day 710) rats. This could indicate a higher expression of alpha-synuclein per synapse during early development.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus contains a number of intermingled populations of neuroendocrine cell groups involved in the hormonal stress response, including cells synthesizing corticotropin-releasing hormone and oxytocin. Ascending noradrenergic afferents to the paraventricular nucleus, acting through alpha1 adrenergic receptors, are thought to play a role in stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. We have previously demonstrated that, of the three known alpha1 adrenergic receptor subtypes, messenger RNA for the alpha1D subtype is the most prominently expressed in the paraventricular nucleus. Thus, regulation of the expression of this receptor may be important in modulation of the stress response. It is currently unknown, however, which populations of stress-related neuroendocrine cells in the paraventricular nucleus express alpha1 receptors, or whether the excitatory influence of norepinephrine in stress is exerted directly on neurons expressing oxytocin or corticotropin-releasing hormone. Thus, in the present study, we used dual in situ hybridization, combining a digoxigenin-labeled riboprobe encoding the rat alpha1D adrenergic receptor with radiolabeled riboprobes for oxytocin or corticotropin-releasing hormone, to determine the degree to which these neurons in the paraventricular nucleus express alpha1D adrenergic receptors. In sections through the rostral and mid-level paraventricular nucleus, nearly all (&gt;95%) oxytocin neurons also expressed alpha1D messenger RNA. In contrast, the populations of corticotropin-releasing hormone- and alpha1D-expressing cells overlapped only partially, with most alpha1D expression situated more laterally. A subset (37%) of the neurons expressing corticotropin-releasing hormone also expressed alpha1D messenger RNA, and these were found almost entirely within the region of overlap in the lateral aspect of the medial parvocellular region. These observations support a direct role for alpha1 receptors in regulation of oxytocin secretion. Expression of alpha1D messenger RNA in distinct subsets of cells synthesizing corticotropin-releasing hormone may also help to clarify contradictory and inconsistent observations in the literature regarding the role of norepinephrine in the stress response, and may account for a presumed stressor-specific role for norepinephrine in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Rat cerebrocortical minislices were incubated with physiological saline in the absence or presence of 5 mM ammonium acetate (&quot;ammonia&quot;) and/or inhibitors of osmosensitive amino acid transport: 50 microM niflumic acid and 100 microM N-ethyl-maleimide for 60 min, with medium changes after 20 min and 40 min. The efflux of endogenous taurine, glutamate and glutamine was assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography, and steady-state cell volumes were monitored in the slices with the [14C]inulin method. In the absence of ammonia, niflumic acid abolished taurine efflux but did not affect glutamate or glutamine efflux at all time-points, and increased cell volume at 20 min and 60 min. N-Ethyl-maleimide increased taurine, glutamine and glutamate efflux at 20 min and 40 min, inhibited taurine and glutamine efflux at 60 min, and increased cell volume at 20 min. Ammonia strongly stimulated taurine (by 380% at 20 min), and only moderately glutamate (30% at 20 min) or glutamine efflux (76% at 20 min). Ammonia increased cell volume above the control level at all time-points. Niflumic acid inhibited, but did not abolish ammonia-dependent taurine and glutamine efflux, and did not change glutamate efflux. The effects of ammonia + niflumic acid on cell volume did not differ from the effects of each compound separately. N-Ethyl-maleimide inhibited ammonia-dependent efflux of all three amino acids except for stimulation of glutamate efflux at 20 min. N-Ethyl-maleimide + ammonia decreased the cell volumes more than did each compound separately. It is concluded that although ammonia-induced taurine efflux is accompanied by an increase in cell volume, the underlying mechanism is not simply a cell volume regulatory response normally observed in hypoosmotic stress. Increased efflux of taurine, which is an inhibitory amino acid and a cell membrane protectant, may serve to counteract the deleterious effects of increased excitatory transmission accompanying acute hyperammonemic insult.
To investigate whether nitric oxide is involved in the cardiovascular responses mediated via the locus coeruleus, the effects of microinjections of L-arginine and L-glutamate into the locus coeruleus on blood pressure and heart rate were investigated in sodium pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats. Unilateral microinjection of L-arginine (25, 50 nmol) elicited dose-related depressor (-17 +/- 4, -25 +/- 4 mmHg) and bradycardic (13 +/- 3, 24 +/- 6 b.p.m.) effects. Furthermore, these effects were attenuated by prior local microinjection of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (40 nmol). Peripheral muscarinic receptor blockade with atropine methyl nitrate (1 mg/kg, i.v.) attenuated the bradycardic but not the depressor responses to L-arginine. L-Glutamate (2 nmol) microinjections also mediated depressor (-27 +/- 6 mmHg) and bradycardic (53 +/- 23 b.p.m.) effects that were attenuated by microinjections of dizocilpine maleate (1 nmol) into the locus coeruleus. In addition, pretreatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (40 nmol) also significantly attenuated the depressor response elicited by L-glutamate. These results suggest that nitrergic and glutamatergic pathways are operative within the locus coeruleus to modulate cardiovascular function, and also that a functional interaction may exist between the nitrergic and glutamatergic systems within the rat locus coeruleus.
The present study investigated, in rats, whether blockade of cannabinoid CB1 receptors may alter Fos protein expression in a manner comparable to that observed with antipsychotic drugs. Intraperitoneal administration of the selective CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716, dose-dependently (1.0, 3.0 and 10 mg/kg) increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in mesocorticolimbic areas (prefrontal cortex, ventrolateral septum, shell of the nucleus accumbens and dorsomedial caudate-putamen), while motor-related structures such as the core of the nucleus accumbens and the dorsolateral caudate-putamen were unaffected. In the ventrolateral septum, taken as a representative structure, the Fos-inducing effect of SR141716 (10 mg/kg) was maximal 2 h after injection and returned to near control levels by 4 h. Within the prefrontal cortex, SR141716 increased the number of Fos-positive cells predominantly in the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices, presumptive pyramidal cells being the major cell types in which Fos was induced. The D1-like receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.1 mg/kg), did not prevent the Fos-inducing effect of SR141716 in any brain region examined (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, ventrolateral septum and dorsomedial caudate-putamen), although SCH23390 significantly reduced Fos expression induced by cocaine (20 mg/kg) in all these regions. By contrast, the dopamine D2-like agonist, quinpirole (0.25 mg/ kg), counteracted SR141716-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in the ventrolateral septum, the nucleus accumbens and the dorsomedial caudate-putamen, while no antagonism was observed in the prefrontal cortex. Microdialysis experiments in awake rats indicated that SR141716, at doses which increased Fos expression (3 and 10 mg/kg), did not alter dopamine release in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. Finally, SR141716 increased the levels of neurotensin-like immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the caudate-putamen. Collectively, the present results show that blockade of cannabinoid receptors increases Fos- and neurotensin-like immunoreactivity with characteristics comparable to those reported for atypical neuroleptic drugs.
In this study, we demonstrate that clozapine and other atypical antipsychotic drugs induce a paradoxical internalization of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in vitro and a redistribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in vivo. We discovered that clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone and the putative atypical antipsychotic drug MDL 100,907 all induced 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor internalization in fibroblasts stably expressing the 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor in vitro. Two 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A antagonists (mianserin and ritanserin), which have been demonstrated to reduce negative symptoms in schizophrenia, also caused 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor internalization. Four different drugs, each devoid of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A antagonist activity, had no effect on the subcellular distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in vitro. Treatment of rats for seven days with clozapine induced an increase in intracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor-like immunoreactivity in pyramidal neurons, while causing a decrease in labeling of apical dendrites in the medial prefrontal cortex. This redistribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in pyramidal neurons was also seen when rats were chronically treated with another atypical antipsychotic drug, olanzapine. The typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol, however, did not induce a redistribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in pyramidal neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. Taken together, these results demonstrate that several atypical antipsychotic drugs with high 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor affinities induce a redistribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors both in vivo and in vitro. It is conceivable that the loss of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors from the apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons is important for the beneficial effects of atypical antipsychotic drugs and other 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A antagonists in schizophrenia.
Electrophysiological techniques and in vivo microdialysis were used to investigate the relative contribution of central serotonin-2C/2B and serotonin-2A receptor subtypes in the control of mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic function. Thus, extracellular single-unit recordings were performed from neurochemically identified dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area and the substantia nigra pars compacta, as well as simultaneous monitoring of accumbal and striatal basal dopamine release in anesthetized rats following the administration of serotonin-2C/2B (SB 206553), serotonin-2A (SR 46349B) or serotonin-2A/2B/2C (ritanserin) antagonists. Administration of SB 206553 (40-160 microg/kg, i.v.) caused a dose-dependent increase in the basal firing rate of ventral tegmental area and nigral dopamine neurons, reaching its maximum (45.2 and 28.5%, respectively) following 160 microg/kg. Moreover, burst activity was significantly enhanced by SB 206553 in the ventral tegmental area only. In contrast, injection of SR 46349B (40-160 microg/kg, i.v.), and ritanserin (40-160 microg/kg, i.v.) did not cause any significant change in the basal activity of these neurons. Basal dopamine release was significantly enhanced in both the nucleus accumbens (42%) and the striatum (33%) following the intraperitoneal administration of 5 mg/kg SB 206553. In contrast, SR 46349B (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) and ritanserin (0.63 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to affect basal dopamine output in both regions. Taken together, these data indicate that the central serotonergic system exerts a tonic inhibitory control of mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway activity and that the serotonin-2C/2B receptor subtypes are involved in this effect. Moreover, these findings might open new possibilities for the employment of serotonin-2C/2B receptor antagonists in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders related to a hypofunction of central dopaminergic neurons.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by dopaminergic cell death in the substantia nigra. The cause of the cell death is, however, obscure. Recently, accumulation of iron in the parkinsonian substantia nigra and iron-catalysed free radical generation have been proposed as possible causes of nigral cell death. The transferrin receptor has been implicated as a possible mediator of this iron accumulation in the parkinsonian substantia nigra. The present study investigated the distribution of transferrin receptor-immunoreactive proteins and its co-localization with tyrosine hydroxylase in the normal rat substantia nigra and their expressions in the parkinsonian substantia nigra from three days to three months after 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning. Computer image analysis of the grey mean of transferrin receptor staining in the microvessels was also employed. The results showed that the transferrin receptor immunolabelling was localized in some neurons and glial cells in the normal substantia nigra pars compacta and pars reticulata, and that about 54% of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells were also stained with transferrin receptor. There was a decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase- and transferrin receptor-positive cells in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned substantia nigra. The grey mean of transferrin receptor staining in microvessels in the lesioned substantia nigra was, however, not different from that in the control. It was concluded that transferrin receptors in neurons, glial cells and microvessels might not be responsible for iron accumulation in the parkinsonian substantia nigra. The loss of transferrin receptor-immunopositive cells might, however, partly be accounted for by the death of transferrin receptor-positive dopaminergic cells induced by 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning.
We have previously studied changes in the serotoninergic and dopaminergic nigrostriatal systems following transection of the medial forebrain bundle and found a long-term axotomy-induced increase in the levels of serotonin and its main metabolite, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid in substantia nigra [Venero et al. (1997) J. Neurochem. 68, 2458-2468]. In an attempt to find a rationale for this effect, we have performed an immunohistochemical study. Transection of the medial forebrain bundle of the rat interrupted most of the ascending serotoninergic pathways from the raphe nuclei as revealed by serotonin immunoreactivity. While serotonin immunostaining was almost absent in striatum, it doubled in the ventral mesencephalon at 21 days postlesion. This axotomy-induced increase was accompanied by an increased density of the serotonin nerve terminal network in the ipsilateral substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. The increase in serotonin immunoreactivity was in line with the measured levels of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid in substantia nigra. In addition, the distribution pattern of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytes and OX42-immunoreactive microglia correlated highly with the location of increased serotonin fibre density in the ventral mesencephalon, especially in ventral tegmental area and in the most medial part of substantia nigra. We suggest that a pruning effect may underly the axotomy-induced increase in serotonin immunoreactivity in the ventral mesencephalon, and further, that activated astroglia and microglia may play a role in directing serotoninergic axonal regeneration following axotomy.
The effects of carbachol (0.01-30 microM) and muscarine (10-30 microM) on the excitatory synaptic potentials were studied using conventional intracellular recordings from dopaminergic neurons in rat mesencephalic slices. Both muscarinic agonists reversibly reduced the excitatory synaptic potentials, evoked by local electrical stimulation. The EC50 for carbachol was determined to be 4.5 microM. The maximal degree of the excitatory synaptic potentials suppression caused by carbachol and muscarine was around 40% of control. This suppression was completely blocked by the non-specific muscarinic antagonist atropine (1 microM) and the selective M3 antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (1 microM). Other antagonists, preferentially acting at M1, M2 and M4 receptors, were not effective. Furthermore, the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine (50 microM), decreased the amplitude of the excitatory synaptic potentials, indicating that ambient acetylcholine can depress this potential. Direct depolarizing responses to glutamate were not changed by muscarine. In addition, muscarine facilitated the second excitatory synaptic potentials during a paired-pulse protocol. Thus, the effect of the muscarinic agonists is attributable to a presynaptic locus of action. The action of muscarine was not mediated by an N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive G-protein since it was not modified by a treatment of the slices with this agent. The calcium channels blockers, omega-conotoxin GIVA, omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC did not affect the action of muscarine on the excitatory synaptic potentials. When the potassium currents were reduced by extracellular barium and 4-aminopyridine, the muscarinic agonists still depressed the excitatory synaptic potentials. Our data indicate that presynaptically located M3 receptors modulate the excitatory transmission to midbrain dopaminergic neurons via a N-ethylmaleimide-insensitive G-protein which activates mechanisms neither linked to N-, P-, Q-type calcium channels nor to barium- and 4-aminopyridine-sensitive potassium channels.
We analysed the expression of dopamine receptor subtypes in the subthalamic nucleus by means of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We also studied, using autoradiography, all pharmacologically characterized dopamine receptors in four subregions of the subthalamic nucleus. For comparison, dopamine receptor subtypes were also evaluated in brain regions where they are more abundant and well characterized. The radioligands used were: [3H]SCH-23390, [3H]emonapride and [3H]2-dipropylamino-7-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene for dopamine D1, D2 and D3 receptors, respectively; and [3H]YM-09151-2 in the presence of raclopride for dopamine D4 receptors. Finally, we also evaluated the effect of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine injection into the medial forebrain bundle on dopamine receptor levels expressed in the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus. The lesion was estimated by decrease in the binding of [3H]WIN-35428, a specific dopamine transporter label. D1, D2 and D3 receptor messenger RNAs and binding sites were present in the subthalamic nucleus, but no messenger RNA for D4 receptors was found, although specific binding sites for these receptors were observed. As compared to the intact side, the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion did not change D1 receptors, increased D2 receptors, and decreased D3 receptors and the dopamine transporter. The results suggest that postsynaptic D1, D2 or D3 receptors can mediate the effect of dopamine on subthalamic nucleus neuronal activity. D4 receptors would mediate exclusively presynaptic effects. These results reinforce the idea that dopamine receptors in the subthalamic nucleus may play an important role in the physiology of the basal ganglia and in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.
SK-N-MC human neuroblastoma cells express functional D1, but not D5, dopaminergic receptors. Stimulating cells with dopamine or the D1-selective agonist, SKF R-38393, rapidly (t(1/2) = 1 h) resulted in &gt; 95% attenuation of dopamine-mediated accumulation of cyclic AMP, without any change in D1 dopamine receptor levels. Prolonged (&gt; 4 h) exposure of cells to dopamine attenuated D1 receptor levels to 45-50% of control (t(1/2) = 8 h) and was accompanied by a loss of high-affinity binding sites. At the molecular level, the expression of D1 receptor messenger RNA was bimodal: an initial increase (by approximately 60%) of receptor messenger RNA within 2 h of treatment of cells with dopamine was followed by a decline to 50% below control messenger RNA levels. Low concentrations (1-10 nM) of dopamine also potentiated D1 messenger RNA levels (up to 48%), resulting in a twofold increase in receptor levels. Transfection studies with the cloned human D1 promoter construct, pGL-D1P, indicated that the up-regulation of D1 messenger RNA was due to activation of promoter by dopamine. The dopamine-mediated up-regulation of both D1 receptor messenger RNA and promoter was prevented by the D1-selective antagonist, SCH 23390. The results suggest that dopamine regulates D1 receptor gene and protein expression in a bimodal manner, partly through activation of the receptor promoter. Moreover, the effects of dopamine are independent of the second messenger, cyclic AMP.
To examine whether dopamine modulates cortical N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated glutamate transmission, whole-cell recordings were made from identified pyramidal cells located in layers V and VI of the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat using a slice preparation. In the presence of tetrodotoxin and the absence of Mg2+, a brief local application of N-methyl-D-aspartate evoked an inward current which was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine maleate but not affected by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline, suggesting that the observed current is mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors located on recorded cells. Bath application of dopamine produced opposite effects on the N-methyl-D-aspartate current depending on the concentrations of dopamine applied. At low concentrations (&lt;50 microM), dopamine enhanced the N-methyl-D-aspartate current, whereas at higher concentrations, dopamine suppressed the current. The same concentrations of dopamine did not significantly affect the inward current induced by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid. The enhancing effect of dopamine on the N-methyl-D-aspartate response was mimicked by the D1 agonist SKF38393 and blocked by the D1 antagonist SCH31966, whereas the suppressing effect was mimicked by the D2 agonist quinpirole and blocked by the D2 antagonist eticlopride. The above results suggest that dopamine at low concentrations acts preferentially on D1-like receptors to promote N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated transmission, while at high concentrations dopamine also activates D2-like receptors, leading to a suppression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate function. This differential modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate function may have significant implications for understanding behaviors and disorders involving both cortical dopamine- and glutamate-mediated neurotransmission.
Transplantation of fetal neuronal tissue has been used successfully to ameliorate symptoms of neurodegenerative disease in animals and humans. This technique has recently been extended as an experimental treatment for ischemic brain damage. However, due to ethical issues with the use of fetal cells for the treatment of any human disease, there has been a concerted effort to find alternative graft sources for neural transplantation. The human neuroteratocarcinoma neuron cell is derived from an embryonal teratocarcinoma cell line that can be differentiated into post-mitotic neurons. Neural transplantation of human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons has recently been shown to produce behavioral amelioration of symptoms in rats with ischemia-induced injury. The present study was undertaken to: (i) determine the minimum effective number of transplanted human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons required for amelioration of ischemia-induced behavioral dysfunction; and (ii) quantify the survival of human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons in vivo. Transplants of 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, 80 or 160 x 10(3) human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons were made into rats that sustained ischemic damage. Animals that received 40, 80 or 160 x 10(3) human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons demonstrated a dose-dependent improvement in performance of both the passive avoidance and elevated body swing tests. At the conclusion of behavioral testing, human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons were identified in paraffin sections with human neural cell adhesion molecule MOC-1 and human neurofilament antibodies. Transplants of 80 or 160 x 10(3) human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons demonstrated a 12-15% survival of human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons in the graft, while transplants of 40 x 10(3) human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons demonstrated a 5% survival. Transplantation of human neuroteratocarcinoma neurons ameliorated behavioral deficits produced by ischemic damage. The human neuroteratocarcinoma neuron, additionally, showed greater survival than that reported for fetal cells when transplanted into the brain. Therefore, this readily available cell may prove to be an excellent candidate for the treatment of ischemic damage in human patients.
The present patch-clamp study describes the effect of hypoxia at 30-31 degrees C on membrane potential and resting conductance in pyramidal cells from the hippocampal CA1 region in rat brain slices. The initial effect of hypoxia was a gradual hyperpolarization; the peak change in membrane potential measured over 15 min was -5.3 +/- 0.22 mV (P &lt; 0.0001). After reoxygenation followed a transient hyperpolarization measuring -1.8 +/- 0.24 mV (P &lt; 0.0001) and a subsequent normalization of the membrane potential, which after 5 min did not differ from its level prior to the hypoxic episode. Voltage-clamp analysis showed that the hypoxic hyperpolarization was related to an outward current at the holding potential (-60 mV) and an increase in resting conductance. The effect was not influenced by intracellular Cl- concentration, which indicated that it was not due to an inward flow of Cl- ions. The addition of tolbutamide, glibenclamide and dantrolene sodium did not affect the hypoxic hyperpolarization, neither did the presence of ATP in the pipette solution. The presence/absence of glucose in the perfusion medium did not influence the initial hyperpolarization during hypoxia; however, glucose seemed to prevent the subsequent depolarization under hypoxia. It was concluded that hypoxia caused an initial hyperpolarization of CA1 cells which was related to an increase in the resting conductance. The results did not suggest the involvement of ATP-sensitive K+ channels.
An exogenous glutamate injection into the hypothermic hippocampal CA1 during 5-min ischemia produced the same extent of extracellular glutamate levels as observed in the normothermic CA1 during 5-min ischemia; however, neuronal death was not induced in the hypothermic CA1. Glutamate is released excessively into the extracellular space during ischemia, and is thought to induce brain injury by its neurotoxicity. It has been reported that the massive glutamate release is reduced by mild hypothermia, and it has been proposed that the reduction of ischemia-induced glutamate release exerts the neuroprotective effect on postischemic neuronal death. In the present study, to determine whether the neuroprotective effect of mild hypothermia on postischemic hippocampal CA1 neuronal death is due to the reduction of ischemia-induced glutamate release, gerbils were subjected to 5-min ischemia under hypothermic condition at 31 degrees C and were simultaneously injected exogenously with L-glutamate, so that the hypothermic CA1 around a microdialysis probe was exposed to the same extracellular glutamate levels as seen during normothermic ischemia, and the histological outcome was examined. An injection with 1 mM L-glutamate into the hypothermic CA1 during 5-min ischemia produced a similar extent of increased glutamate (17-fold increase) to that observed in the normothermic CA1 during 5-min ischemia (16-fold increase). However, neuronal death was not induced in the hypothermic CA1. This result indicates that the neuroprotective effect of mild hypothermia cannot be explained in terms of a reduction of glutamate release during ischemia.
Stimulation of murine primary mixed cortical neuron/glia cultures with lipopolysaccharide, an endotoxin, was used as a model for inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system. Lipopolysaccharide (20 microg/ml) increased the secretion of lactate dehydrogenase, a marker for cell injury, and nitric oxide into the culture medium. The lipopolysaccharide-induced release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium was reduced by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) at 10(-14)-10(-12) M. The 27- and 38-amino-acid forms of PACAP were equipotent and their dose-response curves were U-shaped. PACAP6-38, a specific type I PACAP receptor antagonist, blocked the reduction by PACAP38 of the lipopolysaccharide-induced release of lactate dehydrogenase. The lipopolysaccharide-induced secretion of nitric oxide into the culture medium was reduced by PACAP at 10(-14)-10(-12) M and 10(-8)-10(-6) M. The 27- and 38-amino-acid forms of PACAP were equipotent. PACAP6-38 blocked the reduction of the lipopolysaccharide-induced secretion of nitric oxide by PACAP38 at 10(-12) M, but not at 10(-8) M. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide reduced the lipopolysaccharide-induced release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium at 10(-14)-10(-12) M, but these concentrations of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide had no effect on the lipopolysaccharide-induced secretion of nitric oxide. PACAP6-38 did not effect the reduction of the lipopolysaccharide-induced release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium by 10(-12) M vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. These results indicate that stimulation of type I PACAP receptors by femtomolar concentrations of PACAP can prevent neuron death in a model for inflammatory disorders of the CNS. These results suggest that PACAP is also an extraordinarily potent inhibitor of some microglial functions.
Neuroplasticity has been investigated considering the neuronal growth-associated phosphoprotein as a marker of neuronal adaptive capabilities. In the present work, studying the hippocampal reorganization observed in the epilepsy model induced by pilocarpine, we carried out quantitative western blotting associated with immunohistochemistry to determine the distribution of growth-associated phosphoprotein in the hippocampus of rats in acute, silent and chronic periods of this epilepsy model. The fibers and punctate elements from the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were strongly immunostained in animals killed 5 h after status epilepticus, compared with the same region in control animals. Rats presenting partial seizures showed no alterations in the immunostaining pattern compared with saline-treated animals. The hippocampal dentate gyrus of animals during the seizure-free period and presenting spontaneous recurrent seizures was also characterized by strong growth-associated phosphoprotein immunostaining of fibers and punctate elements in the inner molecular layer, contrasting with the control group. As determined by western blotting analysis, growth-associated phosphoprotein levels increased following status epilepticus and remained elevated at the later time-points, both during the silent period and during the period of chronic recurring seizures. Pilocarpine-treated animals, which did not develop status epilepticus, showed no change in growth-associated phosphoprotein levels, indicating that status epilepticus is important to induce growth-associated phosphoprotein overexpression. The measurement of this overexpression could represent one of the early signals of hippocampal reorganization due to status epilepticus-induced damage.
The activity and/or expression of the mitogen-activated protein kinases c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1, p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2, as well as their substrates, the transcription factors c-Jun and activating transcription factor-2, were examined following systemic application of kainate in the cortex and hippocampus of the adult rat brain. The protein expression levels of all three mitogen-activated protein kinases remained constant during the observation period. Unexpectedly, c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 was the only mitogen-activated protein kinase activated in this model of excitotoxicity, its activity raised from between 1 and 3 h moderate basal to maximal levels between 6 and 12 h. In contradistinction, activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 fell from their substantial basal levels and did not recover; activity of p38 was characterized by a high basal level that almost entirely disappeared and did not return to basal levels even 10 days after kainate application. c-Jun protein was rapidly expressed, with a maximum after 3 h and a slow decline after 12 h. Supershift assays revealed that, during the early induction phase of the c-jun gene, the proximal activator protein-1 (jun1) site of the c-jun promoter was mainly occupied by the constitutively expressed activating transcription factor-2, whereas the late induction correlated with the predominant binding of c-Jun and, to a lesser extent, activating transcription factor-2 to the distal activator protein-1 (jun2) site. The time-course of the N-terminal phosphorylation of c-Jun as determined by immunocytochemistry paralleled the activity of c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 and showed a compartment-specific regulation between 3 and 12 h. A second set of supershift experiments demonstrated that c-Jun, but not activating transcription factor 2, bound to activator protein-1 sites in the promoter of substance P and collagenase genes, but not of the cyclo-oxygenase-2 gene. Our results demonstrate that activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1, phosphorylation of c-Jun and selective occupation of the c-jun promoter by activating transcription factor-2 or c-Jun are part of the neuronal response following excitotoxicity that is considered as the mechanism for neuronal apoptosis in vivo. Some of these findings differ substantially from in vitro experiments and underline the necessity to analyse the neuronal stress pathways in the adult brain.
Glutathione is present in the central nervous system in millimolar concentrations, and is a predominant intracellular antioxidant and detoxicant. In addition, glutathione is released into the extracellular space via a depolarization-enhanced process. Although the role of extracellular glutathione has not been precisely defined, a growing body of experimental evidence suggests that it has multifaceted electrophysiological effects. At low micromolar concentrations, glutathione depolarizes neurons by binding to its own receptors and modulates glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission by displacing glutamate from its ionotropic receptors. At higher concentrations, reduced glutathione may increase N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor responses by interacting with its redox sites. In this study, the effect of extracellular glutathione on excitotoxic neuronal injury was quantitatively assessed in murine cortical cell cultures. Neuronal death due to 20-25 h exposure to 6-9 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate was not altered by 10-100 microM reduced glutathione but was markedly enhanced by 300-1000 microM reduced glutathione; kainate neurotoxicity was unaffected. Two related compounds that lack a sulfhydryl group, oxidized glutathione and S-hexylglutathione, had no significant effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity alone but completely blocked the effect of reduced glutathione. Mercaptoethanol, a sulfhydryl reducing agent that increases N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor responses by interacting with redox sites, increased N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity to a degree comparable to that of reduced glutathione; this effect was also blocked by equimolar S-hexylglutathione or oxidized glutathione. Addition of reduced glutathione to mercaptoethanol did not further increase N- methyl-D-aspartate-induced neuronal death. These results suggest that release of reduced glutathione from central nervous system cells that are subjected to traumatic or ischemic insults may enhance excitotoxic neuronal loss. Although multiple mechanisms may account for this phenomenon, the high concentrations required suggest that it is at least partly mediated by reduction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor redox sites.
The daily rhythm of melatonin production in the mammalian pineal is driven by the endogenous circadian pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nuclei. The major release period of melatonin is closely linked to the dark phase of the 24-h day/night cycle. Environmental light will affect melatonin release in two ways: (i) it entrains the rhythm of the circadian oscillator; and (ii) it causes an acute suppression of nocturnal melatonin release. These two effects of light are both mediated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus and enable the pineal gland to convey information about day length to the reproductive system through changes in melatonin levels. Glutamate is currently believed to be the major transmitter in the retinal ganglion cell fibers reaching the suprachiasmatic nucleus. At present no information is available, however, about the transmitter(s) implicated in the further propagation, i.e. from the suprachiasmatic nucleus onwards, of the light information. In the present study we provide evidence that the endogenous release of GABA from suprachiasmatic nucleus terminals is implicated in the further transmission of light information to the pineal gland. Bilateral administration of the GABA-antagonist bicuculline to hypothalamic target areas of the suprachiasmatic nucleus completely prevents the inhibitory effect of nocturnal light on melatonin secretion and the present study thus documents that retina-mediated photic activation of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons induces the release of GABA from efferent suprachiasmatic nucleus nerve terminals, resulting in an inhibition of melatonin release by the pineal gland. Together with our previous (electro)physiological data these results identify GABA as an important mediator of rapid synaptic transmission of suprachiasmatic nucleus output to its target areas.
In rodents, the somatosensory cortex has a cell aggregation cluster termed the barrel, reflecting a whisker vibrissa, and this barrel formation is disrupted by infraorbital nerve cut at birth. In the present study, we prepared thalamocortical slice preparations from rats that received infraorbital nerve cut either at birth or at postnatal day (P) 7 and those from normal rats, recorded the optical response reflecting neural excitation in the somatosensory cortex with a voltage-sensitive dye (RH482) and compared the optical responses from lesioned rats with those from normal rats. In normal rats at P10, the optical response elicited electrically by thalamic stimulation propagated to the cortex, and then several patchy clusters appeared in layer IV. The size and location of these patchy responses precisely matched either barrels identified by cytochrome oxidase staining or terminal arbors of thalamocortial axons stained with biotinylated dextran amine. In contrast, at P10 in P0-lesioned rats, clusters having a wider horizontal width but smaller amplitude than those seen in normal rats appeared in layer IV. Correspondingly, neither cytochrome oxidase staining nor biotinylated dextran amine labeling of thalamocortical axons showed any barrel-like clusters or glomerular axon terminals. Likewise, at P5-P6, the tangential width of clusters in layer IV were larger than that in normal rats. At P10 in P7-lesioned rats, small cluster-matched barrels were seen in the optical response as well as in normal rats. These results suggest that P0 infraorbital nerve cut interrupted segregation of functional synapses into the barrels and retarded the maturation of thalamocortical transmission.
This study examines the effect of chronic alcohol consumption on the human cerebellum using operational criteria for case selection [Caine D. et al. (1997) J. Neurol. Neurosurg. Psychiat. 62, 51-60] and unbiased stereological techniques. We describe, for the first time, structural changes in different functional zones of the cerebellum of chronic alcoholics and correlate these changes with specific clinical symptoms. No consistent changes in the number of neurons or the structural volume for any cerebellar region were observed in the chronic alcoholics without the clinical signs of Wernicke's encephalopathy. In all cerebellar measures, these chronic alcoholics did not differ significantly from the non-alcoholic controls, suggesting that chronic alcohol consumption per se does not necessarily damage human cerebellar tissue. However, several cerebellar changes were noted in the thiamine-deficient alcoholics studied. There was a significant decrease in Purkinje cell density (reduced on average by 43%) and molecular layer volume (reduced by 32%) in the cerebellar vermis in all thiamine-deficient chronic alcoholics. A decrease in cell density and atrophy of the molecular layer, where the dendritic trees of the Purkinje cells are found, without significant cell loss suggests loss of cellular dendritic structure and volume. These thiamine-deficient alcoholics also had a significant decrease (36% loss) in the estimated Purkinje cell number of the flocculi, disrupting vestibulocerebellar pathways. These results indicate that cerebellar Purkinje cells are selectively vulnerable to thiamine deficiency. There is evidence that this damage contributes significantly to the clinical signs of Wernicke's encephalopathy. There was a 36% loss of Purkinje cells in the lateral lobe in alcoholics with mental state signs and 42% atrophy of vermal white matter in ataxic alcoholics. The finding of a 57% loss of Purkinje cells and a 43% atrophy of the molecular layer of the vermis in alcoholics with cerebellar dysfunction supports previous findings highlighting the importance of spinocerebellar pathways to these symptoms.
Similarities among the clinical features of complex partial temporal lobe seizures and absence (petit mal) seizures suggest shared underlying mechanisms, but dissimilar electrographic features of the two seizure types have cast doubt on common neuronal substrates. However, visual inspection and traditional approaches to quantitative analysis of the electroencephalogram and electrocorticogram, such as Fourier analysis, may not be appropriate to identify and characterize the highly non-linear mechanisms likely to underlie ictal events. We previously introduced a technique, non-linear autoregressive analysis, that is designed to identify non-linear dynamics in the electroencephalogram [Schiff N. D. et al. (1991) Society of Neuroscience 21st Annual Meeting, 638.6; Schiff N. D. et al. (1995) Biol. Cybern. 72, 519-526, 527-533]. The non-linear autoregressive analysis technique is aimed at describing seizure discharges as a disturbance of synchrony at the level of neuronal circuits. In absence seizures, we showed that non-linear autoregressive analysis revealed a consistent &quot;fingerprint&quot; of these non-linearities in 3/s discharges within and across patients. Here, we investigate the possibility that non-linear autoregressive modeling of seizure records from patients with temporal lobe epilepsy might reveal common circuit mechanisms when compared with the non-linear autoregressive analysis fingerprint of absence seizures. Electrocorticographic records of seizure activity were obtained in four patients who had received subdural grids or strips implanted in preparation for epilepsy surgery. Decomposition of the multichannel data recorded from these patients by principal component analysis revealed that at least three to five independent &quot;generators&quot; were required to model the data from each patient. Non-linear autoregressive analysis of these extracted generators revealed non-linear dynamics in two patients. In both patients, the temporal aspects of these non-linearities were similar to the characteristic non-linearities identified in the non-linear autoregressive analysis fingerprint of absence seizures. In particular, both patients showed a non-linear interaction of signals 90 ms in the past with signals 150 ms in the past. This was the most prominent interaction seen in all patients with absence seizures (typical and atypical). These results suggest that seizures from some patients with temporal lobe epilepsy may share common underlying circuit mechanisms with those of absence seizures. Physiological interpretations of these results are considered and proposed mechanisms are placed into the context of the alterations of consciousness seen in both epilepsies.
A novel three-dimensional magnetometer-spatial filter system was developed to study human brain activity with high spatiotemporal resolution. The system combines the high temporal resolution of magnetoencephalography with the high spatial resolution achieved by using three-dimensional magnetometers and spatial filters to measure the direction and intensity of magnetic fields generated during brain activity. Simulation and phantom studies indicate that the system is capable of mapping current sources of magnetic fields with a spatial resolution comparable to that of any other brain functional imaging technique while maintaining millisecond temporal resolution. Application of this system to the human brain resolved magnetoencephalographic responses evoked by motion stimuli on a millisecond scale into responses occurring in visual cortical areas V1, V2/3 and V5. It also revealed signals related to contextual modulation in V1 and V2/3. This system provides a new way of studying the dynamics of human brain function.
Endogenous opioids have been implicated in the neurobiological mechanisms underlying drug addiction. Although some information is available concerning effects of abused drugs on the endogenous opioid systems, the interpretation of these effects is hampered because data on the actual changes in the endogenous opioids during the dynamics of the drug addiction are lacking. The present report deals with changes in endogenous opioid activity before and after the daily self-administration session in rats offered cocaine or ethanol, using an in vivo autoradiographic receptor occupancy procedure. In separate saline-controlled experiments drug-naive rats were allowed to intravenously self-administer cocaine (30 microg/infusion) and ethanol (0.05%) for five consecutive daily sessions of 6 h. Immediately following the last session on day 5 or just before a scheduled next daily session on day 6, the rats were injected with [3H]diprenorphine and subsequently prepared for autoradiography. Decreased [3H]diprenorphine binding was observed throughout the subcortical brain after the daily session in cocaine, but hardly in animals self-administering ethanol. These changes are thought to reflect a direct or an indirect effect of the drug on endogenous opioid systems. Before the daily session, the [3H]diprenorphine binding was decreased in restricted areas of the mesocorticolimbic system and of the thalamus in both cocaine and ethanol self-administering animals. These data suggest that release of endogenous opioids at the time the desire for cocaine or ethanol is high, which may be pertinent for drug-induced craving and relapse of drug addicts.

Patch-clamp recordings in a whole-cell mode were performed on dorsal sensory cells enzymatically isolated from the spinal cord of two lamprey species, Ichthyomyzon unicuspis and Lampetra fluviatilis. The voltage-activated currents through calcium channels were analysed. GABA and the specific GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen reduced the peak amplitude of inward Ba2+ current, as a robust alternate charge carrier through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. These effects were dose-dependent and reversible. GABA(B) receptor antagonists, 2-hydroxysaclofen and delta-amino-n-valeric acid, blocked the reduction of Ba2+ currents by GABA and baclofen, while bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, had no blocking action. GABA and baclofen did not modify the dorsal sensory cell membrane conductance, indicating that they did not activate ligand-gated channels. However, GABA, but not baclofen, considerably increased membrane conductance and induced Cl- currents in isolated multipolar neurons (presumably interneurons and/or motoneurons). These findings suggest that GABA and baclofen action on lamprey dorsal sensory cells is mediated by GABA(B) receptors. We concluded that GABA-mediated presynaptic inhibition of lamprey dorsal sensory cell fibers results from GABA(B) receptor activation followed by a decrease of inward voltage-activated calcium currents. Appositions of GABA-immunoreactive boutons to horseradish peroxidase-labeled fibers from the dorsal root were observed at the ultrastructural level in the dorsal column using postembedding immunogold cytochemistry. It seems likely that these appositions represent the morphological substrate of dorsal sensory cell fiber presynaptic inhibition. In very rare cases, ultrastructural features were observed which could be interpreted as synaptic specializations between the GABA-immunoreactive boutons and the primary afferent fibers. The extrasynaptic action of GABA as a basis of presynaptic inhibition of this population of primary afferent neurons is discussed.
In patients with spinal cord injury, cardiovascular disturbances such as hypotension, bradycardia and autonomic dysreflexia can be directly linked to abnormalities of central autonomic control. To date, the changes in bulbospinal innervation of sympathetic preganglionic neurons after compressive spinal cord injury have not been investigated. Thus, we examined the effect of varying severity of compressive spinal cord injury on neurons of the rostro-ventro-lateral medulla, a nucleus of key importance in cardiovascular control. Adult rats with 20 g, 35 g and 50 g clip compression injuries (n= 18) of the cord at T1 and uninjured controls (n=13) were studied. Neurons in the rostro-ventro-lateral medulla with preserved spinal connections eight weeks after spinal cord injury were identified by retrograde labelling with 4% FluoroGold introduced into the cord at T6. Bulbospinal neurons in the rostro-ventro-lateral medulla were also examined immunocytochemically for the adrenaline-synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase. In control rats an average of 451+/-12 rostro-ventrolateral medulla neurons were phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase positive. Of these, 213+/-6 projected to the T6 spinal cord. The number of rostro-ventro-lateral medulla neurons retrogradely labelled by FluoroGold decreased as a linear function of severity of spinal cord injury (r= -0.95; P&lt;0.0001). After 50g spinal cord injury at T1, only 7+/-1 rostro-ventro-lateral medulla neurons were labelled by FluoroGold, of which 6+/-1 were phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase positive. Moreover, the number of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase positive rostro-ventro-lateral medulla neurons decreased to 361+/-16 after 50 g spinal cord injury. We conclude that compressive spinal cord injury results in disconnection of rostro-ventro-lateral medulla neurons, which project to the thoracic spinal cord, and that these changes vary with the severity of injury. The majority of these axotomized rostro-ventro-lateral medulla neurons maintain their immunopositivity for the adrenaline-synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus is increasingly being viewed as an important site for cardiovascular integration because of its connections to regions in the brain and spinal cord which are known to be important in cardiovascular control. Like the vasomotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla, descending axons from paraventricular neurons can be identified that form synapses on sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the thoracic spinal cord. The purpose of this study was to determine whether paraventricular axons project to the rostral ventrolateral medulla and whether they are closely apposed to reticulospinal neurons in this region. Descending paraventricular axons were labelled with biotin dextran amine, while rostral ventrolateral medullary neurons were retrogradely labelled from the spinal cord with wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. This revealed, within the rostral ventrolateral medulla, paraventricular axon and terminal varicosities closely apposed to and apparently contiguous with retrogradely labelled spinally projecting neurons. Thus our study at the light microscopical level has shown the potential for the paraventricular nucleus to directly influence rostral ventrolateral reticulospinal neurons. We suggest these connections, if confirmed by electron microscopy, could be one means by which activation of paraventricular neurons elicits alterations in blood pressure.
Recent investigations in the rat have implicated a noradrenergic innervation to the horizontal nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca as a critical link in a neural circuit that conveys baroreceptor information centrally to inhibit the firing of vasopressin-secreting neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. In this study we used small intra-diagonal band injections of a retrograde tracer, rhodamine latex microspheres, in combination with tyrosine hydroxylase histochemistry to identify brainstem noradrenergic cells contributing to this innervation. In three cases where tracer injections were limited to the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, we observed 20-50 double-labelled neurons ipsilaterally in the dorsal part of the locus coeruleus (A6) and the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius (A2), and bilaterally in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (A1). Double-labelled neurons were also noted in the ventral tegmental area (dopaminergic A10 cell group). Although all major brainstem noradrenergic cell groups contribute fibers to the horizontal limb of the nucleus of diagonal band, data from physiological studies suggest that the noradrenergic A2 neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius are the most likely pathway through which it receives this baroreceptor information.
The cell bodies of efferent neurons supplying the masseter and digastric muscles of the rabbit are located in two brainstem nuclei: the trigeminal motor nucleus and cell group k. The latter also contains neurons innervating muscles of the middle ear and Eustachian tube, as well as neurons that project to the cerebellum and the oculomotor complex. As part of an attempt to identify the functional subpopulations within the three cell divisions (kl-k3) that make up cell group k, we have investigated the distribution of neurons containing choline acetyltransferase, because these are likely to be motoneurons. Five rabbits anaesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (90 mg/kg, i.v.) were used in this study. They were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde and 0.1% glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer (0.1 M, pH 7.4). Two animals were used for preliminary studies. In the other three cases, serial Vibratome coronal sections of the brainstem were cut at 50 microm and two series of alternating sections were collected. The first was stained with a monoclonal antibody (code AB8, Incstar) directed against choline acetyltransferase, using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase method. The other was stained with Cresyl Violet. Cell counts and three-dimensional reconstructions were made for both series to determine positions and ratios of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons within the trigeminal motor nucleus and the subdivisions of cell group k. The results showed that the numbers of choline acetyltransferase- and Nissl-stained neurons within the trigeminal motor nucleus were almost identical. In cell group k, significantly fewer choline acetyltransferase-stained cells were counted in all three animals (ratios of choline acetyltransferase/Nissl=0.53-0.71). In addition, the distribution of cholinergic neurons was not uniform throughout cell group k. Subdivisions kl and k3 contained proportionately fewer choline acetyltransferase-positive cells (ratios of choline acetyltransferase/Nissl=0.23-0.64) than did k2 (ratios choline acetyltransferase/ Nissl=0.75-0.88). Within each subdivision, there were significant differences in the spatial coordinates of Nissl- and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons. We conclude that cell group k contains at least two populations of neurons which are unevenly distributed between and within the three subdivisions. While the majority of neurons in subgroup k2 contain choline acetyltransferase and thus are likely to be motoneurons, more than half of the neurons in subgroups k1 and k3 are not cholinergic. It remains to be determined whether these are the neurons that project to the cerebellum and to other CNS regions.
Peripheral nerve lesion leads to prominent changes in gene expression in the injured neurons, a process co-ordinated by transcription factors. During development the transcription factor islet-1 plays an important role in differentiation and axogenesis. In axotomized adult neurons a process of axonal regrowth and re-establishment of the neuronal function has to be activated. Thus, we studied changes in the expression of islet-1 after axotomy, under the assumption that frequently developmentally regulated factors are reactivated during neuronal regeneration. We investigated the regulation of islet-1 expression with (i) semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and (ii) confocal microscopy in combination with quantitative image analysis. Islet-1 expression was suprisingly down-regulated in motoneurons and sensory neurons of adult rats after axotomy. A maximal reduction in the expression level was reached between day 3 and 7 after nerve lesion, a period of extensive axonal sprouting. Islet-1 expression attained control level at day 42 after lesion, a time-point at which target reinnervation takes place. The decreased expression of islet-1 during axonal regeneration is in contrast to the high levels of islet-1 expression during axogenesis in the developing nervous system. Thus, the proposed role of islet-1 in axonal target finding during axogenesis could not be confirmed in the adult rat. The observed down-regulation of islet-1 rather suggests that the activation of downstream genes important for the embryonic pattern of axonal path finding is suppressed. Moreover, in the adult nervous system islet-1 might be one of the transcription factors regulating the expression of proteins significant for the physiological intact neuronal phenotype.
The localization of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors in the rat central nervous system was investigated using anti-peptide antibodies that recognize a selective portion of the third intracytoplasmic loop of the receptor protein. At the light microscope level the densest 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed in ventral pallidum, globus pallidus, substantia nigra and dorsal subiculum. In addition, moderate immunoreactivity was found in the entopeduncular nucleus, the superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus, the caudate-putamen and the deep nuclei of the cerebellum. This distribution matched perfectly that previously described from radioligand binding studies. At the ultrastructural level, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor-like immunoreactivity was associated with axons and axon terminals in the three areas examined: substantia nigra, globus pallidus and superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus. In all cases, immunostaining was located on the plasma membrane of unmyelinated axon terminals and in the cytoplasm close to the plasmalemma. Synaptic differentiations were never labelled but, in some cases, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor-like immunoreactivity was found in their close vicinity. Injection of kainic acid into the neostriatum resulted in a marked decrease in receptor-like immunoreactivity in the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra, consistent with the location of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors on terminals of striatopallidal and striatonigral fibres, respectively. A reduction in 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor-like immunoreactivity was also noted in the superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus after contralateral enucleation, as expected of the location of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors on the terminals of retinocollicular fibres. In both lesion experiments, immunolabelled degenerating terminals were observed in the projection areas. Anterograde labelling experiments coupled with immunocytochemical detection further showed that 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors in the substantia nigra are located on axons of striatal neurons. These data provide anatomical support for the idea that 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors act as terminal receptors involved in presynaptic regulation of the release of various neurotransmitters, including 5-hydroxytryptamine itself.
Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors in rat cerebellar granule cells produces an increase in the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor messenger RNA and binding sites, and that this up-regulation requires de novo RNA and protein synthesis. Here we showed that up-regulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor binding sites induced by stimulation with the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A/2C receptor agonist, (+/-)-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), is associated with an increase in the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor transcription rate. To examine the possible role of transcriptional activation in DOI-induced 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor up-regulation, we studied the effects of DOI on transcription factor binding to activator protein-1 and cyclic AMP-responsive element (CRE) DNA consensus sequences. We found that DOI induces a time-dependent increase in activator protein-1 and CRE transcription factor binding activity, which is blocked by 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor antagonists. Similar to 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor up-regulation, DOI-induced activator protein-1 binding is suppressed by inhibitors of calmodulin and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinases. The increased activator protein-1 binding is effectively competed by excessive activator protein-1 and CRE sequences as well as endogenous activator protein-1-like sequences present in the rat 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor gene. Supershift assays revealed that cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) and Jun D are common components of both activator protein-1 and CRE binding complexes. DOI also increased the level of phospho-CREB in a time-dependent manner. The binding of phospho-CREB transcription factor to the activator protein-1 site suggests that CREB may modulate the transcription of genes that contain activator protein-1 but lack CRE site in their promoters, through interaction with the activator protein-1 site. The rat 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor up-regulation may involve such a mechanism.
Long-term facilitation of neurotransmission by monoaminergic systems is implicated in the cellular mechanism of memory and learning-related processes at invertebrate synapses. Using whole-cell recording and rat cerebellar slices, we have examined whether mammalian monoamine-containing neurons play analogous roles in synaptic plasticity, and our results suggest that serotonin and noradrenaline are critically involved in short- and long-term modulation of GABAergic transmission in the cerebellar cortex. Exogenously applied serotonin and noradrenaline selectively induced a short-term enhancement of GABAergic transmission between cerebellar interneurons and Purkinje cells, their effect subsiding in 30 min. Successive amine applications converted this effect to long-term facilitation lasting more than 2 h. During the monoamine-induced short- and long-term facilitation, spontaneously occurring miniature inhibitory synaptic responses increased in frequency, without significant changes in their mean amplitude and amplitude distribution, as well as the GABA receptor sensitivity of Purkinje cells. The actions of the two amines on the inhibitory transmission were mimicked by forskolin and blocked by kinase inhibitors, H-7, H-89 and Rp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate. Thus, serotonin and noradrenaline are likely to activate cyclic-AMP- and protein kinase-dependent pathways in GABAergic interneurons, thereby reinforcing the inhibitory transmission on to Purkinje cells. Repetitive electrical stimulation within the molecular layer mimicked the facilitatory effect induced by exogenous monoamines: namely, neural stimulation selectively elicited long-lasting enhancement of GABAergic transmission in a manner sensitive to the monoamine receptor antagonists, methiothepin and propranolol, and an uptake inhibitor, imipramine. Synaptically released monoamines thus appear to induce cyclic-AMP- and protein kinase-dependent long-term facilitation of cerebellar GABAergic transmission, thereby providing a likely mechanism of synaptic plasticity associated with motor coordination within the mammalian cerebellar system.
Cellular relationships between neurons producing vasopressin or vasoactive intestinal peptide in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the main component of the central circadian timing system in mammals, were investigated in the rat using double immunocytochemistry. Analysis of serial confocal images revealed that the vasopressin-synthesizing neurons not only are important targets for the vasoactive intestinal peptide-synthesizing neurons, as previously demonstrated, but also establish reciprocal axosomatic contacts with these neurons, which have never been reported. On average, 5.4 vasoactive intestinal peptide contacts per vasopressin perikaryon and 1.7 vasopressin contacts per vasoactive intestinal peptide perikaryon were counted. That both types of neurons are linked by reciprocal synapses was confirmed at the electron microscopic level using a combination of immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver labeling. Existence of an anatomical substrate for a vasopressinergic control of the vasoactive intestinal peptide neurons may have important functional consequences. In view (i) of the presumed, direct or indirect, involvement of the vasopressin neurons in relaying pacemaker information within and outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and (ii) of the established role of the vasoactive intestinal peptide neurons as the main light-sensitive cells, it provides support for a neuronal mechanism through which the circadian clock may regulate inputs related to environmental messages. Our electron-microscopic data also extended earlier observations, pointing to the involvement of vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal peptide terminals in so-called double synapses that, conceivably, could regulate neuronal synchronization in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. A morphological basis for non-synaptic interactions that could be involved in ephaptic and/or paracrine communication between both types of peptidergic neurons is also reported.
The developmental expression pattern of the carbohydrate epitope CD15 (Lewis X, Le X) (alpha1--&gt;3-fucosyl-N-acetyl-lactosamine) has been immunocytochemically evaluated in paraffin sections within the human basal ganglia from 10 weeks gestation to three years after birth. At 11 weeks of gestation, CD15 (Le X) positive radial glial cells were located in the anterior and dorsal parts of the lateral ganglionic eminence. Their processes ran from the subventricular zone radially in a highly ordered fashion to the dorsolateral margin of the caudate nucleus and further to the lateral rim of the putamen. At 12 weeks of gestation, strands of CD15 (Le X) material continued to the pial surface, forming a continuous CD15 (Le X) positive borderline separating the accumbens nucleus and olfactory tubercle from the piriform cortex. At 13 weeks of gestation the dorsal putamen was completely CD15 (Le X) immunoreactive along its perimeter and CD15 (Le X) patches, consisting of fine granular material, appeared at the dorsolateral margin of the putamen at this age; while the first CD15 (Le X) patches in the caudate nucleus were observed four weeks later. The matrix compartment of the caudate and dorsal putamen became gradually stained by granular CD15 (Le X) positive material into which CD15 (Le X) immunoreactive somata were embedded. The striking contrast in staining between patch and matrix compartments disappeared shortly after birth. The ventral striatum did not become immunoreactive until the last few weeks before birth. After the formation of CD15 (Le X) positive patches in the striatum (from 12 weeks of gestation), delicate CD15 (Le X) fibres, often accumulated in bundles and related to the striatal patches, became apparent coursing towards the external pallidal lamina and the globus pallidus. Immunoreactivity in the globus pallidus itself was transient, emerging from 16 weeks of gestation, reaching a peak at 21 weeks of gestation and disappearing by birth. Both processes, i.e. the occurrence of CD15 (Le X) striatopallidal fibres and the emerging immunoreactivity in their pallidal target, may be interrelated, so that ingrowing CD15 (Le X) positive axons from the striatum provoke CD15 (Le X) expression in the external and internal pallidum. The variable patterns and intensities of CD15 (Le X) expression are possibly related to periods of maturation of the striatum and the establishment of functional interactions within the basal ganglia. Differential staining of patch and matrix in the developing neostriatum suggests that a distinct phase of cellular adhesion or dishesion mediated by the CD15 (Le X) epitope occurs during establishment of the patch and matrix regions.
The ventral tegmental area is involved in reward processes and in drug dependence and sends dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. Stress, and glucocorticoid hormones, are thought to play an important role in the development of drug dependence, but there has been little investigation of the effects of these hormones on ventral tegmental function. The present study examined the effects of corticosterone on single-unit recordings from dopamine-sensitive neurons in the ventral tegmental area in midbrain slices. At concentrations of 100 nM and above, corticosterone potentiated the responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate. This effect was not seen when the calcium concentration of the bathing medium was reduced to 0.1 mM. Responses to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) and kainic acid were also considerably potentiated, at concentrations of corticosterone over 100 nM, while there was some evidence of decreases in these responses at the 100 nM concentration of this hormone. Aldosterone, at concentrations of 100 nM and above reduced the responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate, but had no effects at lower concentrations. RU38486, which acts as an antagonist at glucocorticoid (Type II) receptors, prevented the effects of corticosterone on responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate, with no effect on the spontaneous firing rate or on the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the absence of corticosterone. The latter result, and the effects of aldosterone, suggest that the potentiation of responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate was mediated through Type II glucocorticoid receptors. This study suggests that potentiation of responses to excitatory amino acids by corticosterone may alter the function of ventral tegmental neurons during stress, and it is possible that this effect is involved in the development of drug dependence.
The effects of systemically administered interleukin-1beta (1.0 microg), interleukin-6 (1.0 microg) and interleukin-2 (1.0 microg) on in vivo variations of monoamines were assessed in the nucleus accumbens. Administration of interleukin-1beta did not affect extracellular accumbal dopamine, provoked a modest rise of homovanillic acid, and prevented the decline of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid ordinarily seen in saline treated rats. Also, interleukin-1 provoked a modest increase of extracellular 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid from the nucleus accumbens. Following exposure to the stress of a series of air-puffs, a still greater increase of accumbal 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was evident. In contrast to interleukin-1, systemic administration of interleukin-6 and interleukin-2 both induced marked reductions of interstitial dopamine levels. The air-puff exposure further enhanced these effects in rats that had received the cytokine treatment. As well, interleukin-6 and interleukin-2 were both found to reduce the homovanillic acid response associated with the stress, and interleukin-2 promoted a decline of homovanillic acid levels. Treatment with interleukin-6, like that of interleukin-1, prevented the decline of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid ordinarily observed over time, while interleukin-2 was without effect in this respect. Finally, interleukin-6 provoked a modest rise of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, which was most apparent following air-puff exposure, while administration of interleukin-2 did not affect accumbal 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. It is suggested that the cytokines may influence the release of biogenic amines in the nucleus accumbens, but the profile of changes were cytokine-specific. As well, it appeared that the cytokines, particularly interleukin-1 and interleukin-6, may act synergistically with the stressor in promoting the amine variations. Systemic administration of cytokines clearly influenced monoamine activity at the nucleus accumbens, a region associated with both rewarding and aversive events. Thus, it may be expected that cytokine treatments may affect behavior. Moreover, it seems that the effects of interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 may be influenced by the presence of stressful stimuli. It ought to be underscored that although cytokines share features with the effects of stressors, most notably the variations of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal hormones, the pattern of central neurochemical changes elicited by the cytokines could be distinguished from the amine variations ordinarily associated with stressors.
Cortical acetylcholine, under resting and stimulated conditions, was measured in frontoparietal and prefrontal cortex using in vivo microdialysis in freely-moving rats. Cortical acetylcholine efflux was stimulated by systemic administration of the benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist FG 7142. Administration of FG 7142 (8.0 mg/kg; i.p.) significantly elevated acetylcholine efflux in both cortical regions (150-250% relative to baseline) for 30 min after drug administration. The ability of endogenous dopamine to regulate cortical acetylcholine efflux under resting or stimulated conditions and the relative contributions of D1- and D2-like dopamine receptor activation was also assessed. In a first series of experiments, systemic administration of the antipsychotic drug haloperidol (0.15, 0.9 mg/kg, i.p.) blocked FG 7142-stimulated acetylcholine efflux in frontoparietal, cortex while the D1-like antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.1, 0.3 mg/kg), was less effective in attenuating stimulated acetylcholine efflux. In a second series of experiments, the effects of infusions of these antagonists and of the D2-like antagonist sulpiride (10, 100 microM) into the nucleus accumbens were assessed. Infusions of haloperidol and sulpiride significantly blocked FG 7142-stimulated acetylcholine efflux while SCH 23390 did not. By contrast, a third series of experiments demonstrated that perfusion of these antagonists (100 microM) locally into the cortex (through the probe) did not affect FG 7142-stimulated acetylcholine efflux. Moreover, none of these dopamine receptor antagonists, whether administered systemically or perfused into the nucleus accumbens or cortex, affected basal cortical acetylcholine efflux. These results reveal similarities in stimulated cortical acetylcholine release across frontal cortical regions and suggest a prominent role for D2-mediated accumbens dopamine transmission in the regulation of cortical acetylcholine release. The findings provide evidence in support of a neural substrate that links dysregulation of mesolimbic dopaminergic transmission to changes in cortical cholinergic transmission. Dysregulation within this circuit is hypothesized to contribute to the etiology of disorders such as schizophrenia, dementia and drug abuse.
Projection neurons of the striatum release opioid peptides in addition to GABA. Our previous studies showed that the opioid peptide dynorphin regulates that subtype of projection neurons which sends axons to the substantia nigra/entopeduncular nucleus, as indicated by an inhibitory action of dynorphin/agonists on D1 dopamine receptor-mediated immediate-early gene induction in these neurons. The other subtype of striatal projection neurons projects to the globus pallidus and contains the opioid peptide enkephalin. Here, we investigated whether enkephalin regulates the function of striatopallidal neurons, by analysing opioid effects on immediate-early gene induction by D2 dopamine receptor blockade that occurs in these neurons. Thus, the effects of systemic and intrastriatal administration of various opioid receptor agonists and antagonists on immediate-early gene expression (c-fos, zif 268) induced by the D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride were examined with in situ hybridization histochemistry. Intrastriatal infusion of enkephalin (delta and mu), but not dynorphin (kappa), receptor agonists suppressed immediate-early gene induction by eticlopride in a dose-dependent manner. This suppression was blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, confirming the involvement of opioid receptors. Repeated treatment with D2 receptor antagonists produces increased enkephalin expression and diminished immediate-early gene inducibility in striatopallidal neurons, as well as behavioral effects that are attenuated compared to those of acute treatment (e.g., reduced akinesia). Naloxone reversed such behavioral recovery (i.e. reinstated akinesia), but did not significantly affect suppressed immediate-early gene induction. Our results indicate that enkephalin acts, via mu and delta receptors in the striatum, to inhibit acute effects of D2 receptor blockade in striatopallidal neurons. Moreover, the present findings suggest that increased enkephalin expression after repeated D2 receptor antagonist treatment is an adaptive response that counteracts functional consequences of D2 receptor blockade, but is not involved in suppressed immediate-early gene induction. Together with our earlier findings of the role of dynorphin, these results indicate that opioid peptides in the striatum serve as negative feedback systems to regulate the striatal output pathways in which they are expressed.
Single- and double-label immunohistochemical techniques using several different highly specific antisera against dynorphin peptides were used to examine the distribution of dynorphinergic terminals in globus pallidus and substantia nigra in rhesus monkeys and humans in comparison to substance P-containing and enkephalinergic terminals in these same regions. Similar results were observed in monkey and human tissue. Dynorphinergic fibers were very abundant in the medial half of the internal pallidal segment, but scarce in the external pallidal segment and the lateral half of the internal pallidal segment. In substantia nigra, dynorphinergic fibers were present in both the pars compacta and reticulata. Labeling of adjacent sections for enkephalin or substance P showed that the dynorphinergic terminals overlapped those for substance P in the medial half of the internal pallidal segment, but showed only slight overlap with enkephalinergic terminals in the external pallidal segment. The substance P-containing fibers were moderately abundant along the borders of the external pallidal segment, and enkephalinergic fibers were moderately abundant in parts of the internal pallidal segment. Dynorphinergic and substance P-containing terminals overlapped extensively in the nigra, and both extensively overlapped enkephalinergic fibers in medial nigra. Immunofluorescence double-labeling studies revealed that dynorphin co-localized extensively with substance P in individual fibers and terminals in the medial half of the internal pallidal segment and in substantia nigra. Thus, as has been found in non-primates, dynorphin within the striatum and its projection systems appears to be extensively localized to substance P-containing striatopallidal and striatonigral projection neurons. Nonetheless, our results also raise the possibility that a population of substance P-containing neurons that projects to the internal pallidal segment and does not contain dynorphin is present in primate striatum. Our results also suggest the possible existence of populations of striatopallidal and striatonigral projection neurons in which substance P and enkephalin or dynorphin and enkephalin, or all three, are co-localized. Thus, striatal projection neurons in primates may not consist of merely two types, one containing substance P and dynorphin and the other enkephalin.
Extracellular levels of dopamine are increased in response to systemic administration of cocaine in several brain areas including the nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex. While the cocaine-induced increase in extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens is augmented after repeated daily cocaine, the response of extracellular dopamine levels in the medial prefrontal cortex is attenuated. Since dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex has an inhibitory effect on nucleus accumbens dopamine levels and locomotor activity, the role of medial prefrontal cortex dopamine tolerance in the expression of sensitized locomotor behavior was further examined by injection of D-amphetamine sulfate into the prelimbic portion of the medial prefrontal cortex just prior to cocaine challenge in cocaine-sensitized rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were non-handled (naive) or injected with either saline (1 ml/kg, i.p.) or cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) for five consecutive days. After a seven to 12 day withdrawal period, rats were microinjected with either saline or various doses of amphetamine into primarily the prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex followed by systemic injection of saline or cocaine. In naive rats, intramedial prefrontal cortex amphetamine produced a trend toward decreased locomotor responding to cocaine challenge while no effect of amphetamine was evident in daily saline pretreated rats. Daily cocaine pretreated rats that received saline in the medial prefrontal cortex demonstrated a sensitized locomotor response compared to their daily saline pretreated counterparts. This sensitization was blocked by a low dose of amphetamine (0.175 microg/side) in the medial prefrontal cortex, an effect which disappeared in animals administered higher amphetamine doses. The results suggest that in rats sensitized to cocaine, decreased medial prefrontal cortex dopamine levels in response to cocaine challenge may contribute to behavioral sensitization. Furthermore, the data indicate the possibility that there is an optimal range at which medial prefrontal cortex amphetamine exerts maximal behavioral inhibition. These findings implicate a role for decreased cortical control in producing sensitized behavioral responding to cocaine.
The hippocampus receives cholinergic afferents and expresses neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. In particular, the alpha7 and beta2 nicotinic subunits are highly expressed in the hippocampus. There has been controversy about the location, distribution and roles of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors [Role L. W. and Berg D. K. (1996) Neuron 16, 1077-1085; Wonnacott S. (1997) Trends Neurosci. 20, 92-98]. Using immunocytochemistry and patch-clamp techniques, we examined the density and distribution of nicotinic receptors on rat hippocampal neurons in primary tissue culture. The density and distribution of alpha7 subunits change with days in culture. Before 10 days in culture, alpha7 expression, monitored immunocytochemically, is low and nicotinic currents are small or absent. In older cultures, about two-thirds of the neurons express nicotinic currents, and alpha7 appears in small patches on the soma and out along the neuronal processes. These patches of alpha7 subunits on the surface of the neuronal processes often co-localize with the presynaptic marker, synaptotagmin. The other most common nicotinic subunit, beta2, stays confined mainly to the soma and proximal processes, and beta2 is distributed more uniformly and is not specifically localized at presynaptic areas. The two subunits, alpha7 and beta2, have different expression patterns on the surface of the cultured hippocampal neurons. Taken together with previous physiological studies, the results indicate that alpha7 subunits can be found at presynaptic terminals, and at these locations, these calcium-permeable channels may influence transmitter release.
Induction of long-term potentiation within the hippocampal formation can be modulated by afferent influences from a number of subcortical structures known to be involved in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. This study performed on freely moving rats investigated the effects of stimulation of the noradrenergic locus coeruleus nucleus and the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus on spontaneously decaying posttetanic long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus and the hippocampal CA1 area, respectively. High-frequency electrical stimulation of the locus coeruleus or the dorsal raphe elicited a well-expressed behavioural reaction of exploratory or defensive type, respectively, but did not significantly alter transmission at perforant path-dentate gyrus or Schaffer collateral-CA synapses, when delivered either before tetanic stimulation of the perforant path or the Schaffer collaterals or long (hours and days) after previously induced long-term potentiation had completely decayed. However, when locus coeruleus or dorsal raphe stimulation was delivered with the same parameters during a limited time (minutes and hours) after marked or even complete decay of tetanus-induced long-term potentiation at perforant path-dentate gyrus or Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses, the potentiation was partially or entirely restored but never increased beyond the initial level of potentiation. In CA1, stimulation of ipsilateral and contralateral Schaffer collaterals demonstrated that the restoration of previously existing long-term potentiation by dorsal raphe stimulation was input-specific, occurring, like tetanus-induced potentiation, only in the pathway which had previously been tetanized. These findings suggest that the noradrenergic locus coeruleus and the serotonergic dorsal raphe can influence not only induction, but also spontaneous decay of long-term potentiation in the hippocampal formation. Since hippocampal long-term potentiation is thought to play a role in certain kinds of learning and memory, and association of tetanic stimulation with activation of ascending neuromodulatory systems is required for full expression of long-term potentiation, the restoration of hippocampal long-term potentiation by activation of a neuromodulatory system alone may serve as a mechanism of associative reminder which may underlie facilitation of memory retrieval after a period of forgetting, as has been observed in trained rats under similar conditions.
Unilateral kainic acid lesion in the hippocampus caused a long-term change in the balance between excitatory and inhibitory drive onto CA1 pyramidal cells, making these cells hyperexcitable several weeks post-lesion. In this study, we have shown an enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component in the excitatory synaptic transmission together with a reduced GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition in CA1 pyramidal cells one-week post kainic acid lesion. In these cells, pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated whole-cell excitatory postsynaptic currents were significantly larger at negative holding potentials, and the voltage-dependence of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels was shifted in the hyperpolarizing direction. The plot of relative conductance (g/gMax) shifted significantly (P&lt;0.01) to more negative holding potentials by 19 mV (-28+/-4 mV in control slices and -47+/-4 mV in kainic acid slices) at the half maximal conductance point (g/gMax =0.5). This shift gives a larger N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component in the excitatory synaptic transmission at resting membrane potentials (around -60 mV). The shifted voltage dependence is highly sensitive to extracellular Mg2+ ions. Moderate increases in [Mg2+]o from 1 mM to 2.6 mM more than compensated for the negative shift and effectively suppressed the population epileptiform bursting activity. Fitting the voltage dependence to an ionic block model revealed a higher dissociation constant of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels for Mg2+ in kainic acid-lesioned slices (52 mM at 0 mV; 330 microM at -60 mV) than in control slices (7.7 mM at 0 mV; 93 microM at -60 mV). While a simple single site model adequately fitted the control data for [Mg2+]o at 1 mM and 2.6 mM, no consistent model of this form was found for the kainic acid-lesioned slices. These results revealed changed properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels in the kainic acid-lesioned model of epilepsy. The reduced Mg2+ blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels contributed significantly to the epileptiform bursting activity.
Hippocampal neurons exhibit a slow afterhyperpolarization following membrane depolarization; this is thought to reflect an underlying Ca2+-dependent K+ current. This current is potentiated by intermediate concentrations (0.1-1.0 mM) of exogenous Ca2+ buffer [Schwindt P. C. et al. (1992) Neuroscience 47, 571-578; Zhang L. et al. (1995) J. Neurophysiol. 74, 2225-2241]. The relationship between the slow afterhyperpolarization and associated Ca2+ transients was investigated in the presence and absence of added exogenous Ca2+ buffer. Slow afterhyperpolarizations and underlying K+ currents were measured using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from hippocampal CA1 neurons in acute rat brain slices. Inclusion of fluorescent Ca2+ indicators in the patch pipette solution allowed simultaneous measurement of the evoked subcellular Ca2+ transients using a confocal microscope. The peak Ca2+ signal exhibited an incremental increase with each action potential. This increase eventually reached a plateau with increasing numbers of action potentials, suggesting dye saturation with peak Ca2+ concentrations. As the K(D) for Ca2+ of the indicator dyes used was between 200 and 300 nM, it is predicted that saturation will occur when the peak Ca2+ signal exceeds 1 microM. This occurred with fewer action potentials in dendritic vs somatic compartments. Neither compartment exhibited averaged Ca2+ transients matching the slow afterhyperpolarization time-course, dendritic Ca2+ transients being most divergent. Intracellular accumulation of exogenous Ca2+ buffer, either by inclusion in the patch pipette or by incubation of the brain slice with its membrane-permeable form, caused a prolongation of the slow afterhyperpolarization but not of the somatic Ca2+ transient. The initial rate of decline of the dendritic Ca2+ transient was diminished, but remained faster than that of the slow afterhyperpolarization. We conclude that neither dendritic nor somatic Ca2+ signals match the slow afterhyperpolarization time-course, with this dissociation being further magnified by addition of exogenous Ca2+ buffer. The implications of this result are discussed.
Recent electrophysiological observations suggest that, in addition to the medial septal area pacemaker system, several alternative or additional mechanisms are involved in the generation/regulation of hippocampal theta activity. Discharging neurons phase-locked to hippocampal theta waves have been observed in the dorsal raphe, nucleus reticularis pontis oralis and especially in the supramammillary region of rats. Since these areas are reciprocally interconnected with the hippocampal formation, including the entorhinal cortex, it would aid our understanding of limbic function to elucidate the location and neurochemical content of the entorhino-septal and septo-supramammillary projection neurons, as well as that of their postsynaptic targets. Light and electron microscopic immunostaining for calretinin, in combination with antero- and retrograde tracer techniques, postembedding immunostaining for GABA and the transmitter specific [3H]D-aspartate retrograde radiolabeling, as well as a co-localization experiment for calretinin and glutamate decarboxylase in rat supramammillary and septal neurons, demonstrated that: (i) a large population of entorhinal cells that forms asymmetric synaptic contacts on calretinin-containing neurons located at the border between the medial and lateral septal areas contains calretinin and are aspartate/glutamatergic; (ii) the overwhelming majority of calretinin-immunoreactive cells located at the border between the lateral and medial septal area are GABAergic; (iii) these neurons can be retrogradely labeled from the supramammillary area; (iv) anterogradely labeled axons originating in the border between the medial and lateral septum are GABAergic and (v) terminate on supramammillary area non-GABAergic, calretinin-containing neurons, which are known to project to the septal complex and hippocampus. These observations indicate that a large population of cells participating in the hippocampal feedback regulation of theta regulation/generation contain the same calcium-binding protein. Furthermore, entorhinal excitatory transmitter-containing neurons can depress the activity of supramammillary theta generating/regulating cells via septal inhibitory neurons.
Receptor-associated protein appears to play an important role in low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein trafficking. Since ligands for the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease and normal functioning of this protein is indispensable for central nervous system development, deficient receptor-associated protein expression may result in central nervous system alterations. In this study, receptor-associated protein knockout mice were behaviorally tested and nervous system integrity was assessed via in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical/laser confocal microscopy methods. Receptor-associated protein knockout mice were found to be cognitively impaired in the Morris water maze compared to controls. In wild-type mice, the receptor-associated protein was found to be highly co-expressed with somatostatin in hippocampal and neocortical inhibitory neurons. Receptor-associated protein knockout mice, however, showed a significant decrease in number of somatostatin-expressing neurons of the CA1 region and somatostatin expression within these neurons. The decreased number of somatostatin neurons significantly correlated with cognitive impairment observed in the receptor-associated protein knockout mice. These results suggest a novel role for receptor-associated protein in modulating the functioning of somatostatin-producing neurons. Furthermore, this has implications for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis, in which altered regulation of both somatostatin and the known low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein ligands are a consistent finding.
To address the active transport of neurotrophins, nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 in the peripheral nerves, we examined the levels of proteins and messenger RNAs in the sciatic nerve of adult rats following transection, using enzyme immunoassays and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction method, respectively. Neurotrophin-3 protein increased one day after transection only in the distal segment next to the transection site and returned to the original level two days later. This was considered to reflect accumulation of neurotrophin-3 transported from the periphery toward the neuronal cell bodies, because the neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA level was not changed in any sciatic segments during this experimental period. An increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein was observed simultaneously in both the distal and proximal stumps three days after transection. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was elevated in the same stumps two days after transection, suggesting that brain-derived neurotrophic factor was produced within the transected stumps. These observations demonstrate that neurotrophin-3, like nerve growth factor, is retrogradely transported in the sciatic nerve but that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is not. This suggests that neurotrophin-3 plays a role in the conveyance of trophic signals from target organs to neurons.
In this work we report the existence of several evaginations extending out of the third ventricle within the mediobasal hypothalamus of the rat. In coronal sections, these evaginations appear as very narrow canaliculi integrating a canalicular system, which increases the contact surface between the ventricular lining and the nervous tissue. Consequently these evaginations enlarge the ventricular route for the transport of active principles present in the cerebrospinal fluid, such as (neuro)hormones and neurotransmitters. The mediobasal hypothalamus includes the arcuate nucleus and the median eminence (both involved in neuroendocrine mechanisms and in the regulation of pituitary function). A possible implication of our finding is that the neuroactive substance-containing ventricular cerebrospinal fluid may reach the intercellular spaces of the surrounding neuropil of the arcuate nucleus. According to literature these substances cross the ependyma of the lateral wall of the infundibular recess of the third ventricle. We suggest that such substances might also pass through the ependymal lining of the canalicular system, which displays the same ultrastructural characteristics as the rest of the ependyma of the lateral wall of the third ventricle. Therefore, the arcuate neurons may be influenced not only by synaptic inputs (afferent fibers) but also by non-synaptic diffusion neurotransmission (by means of neuroactive substances present in the cerebrospinal fluid).
Cortical oscillations have been reported in relation to animal behavior and may have important roles in neuronal information processing such as &quot;binding&quot;. We considered oscillatory activities in the primary somatosensory cortex of rats as a preparatory state for sensory processing and investigated the temporal relationship between gamma oscillation (25-45 Hz) onset in the somatosensory cortex (the barrel cortex) and rat's whisking as tactile exploratory behavior. The gamma oscillations of local field potentials preceded the whisking in 52/83 cases (63%). The mean lead time of the oscillations, defined as time from the oscillation onset to the whisking, was 268 ms (+/- 123, S.D.). These preceding gamma oscillations lasted to the onset of whisking. Furthermore, we investigated the temporal relationship during the other two behavioral states: a still but alert state and a state with tactile stimulation of the whiskers. In the state with tactile stimulation, gamma oscillations followed the stimulation, and in the still but alert state, significant gamma oscillation was not observed. The gamma oscillations that precede the whisking are thought to reflect anticipatory activities in the barrel cortex for the subsequent somatosensory input from the whiskers, which could represent a mechanism for rapid processing of expected sensory information.
Single plasma membranes were microdissected from Deiters' neurons freshly obtained from the lateral vestibular nucleus of the rabbit and their chloride permeability was studied in a microchamber system. The basal in--&gt;out 36Cl- permeation initially found was brought to zero by Zn2+, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid and iodide. GABA on the membrane cytoplasmic side resulted in a measurable in--&gt;out 36Cl- passage, which was blocked by the GABA(A) antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin. This effect peaked at 1 microM GABA on the inner side of the membrane. At higher GABA concentrations, a strong desensitization of the effect was found. Stimulation of Cl- permeability by GABA on the extracellular side of the membrane peaked at much higher GABA concentrations, 10-100 microM. This excludes an effect due to passage of the neurotransmitter from the inner to the outer compartment in our microchamber device. Moreover, this possibility is also dismissed by the fact that 1 microM GABA on the membrane outside did not evoke any 36Cl- in--&gt;out permeation. In addition, pentobarbitone by itself could also stimulate 36Cl- in--&gt;out permeation when added on the cytoplasmic side of Deiters' membrane. On these bases and in agreement with our previous reports, we propose that structures behaving pharmacologically as GABA(A) receptors respond to low levels of GABA on the cytoplasmic side of these neurons' membranes. We suggest that these structures are devices that, at the expense of ATP consumed in their phosphorylation, extrude Cl- after postsynaptic GABA uptake into the Deiters' neuron.
Lipopolysaccharides derived from cell walls of Gram-negative bacteria have proven a useful tool to simulate bacterial infection of the central nervous system. Rapid activation of microglia within the brain parenchyma as well as in vitro has thereby been shown to be an early event upon bacterial or lipopolysaccharide challenges. Less is known about microglial responses to a contact with Gram-positive bacteria, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, a lethal pathogen causing meningitis with a 30% mortality rate. In the present study, we compared lipopolysaccharide-induced microglial activation in vitro with that induced by preparations of pneumococcal cell walls. As a readout of microglial activation, we studied by patch-clamp recording the expression of outward rectifying potassium currents (IK+OR), which are known to be induced by lipopolysaccharide. We found that pneumococcal cell walls and lipopolysaccharide induced a similar type of IK+OR. Stimulation of IK+OR by pneumococcal cell walls and lipopolysaccharide involved protein synthesis since it was not induced in the presence of cycloheximide. Pharmacological characterization of the pneumococcal cell wall- and lipopolysaccharide-induced currents with specific ion channel blockers indicated for both cases expression of the charybdotoxin/margatoxin-sensitive Kv1.3 subtype of the Shaker family of voltage-dependent potassium channels. Activation of the outward currents by pneumococcal cell walls depended on the developmental stage: while lipopolysaccharide triggered IK+OR in both embryonal and postnatal microglial cells, pneumococcal cell walls had only a marginal effect on embryonal cells. This, however, does not imply that embryonic microglial cells are unresponsive to pneumococcal cell walls. In both embryonic and postnatal cells, (i) the amplitude of the constitutively expressed inward rectifying potassium current was significantly reduced, (ii) tumor necrosis factor-a was released and (iii) the cells changed their morphology, similarly as it was induced by lipopolysaccharide treatment. Thus, embryonic microglial cells are sensitive to pneumococcal cell wall challenges, but respond with a distinctly different pattern of physiological reactions. The expression of IK+OR could thus be a suitable tool to study signalling cascades selectively involved in the activation of microglia by Gram-negative and -positive cell wall components and to functionally distinguish between populations of microglial cells.
This study examined microglial responses after photochemically induced focal ischemia of the rat cortex. Microglial activation exceeded by far the area of the ischemic lesion. Based on morphological criteria and expression of immunomolecules three distinct patterns could be distinguished. (1) In the infarct core and the border zone microglia transformed into phagocytes and removed debris with the aid of hematogeneous macrophages. Exclusively in this area a subpopulation of CD8+ microglia/mnacrophages was present. (2) In secondarily degenerating fibre tracts and nuclei with retrograde neuronal loss, microglia were activated with a delay of days and showed increased expression of complement receptor 3, major histocompatibility complex class II and CD4 molecules, but only low phagocytic activity. (3) In remote ipsilateral cortex devoid of neuronal damage, microglia transiently responded by increased complement receptor 3, but not by major histocompatibility complex class II and CD4 expression. Furthermore, the total number of microglia had increased. This remote response could partly be blocked by dizocilpine maleate, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, implicating a functional role of spreading depression. Taken together, our findings point to a tight and differential regulation of microglial responses in the infarct core, degenerating fibre tracts and remote brain regions without neuronal loss.
The hypoxia-dependent activation of nitroheterocyclic drugs by cellular nitroreductases leads to the formation of intracellular adducts between the drugs and cellular macromolecules. Because this covalent binding is maximal in the absence of oxygen, detection of bound adducts provides an assay for estimating the degree of cellular hypoxia in vivo. Using a pentafluorintated derivative of etanidazole called EF5, we studied the distribution of EF5 adducts in seven-day-old rats subjected to different treatments which decrease the level of oxygen in the brain. EF5 solution was administered intraperitoneally 30 min prior to each treatment. The effect of acute and chronic hypoxia on EF5 adduct formation (binding) was studied in the brain of newborn rats exposed to global hypoxia (8% O2 for 30, 90 or 150 min) and in the brain of chronically hypoxic rat pups with congenital cardiac defects (Wistar Kyoto). The effect of combined hypoxia-ischemia was investigated in rat pups subjected to right carotid coagulation and concurrent exposure to 8% O2 for 30, 90 or 150 min. Brains were frozen immediately at the end of each treatment. Using a Cy3-conjugated monoclonal mouse antibody (ELK3-51) raised against EF5 adducts, hypoxic cells within brain regions were visualized by fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Brains from controls or vehicle-injected animals showed no EF5 binding. Notably, brains from animals which were chronically hypoxemic as a result of congenital cardiac defects also showed no EF5 binding. A short exposure (30 min) to hypoxia or to combined hypoxia-ischemia resulted in increased background stain and few scattered cells with low-intensity immunostaining. Acute hypoxia exposure of at least 90-150 min, which in this age animal does not result in frank cellular damage, produced patchy areas of low- to moderate-intensity fluorescence scattered throughout the brain. In contrast, 90-150 min of hypoxia-ischemia was associated with intense immunofluorescence in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the carotid occlusion, with a pattern similar to that reported previously for the histological damage seen in this model. This study provides a sensitive method for the evaluation of the level of oxygen depletion in brain tissue after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia at times much earlier than any method demonstrates apoptotic or necrotic cell death Since the level of in vivo formation of macromolecular adducts of EF5 depends on the degree of oxygen depletion in a tissue, intracellular EF5 binding may serve as a useful marker of regional cellular vulnerability and redox state after brain injury resulting from hypoxia-ischemia.
Morphological and electrophysiological properties of calbindin D-28k-, GABA- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons were investigated in the caudal nucleus of tractus solitarius of rats, using a patch-clamp whole-cell recording combined with intracellular staining and immunocytochemistry. Calbindin D-28K- and GABA-positive neurons had a small cell body (10.9+/-0.3 microm in diameter) and were distributed throughout the caudal nucleus of tractus solitarius. Double fluorescence immunocytochemistry revealed that calbindin- and GABA-positive neurons formed distinct subpopulations. Calbindin- and GABA-positive neurons double stained for biocytin showed extensive axon collaterals within the nucleus of tractus solitarius and some calbindin-positive, but not GABA-positive neurons, had also projection axons leaving the nucleus of tractus solitarius. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons had a small (10.8+/-0.3 microm) or large (17.2+/-0.4 microm) cell body. Neurons with a small cell body were observed in the dorsomedial nucleus at the level of the area postrema, and in the area postrema, while neurons with a large cell body were observed in the medial nucleus throughout the caudal nucleus of tractus solitarius. Double fluorescence immunocytochemistry revealed that almost all small dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive neurons were also immunoreactive for calbindin, while large dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive neurons were not. Double staining for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and biocytin showed that neurons with a small cell body had moderate axon collaterals. On the contrary, neurons with a large cell body had few, if any, axon collaterals and a projection axon which could leave the nucleus of tractus solitarius. Following stimulation of the tractus solitarius, all neurons with a small cell body exhibited a polysynaptic excitatory response (type I neurons), while dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons with a large cell body exhibited a monosynaptic excitatory response (type II neurons) or an excitatory followed by an inhibitory response (type III neurons). Spontaneous and evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents of (type I neurons) calbindin- or GABA-positive neurons were reversibly blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents of type III neurons were reversibly blocked by bicuculline. Type II neurons showed no spontaneous excitatory nor inhibitory postsynaptic currents. It was concluded that the three kinds of chemically-defined neurons formed distinct neuronal subpopulations in the caudal nucleus of tractus solitarius in terms of synaptic responses and morphological characteristics such as cell size and axonal trajectory.
The depressor response elicited by unilateral low intensity electrical stimulation of the rat ventral medial prefrontal cortex may be mediated by a connection with the solitary tract nucleus. We tested this hypothesis by (i) examining the influence of medial prefrontal cortex stimulation on the induction of Fos-like immunoreactivity in neurons in the medulla oblongata, and (ii) by testing the effect of inhibition of solitary tract nucleus neurons on the medial prefrontal cortex stimulation-evoked depressor response. Depressor responses (&gt;10 mmHg) were elicited by electrical stimulation of the medial prefrontal cortex every minute for 1 h ('Stimulated' group). Control animals were treated identically but did not receive electrical stimulation ('Unstimulated' group). Neurons exhibiting Fos-like immunoreactivity were abundant at the stimulation site which included the infralimbic area, and dorsal peduncular cortex. Medullary Fos-like immunoreactivity observed in the 'Stimulated' and 'Unstimulated' groups exceeded levels observed in untreated rats and was detected in the rostral, caudal and intermediate areas of the ventrolateral medulla, and the commissural, intermediate, medial and lateral regions of the solitary tract nucleus, as well as the medial vestibular nucleus, and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The number of neurons displaying Fos-like immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral solitary tract nucleus and caudal ventrolateral medulla of the 'Stimulated' group was found to be significantly elevated compared to the contralateral side (P&lt;0.05), and the 'Unstimulated' group bilaterally. Inhibition of solitary tract nucleus neurons using bilateral injections of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (44 pmol/25 nl) inhibited the sympathetic vasomotor baroreflex and attenuated the depressor and sympathoinhibitory response to medial prefrontal cortex stimulation by 62% and 65%, respectively. These findings suggest that the projection from the medial prefrontal cortex to the solitary tract nucleus is excitatory and support the hypothesis that the depressor response elicited by medial prefrontal cortex stimulation is mediated, in part, by a cortico-solitary projection which activates the intramedullary baroreflex pathway.
Hypotension produces a reflex increase in the activity of sympathetic vasomotor and cardiac nerves. It is believed that the reflex sympathoexcitation is due largely to disinhibition of sympathoexcitatory neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but it is possible that it may also be mediated by excitatory inputs from interneurons that are activated by a fall in blood pressure. The aim of this study in conscious rabbits was to identify and map neurons with properties that are characteristic of interneurons conveying excitatory inputs to the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region in response to hypotension. In a preliminary operation, a retrogradely-transported tracer, fluorescent-labelled microspheres, was injected into the functionally-identified pressor region in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. After a waiting period of at least one week, a moderate hypotension (decrease in arterial pressure of approximately 20 mmHg) was induced in conscious rabbits for 60 min by the continuous infusion of sodium nitroprusside. In confirmation of a previous study from our laboratory, [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613634] hypotension resulted in the expression of Fos (the protein product of c-fos, a marker of neuronal activation) in many neurons in several distinct regions in the brainstem and hypothalamus. Some of these regions (nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema, caudal and intermediate ventrolateral medulla, parabrachial complex in the pons, and paraventricular nucleus in the hypothalamus) also contained large numbers of retrogradely-labelled cells. Approximately 10% of the Fos-positive neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius, and 15-20% of Fos-positive neurons in the caudal and intermediate ventrolateral medulla were also retrogradely-labelled from the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region. In other brain regions, very few double-labelled neurons were found. In previous studies from our laboratory, we have determined the distribution of neurons in the brainstem that project to the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region and that are also activated by hypertension [Polson et al. (1995) Neuroscience 67, 107-123] or by hypoxia. [Hirooka et al. (1997) Neuroscience 80, 1209-1224] Comparison of the present results with those from these previous studies indicate that although hypotension and hypoxia both elicit powerful reflex sympathoexcitatory responses, the central pathways subserving these effects in conscious animals are fundamentally different. Hypoxia activates rostral ventrolateral medullary sympathoexcitatory neurons mainly via a major direct excitatory projection from the nucleus tractus solitarius, as well as from the Klliker-Fuse nucleus in the pons, while in contrast the activation of these neurons in response to hypotension appears to be due mainly to disinhibition, mediated via inhibitory interneurons. In addition, however, inputs originating from excitatory interneurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius and caudal and intermediate parts of the ventrolateral medulla appear to contribute to the hypotension-evoked activation of sympathoexcitatory neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla.
Post-translational processing is essential for the biological activation of many proteins and peptides. After precursor cleavage at specific single residues or pairs of basic residues by the proprotein convertases, the C-terminal basic residues are removed. Carboxypeptidase E was thought to be the only enzyme responsible. Recent studies with carboxypeptidase E-deficient mice, Cpe(fat)/Cpe(fat), indicated the existence of carboxypeptidase E-like carboxypeptidases, such as carboxypeptidase D. In order to define potential redundant functions in vivo, we compared the distributions of both carboxypeptidases in the rat central nervous system and selected endocrine tissues. Carboxypeptidase D messenger RNA was abundantly expressed in glial cells in the gray and white matter, while neurons in several brain regions, such as the piriform cortex, basolateral amygdala and hippocampus, also expressed high levels of carboxypeptidase D messenger RNA. Co-localization of carboxypeptidases E and D messenger RNAs was observed in many brain regions, the spinal cord and endocrine tissues. Immunohistochemistry showed the intracellular distribution of carboxypeptidase D with a perinuclear pattern. The extensive distribution of carboxypeptidase D in both glial and neuronal cells indicates the important role of carboxypeptidase D in peptide processing, possibly working together with furin, a ubiquitously expressed proprotein convertase. The co-localization of carboxypeptidases D and E suggests that carboxypeptidase D may, at least partially, compensate for carboxypeptidase E processing functions in Cpe(fat)/Cpe(fat) mice.
The immunocytochemical distribution of retinoid receptors has been analysed in the mouse adult central nervous system. All retinoic acid receptors (alpha, beta and gamma) and retinoid X receptors (alpha, beta and gamma) were detected and found to exhibit specific patterns of expression in various areas of the telencephalon, diencephalon and rhombencephalon. The protein localization of several retinoic acid receptors and retinoid X receptors did not correlate with the distribution of the corresponding RNA transcripts, as studied by in situ hybridization and RNase protection assays. This suggests that the expression of retinoid receptors could be post-transcriptionally regulated, which may contribute to their specific localization in the adult nervous system.
Autoradiographic and immunohistochemical studies have shown that the neurokinin-3 receptor is widely distributed in the rodent CNS. Expression of the neurokinin-3 receptor in human brain, however, has been debated. These conflicting findings, as well as the poor resolution of autoradiographic images, prompted us to develop a polyclonal antibody against an oligopeptide derived from the carboxy-terminus consensus sequence of both the rat and human neurokinin-3 receptor ([C]ASTTSSFISSPYTSVDEYS, amino acids 434-452 of the rat neurokinin-3 receptor). Western blot analysis of both human and rat brain tissue revealed a major band in the molecular weight range 65,000-67,000, the proposed molecular weight of the neurokinin-3 receptor based on its amino acid sequence and presumed glycosylation state. The distribution of selective high affinity neurokinin-3 receptor agonist [3H]senktide binding and neurokinin-3 receptor immunoreactivity were virtually identical in the brains of male Fischer 344 rats. The highest concentrations of neurokinin-3 receptors were observed in cortical layers IV-V; the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus; the hypothalamic paraventricular, perifornical and supraoptic nuclei; the zona incerta; and the entopeduncular and interpeduncular nuclei. [3H]senktide binding and neurokinin-3 receptor immunoreactivity were compared in homologous cortical areas of the human and rat brain. In contrast to the rat, autoradiographic analysis of normal control human brains (35-75 years) revealed a distinct and predominant superficial cortical labeling in the glia limitans and the cortical layer I. However, neurokinin-3 receptor immunoreactivity could be found not only in the superficial cortical layers, but also on pyramidal neurons and astrocytes in the neuropil and white matter. These findings suggest species differences in both the cellular and anatomical distribution of the neurokinin-3 receptor.
By intravenous application of the specific neurokininl receptor antagonist SR 140333 and the specific calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist CGRP8-37 we tested to what extent neurokinins (substance P, neurokinin A) and calcitonin gene-related peptide are involved in mediating antidromic vasodilatation in skin of anaesthetized Wistar rats. The lumbar sympathetic chain was sectioned bilaterally between ganglia L2 and L3 to remove ongoing vasoconstrictor activity to the hindquarter. The left dorsal root L5 was stimulated electrically at 1 Hz with 20 pulses supramaximal for activating C-fibres to evoke antidromic vasodilatation which was measured with laser Doppler flowmetry on the glabrous plantar skin and the hairy skin of the lower hindlimb within the left L5 territory. Stimulation-induced vasodilatation was tested after applying SR 140333 (0.1 mg/kg) and CGRP8-37 (0.3 mg/kg) alone or in combination. SR 140333 delayed the onset of the vasodilatation, but did not change its amplitude. CGRP8-37 reduced the amplitude and duration of the vasodilatation, but did not affect the latency of its onset. In combination, SR 140333 potentiated the effect of CGRP8-37 on the amplitude of the vasodilatation in glabrous but not in hairy skin and CGRP8-37 potentiated the delayed onset produced by SR 140333 in both cutaneous tissues. Antidromic vasodilatation in glabrous skin was almost totally blocked by SR 140333 (0.1 mg/kg) in combination with CGRP8-37 (0.45 mg/kg), but a substantial dilatation remained in hairy skin. It is concluded that in rat glabrous skin the vasodilatation evoked by a low level of activity in small-diameter primary afferents is likely to result from the release and synergistic action of neurokinins (substance P and/or neurokinin A) and calcitonin gene-related peptide, while in hairy skin neurokinins are involved to a minor extent only.
The excitability of the heel-gastrocnemius withdrawal reflex pathway has been monitored in rabbits undergoing surgical preparation for electrophysiological experimentation under Saffan anaesthesia. Reflexes were evoked by percutaneous electrodes inserted at the heel and recorded as electromyograph signals from the ipsilateral medial gastrocnemius muscle. Two levels of surgery were carried out. The &quot;full surgical&quot; preparation was performed under deep Saffan anaesthesia. The trachea, carotid artery, jugular vein and intrathecal space (via a small laminectomy at L1) were cannulated, the animals were decerebrated by suction, and the left hindlimb was immobilized by screw clamps applied to the tibia and the femur. The sciatic nerve and its branches were exposed by bisection of the posterior biceps muscle and the anaesthetic was withdrawn. In the &quot;reduced surgery&quot; preparation, procedures were carried out with a lighter level of Saffan anaesthesia and operated tissues were infiltrated with local anaesthetic. Only the cannulations were performed in these animals. The excitability of the heel-gastrocnemius reflex declined throughout the full surgical preparation, with the median threshold increasing from 0.8 to 4.2 mA (n=19) and responses to suprathreshold stimuli reducing in size. Most of this effect was reversed after surgery was complete and anaesthesia withdrawn subsequent to decerebration. There were no significant changes in reflex excitability during the reduced surgery preparation (n = 15). Animals prepared by each of these protocols were given increasing intrathecal doses of either the selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist RX 821002 (0.3 to 300 microg) or the serotonin/5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A-receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (0.01 to 30 microg). Both drugs caused significant, dose-dependent increases in reflex responses, to four to six times pre-drug control in both groups of animals. There were no differences in the effects on reflexes of either drug between the preparations. Thus, surgical preparation of decerebrated rabbits for electrophysiological recording results in depression of hindlimb withdrawal reflexes, although much of this effect did not persist beyond the completion of surgery. Tonic monoaminergic inhibition of reflexes was present to the same extent in both preparations investigated and is not therefore an epiphenomenon of the way in which the animals were prepared.
The activity of the serotonergic system varies in phase with the sleep-wake cycle, which is associated with changes in several physiological functions, including electroencephalographic activity, brain temperature, and locomotion. The aim of the present study was to clarify which of these parameters correlates better with serotonergic activity in spontaneous conditions. Voltammetric recordings by telemetry of serotonergic metabolism in the medial preoptic area and polygraphic recordings of sleep-wake activity (by means of electroencephalographic delta band, brain cortical temperature and neck electromyographic activity recordings) were simultaneously performed in freely moving rats. Univariate analyses of variance revealed that each variable under investigation was statistically correlated with serotonergic metabolism. When the variables were entered into the model simultaneously, both partial correlation and step-wise multiple regression analyses indicated that the highest correlation exists between serotonergic metabolism and brain cortical temperature. The present data show that serotonergic activity in the medial preoptic area is closely linked to physiological changes in brain temperature.
The relative content of calcitonin gene-related peptide in lumbar motoneuron cell bodies (semiquantitative immunohistochemistry) and sciatic nerve was examined in rats who had previously undergone a 16-week period of endurance training on a motor-driven treadmill. Soleus motoneurons were identified in the spinal cord by their fluorescence following injection of FluoroGold into the muscle one week before killing. In sedentary rats, calcitonin gene-related peptide was detectable in 76-90% of motoneurons, with no difference in the proportions of negative cells, or in the mean staining intensity of positive cells, between soleus and neighbouring (presumptive fast hindlimb muscle) unlabelled moto-neurons. In endurance-trained rats, the estimated content of calcitonin gene-related peptide was significantly increased (90%) in cell bodies of soleus and neighbouring motoneurons, with no training-induced alterations in the proportions of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive cells in either sample. The content of the neuropeptide was also significantly higher (37%) in sciatic nerve of endurance-trained rats. Relative accumulation of calcitonin gene-related peptide proximal to a sciatic nerve ligature applied 4 h before, however, was unchanged. The increases in calcitonin gene-related peptide in motoneuron cell bodies and sciatic nerve axons following endurance training may indicate an up-regulation of the synthesis, transport and terminal release of this neuropeptide, which could play a significant role in other morphological and functional adaptations which are known to occur at the neuromuscular junction following this chronic change in activity level.
We investigated whether D1 dopaminergic receptors modulate in vivo acetylcholine output in the shell and core areas of rat nucleus accumbens using the microdialysis technique. Subcutaneous injection (1, 2 and 3 mg/kg) of the D1 agonist SKF 82958 enhanced acetylcholine output in both areas of the nucleus accumbens while the selective D1 antagonist SCH 39166 (0.15 and 0.30 mg/kg, s.c.) lowered it. Both SKF 82958 and SCH 39166 were more effective in the shell than in the core region. The increase in acetylcholine release induced by SKF 82958 in the shell was tetrodotoxin-sensitive. The dopamine release inducer d-amphetamine (1 and 2mg/kg, s.c.) and the dopamine uptake inhibitor cocaine (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently raised acetylcholine release in the shell and core areas. The dopaminergic stimulants, like the direct-acting D1 compounds, were more effective in the shell than in the core compartment of the nucleus accumbens. The acetylcholine increases in the shell induced by d-amphetamine (2 mg/kg), cocaine (20 mg/kg) and SKF 82958 (3 mg/kg) were antagonized by the D1 antagonists SCH 39166 (5 microM) and SCH 23390 (10 microM), applied locally by reverse dialysis. The results suggest that dopamine acting at the D1 receptors exerts a tonic stimulatory control over the cholinergic function of the shell and core compartments of the nucleus accumbens with the shell being more strongly influenced.
Recent studies indicate that extrinsic inputs from sensorimotor regions of the cerebral cortex and the centromedian intralaminar thalamic nucleus terminate preferentially upon specific subpopulations of striatal output neurons in monkeys. The objective of the present study was to verify whether this specificity of innervation also characterizes the synaptic interactions between thalamic inputs from the centromedian nucleus and the four major populations of striatal interneurons. This was achieved by double labelling techniques at the electron microscope level, combining the anterograde transport of biotinylated-dextran amine with the immunostaining for specific markers of striatal interneurons (somatostatin, parvalbumin, choline acetyltransferase and calretinin). Injections of biotinylated-dextran amine in the centromedian nucleus led to dense bands of anterograde labelling which, in double immunostained sections, largely overlapped with the four populations of interneurons in the post-commissural region of the putamen. In the electron microscope, biotinylated-dextran amine-containing terminals formed asymmetric axo-dendritic synapses with somatostatin-, parvalbumin-, and choline acetyltransferase-containing elements. However, synapses between anterogradely labelled terminals and calretinin-positive neurons were not found. In sections processed to localize biotinylated-dextran amine and parvalbumin or calretinin, double-labelled terminals (biotinylated-dextran amine/parvalbumin and biotinylated-dextran amine/calretinin), morphologically similar to thalamostriatal boutons, were found in the striatum indicating that calcium binding proteins may be expressed by thalamostriatal neurons. To test this possibility, we combined the retrograde transport of lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase from the putamen with parvalbumin and calretinin immunostaining and found that, indeed, most of the retrogradely labelled cells in the centromedian nucleus displayed parvalbumin and calretinin immunoreactivity. Moreover, co-localization studies revealed that calretinin and parvalbumin co-exist in single neurons of the centromedian nucleus. In conclusion, striatal interneurons immunoreactive for somatostatin, parvalbumin and choline acetyltransferase, but not those containing calretinin, receive strong inputs from the centromedian nucleus in monkeys. Moreover, our findings indicate that parvalbumin and calretinin co-exist in individual thalamostriatal neurons. In combination with our previous data, these results suggest that thalamic information may be conveyed to striatal projection neurons both, directly via excitatory synaptic inputs, or indirectly via striatal interneurons. The relative importance of those direct and indirect thalamic influences upon the activity of striatal output neurons remains to be established.
Previous single exposure (priming) to a dopamine receptor agonist greatly enhances the contralateral turning behaviour elicited by dopamine D1 receptor agonists in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats. In the present study we have investigated the levels of glutamate decarboxylase 67 and glutamate decarboxylase 65 messenger RNA in the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats primed with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and challenged with the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393, three days thereafter. As previously reported, levels of glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA increased in the striatum denervated by the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion as compared with the intact one. Striatal glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA levels, measured three days after priming with L-DOPA (50 mg/kg), further increased in the lesioned striatum while were not modified in the intact one. Administration of SKF 38393 (3 mg/kg) elicited a more intense contralateral turning behaviour in primed than in drug-naive 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats but did not induce any change in striatal glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA. In contrast, striatal levels of glutamate decarboxylase 65 messenger RNA were not modified by either 6-hydroxydopamine lesions or priming with L-DOPA. The results show that priming with L-DOPA induces long-lasting changes in GABAergic neurons of the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned striatum. These changes might play a role in the increased behavioural response of striatal D1 receptors induced by priming.
Glutamatergic neurons innervate the striatum and form asymmetric synapses with the dendritic spines of striatal efferent neurons. The role of glutamate in striatal development, however, remains largely unknown. Previous studies have shown a dramatic increase in the density of asymmetric synapses in the rat striatum during the third postnatal week, followed by a decrease to adult levels by postnatal day 25. At the same time, the highly polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule becomes progressively restricted to synaptic regions and then disappears. We have now examined the effects of antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamatergic receptors on the expression of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule and on synaptic density during this late period of striatal development. Peripheral administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate markedly decreased immunoreactivity for the highly polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule in the dorsolateral striatum and cerebral cortex when drug treatment included postnatal day 20, but not earlier in development. This effect was regionally specific and loss of the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule in the striatum was reproduced by the local administration of dizocilpine maleate, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate or ketamine on postnatal day 20. Quantitative ultrastructural studies of synaptic density with the physical disector method performed after one of the regimens inducing loss of the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (postnatal days 18-20) revealed a 30% decrease in asymmetric synapses in the dorsolateral striatum of treated rats. Symmetric synapses, which presumably do not use glutamate, were not affected. The data indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a role in the late stages of synaptogenesis in the striatum and suggest that a subset of synapses expressing immunoreactivity for the highly polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule may be dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation during a critical period of striatal development.
Huntingtin is a cytoplasmic protein of unknown function that associates with vesicle membranes and microtubules. Its protein interactions suggest that huntingtin has a role in endocytosis and organelle transport. In this study we sought to identify factors that regulate the transport of huntingtin in striatal neurons, which are the cells most affected in Huntington's disease. In clonal striatal cells derived from fusions of neuroblastoma and embryonic striatal neurons, huntingtin localization is diffuse and slightly punctate in the cytoplasm. When these neurons were differentiated by treatment with forskolin, huntingtin redistributed to perinuclear regions, discrete puncta along plasma membranes, and branch points and terminal growth cones in neurites. Huntingtin staining overlapped with clathrin, a coat protein involved in endocytosis. Immunoblot analysis of subcellular membrane fractions separated by differential centrifugation confirmed that huntingtin immunoreactivity in differentiated neurons markedly increased in membrane fractions enriched with clathrin and with huntingtin-interacting protein 1. Dopamine treatment altered the subcellular localization of huntingtin and increased its expression in clathrin-enriched membrane fractions. The dopamine-induced changes were blocked by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 and were absent in a clonal cell line lacking D1 receptors. Results suggest that the transport of huntingtin and its co-expression in clathrin and huntingtin-interacting protein 1-enriched membranes is influenced by activation of adenylyl cyclase and stimulation of dopamine D1 receptors.
Four-day-old rat pups were taught to avoid an electrified grid under the influence of increased nitric oxide availability in brain (by a nitric oxide substrate L-arginine) that alleviated learning or decreased nitric oxide (due to the action of a blocker of nitric oxide synthase nitro-L-arginine) that impaired learning. Three hours after criteria meeting, the pups were killed for analysis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase content in brain cells and neuropil. In the cingulate gyrus, NADPH-diaphorase-positive staining was increased after L-arginine, but an opposite picture was observed in hippocampus and basal ganglia, i.e. an increase after the blocker nitro-L-arginine. A noteworthy accumulation of NADPH-diaphorase in hippocampal cells might be tentatively explained by the blocking effect of nitro-L-arginine not allowing NADPH-diaphorase to leave the cells. Application of L-arginine or nitro-L-arginine provoked only minor changes in the studied structures of non-learned pups with the exception of hippocampus where nitro-L-arginine increased the width of neuropil, but to a lesser degree than in learned animals. These results clearly show that both manipulations, i.e. drug application and learning, only have a significant effect on the changes in NADPH-diaphorase positivity in brain neurons.
Changes in binding of [3H]dizocilpine maleate to N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive ion channel receptors were evaluated after learning in order to specify brain regions which might be involved in memory formation. Rats were trained in a five-trial session of 40 min, to discriminate among three odours to obtain food reinforcement. Another group was trained in an eight-arm maze to choose always the same three arms to obtain food reinforcement (nine trials over 150 min). In rats killed 30 min after odour discrimination learning, dizocilpine maleate binding was significantly reduced in hippocampal sub-regions CA3, CA1 and fascia dentata and in frontal cortex. After spatial learning, changes in binding were limited to the amygdala, where a decrease was also observed. These results indicate that functional changes occur in specific brain regions after learning and suggest anatomical loci for further study of synaptic changes at a morphological level, after spatial learning or odour discrimination.
By using in vivo microdialysis we monitored the extracellular levels of acetylcholine and serotonin in the hippocampus of rats performing a spatial memory task. After rats were trained for 10 consecutive days to master a food-reinforced radial-arm maze task, they were implanted with a microdialysis probe in the dorsal hippocampus. On day 12, rats were tested in the maze and acetylcholine and serotonin outputs were monitored before the test, during the waiting phase and while performing the trials. In trained, food-rewarded rats, hippocampal acetylcholine levels increased during the waiting period (181 +/- 90 of baseline) and further increased during the radial-maze performance to 236 +/- 13% of baseline values, while serotonin levels did not change during the waiting period but increased to 142 +/- 3% during the maze performance. To discriminate whether the increase of acetylcholine and serotonin levels during the testing was associated with memory performance or with food consumption, we monitored hippocampal acetylcholine and serotonin release in rats that were trained, but not food rewarded, or in rats that were not trained, but rewarded only on the test day. In the trained, non-rewarded group, acetylcholine release increased during the waiting phase to 168 +/- 6%, but did not increase further during the task performance. In contrast, no change in serotonin release was observed in this group in any phase of the test. In rats which were not trained, but food rewarded, acetylcholine increased only during the maze period (150 +/- 5%). Serotonin increased gradually and become significant at the end of the trials. (130 +/- 3%). While both neurotransmitters could be implicated in feeding behaviour, only activation of cholinergic neurotransmission appears to be associated with memory function. Our results support the following hypotheses: (i) hippocampal acetylcholine could be involved in attentional and cognitive functions underlying motivational processes; (ii) serotonin could be implicated in non-cognitive processes (i.e. in the control of motor and feeding behaviour). Since serotonin and acetylcholine neurotransmission is simultaneously activated during the spatial memory task, this suggests that these neurotransmitter systems regulate behavioural and cognitive functions.
After transection of the sciatic nerve there is a dramatic increase in both galanin/galanin message-associated peptide-like immunoreactivities and preprogalanin messenger RNA levels in rat and mouse lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglion neurons. There is strong evidence that after nerve injury leukemia inhibitor factor is a key molecule in the control of peptide expression both in sympathetic neurons and in dorsal root ganglion neurons, although the cells of origin of endogenous leukemia inhibitory factor remain to be established. We have therefore studied the effect of leukemia inhibitory factor on galanin expression in 72 h cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from normal mice, leukemia inhibitory factor-deficient and heterozygous mice with immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. In cultures of leukemia inhibitory factor-deficient (-/-) mice only 13% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons expressed galanin message-associated peptide and in cultures from heterozygous (+/-) and wild-type (+/+) mice the corresponding figures were, respectively, 24 and 40%. After addition of leukemia inhibitory factor (10 or 50 ng/ml) to the culture medium, the number of neurons expressing galanin message-associated peptide was increased (up to 41%) in cultures from (-/-) animals after the high concentration and reached similar values in cultures from heterozygous animals incubated with the low concentration. These findings were supported by parallel analysis of prepro-galanin messenger RNA levels, where similar transcript levels and effects in the various cultures were observed in the non-radioactive in situ hybridization experiments. These results support the hypothesis that leukemia inhibitory factor is an important regulator of galanin/galanin message-associated peptide expression following axotomy, and may therefore be involved in the defence mechanisms against neuropathic pain at the level of dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Transection of the fimbria-fornix leads to retrograde degeneration of axotomized septal cholinergic neurons as manifested by loss of choline acetyltransferase and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75NGFR) immunoreactivity. Nerve growth factor administered into cerebral ventricles at the time of axotomy can prevent these changes, while ciliary neurotrophic factor can prevent the loss of p75NGFR immunostaining. Leukaemia inhibitory factor shares structural homologies with ciliary neurotrophic factor and has similar actions in the nervous system. Both proteins share the same signalling pathways, which involve the interleukin-6 transducing receptor components leukaemia inhibitory factor receptor beta and gp130. In this study, we compared the effects of leukaemia inhibitory factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor, administered into cerebral ventricles, on p75NGFR and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in septal neurons after fimbria-fornix transection. We found that leukaemia inhibitory factor, like ciliary neurotrophic factor, prevents the loss of p75NGFR-stained medial septal neurons after fimbria-fornix axotomy, without maintaining choline acetyltransferase expression in these neurons. In addition, p75NGFR-immunostained neurons had significantly smaller mean diameter after axotomy in leukaemia inhibitory factor- and ciliary neurotrophic factor-treated animals as compared with either nerve growth factor-treated or unlesioned animals. These findings suggest that both leukaemia inhibitory factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor can prevent the axotomy-induced cell death of septal cholinergic neurons, but that, in contrast to nerve growth factor, these growth factors do not maintain the expression of choline acetyltransferase or the normal neuronal size of these injured neurons.
The effects of the nitric oxide-generating compounds hydroxylamine, sodium nitroprusside and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors nitroarginine and 7-nitroindazole on taurine release from hippocampal slices from adult (three-month-old) and developing (seven-day-old) mice were characterized using a superfusion system. The basal release of [3H]taurine was enhanced when the nitric oxide donors were added at the beginning of superfusion, more markedly in the adult than in the immature hippocampus. The effect of hydroxylamine was clearly concentration-dependent. Hydroxylamine also markedly enhanced the release of endogenous taurine. The K+-stimulated (50 mM) release of taurine was generally inhibited by the nitric oxide-generating compounds in both age groups. Nitric oxide is thus able to act directly at presynaptic terminals, modulating taurine release as a retrograde messenger. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked taurine release was reduced by the nitric oxide donors, particularly by sodium nitroprusside, in the adult hippocampus, while hydroxylamine and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine markedly potentiated the release in developing mice. In the immature hippocampus the hydroxylamine-enhanced taurine release seems to involve a Ca2+-independent, Na+-dependent and carrier-mediated process while in adult mice only a part of the hydroxylamine-enhanced release is mediated by the same mechanism. The results show that nitric oxide-generating compounds modify the basal, K+- and N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked releases of taurine in both adult and immature hippocampus. The enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-evoked release may be an important mechanism protecting the immature brain against excitotoxicity.
Using a double detection method, which combines in situ hybridization for the detection of neurotrophin messenger RNA with immunocytochemistry against the neuropeptides somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin, we have analysed the expression of the neurotrophins, nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3, in distinct populations of neuropeptide-immunoreactive hippocampal interneurons. Nerve growth factor messenger RNA expression was found in subsets of the four subpopulations of neuropeptide-immunoreactive interneurons. The highest degree of co-localization was observed in the neuropeptide-Y-positive cells (up to 70%) and in somatostatin-immunoreactive cells (48%). Only small subsets of cholecystokinin- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive neurons (21% and 10%, respectively) displayed nerve growth factor hybridization signals. In contrast, expression of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA was exclusively observed in 26% of neuropeptide-Y-immunoreactive cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor hybridization signals were never detected in the neuropeptide-positive hippocampal interneurons. Morphological analysis of neuropeptide-immunoreactive interneurons that express or lack nerve growth factor messenger RNA revealed that most perisomatic inhibitory neurons, such as large vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/ cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells, showed positive nerve growth factor hybridization signals. In addition, some somatostatin/neuropeptide-Y-immunoreactive interneurons, which are responsible for dendritic inhibition of principal hippocampal neurons, expressed nerve growth factor messenger RNA. In contrast, interneurons specialized to innervate other GABAergic cells, such as small vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive cells, lacked nerve growth factor expression. All these data indicate that expression of neurotrophins is differentially regulated in functionally distinct classes of hippocampal interneurons immunoreactive for neuropeptides. We also analysed whether neuropeptide-immunoreactive interneurons expressing neurotrophins were targets of the GABAergic septohippocampal pathway. We used a triple detection method, combining anterograde tracing of this connection, with in situ hybridization for the detection of neurotrophin mRNA, and immunocytochemistry against neuropeptides. Our data showed that the four populations of hippocampal interneurons studied (somatostatin, neuropeptide-Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholescystokinin) received GABAergic afferents from the septum. However, no preference for neuropeptide-immunoreactive cells expressing neurotrophins was observed, compared to neuropeptide-positive neurons lacking neurotrophin expression.
Adult male rats were treated chronically with the selective type II corticosteroid receptor agonist dexamethasone, with dexamethasone plus aldosterone, a selective type I receptor agonist, and with a supraphysiological dose of corticosterone sufficient to occupy both type I and type II receptors; injection-free and oil (vehicle)-treated rats served as controls. Following one month of treatment, the animals were killed and their brains were processed for stereological assessment of volumes and total numbers of neurons in the hippocampal formation. Dexamethasone treatment resulted in significant reductions in the total number of dentate granule and the CA3 pyramidal cells and in the volumes of some layers of these subfields; however, this steroid did not influence any morphometric parameter in the CA1 subfield, and the number of hilar cells was also unaltered. In contrast to the results obtained with dexamethasone, the other two groups of corticoid injected animals did not reveal changes in total cell numbers in any of the subfields of the hippocampal formation, although in the corticosterone-treated group a reduction in the volumes of the hilus and of the stratum radiatum of the CA3 subfield was observed. The present data show that the exclusive activation of type II corticosteroid receptors results in subfield-specific neuronal loss in the hippocampal formation of rats. This type II receptor-mediated neuronal loss can, however, be abrogated by the simultaneous stimulation of type I corticosteroid receptors. Together, these findings extend and support previous studies which suggested that activation of type I corticosteroid receptors may promote neuronal survival and that neurodegeneration may be triggered by type II corticosteroid receptor stimulation. An important implication of this result is that elevated levels of the endogenous corticosteroid receptor ligands (e.g., during stress) is unlikely to cause severe structural damage to the hippocampal formation due to the contemporaneous occupation of type I receptors.
Self-stimulation rewarding experience induced alterations in the numerical density of spines in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons in adult male Wistar rats was evaluated. Self-stimulation experience was provided 1 h daily over a period of 10 days through stereotaxically implanted bipolar stainless steel electrodes bilaterally in lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area. After 10 days, rats were killed and the hippocampus and motor cortex were processed for rapid Golgi staining procedure. The dendritic spine densities were studied in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons. The spine densities were quantified in five successive segments of 15.2 microm up to a distance of 76 microm. Apical dendrites were classified as mainshaft, sub branch, oblique shaft-I, oblique shaft-II, primary branch; and basal dendrites as main shaft, primary branch and secondary branch. A grand total of 864 CA3 hippocampal and 1008 layer V motor cortical dendrites were analysed for spine counting in different groups of rats. The results revealed a significant (P&lt;0.001; ANOVA, F-test) increase in the number of spines in all the categories of dendrites in apical and basal regions in both hippocampal and motor cortical neurons in self-stimulation group of rats. Such changes were not observed either in sham control, experimenter-administered or normal control groups of rats. The self-stimulation induced increase in the spine density suggests an increase in the postsynaptic receptive field in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical neurons. This might enhance the efficacy of synaptic transmission in these neurons. Our study clearly demonstrated the self-stimulation rewarding experience induced postsynaptic plasticity in hippocampal and motor cortical pyramidal neurons.
The effect of subchronic intracerebroventricular injection of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) recombinant protein gp120 (100 ng, given daily for up to seven consecutive days) on interleukin-1beta expression was studied by immunohistochemistry in the brain of adult rats. In comparison to control, bovine serum albumin (300 ng, given intracerebroventricularly for up to seven days) -treated animals (n=6), interleukin-1beta immunoreactivity increased in the brain cortex and hippocampus of rats (n=6) receiving a single injection of the viral protein 24 h before analysis with more substantial increases being observed in these regions of the brain (n=6) after seven days treatment. Double-labelling immunofluorescence experiments support a neuronal and, possibly, a microglial cell origin for gp120-enhanced interleukin-1beta expression. Transmission electron microscopy analysis of brain tissue sections revealed that combination treatments (given intracerebroventricularly daily for seven days) with gp120 (100 ng) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (80 ng) or with the interleukin converting enzyme inhibitor II (100 pmol), but not with leupeptin (100 pmol), prevented apoptotic death of rat (n=6/group) brain cortical cells typically elicited by the viral protein. These data demonstrate that gp120 enhances interleukin-1beta expression in the brain and this may be involved in the mechanism underlying apoptosis induced by gp120 in the brain cortex of rat. Further support to this hypothesis comes from the evidence that intracerebroventricular injection of murine recombinant interleukin-1beta (200 U, given daily for seven consecutive days) produces DNA fragmentation in the brain cortex of rat (n=6). Interestingly, the latter treatment enhanced nerve growth factor level in the hippocampus but not in the cerebral cortex and this coincides with a similar effect recently reported in identical brain areas of rats treated likewise with gp120. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate that treatment with gp120 enhances interleukin-1beta expression and this participates in the mechanism of apoptotic cell death in the brain cortex of rat. By contrast, in the hippocampus, gp120-enhanced interleukin-1beta expression elevates nerve growth factor that may prevent or delay apoptosis in this plastic region of the rat brain.
Acetylcholine release in the rat cortex in vivo has been shown to be modulated by alpha2-adrenoceptor ligands. We have previously reported that the systemic administration of selective alpha2-antagonists including (+)-efaroxan increase, while alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists such as UK-14304 reduce the release of acetylcholine in the medial prefrontal cortex of conscious rats as measured by microdialysis. To evaluate the extent to which noradrenergic afferent inputs are required for the expression of these different effects, the present study examined the drug-induced changes in cortical acetylcholine release in rats which had undergone prior noradrenergic deafferentation. Rats were pretreated with the noradrenergic neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), which after three days had reduced noradrenaline levels in the medial prefrontal cortex by 84%. At that time, slices of cortex were incubated with [3H]choline, superfused and stimulated by consecutive exposures to increasing concentrations of K+. In N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine pretreated tissue, the [3H] outflows evoked by 20, 35 and 45 mM K+ were lower by 12%, 22% and 43%, respectively, in comparison to slices prepared from vehicle-pretreated control animals. For in vivo microdialysis experiments, rats were pretreated as above with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine, or prepared seven to eight days in advance with bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the locus coeruleus. Neither of these lesioning procedures significantly affected the basal outflow of endogenous acetylcholine in the cortex. In control rats, cortical acetylcholine outflow was increased by up to 300% of baseline values by (+)-efaroxan (0.63 mg/kg, i.p.), and was reduced to 21% of baseline by UK-14304 (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.), confirming our previous findings. In N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine pretreated rats, the inhibitory effect of UK-14304 on acetylcholine outflow persisted, while the ability of (+)-efaroxan to increase outflow was essentially eliminated. In locus coeruleus-lesioned rats, where cortical noradrenaline levels were reduced by 64%, (+)-efaroxan still increased acetylcholine outflow, but this effect was significantly attenuated and less sustained in comparison to sham-operated control rats. Viewed together with complimentary biochemical, electrophysiological and neuroanatomical evidence in the literature, a model is presented to account for these findings, and indicates that alpha2-adrenoceptors both on noradrenergic neurons (autoreceptors) and on non-noradrenergic cells (heteroreceptors) can participate in mediating drug-induced changes in medial prefrontal cortical acetylcholine release in vivo. The acetylcholine release-enhancing effect of (+)-efaroxan appears to be dependent on at least a partially intact cortical noradrenergic innervation.
The perirhinal cortex lies at the interface between the neocortex and allocortex. Whether the perirhinal cortex expresses spontaneous electroencephalographic rhythms that are characteristic of the allocortex and/or of the neocortex is unknown. Thus, the present investigation was undertaken to characterize the activity of the perirhinal cortex with respect to various electroencephalographic rhythms that are displayed by neocortical areas or the entorhino-hippocampal system during different behavioral states of vigilance in chronically-implanted cats. Although perirhinal and neocortical electroencephalograms underwent similar state-dependent changes in amplitude, the ubiquitous neocortical sleep spindles were absent from the perirhinal cortex. In addition, while the slow sleep oscillation (0.5-1 Hz), which is pervasive in the neocortex, was present in the perirhinal cortex, its temporal relation to the neocortical oscillation was highly variable. In contrast, a high degree of correlation was found between perirhinal and entorhinal electroencephalographic activities in all behavioral states. In particular, during waking and paradoxical sleep, multiple simultaneously recorded entorhinal and perirhinal sites displayed an oscillation in the theta range which was highly correlated. To rule out the possibility that the perirhinal theta oscillation reflected volume conduction from neighboring structures, single-unit recordings were performed. Spike-triggered averages and peri-event histograms revealed that perirhinal cells displayed a statistically significant theta-related modulation of their spontaneous activity, albeit weaker than that observed in the entorhinal cortex. Thus, from the standpoint of spontaneous electroencephalographic rhythms, the perirhinal cortex is more closely related to the entorhino-hippocampal system than to the neocortex.
A selection problem arises whenever two or more competing systems seek simultaneous access to a restricted resource. Consideration of several selection architectures suggests there are significant advantages for systems which incorporate a central switching mechanism. We propose that the vertebrate basal ganglia have evolved as a centralized selection device, specialized to resolve conflicts over access to limited motor and cognitive resources. Analysis of basal ganglia functional architecture and its position within a wider anatomical framework suggests it can satisfy many of the requirements expected of an efficient selection mechanism.
In this study, the nonlinear prediction method combined with Gaussian-scaled surrogate data was used to quantify, as a first goal, the chaotic behavior of the interspike interval of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons, extracellularly recorded in vivo, in anesthetized rats. The second goal was to determine the differences in chaotic content as a function of age. Comparisons were made among three different groups of rats: young (two to four weeks of age), adult (three to four months of age) and aged (16-19 months of age). It has been found that the degree of complexity of action potential trains is reduced with aging. The chaotic content of ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons within each group and the decrease of chaos with aging cannot be explained in terms of standard characteristics of neuronal activity (firing rate, bursting activity). These data can be rationalized in the light of recent findings on the role of deterministic chaos in the functional behavior of complex biological systems, and suggests that nonlinear analysis may provide an additional method in characterizing neuronal activity.
During adulthood, neuronal precursor cells persist in two discrete regions, the subventricular zone and the hippocampal subgranular zone, as recently demonstrated in primates. To date, a few factors such as adrenal steroids and trophic factors are known to regulate adult neurogenesis. Since neuronal activity may also influence cellular development and plasticity in brain, we investigated the effects of serotonin depletion on cell proliferation occurring in these regions. Indeed, in addition to its role as a neurotransmitter, 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) is considered as a developmental regulatory signal. Prenatal depletion in 5-hydroxytryptamine delays the onset of neurogenesis in 5-hydroxytryptamine target regions and 5-hydroxytryptamine promotes the differentiation of cortical and hippocampal neurons. Although in the adult brain, a few studies have suggested that 5-hydroxytryptamine may play a role in neuronal plasticity by maintaining the synaptic connections in the cortex and hippocampus, no information is actually available concerning the influence of 5-hydroxytryptamine on adult neurogenesis. If further work confirms that new neurons can be produced in the adult human brain as is the case for a variety of species, it is particularly relevant to determine the influence of 5-hydroxytryptamine on neurogenesis in the hippocampal formation, a part of the brain largely implicated in learning and memory processes. Indeed, lack of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the hippocampus has been associated with cognitive disorders, such as depression, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we demonstrated that both inhibition of 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis and selective lesions of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons are associated with decreases in the number of newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus, as well as in the subventricular zone.
The in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation of newborn rats (0 to six-days-old) was used to investigate the development of pathways descending ventrally from the brainstem, which are important for the control of posture and locomotion. The ventral funiculus of the spinal cord was stimulated at the cervical (C1) level. Responses were recorded at the lumbar level from either motoneurons or ventral roots using intracellular microelectrodes or suction electrodes, respectively. Responses consisted of a pure excitation lasting 15 ms, followed by mixed excitatory/inhibitory responses. The inhibition was, at least partly, mediated by glycine. Excitatory amino acid transmission appears to be responsible for the excitation. The characteristics of the ventral funiculus-evoked postsynaptic potentials and ventral root potentials changed significantly with age. Their latency decreased whereas the slope and the area, measured over the first 15 ms, increased. The increase of the ventral funiculus input to motoneurons was slightly more pronounced than that of the monosynaptic dorsal root-evoked potentials from day 0 to day 4. These data suggest a gradual arrival of ventral descending axons in the lumbar enlargement which may be responsible for the gradual acquisition of postural control that takes place during the first days after birth. This is a prerequisite for the development of the adult pattern of quadrupedal locomotion, with elevated trunk.
Vascular endothelial growth factor is a highly conserved, heparin-binding protein which mediates a number of critical developmental processes in both vertebrates and invertebrates, including angiogenesis, vasculogenesis and hematopoiesis. We employed an organotypic rat explant model (produced from embryonic day 17 fetuses) to assess the effects of vascular endothelial growth factor on brain microvasculature in general and the ventral midbrain specifically. Immunohistochemistry using antisera to rat endothelial cell antigen and laminin demonstrated a robust, dose-dependent effect of vascular endothelial growth factor, resulting in increased vessel neogenesis, branching and lumen size by three days in vitro. This effect was blocked by addition of an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody. At higher doses of vascular endothelial growth factor, the effect was attenuated, though a statistically significant increase in both astrocyte, and neuronal density was observed using antisera to glial and neuronal markers. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (i.e. dopaminergic) neurons, particularly, exhibited increased survival in response to vascular endothelial growth factor application. Vascular endothelial growth factor had a mitogenic effect on endothelial cells and astrocytes, but not dopaminergic neurons, as demonstrated by the addition of [3H]thymidine to the cultures 2 h after the cultures were established. Similarly, results of a radioreceptor assay indicated that specific vascular endothelial growth factor binding sites were present on blood vessels and astrocytes, and were up-regulated by exposure to vascular endothelial growth factor. We conclude that, in explants of the ventral mesencephalon, exogenously applied vascular endothelial growth factor is mitogenic for endothelial cells and astrocytes, and promotes growth/survival of neurons in general and dopaminergic neurons in particular.
The contribution of the orbicularis oculi muscle to the determination of lid position, and the putative role of eyelid proprioception in the control of reflex and conditioned eye blinks, were studied in alert behaving cats. Upper lid movements and the electromyographic activity of the orbicularis oculi muscle were recorded during reflexively evoked blinks and during the classical conditioning of the eyelid response. Blinks were evoked by air puffs, flashes and electrical stimulation of the supraorbitary branch of the trigeminal nerve. Eyelid responses were conditioned with a trace classical conditioning paradigm consisting of a short, weak air puff, followed 250 ms later by a long, strong air puff. Orbicularis oculi muscle activation during reflex blinks was independent of lid position and was not modified by the presence of weights acting in the upward or downward directions. Local anesthesia of the supraorbital nerve reduced blinks evoked by air puffs applied to the lower jaw, but did not affect flash-evoked blinks. No relationship was established between initial lid position and the first downward component of conditioned eyelid responses. In contrast, initial lid position was related to the first upward component of the same conditioned response. It is concluded that orbicularis oculi motor units receive no feedback proprioceptive signals from the eyelid, other than those coming from cutaneous receptors, and that lid position is determined by the activity of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle. The lack of sensory information about lid position in facial motoneurons probably has some functional implications on the central control of cognitive and emotional facial expressions.
Previous studies have shown that neurons in addition to those in the medullary respiratory groups are involved in activating phrenic motoneurons during a number of behaviors, including vomiting and reaction to vestibular stimulation. However, the location of premotor inspiratory neurons outside of the main medullary respiratory groups is largely unknown, particularly in emetic species. In the present study, the transneuronal tracer pseudorabies virus was injected into the diaphragm of the ferret, and the locations of retrogradely-labeled motoneurons and transneuronally-labeled pre-motoneurons in the brainstem and cervical and thoracic spinal cord were mapped. Injections of a monosynaptic tracer, cholera toxin, were also made in order to verify the location of motoneurons innervating the diaphragm. Phrenic motoneurons identified with pseudorabies virus and cholera toxin were confined largely to the C5-C7 levels of spinal cord, and often gave rise to prominent polarized dendritic arbors that extended across the midline. At post-inoculation survival times &gt; or = three days, transneuronally-labeled interneurons were located in the cervical and thoracic spinal cord and portions of the brainstem, including the midline pontomedullary reticular formation and the lateral medullary reticular formation. Double-labeling studies revealed that although the infected midline neurons were located in the proximity of serotonergic neurons, only a small number of the virus-containing cells were positive for serotonin. These findings suggest that neurons in the midline of the medulla and pons influence the activity of phrenic motoneurons, perhaps during inspiratory behaviors unique to emetic animals (such as vomiting).
To investigate a physiological role of glutathione in the horizontal cells of carp retina, the gap junctional intercellular communication between horizontal cells was studied using the techniques of intracellular recording of light-induced responses and coupling of the fluorescence dye Lucifer Yellow. Intravitreal injection of 2.5 micromol L-buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, induced a dramatic reduction (20% of control) of retinal glutathione level two days after treatment. The low level of glutathione continued for a further four to five days, and thereafter gradually recovered to about 40% (20 days after injection) and 70% (50 days after injection) of the control level. The spatial properties of the photopic L-type horizontal cell response were examined by enlarging the diameter of the central spot and peripheral annulus over the recording point. In normal retinas, the response amplitude of horizontal cells was monotonically enhanced as the diameter of the spot increased (0.5-4.0 mm) and correspondingly the dye diffusion area was wide, as the injected Lucifer Yellow normally diffused to several neighboring cells. Treatment with L-buthionine sulfoximine significantly altered the spatial properties of horizontal cells by increasing the response amplitude to central spots and slightly decreasing that to peripheral annuli, which were observed by four days after injection. It also restricted intracellular Lucifer Yellow to one or two cells. Accompanying the recovery of the cellular level of glutathione, the spatial properties and dye coupling of horizontal cells were restored to normal. A time lag (two days) of initiation in retinal glutathione depletion and alteration of spatial or dye coupling properties of horizontal cells is discussed, together with reactive oxygen species accumulation.
A subset of familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are linked to missense mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1. Patients with missense mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 develop a paralytic disease indistinguishable from sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis through an unknown toxic gain of function. Nitric oxide reacts with the superoxide anion to form the strong oxidant, peroxynitrite, which participates in neuronal injury in a variety of model systems. Peroxynitrite is an alternate substrate for copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1, causing catalytic nitration of tyrosine residues in other proteins. Mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 may disrupt the active site of the enzyme and permit greater access of peroxynitrite to copper, leading to increased nitration by peroxynitrite of critical cellular targets. To investigate whether neuronal-derived nitric oxide plays a role in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, we examined the effects of three different nitric oxide synthase inhibitors: a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, nitro-L-arginine methyl ester; a relatively selective inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, 7-nitroindazole; and a novel highly selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, AR-R 17,477, in transgenic mice expressing a familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 (Gly--&gt;Ala at position 93; G93A) containing a high transgene copy number and a low transgene copy number. AR-R 17,477, but not nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or 7-nitroindazole, significantly prolonged survival in both the high and low transgene transgenic mice. To determine whether neuronal nitric oxide synthase is involved in the pathogenesis resulting from the familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mutation, we produced mice with the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mutation which lack the neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene. The transgenic mice expressing a familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 on neuronal nitric oxide synthase null background do not live significantly longer than transgenic mice expressing a familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1. Western blot analysis indicates the presence of two neuronal nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactive bands in spinal cord homogenates of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase null mice, and residual neuronal nitric oxide synthase catalytic activity ( &gt; 7%) is detected in the spinal cord of the transgenic mice expressing a familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 on neuronal nitric oxide synthase null background. This amount of residual activity probably does not account for lack of protection afforded by the disrupted neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene in the familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mice. Immunological nitric oxide synthase is not detected in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mutant mice at several different ages, thus excluding immunological nitric oxide synthase as a contributor to the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Levels of neuronal nitric oxide synthase as well as Ca2+-dependent nitric oxide synthase catalytic activity in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mutant mice do not differ from wild type mice. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase levels may be decreased in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase type 1 mutant mice. Together, these results do not support a significant role for neuronal-derived nitric oxide in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis transgenic mice.
GABA, glutamate and aspartate are the predominant amino acid neurotransmitters in the mammalian brain. We have previously reported a developmental sex difference in messenger RNA levels of glutamate decarboxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in GABA synthesis [Davis A. M. et al. (1996) Horm. Behav. 30, 538-552]. Males were found to have significantly higher levels of messenger RNA in many steroid-concentrating regions of the hypothalamus and limbic system on day 1 of life. Therefore, in this study, we have examined levels of amino acid neurotransmitters during early postnatal development in many of the same or related brain areas. We found that levels of all three transmitters change as animals age. While both GABA and aspartate concentrations increase, glutamate levels decrease. In addition, there are sex differences in neurotransmitter levels in several areas examined, including the ventromedial and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus, and the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Sex differences for GABA occur only on postnatal days 1 and 5. However, sex differences in aspartate occur later in development (postnatal day 20). The CA1 region of males has a significantly greater concentration of GABA, glutamate and aspartate than females on postnatal day 1. In addition, treatment of females with testosterone propionate on the day of birth results in increased GABA levels, suggesting that these sex differences may be the result of hormone exposure during development. We hypothesize that these hormonally mediated sex differences in amino acid transmitters early in development contribute to the establishment of sexually dimorphic neuronal architecture in the adult.
Male mice excrete large quantities of major urinary proteins that have been proposed to have an important pheromonal role either alone or by way of their bound ligands. We have found that these major urinary proteins are not only likely to mediate the pregnancy blocking effects of male urine, but that they also convey the strain recognition signal of the male pheromone. Recent molecular biological investigations have characterized two classes of pheromonal receptor in the vomeronasal organ that appear to project separately to anterior and posterior regions of the accessory olfactory bulb. However, it is not known whether these separate pathways handle fundamentally different types of pheromonal information. We have attempted to investigate this question using the expression of the immediate-early gene egr-1 as a marker for activity of neurons in the accessory olfactory bulb of female mice in response to putative pheromonal constituents. Exposure to 2,3 dihydro-exo-brevicomin and 2-sec-butyl-4,5-dihydro-thiazole, the main ligands bound to the major urinary proteins, elicited expression of egr-1 in clusters of presumed mitral neurons at the medial and lateral margins of the posterior accessory olfactory bulb. Whole male urine and a preparation of major urinary proteins that had been stripped of their ligands induced egr-1 expression in mitral cells of the anterior half of the accessory olfactory bulb in addition to the posterior clusters. This would suggest that the anterior and posterior halves of the accessory olfactory bulb are processing different aspects of the male pheromone signal with the anterior region, which responds preferentially to major urinary proteins, being principally concerned with the strain recognition component.
Seizures increase the synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in forebrain areas, suggesting this neurotrophin has biological actions in epileptic tissue. The understanding of these actions requires information on the sites and extent of brain-derived neurotrophic factor production in areas involved in seizures onset and their spread. In this study, we investigated by immunocytochemistry the changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus, entorhinal and perirhinal cortices of rats at increasing times after acute seizures eventually leading to spontaneous convulsions. We also tested the hypothesis that seizure-induced changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor induce later modifications in neuropeptide Y expression by comparing, in each instance, their immunoreactive patterns. As early as 100 min after seizure induction, brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity increased in CA1 pyramidal and granule neurons and in cells of layers II-III of the entorhinal cortex. At later times, immunoreactivity progressively decreased in somata while increasing in fibres in the hippocampus, the subicular complex and in specific layers of the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices. Changes in neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity were superimposed upon and closely followed those of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. One week after seizure induction, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivities were similar to controls in 50% of rats. In rats experiencing spontaneous convulsions, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was strongly enhanced in fibres in the hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus and in the temporal cortex. In the dentate gyrus, changes in immunoreactivity depended on sprouting of mossy fibres as assessed by growth-associated protein-43-immunoreactivity. These modifications were inhibited by repeated anticonvulsant treatment with phenobarbital. The dynamic and temporally-linked alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neuropeptide Y in brain regions critically involved in epileptogenesis suggest a functional link between these two substances in the regulation of network excitability.
Thymosin beta4 is a major actin-sequestering peptide widely distributed in mammalian tissues, including the nervous system. In the present study, we analyse the expression of thymosin beta4 in normal and kainate-treated rat forebrain. In untreated animals, thymosin beta4 messenger RNA is mainly expressed in neurons of the hippocampal formation, neocortex and amygdaloid complex, as well as in oligodendrocytes. Other high-expressing areas are the tanycytic ependyma of the infundibulum, the substantia nigra pars compacta, and the supraoptic and premammillary nuclei. In rats treated with kainate, an excitotoxin that induces synaptic activation in the CA1-CA3 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, the levels of thymosin beta4 were clearly increased in the hippocampus and neocortex during the first 2-3 h after injection. In the long term, kainate causes neuronal degeneration in the CA1-CA3 regions of the hippocampus and functionally related structures, provoking a depletion of thymosin beta4 messenger RNA in these areas; however, the levels of this transcript are restored two weeks after kainate injection. Moreover, we have found that, in these degenerating zones, gliosis is accompanied by an elevation of the levels of thymosin beta4 messenger RNA, particularly in the CA1-CA3 region of the hippocampus, the lateral geniculate nucleus and the mammillothalamic tract. The present results demonstrate the existence of relatively high levels of thymosin beta4 messenger RNA in several areas of the rat forebrain, indicating that this peptide plays an important role in the regulation of actin polymerization in these regions of the brain. Moreover, the elevation of this messenger RNA after kainate treatment suggests a function of thymosin beta4 in the production and remodelling of neuronal processes. Finally, our findings provide evidence for a participation of this actin-sequestering molecule in the reactivity of certain types of glial cell that follows kainate lesions.
SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of mol. wt 25,000) is an essential component for neurotransmitter release, and its expression has been related to the plastic responses that follow CNS injury. In the present study, transient induction of SNAP-25 in selected brain areas is shown by immunohistochemistry at short times after a single intraperitoneal injection of kainate at convulsant doses. Six hours after kainate injection, SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was noticed in the perikarya of certain neurons of the perirhinal and lateral cortices, polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus, CA3 pyramidal area of the hippocampus, and thalamus. In the same areas, a strong increase in SNAP-25 immunorectivity was detected at 12 and 24 h after kainate injection in cell bodies and fibers. Four days after kainate administration, the immunostaining pattern was similar to that observed in control animals. Intraperitoneal injection of cycloheximide blocked the expression of SNAP-25, thus suggesting de novo SNAP-25 protein synthesis following kainate administration. Kainate-dependent induction of SNAP-25a messenger RNA synthesis was observed by in situ hybridization in the mentioned brain areas. Heat shock protein of mol. wt 72,000 (HSP70/72) is a chaperone whose expression is induced early under stress conditions. Its expression and distribution were compared to that of SNAP-25 after the excitotoxic insult. Brain areas overexpressing SNAP-25 and HSP70/72 overlapped. In addition, partial co-localization of both antigens was observed by double-labeling immunohistochemistry. These results provide evidence of an involvement of SNAP-25 in the reactive response that follows kainate administration, and support the role of this protein in the plastic events that take place after kainate excitotoxicity.
The present study was undertaken to examine the role of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in the regulation of voiding reflexes induced by perineal stimulation in the neonatal rat. Four-, six- and 10-day-old awake rats were used in the experiments and perineal stimulation was applied using the tip of a 1-ml syringe to evoke voiding. Voided volume and residual volume were measured. In 10-day-old rats, LY215490 (3-10 mg/kg, i.p.), a competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor antagonist, significantly inhibited reflex voiding, increasing the residual volume 34-53-fold. A 3 mg/kg dose decreased the urine release by 55%, whereas 10 mg/kg totally suppressed the voiding reflex induced by the perineal stimulation. LY215490 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) produced similar effects in four- and six-day-old rats. Dizocilpine (1-3 mg/kg, i.p.), a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, also significantly decreased the urine release (62-82%) and increased residual volume (180-230-fold). Combined administration of LY215490 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and dizocilpine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) to 10-day-old rats, in doses that individually had no effect on perineal stimulation-evoked voiding, depressed voided volume by 65%. These results indicate that, in neonatal rats, glutamatergic transmission in the spinal cord has an essential role in reflex micturition induced by perineal stimulation, and that facilitatory interactions between alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamatergic mechanisms are important for voiding, as noted previously in adult rats.
We have used electrophysiological, pharmacological and immunological techniques to determine which classes of metabotropic glutamate receptors exist on cone horizontal cells in the catfish retina. Patch-clamp recordings in acutely dissociated cone horizontal cells provide evidence that group I and III metabotropic glutamate receptors exist, and are linked to modulation of a voltage-gated calcium current. Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists did not affect the calcium current. Immunocytochemical techniques were used to study the localization of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes found in the catfish retina. Antibodies raised against group I (metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, metabotropic glutamate receptor 5), group II (metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3) and group III (metabotropic glutamate receptor 6) metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes were used to label acutely dissociated horizontal, bipolar and Mller cells. Results from immunostaining provide evidence that cone horizontal cells express group I (metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, metabotropic glutamate receptor 5) and group III (metabotropic glutamate receptor 6), but not group II (metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3) receptor subtypes, consistent with our electrophysiological results. Cone horizontal cells exposed to anti-metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, 5 or 6 antibodies all demonstrated diffuse overall staining, with patches of dark immunostaining found on both dendritic processes and cell somata. In catfish bipolar cells, all four of the anti-metabotropic glutamate receptor antibodies stained the processes and cell bodies of bipolar cells homogeneously. There was no evidence for a group of bipolar cells that did not stain with the antimetabotropic glutamate receptor antibodies, although the densest immunostaining occurred when bipolar cells were incubated with the anti-metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 antibody. Mller cells did not show immunostaining against any anti-metabotropic glutamate receptor antibody. Our non-immune controls confirmed that immunostaining was specific for the antigen, and immunoblots were performed to demonstrate the specificity of the antibodies in catfish retina. These results support the hypothesis that group I and III metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes are found on catfish horizontal cells, and group I, II and III metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes are expressed on catfish bipolar cells. The metabotropic glutamate receptors on catfish cone horizontal cells act to modulate the voltage-gated sustained calcium current found on these cells.
The properties of single motor units from hind limb muscles and the changes in situations of hyperalgesia are not known in detail. We have therefore characterized the properties of single motor units in normal Wistar male rats and in rats with carrageenan-induced inflammation, under alpha-chloralose anaesthesia. Units were studied from three different muscles: peroneus longus, tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus. The properties of single motor units were not homogeneous in the three muscles studied in normal animals, showing different sizes of cutaneous receptive fields, thresholds for natural and electrical stimulation, and encoding of responses at different intensities of stimulation. Intraplantar injections of carrageenan induced a significant inflammation of the paw and a change in spontaneous behaviour observed in open field experiments. After inflammation, the responses to cutaneous stimulation of the single motor units became more homogeneous. The threshold for mechanical stimulation was lower for peroneus longus and tibialis anterior but not for extensor digitorum longus units when compared to normal animals. The receptive fields were larger when mapped with a 500 mN von Frey hair but not when mapped using a threshold intensity hair. The threshold for thermal stimulation was lower after inflammation than in normal conditions in all cases, whereas the threshold for electrical stimulation was lower in tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus units. An enhancement of responses related to the increase of stimulus intensity was seen in normal animals in all muscles for mechanical and electrical stimuli (but not for thermal). After inflammation, a relationship between firing rate and intensity of stimulation was seen in all cases studied. The firing of single motor units showed over 50% adaptation in the normal condition and over 75% after inflammation when stimulated for 10 s at mechanical threshold intensity. After inflammation, the rate of adaptation was significantly lower when suprathreshold intensity was used for mechanical stimulation. No differences were seen in the adaptation of units to thermal stimulation. We conclude that, in situations of hyperalgesia due to inflammation, the threshold, encoding of stimulus intensity and adaptation of single motor units from different muscles changed, resulting in a narrower range of responses and a more homogeneous population of units.
The responses of 32 spinomesencephalic tract cells to intradermal capsaicin were examined in anesthetized monkeys. Wide dynamic range (n = 20) and nociceptive specific (n = 6) cells showed two types of excitatory responses to intradermal injection of capsaicin. The first excitatory response shown by the majority of wide dynamic range (n = 13) and nociceptive specific (n = 4) cells was consistent with their sensitization by capsaicin. The cells showed an acute and prolonged increase in ongoing activity with capsaicin injection. Responses to mechanical stimuli were substantially increased after capsaicin and an expansion of receptive field was often observed. The responses of the same cells to excitatory amino acid agonists applied locally by iontophoresis also increased. All cells showing sensitization were antidromically activated from periaqueductal gray regions dorsal to the sulcus limitans. Electrical stimulation at these sites did not affect the ongoing or evoked discharges of these cells. The second excitatory response of wide dynamic range (n = 5) and nociceptive specific (n = 1) cells was a novel pattern not consistent with sensitization. These cells nevertheless showed an acute and prolonged increase in background activity after capsaicin injection. Yet, there was no change or a decrease in responses to cutaneous stimuli, no evidence for change in receptive field size and no increase in responses to locally released excitatory amino acids. These cells projected to regions in the periaqueductal gray ventral to the sulcus limitans. Electrical stimulation at these sites produced a decrease in spontaneous activity of the same cell. Low threshold mesencephalic-projecting neurons (n = 6) showed a single inhibitory pattern (n = 4) of responses to capsaicin. The injection produced an acute decrease in spontaneous activity that was sustained for at least 30 min after injection. The responses to cutaneous stimuli and to excitatory amino acids were also substantially reduced. Low threshold cells were found that projected to both dorsal-lateral and ventral-lateral regions of the periaqueductal gray. In summary, three patterns of responses shown by primate spinomesencephalic tract cells to intradermal capsaicin appear dependent on the functional regions of the periaqueductal gray to which they project. These results suggest that inputs of spinomesencephalic tract neurons to the periaqueductal gray may evoke important components of the systemic response to the neurogenic hyperalgesia produced by intradermal capsaicin.
Interest in the fundamental mechanisms underlying headache, particularly the pathophysiology of migraine and cluster headache, has lead to the study of the physiology and pharmacology of the trigeminovascular system and its central ramifications. Cats were anaesthetized (60 mg/kg alpha-chloralose, i.p., along with halothane for all surgical procedures) and prepared for physiological monitoring. The animals were placed in a stereotaxic frame and ventilated. A midline craniotomy and C2 laminectomy were performed for access to the superior sagittal sinus and C2 dorsal horn, respectively. The sinus was isolated from the underlying cortex and stimulated electrically after the animals had been paralysed with gallamine (6 mg/kg, i.v.). Units linked to stimulation were recorded with a tungsten-in-glass microelectrode placed in the most caudal part of the trigeminal nucleus, the trigeminocervical complex. Signals from the neurons were amplified, filtered and passed to a microcomputer, where post-stimulus histograms were constructed on-line to analyse the responses to stimulation. Units responded to sagittal sinus stimulation with a typical latency of 8-10 ms. All units studied had a probability of firing of 0.6 or greater. Intravenous injection of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (4 mg/kg, i.v.), resulted in a substantial and prolonged blockade of firing of units in the trigeminocervical complex. Similarly, administration of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory amino acid receptor blocker, GYKI 52466, lead to a dose-dependent inhibition of trigeminovascular-evoked responses in the trigeminocervical complex. These data demonstrate the participation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate- and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated mechanisms in transmission within the trigeminocervical complex, and suggest a clear preclinical role of glutamatergic mechanisms in primary headache syndromes, such as migraine and cluster headache.
In the visual cortex, brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression is modulated through glutamate receptors, including the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor. It has been proposed that the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subunit composition itself might be regulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Here, we investigated the co-expression of the neurotrophin-4/brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor TrkB with the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subunits NR1-C1, NR2A and NR2B, on postnatal days 10 and 22 and in the adult rat primary visual cortex. At both postnatal days 10 and 22, TrkB is co-expressed in all cortical layers with the studied N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subunits. In the adult, in layers IV-V, co-expression is restricted to a subpopulation of neurons, while in layers II-III, VI nearly all neurons co-express TrkB with NR1-C1, NR2A and NR2B. We conclude that in layers IV-V, the co-expression of TrkB with subunits NR2B and NR2A is developmentally regulated.
Synapse replacement after brain injury has been widely documented by anatomical studies in various parts of both the developing and adult nervous system. However, the molecular events that define the specificity of the empirically derived rules of reactive synaptogenesis in different regions of the adult brain remain unclear. In this study we examined the differential regulation of the lesion-induced response of the two growth-associated proteins, superior cervical ganglia-10 and growth-associated protein-43, after unilateral cortex ablation, and determined a hierarchical order for the lesion response from remaining afferent projection neurons originating from the contralateral cortex, ipsilateral thalamus and substantia nigra. We report that in response to unilateral cortex ablation both messenger RNA, by northern blot, and protein, by western blot, for superior cervical ganglia-10 but not growth-associated protein-43 was increased in the homologous area of the contralateral cortex but not the ipsilateral thalamus or substantia nigra. In addition, the specificity of the superior cervical ganglia-10 response, assessed by combined in situ hybridization and retrograde FluoroGold labeling of striatal afferent neurons, found that superior cervical ganglia-10 messenger RNA was increased prominently in layer V pyramidal neurons of the contralateral corticostriatal pathway but was unchanged in afferent projection neurons from the thalamus and substantia nigra. Furthermore, the increase in both superior cervical ganglia-10 messenger RNA and protein seen at three days postlesion in contralateral corticostriatal neurons coincides in time with the initiation of neurite outgrowth in the deafferented striatum by contralateral corticostriatal axons described in our previous ultrastructural study. However, if cortical input to the striatum was removed bilaterally the lesion-induced response for superior cervical ganglia-10 messenger RNA shifted secondarily to thalamostriatal neurons in the ipsilateral thalamus. These data provide evidence that superior cervical ganglia-10 and growth-associated protein-43 are differentially regulated in neurons of the contralateral corticostriatal pathway in response to unilateral cortex ablation and suggests that superior cervical ganglia-10 plays a role in the regulation of neurite outgrowth in the adult striatum after brain injury. However, the specific role that superior cervical ganglia-10 may play in reactive synaptogenesis remains unclear. In addition, our data suggest that a hierarchical order exists for the reinnervation of deafferented striatal neurons after unilateral cortex ablation with preference given to homologous axons from the contralateral cortex.
Cultured cortical neurons exposed for 24 h to low concentrations of the Ca2+ ionophores, ionomycin (250 nM) or A-23187 (100 nM), underwent apoptosis, accompanied by early degeneration of neurites, cell body shrinkage, chromatin condensation and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation. This death could be blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors, as well as by the growth factors brain-derived neurotrophic factor or insulin-like growth factor I. If the ionomycin concentration was increased to 1-3 microM, then neurons underwent necrosis, accompanied by early cell body swelling without DNA laddering, or sensitivity to cycloheximide or growth factors. Calcium imaging with Fura-2 suggested a possible basis for the differential effects of low and high concentrations of ionomycin. At low concentrations, ionomycin induced greater increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration in neurites than in neuronal cell bodies, whereas at high concentrations, ionomycin produced large increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration in both neurites and cell bodies. We hypothesize that the ability of low concentrations of Ca2+ ionophores to raise intracellular Ca2+ concentration preferentially in neurites caused early neurite degeneration, leading to loss of growth factor availability to the cell body and consequent apoptosis, whereas high concentrations of ionophores produced global cellular Ca2+ overload and consequent necrosis.
In the present study the time-course of DNA fragmentation following insulin-induced hypoglycemia was examined. In situ localization of DNA breaks were studied by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin-deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labelling method, and the temporal profile of DNA-fragmentation by agarose gel electrophoresis. Cell nuclei displayed terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labelling within 3 h of recovery following 30 min of a hypoglycemic insult, and DNA from the hippocampus displayed oligonucleosomal fragmentation. Ultrastructural examination of the dentate granule cells showed mitochondrial swelling during the acute phase of the hypoglycemic insult, which preceded the DNA fragmentation seen in the recovery phase. Cyclosporin A but not tacrolimus, prevented mitochondrial swelling and subsequent DNA fragmentation. We conclude that during severe energy deprivation following hypoglycemia, mitochondrial swelling occurs due to mitochondrial permeability transition and that factors are released, which upon recovery can activate processes leading to DNA fragmentation and cell death.
The actions of serotonin were investigated on motoneurons isolated from embryonic day 14 rat spinal cord and enriched by metrizamide density gradient centrifugation. Trophic support was provided by a spinal cord glial monolayer, ciliary neurotrophic factor and heat-inactivated serum. Cultures were maintained for 17-83 days and investigated using whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Serotonin evoked slow depolarizations (6.2+/-0.7 or 9.3+/-1.3 mV in the presence of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and strychnine, EC50 8.2 nM), which were reversibly blocked by 0.1 microM ketanserin. Serotonin generated synaptic potentials in motoneurons, lowered the threshold for repetitive firing and changed the slope of the current intensity-firing frequency relationship. The inward current evoked by serotonin (-147+/-15.2 pA) was ascribed to a complex ionic mechanism, which varied amongst neurons in the sampled population. It was due to closure of barium-sensitive potassium channels, effects on Ih and increase in a separate mixed cation current which comprised both transient voltage-sensitive and sustained components. We conclude that serotonergic responses develop in motoneurons cultured under these conditions in the absence of serotonergic input, sensory neurons or many interneurons.
Using multiple-site optical recording of transmembrane potential changes, we have found a new type of calcium-dependent action potential expressed transiently in the embryonic rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. Slice preparations with vagus nerve fibers attached were dissected from 12- to 16-day-old embryonic (E12-E16) rat brainstems, and they were stained with a voltage-sensitive merocyanine-rhodanine dye (NK2761). Electrical activities in response to vagal stimuli were optically recorded simultaneously from many sites using 1020- or 128-element photodiode array measuring systems. In brainstem preparations, two types of action potential-related optical signals were identified. One was detected from the dorsolateral region, and was related to sensory nerve activity (Type I). The other was detected from the dorsomedial region, and corresponded to the action potential in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (Type II). We found a difference in the ionic basis of the Type I vs Type II signals. The Type I signal was not altered in Ca2+-free bathing solution and was eliminated by tetrodotoxin, suggesting that the sensory nerve activity is mediated by Na+ currents. The Type II signal at early developmental stages (E12-E13, and some preparations in E14) was also independent of Ca2+. However, the Type II signal in later developmental stages (E15-E16, and some preparations in E14) did depend upon Ca2+: it was eliminated in Ca2+-free Ringer's solution, blocked by Cd2+, Ni2+ or Mn2+, and elicited in Sr2+-containing Ringer's solution, where CaCl2 was replaced with SrCl2. These results suggest that the cation which dominates the motoneuron action potential changes from Na+ to Ca2+ during development, and this change occurs around E14. With pharmacological analysis using Ca2+ channel blockers, we show that the Ca2+ channel mediating the motoneuron action potential is distinct from T-, L-, N-, P- or Q-type channels. Because the vagal action potential in adult mammals is mainly mediated by Na+, we suggest that a Ca2+ action potential mediated by a new type of Ca2+ channel is expressed transiently in the rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve at particular stages of development.
Ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists, kainate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) and domoate, all facilitated 4-aminopyridine-evoked glutamate release from rat cerebrocortical nerve terminals (synaptosomes). The non-selective, non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione blocked kainate facilitation of glutamate release. AMPA responses were non-desensitizing and insensitive to the AMPA receptor desensitization inhibitor, cyclothiazide. The AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI 52466 failed to block ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated facilitation, but the ionotropic glutamate receptor 6 kainate receptor subunit antagonist NS-102 was a potent blocker. Furthermore, kainate and AMPA responses were not additive. Taken together, our results indicate that, in the cerebral cortex, both kainate and AMPA may be facilitating glutamate release through the activation of a high-affinity kainate receptor containing glutamate receptor 6 kainate subunits. Kainate enhanced 4-aminopyridine-evoked depolarization of the synaptosomal plasma membrane potential, indicating that a ligand-gated ion channel that conducts cations may underlie the mechanism by which kainate mediates facilitation of glutamate release. While the facilitatory effect of kainate on glutamate release is consistent with a classical ionotropic action of ionotropic glutamate receptors, our observation that kainate inhibits GABA release suggests that alternative presynaptic mechanisms may operate in cerebrocortical nerve terminals to mediate the ionotropic glutamate receptor modulation of glutamate and GABA release. We conclude that high-affinity kainate-type glutamate autoreceptors represent a positive feed-forward system for potentiating the release of glutamate from cerebrocortical nerve terminals.
[35S]Guanosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate autoradiography is a novel technique to detect receptor-dependent activation of G-proteins in brain tissue sections. While an increasing number of reports using this approach are beginning to appear, little effort has been directed to the identification of factors responsible for the heterogeneously distributed [35S]guanosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate signal in basal conditions. The present study demonstrates that endogenously formed adenosine generates a widespread and prominent adenosine A1 receptor-dependent signal in basal conditions using this technique. Treatment of rat brain tissue sections with the A1-selective antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine dose-dependently (EC50 &lt; 10 nM) suppressed basal [35S]guanosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate binding in a region-specific manner, an effect fully mimicked by the adenosine-depleting enzyme adenosine deaminase, and less so by the A1 antagonist cirsimarin and by caffeine. That adenosine was continuously formed during the incubation is supported by the constant requirements of adenosine deaminase in order to suppress basal radioligand binding and further by the fact that low micromolar concentrations of adenine nucleotides evoked only adenosine-mimicking and fully 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine-sensitive binding responses. In the presence of adenosine deaminase, all responses to adenine nucleotides were abolished, indicating that prior conversion to adenosine was required. Upon stimulation, this technique selectively detected A1 receptor-activated G-proteins, as the non-selective agonists adenosine and 2-chloroadenosine and the A1-selective agonist N6-p-sulfophenyladenosine all evoked only 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine-sensitive responses in identical gray matter areas, and also in several white matter areas such as the corpus callosum, anterior commissure, optic tract and cerebellar white matter. Dose-response studies revealed region-specific differences in the magnitude of A1 receptor-stimulated G-protein activation, with the highest response (nine-fold over basal) detectable in the hippocampus. No response to the A2A-selective agonist 2-[(2-aminoethylamino)carbonylethylphenylethylamino]-5'-N-et hylcarboxamidoadenosine or the A3-selective agonist 2-chloro-N6-(3-iodobenzyl)-adenosine-5'-N-methyluronamide was detected in any region. These data reveal that a significant amount of noise inherent to [35S]guanosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate autoradiography can be eliminated by removal of the adenosine signal, a step likely facilitating detection of responses to other receptors. Furthermore, the data establish [35S]guanosine 5-(gamma-thio)triphosphate autoradiography as a novel and selective approach to directly assess A1 receptor-G-protein coupling in anatomically defined regions of the central nervous system.
It is well known that proteins encoded by the Bcl-2 gene family play a major role in the regulation of apoptosis. We have demonstrated previously that neuronal apoptosis can be induced in the hippocampus and striatum after global ischemia. Clenbuterol, a beta2-adrenoceptor agonist, showed considerable activity against neuronal apoptosis. In the present study, we attempted to find out whether the members of the Bcl-2 family are induced after ischemia, and whether expression of these genes could be altered by clenbuterol. Transient forebrain ischemia was performed in male Wistar rats by clamping both common carotid arteries and reducing the blood pressure to 40 mmHg for 10 min. Clenbuterol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle were injected 3 h before onset of ischemia or in non-ischemic rats. The hippocampus and striatum were taken from non-ischemic rats 3, 6 and 24 h after injection of clenbuterol, as well as from drug-treated and untreated rats 6 and 24 h after ischemia. Eighty micrograms/lane total protein were loaded on a 15% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel for western blotting. Bcl-2, Bax and Bcl-xl proteins were detectable in the non-ischemic hippocampus and the striatum. Clenbuterol up-regulated the expression of Bcl-2 protein at 3, 6 and 24 h after administration. Enhanced Bcl-xl signals were found in the non-ischemic striatum 3, 6 and 24 h after clenbuterol treatment, but no change of Bcl-xl expression by clenbuterol was seen in the non-ischemic hippocampus. Bax expression was not altered by clenbuterol in the non-ischemic hippocampus and striatum. Bcl-2 was up-regulated in both detected regions at 24 h after ischemia, while the increase in Bax and Bcl-xl protein expression had appeared already at 6 h and also 24 h after ischemia. Clenbuterol further increased the expression of Bcl-2 at 6 and 24 h after ischemia. In contrast, Bax protein level was down-regulated by clenbuterol at 6 and 24 h after ischemia. Clenbuterol also increased Bcl-xl level in the ischemic striatum. The results suggest that global ischemia induces proto-oncogenes which are associated with apoptosis. Clenbuterol not only increased Bcl-2 expression in the non-ischemic hippocampus and striatum, but also up-regulated Bcl-2 and down-regulated Bax expression in the ischemic hippocampus and striatum. The increase in the ratio of Bcl-2 and Bax may contribute to the anti-apoptotic effect of clenbuterol. The present study indicates that pharmacological modulation of Bcl-2 family member expression could become a new strategy to interfere with neuronal damage.
A narrow time window centered around the terminal mitosis of their precursors has been recognized to be critical for the determination and/or realization of the developmental fate of a variety of neuronal phenotypes. In contrast, individual cell lineages in the cerebellum get separated early during embryonic development, and at least precursors for granule neurons have been found to be specified while still proliferating. We utilized primary dissociated cultures to address the issue of whether the faithful development of cerebellar granule cells and basket/stellate cells is dependent on their mitotic history and on the completion of a fixed number of cell cycles. Neuroblasts derived from embryonic cerebellar anlagen and transferred into primary dissociated cultures stopped proliferating as assessed by a loss of expression of the cell proliferation marker, Ki-67, and a failure to incorporate 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. Although these cells had been forced to leave the proliferating cell pool prematurely, they developed into granule neurons or basket/stellate cells as judged by their distinct pattern of expression of specific molecular markers and the acquisition of a typical morphology. This included the cell intrinsic capacity of granule neurons to position their afferent synapses specifically to their dendrites. Thus, the competence of cerebellar interneurons to differentiate appropriately is independent of the precise timing of their final mitosis; however, their sensitivity towards extrinsic developmental signals appears to vary in a cell cycle-dependent manner, as suggested by the failure to survive of those cells that were in S-phase at the time of cultivation.
Activity was recorded from 554 cerebellar units in eleven conscious cats to determine if responses to 70 dB clicks differed in units with simple and complex spike discharges. Effects of region of recording and behavioral state (with click used as a conditioned stimulus for conditioning) were also assessed. Cells with only simple spikes were distinguished from cells that had the following types of complex spike events: Type I-simple or initial spike followed &gt; 1 ms by multiple spikes with baseline displacement (classical complex spikes), Type II--followed &lt; or = 1 ms by spikes with or without baseline displacement (spikes in the absolute refractory period should arise from a separate site of initiation), and Type III-followed by spikes and displacement too close to the baseline noise to distinguish as Type I or II. Among the groups mean baseline activity was greatest in cells with Type I complex spikes, least in cells with Type III complex spikes, and greater in Type II cells than simple cells. Significant increases in activity within 32 ms of presenting clicks were found in the groups of Type II cells and simple cells. These appear to be the main auditory responsive cells of the cerebellar regions studied. Activity of Type II cells best reflected the temporal properties of the click; responses of simple cells had slower onsets (except in flocculus) and longer durations. Responses to click in Type II and simple cells differed in recordings from: (i) lateral ansiform lobe (lateral crus I and portions of crus II), (ii) medial ansiform lobe (medial crus I), and (iii) flocculus. The largest mean responses above baseline in the first 32 ms after click were found in Type II cells of the lateral ansiform lobe with onsets of 8-16 ms. Magnitudes of response differed before and after conditioning and backward conditioning. In the lateral ansiform lobe, the &lt; 32 ms response to click was greater in Type II than simple cells in each state, but showed a greater increase above baseline after backward conditioning when conditioned responses were not produced than after conditioning. The onset of increased activity to click conditioned stimuli in Type II cells of the lateral ansiform region preceded the onset of the blink conditioned response after conditioning, consisted almost entirely of simple spikes, and reflected an increase in magnitude of response as opposed to an increased number of responsive units. After conditioning, an increased number of units in the flocculus responded to click conditioned stimuli in the 16-24 ms post stimulus period. Of the 16 cells with an onset of increased activity at this time, eight showed only simple spike activity. Seven of the remaining eight cells (all Type II) showed a significant increase in conditioned stimulus-evoked complex spiking above the low (usually &lt; 1/s) baseline level of complex spike discharges. The findings support the conclusions that cerebellar units can respond rapidly enough to acoustic stimuli to play a role in auditory as well as motor processing and that the responses to 70 dB clicks differ among cells with simple and complex spike discharges. The differences are influenced substantially by the region of cerebellar recording and the behavioral state. The findings in cells of the flocculus offer the first evidence that complex as well as simple spike activity can contribute to an increased probability of discharge to click as a conditioned stimulus after conditioning.
The epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E gene is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. However, the mechanism by which the E4 isoform of apolipoprotein E increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease is poorly understood. To determine whether the isoform-specific effects of apolipoprotein E may be mediated via clearance of bound beta-amyloid, we examined the uptake of beta-amyloid 1-40 into Chinese hamster ovary cells in the presence or absence of the apolipoprotein E isoforms E2, E3 and E4. Apolipoprotein E2 and E3 treatments were associated with higher association of beta-amyloid with cells as compared to treatment with E4. Heparin blocked the association of beta-amyloid with cells, as did an antibody to one of the apolipoprotein E receptors (the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein). Thus, the apolipoproteins E2 and E3, but not E4, may play important roles in the clearance of beta-amyloid from the extracellular space via the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein.
Aged beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice were used to investigate the relationship between beta-amyloid precursor protein, hippocampal neuron and synaptic bouton number, and cognitive function. Learning and memory performance of aged beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice and age-matched controls were assessed in the Morris water maze. Beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice demonstrated impaired task acquisition as measured by significantly longer swim path lengths, a higher percentage of failed trials, and more frequent thigmotaxis behavior than controls. In a subsequent probe trial, beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice spent significantly less time in the old goal quadrant, and made fewer crossings over the old platform location than did controls. No differences in motor or visual skills were observed which could account for the performance differences. In light of these findings and previous evidence for a role of beta-amyloid precursor protein in neuronal maintenance and synaptogenesis, we pursued the hypothesis that the learning impairment of beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice may be a reflection of differences in neuron or synaptophysin-positive presynaptic bouton number. Thus, unbiased stereological analysis was used to estimate neuron and synaptic bouton number in dentate gyrus and hippocampal CA1 of the behaviorally characterized mice. No difference in neuron or synaptophysin-positive presynaptic bouton number was found between the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice and age-matched controls. Our results suggest that the learning impairment of beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice is not mediated by a loss of hippocampal neurons or synaptic boutons.
We investigated the electrophysiology of morphologically identified human granule cells with conventional current-clamp recordings. Slices were prepared from 14 human epileptic sclerotic hippocampi. Granule cells appeared to have a diverse electrophysiology. Each cell was distinguished by the shape of the afterhyperpolarization following single action potentials. Two types could be discerned: type I afterhyperpolarizations were monophasic and brief (typically 10-40 ms), whilst type II afterhyperpolarizations were biphasic and long (typically 50-100 ms). The two types also differed in their repetitive firing behaviour and action potential morphology: type I cells had significantly weaker spike frequency adaptation, lower action potential amplitude and smaller action potential upstroke/downstroke ratio. Thus, the firing pattern of type I cells resembled that of rodent dentate interneurons. In contrast, the corresponding parameters of type II cells were comparable to rodent dentate granule cells. Despite the distinct firing patterns, membrane properties were not different. The two types of cells also differed in their synaptic responses to stimulation of the perforant path. At strong suprathreshold stimulation intensity, type I cells always generated multiple action potentials, whereas type II cells usually spiked once only. Slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were not detected in type I neurons, but were easily identified in type II neurons. Extracellular recordings of perforant path-evoked field potentials in the cell layer confirmed that the majority of granule cells showed multiple discharges even when we recorded simultaneously from a type II cell that generated one action potential only. The morphology of both types of cells was characteristic of what has been described for primate dentate granule cells. Based on comparisons with previous studies on rodent and human granule cells, we tentatively hypothesize that: (i) the majority of granule cells from sclerotic hippocampus display an hyperexcitable epileptogenic electrophysiology; (ii) there is a subset of granule cells whose electrophysiology is preserved and is more comparable to granule cells from non-epileptic hippocampus.
To understand the effect of a chronic lack of endogenous glucocorticoids on glucocorticoid receptor levels, the changes of glucocorticoid receptor content in the rat forebrain five months after adrenalectomy were investigated. In the long-term adrenalectomized rats that showed a hormone deficiency and loss of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the forebrain, an intraperitoneal injection of corticosterone was used to elevate the serum hormone levels and recover glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the forebrain. One hour later, when the blood corticosterone returned to the normal level, the recovery of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the forebrain was examined by immunohistochemistry. Since the complete restoration of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity was shown to depend on the presence of normal levels of both serum hormone and intracellular glucocorticoid receptors, the weak reappearance of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in any forebrain area of the long-term adrenalectomized rats that had normal serum corticosterone might reflect the low intracellular glucocorticoid receptor levels there. Our results revealed a weak reappearance of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in some forebrain areas of the long-term adrenalectomized rats after corticosterone treatment; the hippocampal granule cell layer and cerebral cortex in particular showed very weak recovery of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity. Conversely, neurons in the CA1/CA2 subfields of the hippocampal pyramidal cell layer, immediately adjacent to the granule cell layer on the same brain section, exhibited a strong reappearance of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity, to near normal levels. These results suggest that, five months after adrenalectomy, the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor content decreased in the rat granule cell layer and cerebral cortex. Therefore, the long-term lack of endogenous glucocorticoids after adrenalectomy might down-regulate but not up-regulate the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor level, and the presence of glucocorticoids is important for the continued synthesis of glucocorticoid receptors.
The effect of the neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate on inhibitory synaptic transmission was studied in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus using an in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. Synaptic responses elicited by stimulation of Schaffer collateral fibers were recorded extracellularly as population spikes in the somatic region and as synaptic field potentials in the dendritic region. Bath application of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (10 microM) enhanced the synaptically evoked somatic population spike with no effect on the dendritic synaptic potential. Isolation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor-mediated component of the synaptic response by addition of antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABA receptors to the perfusion saline demonstrated that dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate had no effect on this component of the dendritic synaptic potential. In contrast, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate antagonized GABA receptor-mediated inhibitory effects in the somatic region, resulting in an augmentation of the somatic population spike amplitude. Paired-pulse facilitation was unaltered by dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, thus arguing against possible presynaptic sites of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate's actions. These results indicate that dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate can alter synaptic transmission in the hippocampus through selective postsynaptic actions on inhibitory synaptic transmission. A synaptic effect of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate is consistent with a neuromodulatory role for this neurosteroid in the central nervous system, and may contribute to the reported effects of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate on cognitive processes such as learning and memory.
Maintenance of long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses is associated with an increase in glutamate release, which we have suggested relies on an interaction between arachidonic acid and the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD). Evidence suggests that this interaction is dependent on stimulation of tyrosine kinase, which phosphorylates and activates phospholipase Cgamma. In this study, we demonstrate that arachidonic acid and ACPD stimulate tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein of about 40,000 mol. wt and further analysis, using a specific antibody, suggested that this may be extracellular signal-regulated kinase, one member of the family of mitogen-activated protein kinases. Activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinase was increased by arachidonic acid and ACPD in vitro, but it was also increased by induction of long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses. A role for extracellular signal-regulated kinase in long-term potentiation was supported by the observation that expression of long-term potentiation, as well as the associated increases in endogenous glutamate release and extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, were inhibited by pretreatment with the mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor, PD98059, while PD98059 pretreatment inhibited the interaction between arachidonic acid and ACPD on glutamate release. An age-related decrease in extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity was observed in the dentate gyrus, and there was no evidence of increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity or endogenous glutamate release in tissue prepared from aged rats in which long-term potentiation was compromised. The evidence is consistent with the view that increased activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase plays a role in long-term potentiation, and that activation of this kinase relies on the interaction between arachidonic acid and ACPD.
Long-term potentiation, a persistent increase in synaptic efficacy, may require a retrograde signal originating in the postsynaptic cell that induces an increase in presynaptic neurotransmitter release. We have constructed a mouse homozygous for a targeted null mutation in the endothelial isoform of nitric oxide synthase and report that long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of these mice is entirely absent under weak stimulation conditions. Application of a membrane-permeant guanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate analogue during tetanus fails to compensate for this deficit, suggesting that nitric oxide produced by endothelial nitric oxide synthase may affect long-term potentiation through a cascade that does not include guanylyl cyclase. We also report that strong tetanic stimulation can induce robust long-term potentiation in these mice which is not blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase. Furthermore, mice lacking endothelial nitric oxide synthase show no shift in the frequency-response curve for the induction of long-term potentiation. Basal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation and the electrical properties of CA1 cells in these mice were similar to controls. These results support a selective role for endothelial nitric oxide synthase in long-term potentiation, but also demonstrate that nitric oxide synthase is not involved in this process under all conditions.
We performed fast Fourier transformation power spectral analysis of the electrocorticogram in human medial temporal lobe during wakeful rest in six epileptic subjects. Compared with the electrocorticogram wave in the basal temporal lobe, which showed monotonic decline of spectral power across the frequency axis, the electrocorticogram wave in the parahippocampal gyrus was enhanced (or did not decline) in the gamma frequency range (30-150 Hz) in all subjects. Although it has been suggested that electrical oscillations of the hippocampus have functional roles in higher brain functions, namely learning and memory, the knowledge of hippocampal oscillations is largely limited to animal studies. The present results demonstrate that fast frequency oscillation is also present in the human medial temporal lobe, which has been reported in animal hippocampi. They also demonstrate the importance of recording very fast field potentials in human electrocorticograms. This fast oscillation is likely to play important functional roles related to learning and memory, possibly to induce long-term potentiation in the human medial temporal lobe.
We re-examine the commonly held view that learning and memory necessarily require potentiation of synapses. A simple neuronal model of self-organized learning with no positive reinforcement is presented. The strongest synapses are selected for propagation of activity. Active synaptic connections are temporarily &quot;tagged&quot; and subsequently depressed if the resulting output turns out to be unsuccessful. Thus, all learning occurs by mistakes. The model operates at a highly adaptive state with low activity. Previously stored patterns may be swiftly retrieved when the environment and the demands of the brain change. The combined process of: (i) activity selection by extremal &quot;winner-take-all&quot; dynamics; and (ii) the subsequent weeding out of synapses may be viewed as synaptic Darwinism. We argue that all the features of the model are biologically plausible and discuss our results in light of recent experiments by Fitzsimonds et al. on back-propagation of long-term depression, by Xu et al. on facilitation of long-term depression in the hippocampus by behavioural stress, and by Frey and Morris on synaptic tagging.
We sought to identify behavioral and biochemical differences between Dark Agouti and Fischer 344 inbred rat strains to assess whether they could serve as a model of genetically determined differences in sensitivity to drugs of abuse. We compared the strains for the following traits: morphine-induced locomotor activity and sensitization; circadian variation in plasma levels of corticosterone, a hormone reported to affect sensitivity to drugs of abuse; and several biochemical parameters in the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens, brain regions implicated in the locomotor activating and reinforcing actions of drugs of abuse. Fischer 344 rats exhibited greater initial locomotor responses to morphine but, unlike Dark Agouti rats, did not develop sensitization to a second morphine exposure. Fischer 344 rats displayed a marked rise in basal plasma corticosterone levels in the late light phase and early dark phase, whereas Dark Agouti rats showed no significant circadian variation in corticosterone levels. Relative to drug-naive Fischer 344 rats, drug-naive Dark Agouti rats showed higher levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and glial fibrillary acidic protein, and lower levels of neurofilament proteins, in the ventral tegmental area. In contrast, no strain differences were found in levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, specific G protein subunits or protein kinase A in the nucleus accumbens. Together, these results demonstrate that Dark Agouti rats and Fischer 344 rats exhibit differences in specific behavioral, endocrine and biochemical parameters related to sensitivity to drugs of abuse.
We investigated the role of alpha2C-adrenoceptors in the modulation of spatial and non-spatial navigation behaviour. Alpha2C-adrenoceptor overexpressing mice developed an ineffective thigmotaxic search pattern characterized by swimming close to the pool walls during both spatial and non-spatial water maze training. A subtype-non-selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, atipamezole (1000 microg/kg, s.c.), fully reversed this impairment in their search strategy. Withdrawal of atipamezole at the end of spatial training resulted in an immediate disruption of the search pattern in alpha2C-adrenoceptor overexpressing mice. The swimming pattern of alpha2C-adrenoceptor overexpressing mice during a five day free swimming period was normal, when no cognitive component was required. Diazepam (0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), neither improved the accuracy in finding the platform nor decreased thigmotaxis. These results suggest that alpha2C-adrenoceptors may modulate the execution of complex navigation patterns.
The effect of prolonged benzodiazepine administration on GABA(A) receptor subunit (alpha1-6, beta1-3, gamma2) messenger RNAs was investigated in the rat hippocampus and cortex, among other brain areas. Rats were orally administered flurazepam for one week, a protocol which results in benzodiazepine anticonvulsant tolerance in vivo, and in the hippocampus in vitro, in the absence of behavioral signs of withdrawal. Autoradiographs of brain sections, hybridized with [35S]oligoprobes in situ, were examined immediately (day 0) or two days after drug treatment, when rats were tolerant, or seven days after treatment, when tolerance had reversed, and were compared to sections from pair-handled, vehicle-treated controls. Alpha1 subunit messenger RNA level was significantly decreased in CA1 pyramidal cells and dentate granule cells at day 0, an effect which persisted only in CA1 neurons. Decreased &quot;alpha1-specific&quot; silver grain density over a subclass of interneurons at the pyramidal cell border suggested concomitant regulation of interneuron GABA(A) receptors. A reduction in beta3 subunit messenger RNA levels was more widespread among hippocampal cell groups (CA1, CA2, CA3 and dentate gyrus), immediately and two days after treatment, and was also detected in the frontal and parieto-occipital cortices. Changes in beta2 subunit messenger RNA levels in CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus cells two days after ending flurazepam treatment suggested a concomitant up-regulation of beta2 messenger RNA. There was a trend toward an increased level of alpha5, beta3 and gamma2 subunit messenger RNAs in CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus cells, which was significant for the beta3 and gamma2 subunit messenger RNAs in the frontal cortex seven days after ending flurazepam treatment. There were no flurazepam treatment-induced changes in any other GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs. The messenger RNA levels of three (alpha1, beta2 and beta3) of nine GABA(A) receptor subunits were discretely regulated as a function of time after ending one-week flurazepam treatment related to the presence of anticonvulsant tolerance, but not dependence. The findings suggested that a localized switch in the subunit composition of GABA(A) receptor subtypes involving these specific subunits may represent a minimal requirement for the changes in GABA(A) receptor-mediated function recorded previously at hippocampal CA1 GABAergic synapses, associated with benzodiazepine anticonvulsant tolerance.
This paper focuses on the role of glycoproteins in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. The effect of the different inhibitors of protein glycosylation, Tunicamycin, Brefeldin A and Swainsonine, on long-term potentiation was studied in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. Bath application of the inhibitors 60 min before and during tetanization did not interfere with the induction of long-term potentiation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential. However, the potentiation in inhibitor-treated slices decreased to baseline levels during 90-180 min. Significant differences in the potentiation in non-treated slices were detectable 80 min (Tunicamycin), 60 min (Brefeldin A) and 75 min (Swainsonine) after tetanization, thus indicating the prevention of long-term potentiation maintenance. The application of Swainsonine 120 and 240 min after tetanization did not influence the potentiated field excitatory postsynaptic potential. These data demonstrate the need for undisturbed glycoprotein processing in a time window around long-term potentiation induction to maintain later phases of long-term potentiation and essential functional implications of protein glycosylation in mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, representing cell bodies in which thyrotropin-releasing hormone is synthesized, and the median eminence, representing nerve terminals, were incubated in vitro. Various hypo- and hyperosmotic solutions were tested to determine osmotic sensitivity of thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion. High KCl (56 mM) causing membrane depolarization was used as a non-specific control stimulus to induce thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion. A 30% decrease of medium osmolarity (from 288 to 202 mOsmol/l) increased thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion from both the paraventricular nucleus and median eminence. A 30% decrease of medium NaCl content by its replacement with choline chloride did not affect basal thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion. Increasing medium osmolarity with biologically inactive L-glucose did not affect basal or KCl-induced thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion from either structure. Medium made hyperosmotic (350-450 mOsmol/l) by increasing the NaCl concentration resulted in a dose-dependent decrease of basal thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion and abolished KCl-induced thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion. If an osmotically equivalent amount of choline chloride was substituted for NaCl, there was no effect on thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion, indicating a specific action of Na+. This study indicates a specific sensitivity to high concentrations of Na+ ions of both thyrotropin-releasing hormone-producing parvocellular paraventricular neurons and thyrotropin-releasing hormone-containing nerve terminals in the median eminence.
Microtubule-associated protein-2 is the most abundant microtubule-associated protein in the brain and is responsible for morphogenesis and maintenance of the nervous system. In the present experiments, we have examined the localization of microtubule-associated protein-2 in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system of the rat using western blots and immunohistochemistry. Two monoclonal antibodies against microtubule-associated protein-2, antibody C and AP20, were used: antibody C recognizes both the high- and low-molecular-weight isoforms of microtubule-associated protein-2; antibody AP20 specifically detects high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2 only. Western blot analysis revealed expression of high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2 in the whole brain, hippocampus and whole hypothalamus. While the supraoptic nucleus expressed only high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2, the adult posterior pituitary predominantly expressed low-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2, which was also seen in the embryonic whole brain. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed that both antibody C and AP20 intensely stained dendrites of the dendritic and somatic zones in the supraoptic nucleus. Double labeling with antibodies against microtubule-associated protein-2 and oxytocin (or vasopressin) demonstrated that microtubule-associated protein-2 was localized in dendrites of magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic nucleus. In the posterior pituitary, however, antibody C stained fine processes and cell bodies of astrocytes, which were identified by an antibody against glial fibrillary acidic protein. Antibody AP20 also stained fine processes of some astrocytes in the posterior pituitary, but the intensity of immunoreactivity with antibody AP20 was weaker than that with antibody C. This result suggests that microtubule-associated protein-2 in astrocytes of the posterior pituitary is predominantly of the low-molecular-weight type. Moreover, western blots revealed low-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2 of the posterior pituitary at a molecular weight slightly higher than embryonically expressed low-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2, indicating that low-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2 in the posterior pituitary is possibly the isoform microtubule-associated protein-2d. The present results demonstrate that astrocytes in the posterior pituitary of adult rats still retain the ability to express the immature variant of microtubule-associated protein-2, low-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein-2, and its expression is probably linked to structural plasticity.
After spinal cord injury, abnormal responses of spinal cord neurons to sensory input lead to conditions such as autonomic dysreflexia, urinary bladder dyssynergia, muscle spasticity and chronic pain syndromes. These responses suggest that the spinal cord undergoes marked reorganization after an injury. In previous studies, we demonstrated changes in individual patterns of immunoreactivity for growth-associated protein-43, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and substance P that suggest growth and/or changes in expression of neurotransmitter enzymes and peptides in the cord caudal to a transection injury. In the present study we determined whether (i) growth-associated protein-43 and dopamine beta-hydroxylase or substance P were co-expressed in the same neurons prior to cord injury, and (ii) these patterns of expression changed after injury. A change in co-localization patterns caudal to an injury would suggest diversity in responses of different populations of spinal neurons. We used double-labelling immunocytochemistry to determine whether either dopamine beta-hydroxylase or substance P was co-localized with growth-associated protein-43 in control rats and in rats one, two or six weeks after spinal cord transection. We focused on the intermediate gray matter, especially the sympathetic intermediolateral cell column. In control rats, fibres travelling in a stereotyped ladder-like pattern in the thoracic gray matter contained growth-associated protein-43 co-localized with dopamine beta-hydroxylase or substance P. In spinal rats, such co-localization was also observed in spinal cord segments rostral to the cord transection. In contrast, caudal to the transection, substance P and growth-associated protein-43 were found in separate reticular networks. Immunoreactivity for dopamine beta-hydroxylase disappeared in fibres during this time, but was clearly present in somata. Immunoreactivity for growth-associated protein-43 was also found in somata, but never co-localized with that for dopamine beta-hydroxylase. These observations demonstrated co-localization of growth-associated protein-43 with dopamine beta-hydroxylase and substance P in descending spinal cord pathways. Caudal to a cord transection, this co-localization was no longer found, although each substance was present either in an abundant neural network or in somata. One population of spinal neurons responded to cord injury by expressing the growth-associated protein, whereas two others changed in the intensity of their expression of neurotransmitter peptides or enzymes or in the abundance of fibres expressing them. Thus, three populations of spinal neurons had distinct responses to cord injury, two of them increasing their potential input to spinal sensory, sympathetic or motor neurons. Such responses would enhance transmission through spinal pathways after cord injury.
Activation of various second messengers contributes to long-term changes in the excitability of dorsal horn neurons and to persistent pain conditions produced by injury. Here, we compared the time-course of decreased mechanical nociceptive thresholds and the density of protein kinase Cgamma immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn after injections of complete Freund's adjuvant in the plantar surface of the rat hindpaw. Complete Freund's adjuvant significantly increased paw diameter and mechanical sensitivity ipsilateral to the inflammation. The changes peaked one day post-injury, but endured for at least two weeks. In these rats, we recorded a 75-100% increase in protein kinase Cgamma immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral superficial dorsal horn of the L4 and L5 segments at all time-points. Electron microscopy revealed that the up-regulation was associated with a significant translocation of protein kinase Cgamma immunoreactivity to the plasma membrane. In double-label cytochemical studies, we found that about 20% of the protein kinase Cgamma-immunoreactive neurons, which are concentrated in inner lamina II, contain glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA, but none stain for parvalbumin or nitric oxide synthase. These results indicate that persistent changes in protein kinase Cgamma immunoreactivity parallel the time-course of mechanical allodynia and suggest that protein kinase Cgamma contributes to the maintenance of the allodynia produced by peripheral inflammation. The minimal expression of protein kinase Cgamma in presumed inhibitory neurons suggests that protein kinase Cgamma-mediated regulation of excitatory interneurons underlies the changes in spinal cord activity during persistent nociception.
Macrophage inflammatory protein is a member of the C-C subfamily of chemokines, which exhibits, in addition to proinflammatory activities, a potent endogenous pyrogen activity. In this study, we analysed the time-course of expression and cellular source of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta, in inflammation of the rat brain associated with ischemia and endotoxemia. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we observed that intravenously injected bacterial lipopolysaccharide induced a transient expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta messenger RNAs throughout the brain, with maximal expression 8-12 h after lipopolysaccharide treatment. We also revealed an early increase in macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta messenger RNA levels, after permanent and transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, starting as early as 1 h after the occlusion and reaching a peak of expression 8-16 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The induction of macrophage inflammatory protein-1 messenger RNA was clearly stronger in the transient than in the permanent middle cerebral artery-occluded rat brains, showing that the reperfusion process influences the extent of the chemokine response after middle cerebral artery occlusion. In situ hybridization combined with immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein, a specific marker for astrocytes, excluded astrocytes as the cellular source of macrophage inflammatory protein-1 messenger RNAs after both middle cerebral artery ischemia and lipopolysaccharide treatment. Using immunohistochemistry, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha protein expression was shown to be induced in a time-dependent manner after lipopolysaccharide treatment and middle cerebral artery occlusion. Macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha immunopositive cells co-localized with cells stained with OX-42 antibody, a microglia/macrophage marker. These results indicate that macrophage inflammatory protein-1 is implicated in the inflammatory reaction of the brain in response to ischemia or infection, and might modulate the host defence febrile response to a pathogenic stimulus.
The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine or glutamate treatment on mechanically induced intercellular calcium waves were studied in gap junction-coupled astroglial cells using rat astroglial-neuronal primary cultures from hippocampus. Imaging software was developed to study amplitude, velocity and extent of wave propagation. Velocity software was designed to find the cell contours automatically and to calculate travelled distance and time-delay of the calcium wave as it propagates from the stimulated cell to all other cells. Propagation analyses were performed to calculate the area of wave propagation. Mechanical stimulation of a single astroglial cell induced an intercellular calcium wave spreading from cell to cell in the astroglial syncytium. When registering the appearances of calcium signals in individual cells along the wave path upon re-stimulation of the same cell, 44.7% of the cells responded with similar calcium signal appearances the second time as the first time. A second wave from the opposite direction resulted in similar calcium signal appearances in 27.3% of the studied cells. Both amplitude and velocity of the calcium signal decreased most prominently in the first part and showed a later flattening out. Treatment with 5-hydroxytryptamine or glutamate for 20-30 s before mechanical stimulation increased the velocity of the calcium waves. 5-Hydroxytryptamine treatment for varying times decreased the propagation area of the calcium waves. In contrast, glutamate treatment increased the propagation area.
Tripeptidyl peptidase II (EC 3.4.14.10) is a serine peptidase apparently involved in the inactivation of cholecystokinin octapeptide [Rose C. et al. (1996) Nature 380, 403-409]. We have compared its distribution with that of cholecystokinin in rat brain, using a polyclonal antibody raised against a highly purified preparation for immunohistochemistry at the photon and electron microscope levels. Tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity was mostly detected in neurons, and also in ependymal cells and choroid plexuses, localizations consistent with a possible participation of the peptidase in the inactivation of cholecystokinin circulating in the cerebrospinal fluid. Immunoreactivity was mostly detected in cell bodies, large processes and, to a lesser extent, axons of various neuronal populations. Their localization, relative to that of cholecystokinin terminals, appears to define three distinct situations. The first corresponds to neurons with high immunoreactivity in areas containing cholecystokinin terminals, as in the cerebral cortex or hippocampal formation, where pyramidal cell bodies and processes surrounded by cholecystokinin axons were immunoreactive. A similar situation was encountered in many other areas, namely along the pathways through which cholecystokinin controls satiety, i.e. in sensory vagal neurons, the nucleus tractus solitarius and hypothalamic nuclei. The second situation corresponds to cholecystokinin neuronal populations containing tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity, as in neurons of the supraoptic or paraventricular nuclei, axons in the median eminence or nigral neurons. In both situations, localization of tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity is consistent with a role in cholecystokinin inactivation. The third situation corresponds to areas with mismatches, such as the cerebellum, a region devoid of cholecystokinin, but in which Purkinje cells displayed high tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity, possibly related to a role in the inactivation of neuropeptides other than cholecystokinin. Also, some areas with cholecystokinin terminals, e.g., the molecular layer of the cerebral cortex, were devoid of tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity, suggesting that processes other than cleavage by tripeptidyl peptidase II may be involved in cholecystokinin inactivation. Tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity was also detected at the ultrastructural level in the cerebral cortex and hypothalamus using either immunoperoxidase or silver-enhanced immunogold detection. It was mainly associated with the cytoplasm of neuronal somata and dendrites, often in the vicinity of reticulum cisternae, Golgi apparatus or vesicles, and with the inner side of the dendritic plasma membrane. Hence, whereas a fraction of tripeptidyl peptidase II-like immunoreactivity localization at the cellular level is consistent with its alleged function in cholecystokinin octapeptide inactivation, its association with the outside plasma membrane of neurons remains to be confirmed.
We have investigated whether exogenously applied adenosine modulates neuronal activity in a region of the central nervous system crucial for cardiovascular regulation. Extracellular recordings were made from neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of the anaesthetized rat. Ionophoretic application of adenosine altered ongoing activity in 91% of neurons, evoking either a long-lasting depression or a short-lasting increase in firing rate. Both responses were blocked by application of the broad spectrum adenosine receptor antagonist 8-sulphophenyltheophylline, indicating that the responses were mediated by specific cell surface receptors. The adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine blocked the increase, and partially blocked the decrease in firing rate in response to adenosine. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline also blocked the increase in firing rate in response to adenosine, suggesting that adenosine may inhibit release of GABA from axon terminals in this region. The adenosine A2a receptor agonist CGS 21680 produced a long-lasting depression of ongoing activity. These results suggest that A1 receptors mediate an increase in firing rate, whilst A1 and A2a receptors mediate decreases in firing rate in some rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons. Thus, adenosine has been shown to modulate the ongoing activity of neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla by acting at both A1 and A2a receptors. Accordingly, we suggest, and provide some evidence to support the idea, that adenosine acts as an important neuromodulator in this region of the central nervous system, possibly by modulating the presynaptic release of neurotransmitters such as GABA.
We investigated the role of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein signaling in the induction of the immediate-early gene c-fos by baroreceptor activation in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii of anesthetized rats. Activation of the arterial baroreceptors with sustained hypertension significantly increased the number of neurons in the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii that were immunoreactive to an antiserum that detects Ser133-phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element binding protein. This implied increase in phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein was subsequently followed by an elevation in the expression of Fos protein in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Microinjection bilaterally into the nucleus tractus solitarii of a phosphorothioated antisense oligonucleotide directed against the initiation site of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein messenger RNA discernibly reduced the manifested immunoreactivity of phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element binding protein in response to baroreceptor activation. This was accompanied by a decline in the transcription of c-fos messenger RNA and the expression of Fos protein, along with an appreciable potentiation of the baroreceptor reflex response. Control injections of the sense oligonucleotide or artificial cerebrospinal fluid were ineffective. These findings suggest that phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein is crucial to Fos expression in the nucleus tractus solitarii elicited by sustained hypertension. As such, phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein may be an important early nuclear event that mediates the long-term inhibitory modulation of the baroreceptor reflex response by Fos protein at the nucleus tractus solitarii.
There are conflicting reports in the literature regarding the effects of nitric oxide as well as the involvement of the cyclic GMP pathway on the transmitter release. To study the influence of the availability of the nitric oxide precursor arginine on the glutamate transmission process, rat striatal slices preloaded with the tritiated glutamate analogue D-aspartate were used. L-Arginine stimulated in a concentration-dependent way (0.01-10.0 mM) the high potassium-induced efflux of [3H]D-aspartate. The basal release was increased only by 10 mM L-arginine. Neither the basal nor the depolarization-induced efflux of [3H]D-aspartate was affected by D-arginine. The L-arginine effect was abolished by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-arginine methyl ester and was not modified by cyclic GMP. Only at high concentrations of L-arginine (10 mM) could an elevation of cyclic GMP level be demonstrated. The results are discussed in terms of direct presynaptic action of nitric oxide on [3H]D-aspartate efflux and a possible modulation of glutamate release by the availability of arginine.
The neocortex and thalamus send dense glutaminergic projections to the neostriatum. The neocortex makes synaptic contact with spines of striatal projection neurons, and also targets a distinct class of GABAergic interneurons immunoreactive for the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin. We determined whether the parafascicular thalamic nucleus also targets striatal parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons. The anterograde tracer biotinylated dextranamine was injected into the parafascicular nucleus of adult rats. Double-labeled histochemistry/immunohistochemistry revealed overlapping thalamic fibers and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the neostriatum. Areas of overlap within the sensorimotor striatum were analysed by electron microscopy. Of 311 synaptic boutons originating from the parafascicular nucleus, 75.9% synapsed with unlabeled dendrites, 22.5% with unlabeled spines, and 1.3% had parvalbumin-immunoreactive dendrites as a postsynaptic target. Only 4% of all asymmetric synapses on parvalbumin-immunoreactive dendrites were derived from the parafascicular nucleus. A separate group of animals underwent bilateral neocortical deafferentation on the third postnatal day, prior to injection of anterograde tracer into the parafascicular nucleus of adult animals. These experiments were performed with the dual purpose of (i) reducing the possibility that thalamic inputs to parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons are the result of transsynaptic uptake of tracer by a thalamo-cortico-striatal route, and (ii) determining whether competitive interactions between developing corticostriatal and thalamostriatal fibers may account for the relatively sparse thalamic input onto parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons. In decorticates, 219 striatal synaptic contacts derived from the parafascicular nucleus, out of which 77.2% were on unlabeled dendrites, 20.9% were upon unlabeled spines, and 0.9% targeted parvalbumin-immunoreactive dendrites. We conclude that the thalamic parafascicular nucleus indeed sends synaptic input to parvalbumin-immunoreactive striatal neurons. Parafascicular nucleus inputs to striatal parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons are sparse in comparison to other asymmetric inputs, most of which are likely to be of cortical origin. The synaptic profile of thalamostriatal inputs to parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons and unlabeled elements is unchanged following neonatal decortication. This suggests that competitive interaction between developing thalamostriatal and corticostriatal projections is not a major mechanism determining synaptic input to striatal subpopulations.
The purpose of the present study was two-fold: (i) to investigate to what extent novelty, i.e. a novel cage with slightly larger dimensions than the home cage and lacking the floor covering that was originally present, produced behavioural effects in high responders to novelty and low responders to novelty that could be correlated with the extracellular amount of accumbal dopamine, using the microdialysis technique, and (ii) to establish the ability of the catecholamine synthesis inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine to inhibit the novelty-induced responses in high and low responders. The difference in the behavioural response to novelty between the high and low responders was limited to walking, which lasted significantly longer in high responders than in low responders. The novelty-induced increase in extracellular concentration of accumbal dopamine was significantly greater in high responders than in low responders; moreover, the shape of the growth curves differed between high and low responders. The behavioural changes did not correlate with the neurochemical effects, which outlasted the duration of the novelty-induced behavioural arousal. It is hypothesized that this long-lasting increase in accumbal dopamine produces &quot;adaptive changes&quot; that help and/or allow the animal to incorporate knowledge about the condition that it experienced. When the nucleus accumbens was perfused with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine for a period of 40 min, given at the same time as the transfer of the rat to the novel cage, it reduced the novelty-induced increase in walking in the high responders, but did not alter the novelty-induced behaviour of low responders. Finally, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine reduced the novelty-induced increase in the release of accumbal dopamine in high responders, but enhanced it in low responders. The present neurochemical data are discussed in view of the outcome of earlier reported pharmacobehavioural studies on the neurochemical state of the nucleus accumbens of non-challenged versus challenged high and low responders. It is hypothesized that, in the high responder, exposure to novelty enhances the release of accumbal dopamine from reserpine-resistant, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-sensitive pools that are under the stimulatory control of beta-adrenergic receptors in the nucleus accumbens, and that, in the low responder, exposure to novelty enhances the release of accumbal dopamine from reserpine-sensitive, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-resistant pools that are under the inhibitory control of alpha-adrenergic receptors in the nucleus accumbens.
Phosphate activated glutaminase is a key enzyme in glutamate synthesis. Here we have employed a quantitative and high-resolution immunogold procedure to analyse the cellular and subcellular expression of this enzyme in the cerebellar cortex. Three main issues were addressed. First, is phosphate activated glutaminase exclusively or predominantly a mitochondrial enzyme, as biochemical data suggest? Second, to what extent is the mitochondrial content of glutaminase dependent on cell type and transmitter identity? Third, can individual neurons maintain a subcellular segregation of mitochondria with different glutaminase content? An attempt was also made to disclose the intramitochondrial localization of glutaminase, and to correlate the content of this enzyme with that of glutamate and glutamine in the same mitochondria (by use of triple labelling). Antisera to the N- and C-termini of glutaminase revealed strong labelling of the putatively glutamatergic mossy fibre terminals. The vast majority of gold particles (approximately 96%) was associated with the mitochondria. Equally high labelling intensities were found in mitochondria of perikarya and dendrites in the pontine nuclei, a major source of mossy fibres. The level of glutaminase immunoreactivity in parallel and climbing fibres (which like the mossy fibres are thought to use glutamate as transmitter) was only about 20% of that in mossy fibres, and similar to that in non-glutamatergic neurons (Purkinje and Golgi cells). Glial cell mitochondria were devoid of specific glutaminase labelling and revealed a much lower glutamate:glutamine ratio than did the mitochondria of mossy fibres. As to the submitochondrial localization of glutaminase, immunogold particles were often found to be aligned with the cristae, suggesting an association of the enzyme with the inner mitochondrial membrane. However, the existence of a glutaminase pool in the mitochondrial matrix could not be excluded. The outer mitochondrial membrane was unlabelled. The present study provides quantitative evidence for a substantial heterogeneity in the mitochondrial content of glutaminase. This heterogeneity applies not only to neurons with different transmitter signatures, but also to different categories of glutamatergic pathways. In terms of the routes involved, the synthesis of transmitter glutamate may be less uniform than previously expected.
The existence of at least three opioid receptor types, referred to as mu, kappa, and delta, is well established. Complementary DNAs corresponding to the pharmacologically defined mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptors have been isolated in various species including man. The expression patterns of opioid receptor transcripts in human brain has not been established with a cellular resolution, in part because of the low apparent abundance of opioid receptor messenger RNAs in human brain. To visualize opioid receptor messenger RNAs we developed a sensitive in situ hybridization histochemistry method using 33P-labelled RNA probes. In the present study we report the regional and cellular expression of mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptor messenger RNAs in selected areas of the human brain. Hybridization of the different opioid receptor probes resulted in distinct labelling patterns. For the mu and kappa opioid receptor probes, the most intense regional signals were observed in striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus, cerebral cortex, cerebellum and certain brainstem areas as well as the spinal cord. The most intense signals for the delta opioid receptor probe were found in cerebral cortex. Expression of opioid receptor transcripts was restricted to subpopulations of neurons within most regions studied demonstrating differences in the cellular expression patterns of mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptor messenger RNAs in numerous brain regions. The messenger RNA distribution patterns for each opioid receptor corresponded in general to the distribution of opioid receptor binding sites as visualized by receptor autoradiography. However, some mismatches, for instance between mu opioid receptor receptor binding and mu opioid receptor messenger RNA expression in the anterior striatum, were observed. A comparison of the distribution patterns of opioid receptor messenger RNAs in the human brain and that reported for the rat suggests a homologous expression pattern in many regions. However, in the human brain, kappa opioid receptor messenger RNA expression was more widely distributed than in rodents. The differential and region specific expression of opioid receptors may help to identify targets for receptor specific compounds in neuronal circuits involved in a variety of physiological functions including pain perception, neuroendocrine regulation, motor control and reward.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Five human glutamate transporters have been cloned and are responsible for the removal of potentially excitotoxic excess glutamate from the extracellular space. In this study we consider whether there are selective changes in the expression of the glutamate transporters in the medial temporal cortex and hippocampus from temporal lobe epilepsy patients, which might contribute to the development or maintenance of seizures. Since disruption of the glial transporter excitatory amino acid transporter 2 in mice results in lethal spontaneous seizures, we were interested primarily in studying changes in this transporter. Using in situ hybridization we show that there was no reduction in the level of excitatory amino acid transporter 2 encoding messenger RNA in the temporal lobe epilepsy cases compared to post mortem controls and indeed there was a relative increase in content of excitatory amino acid transporter 2 messenger RNA per cell in temporal lobe epilepsy cases. Western blotting showed that there was no change in the excitatory amino acid transporter 2 protein content in temporal lobe epilepsy cases as compared to post mortem controls. A small reduction in the level of the second astroglial transporter protein, excitatory amino acid transporter 1, was observed in temporal lobe epilepsy cases. Surprisingly, immunohistochemical experiments using a polyclonal antiexcitatory amino acid transporter 2 antibody, showed a different localization of this protein in epilepsy derived tissue as compared to post mortem controls although glial markers such as glial fibrillary acidic protein and glutamine synthase showed similar patterns of staining. However, repeating this experiment using control tissue from non-temporal lobe epilepsy biopsies demonstrated that this change in the excitatory amino acid transporter 2 transporter localization occurred post mortem. These data suggest that major changes in the level of expression of the glutamate transporters do not play an important role in the development of human temporal lobe epilepsy but may be implicated the aetiology of other types of epilepsy.
In this study we explored the potential role of the complement derived anaphylatoxin C5a and the expression of its receptor in mouse brain. Using in situ hybridization, we found that C5a receptor messenger RNA is expressed in mouse brain. In response to intraventricular kainic acid injection, there was marked increase in the C5a receptor messenger RNA expression, particularly in hippocampal formation and cerebral cortex. C5a ligand-binding autoradiography confirmed the functional expression and elevation of the C5a receptor post-lesioning. The expression of C5a receptor messenger RNA in brain was confirmed by northern blot hybridization of total RNA from neuronal and glial cells in vitro. Based on these findings we explored the role of C5a in mechanisms of signal transduction in brain cells. Treatment of primary cultures of mouse astrocytes with human recombinant C5a resulted in the activation of mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase. This response appeared to be mediated by the C5a receptor since astrocyte cultures derived from C5a receptor knockout mice were not responsive to the treatment. Understanding the regulation of C5a receptor in brain and mechanisms by which pro-inflammatory C5a modulates specific signal transduction pathways in brain cells is crucial to studies of inflammatory mechanisms in neurodegeneration.
Fimbria-fornix transection produces neuronal injury in the septum. This cellular pathology is characterized by somatodendritic vacuolar abnormalities in neurons. Because these cellular changes are reminiscent of some of the morphological abnormalities seen with glutamate receptor-mediated excitoxicity, we tested whether excitotoxic injury to the septal complex of adult rats mimics the degeneration observed within the dorsolateral septal nucleus and medial septal nucleus following fimbria-fornix transection. The septal complex was evaluated at various time-points (6 h to 14 days) by light and electron microscopy following unilateral injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinate or the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist kainate, and the morphological changes observed were compared to those abnormalities in the medial septal nucleus and dorsolateral septal nucleus at three to 14 days after fimbria-fornix transection. The patterns of cytoplasmic abnormalities and vacuolar injury were morphologically similar in the somatodendritic compartment of neurons following excitotoxicity and axotomy paradigms. These similarities were most evident when comparing the persistently injured neurons in the penumbral regions of the excitotoxic lesions at one to 14 days recovery to neurons in the medial septal nucleus and dorsolateral septal nucleus at seven and 14 days after fimbria-fornix transection. Pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate prior to unilateral fimbria-fornix transection attenuated the somatodentritic vacuolar damage found within the ipsilateral dorsolateral and medial septal nuclei at 14 days recovery. Because glutamate is the principal transmitter of hippocampal efferents within the fimbria-fornix, we conclude that postsynaptic glutamate receptor activation participates in the evolution of septal neuron injury following fimbria-fornix transection. Thus, excitotoxicity is a possible mechanism for transneuronal degeneration following central nervous system axotomy.
Emerging evidence indicates that the expression of trophic factors in the brain is regulated in an activity-dependent manner, which suggests an involvement of trophic factors in events controlled by input activity. We have investigated the possibility that visual sensory input impacts the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor in the brain. Rats were maintained for seven days in darkness and then re-exposed to normal illumination for 0, 1, 3 or 6 h. We assessed relative levels of basic fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor messenger RNAs using nuclease protection assays, and examined possible changes in the phenotypic expression of basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor using immunohistochemistry. There was a significant decrease in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor messenger RNAs as a result of dark rearing, and levels of messenger RNAs increased progressively with light re-exposure. Changes in messenger RNAs were observed primarily in the cerebral cortex (caudal portion) and were accompanied by alterations in the staining intensity and density of cells exhibiting basic fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor phenotypes. Regulation of the basic fibroblast growth factor system by sensory input suggests that basic fibroblast growth factor, and perhaps other trophic factors, are mediators of the effects of experience on the structure and function of the CNS.
The mitogenic effect of basic fibroblast growth factor and nerve growth factor (2.5S) on olfactory ensheathing cell culture was examined by bromodeoxyuridine uptake. It was found that, at 10 ng/ml, basic fibroblast growth factor elicited about a three-fold increase in proliferation, while the stimulatory effect of nerve growth factor was considerably less. The increased proliferation resulting from basic fibroblast growth factor could be attributed to perlecan, which was shown to be expressed by ensheathing cell in culture. Perlecan is known to induce high-affinity binding of basic fibroblast growth factor to receptors on cell membranes. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that basic fibroblast growth factor was abundantly expressed in select regions of the lamina propria underlying the olfactory epithelium. In these regions, contiguous patches of olfactory epithelium also showed the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor. Although basic fibroblast growth factor was present on the periphery of nerve bundles in the olfactory nerve layer of the bulb, all other laminae did not demonstrate the presence of this factor. The immunohistochemistry and cell culture results show that regions of the lamina propria and small patches of the olfactory epithelium, by their presence of basic fibroblast growth factor, are potential sites of ensheathing cell proliferation in vivo.
The consolidation of a one-trial passive avoidance learning task in the day-old chick involves a number of transient and longer-term biochemical processes, including increased release of glutamate. This study demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a proposed modulator of synaptic transmission and neurotransmitter release, is involved in the cascade associated with memory consolidation in the chick and that its actions were linked to modulation of expression of SNAP-25, syntaxin and synaptophysin, required for exocytosis. Intracerebral injections of 5 microl of antibodies to brain-derived neurotrophic factor into the left and right intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in avoidance of an &quot;aversive&quot; bead by 3 h after training. Neurotrophin antibodies (0.5 microg/chick) administered between 1 h before, and up to 30 min after, training induced amnesia by 3 h which was sustained for at least 24 h. Injections of recombinant brain-derived neurotrophic factor (50 microg/ml; 0.5 microg/chick) just before training maintained avoidance in birds trained with a weaker aversant (10% methylanthranilate), such that chicks showed enhanced recall at times (24 h) beyond that when shorter-term forms of memory have decayed. In lysed synaptosomal membranes prepared from chicks injected with antibodies to brain-derived neurotrophic factor there was a decrease in expression of SNAP-25 and syntaxin in the left, but not the right, intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale, a region known to be associated with memory formation, which correlated with the decrease in neurotrophin concentration. Thus, these data indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is involved in the formation of a long-term memory for an aversive stimulus and may function as a modulator of presynaptic proteins associated with exocytosis, enabling increases in neurotransmitter release.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is a member of the family of neuronal differentiation and survival-promoting molecules called neurotrophins. Neuronal populations known to show responsiveness to the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor include the cholinergic forebrain, mesencephalic dopaminergic, cortical, hippocampal and striatal neurons. This fact has aroused considerable interest in the possible contribution of an abnormal brain-derived neurotrophic factor function to the aetiology and physiopathology of different neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. This report describes the cellular and regional distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in post mortem control human brain and in limited regions of the brain in patients with Alzheimer's disease, as was revealed by immunohistochemistry. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is widely expressed in the control human brain, both by neurons and glia. In neurons, brain-derived neurotrophic factor was localized in the cell body, dendrites and axons. Among the structures showing the most intense immunohistochemical labeling were the hippocampus, claustrum, amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, septum and the nucleus of the solitary tract. In the striatum, immunoreactivity was more intense in striosomes than in the matrix. Many labeled neurons were found in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The large putatively cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain showed no immunoreactivity. The general pattern of labeling was similar in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor-immunoreactive material was found in senile plaques, and some immunoreactive cortical pyramidal neurons showed neurofibrillary tangles, suggesting that brain-derived neurotrophic factor may be involved in the process of neuronal degeneration and/or compensatory mechanisms which occur in this illness.
The role of the neurotrophins; nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5, in synaptic development and plasticity has been extensively investigated. The neurotrophins regulate synaptic transmission as well as neural development in the brain. However, the mechanisms underlying these processes are unknown. In this study we show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor triggers an increase in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptor (GluR) proteins without significant changes in their messenger RNA levels. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment specifically increased the protein levels of GluR1 (193+/-22%) and GluR2/3 (182+/-11%) in cultured rat neocortical neurons. In contrast, nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 failed to alter the protein levels of these neurons, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor effects on N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors were either modest or negligible. Immunocytochemical studies indicated that the increase in AMPA receptor proteins reflects the induction of their neuronal expression, but not selective neuronal survival. In agreement with these results, cortical neurons from brain-derived neurotrophic factor-knockout mice exhibited a reduction in AMPA receptor proteins in the cytoskeletal fraction containing postsynaptic proteins. Thus, the neurotrophin plays a crucial role in modulating the expression of AMPA receptors presumably at translational or post-translation levels and is implicated in synaptic development and plasticity.
The vast majority of striatal neurons are GABAergic medium-sized spiny neurons. These cells receive glutamatergic input from the cortex, thalamus and limbic areas and dopaminergic input from the mesencephalon. Most relevant evidence indicates that dopamine D1 receptors are located on striatonigral projection neurons, and that adenosine A2A receptors and most dopamine D2 receptors are located on striatopallidal projection neurons (see, however, Refs I and 13). Here we have utilized regulation of the phosphorylation of dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of mol. wt 32,000 (DARPP-32) to study the possible interactions among nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and the two classes of dopaminoceptive target neurons. We show that, in striatal slices, the D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole, strongly inhibits the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 induced by either the D1 receptor agonist, SKF 81297, or the A2A receptor agonist, CGS 21680. Tetrodotoxin abolished the effect of quinpirole on the D1 agonist-induced but not the A2A agonist-induced phosphorylation of DARPP-32. These data indicate that: (i) adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors interact within the same striatopallidal neurons, and (ii) D2 receptors present on the striatopallidal neurons modulate the effects of D1 receptors on the striatonigral neurons. Thus, a single neurotransmitter is capable of activating distinct classes of receptors on distinct populations of target neurons, which, in turn, interact with each other through intercellular communication.
Synaptotagmin I or II (Syt I/II) is involved in Ca2+-regulated exocytosis of secretory vesicles, probably serving as a Ca2+-sensor via its C2A domain. Synaptotagmin is also known to be expressed in neuronal growth cone vesicles, but its functional involvement in neurite outgrowth remains largely unknown. In this study, we examined the function of Syt I/II in neurite outgrowth in cultured chick dorsal root ganglion neurons using an anti-synaptotagmin I and II C2A domain (anti-STI/II-C2A) antibody that inhibits Ca2+-regulated exocytosis. Immunoblots confirmed the high specificity of the anti-STI/II-C2A antibody and showed the expression of synaptotagmin I or II in chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. Immunocytochemistry revealed that synaptotagmin I or II is enriched at the growth cone region of chick dorsal root ganglion neurons, in both lamellipodia and filopodia. Whole or Fab-fragment of the anti-STI/II-C2A antibody loaded into dorsal root ganglion neurons by trituration significantly inhibited neurite outgrowth, whereas preimmune immunoglobulin G had no effect. These results showed that the C2A domain of synaptotagmin I or II plays a crucial role in neurite outgrowth.
A sub-population of primary afferent fibres comprising mainly Adelta and C polymodal nociceptors specifically detects high intensity heat stimuli. These fibres are also sensitive to high threshold mechanical stimulation and different chemicals including inflammatory mediators. C-polymodal nociceptors are also activated by capsaicin. Recent findings show that noxious heat induces inward currents in a sub-population of cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons by opening nonselective cation-channels. It has been suggested that noxious heat is transduced by the recently cloned capsaicin-gated ion-channel since oocytes and HEK 293 cells expressing this channel respond to heat as well as capsaicin. In agreement with this suggestion Kirschstein et al. found in a small sample of dorsal root ganglion cells that all heat-sensitive neurons were also sensitive to capsaicin. In this study we examine further, by whole-cell voltage-clamp recording from adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons grown in culture, the relationship between heat- and capsaicin-sensitivity. Our results show the existence of two kinds of heat-sensitive neurons, distinguished by their temperature thresholds. The low-threshold cells, which comprise the small-medium diameter population, are capsaicin-sensitive, whereas the high-threshold (mainly large-diameter) cells are not, and we postulate the existence of a heat transducer distinct from capsaicin receptor in the latter group.

We have conducted the first study of sleep in the platypus Ornithorhynchus anatinus. Periods of quiet sleep, characterized by raised arousal thresholds, elevated electroencephalogram amplitude and motor and autonomic quiescence, occupied 6-8 h/day. The platypus also had rapid eye movement sleep as defined by atonia with rapid eye movements, twitching and the electrocardiogram pattern of rapid eye movement. However, this state occurred while the electroencephalogram was moderate or high in voltage, as in non-rapid eye movement sleep in adult and marsupial mammals. This suggests that the low-voltage electroencephalogram is a more recently evolved feature of mammalian rapid eye movement sleep. Rapid eye movement sleep occupied 5.8-8 h/day in the platypus, more than in any other animal. Our findings indicate that rapid eye movement sleep may have been present in large amounts in the first mammals and suggest that it may have evolved in pre-mammalian reptiles.
The inputs to trigeminal motoneurons from sensory afferents and rhombencephalic premotor regions were studied in isolated brainstem preparations of adult lampreys (Petromyzon marinus). Stimulation of both trigeminal nerves, contralateral nucleus motorius nervi trigemini, nucleus sensibilis nervi trigemini and ipsilateral rostral reticular formation elicited large-amplitude excitatory postsynaptic potentials with short latencies. These were significantly attenuated by adding 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline2,3-dione (10 microM) and 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (200 microM) to the bath, suggesting participation of both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The inputs from ipsilateral trigeminal afferents included a di- or oligosynaptic glycinergic inhibition. Sustained rhythmical membrane potential oscillations were observed in 52% of the recorded cells upon stimulation of trigeminal afferents or the contralateral nucleus sensibilis nervi trigemini. Two types of rhythm were obtained: (i) low-frequency oscillations (0.1-0.5 Hz), with peak-to-peak amplitudes between 8.5 and 17 mV; and (ii) higher frequency oscillations (1.0-2.8 Hz) with smaller amplitudes (1.8-5.1 mV). The two types of trigeminal rhythm could occur independently of fictive locomotion and fictive breathing. In a decerebrate semi-intact preparation, slow rhythmical trigeminal motoneuron potential oscillations were also evoked by stimulation of the oral disc. This study shows that trigeminal motoneurons receive excitatory synaptic inputs from several brainstem sites, and that membrane potential oscillations can be triggered upon stimulation of trigeminal afferents or the nucleus sensibilis nervi trigemini. We suggest that these oscillations recorded in vitro may represent the centrally generated components that underlie rhythmical feeding in lampreys.
This study was undertaken to identify and describe populations of brainstem neurons that project to the area of the nucleus motorius nervi trigemini in lampreys as a first step in the study of neurons that control feeding behavior in this species. To identify these neurons, the retrograde tracer cobalt-lysine was injected into the nucleus motorius nervi trigemini on one side of the in vitro isolated brainstem preparation of seven spawning adult lampreys (Petromyzon marinus). Transport times ranged from 42 to 48 h. Retrogradely labeled neurons were found within the rostral spinal cord, the rhombencephalon, the mesencephalon and the caudal diencephalon. This study concentrates on the labeled neurons in the rhombencephalon, since the essential circuits for mastication and swallowing are confined to this region in higher vertebrates. Within the rhombencephalon, labeled cells were in the nucleus sensibilis nervi trigemini on both sides. A densely packed column of labeled neurons was found medial to the nucleus motorius nervi trigemini on the ipsilateral side, extending further rostrally in the isthmic region. Continuous columns of labeled cells were observed in the lateral reticular formation on each side in the basal plate ventral to rhombencephalic cranial motor nuclei. They extended from the rostral trigeminal region down into the rostral spinal cord. A comparison with data from cats and rats shows that the distribution of neurons that project to the nucleus motorius nervi trigemini is very similar in mammals and in agnathes. We conclude that the organization of the motor command network of the trigeminal system is well preserved throughout phylogeny and that the in vitro isolated brainstem of lampreys should be a useful model for the study of vertebrate feeding behavior.
Immunoreactivity for the neurokinin 1 receptor is contained in nerve cell bodies that have been deduced to be intrinsic primary afferent neurons in the myenteric plexus of the rat ileum. This study shows that neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity on these neurons represents receptors that can bind agonist and undergo endocytosis, and explores the properties of that endocytosis. Segments of rat ileum were incubated in Hanks' balanced salt solution for 1 h at 4 degrees C, followed by 1 h at 37 degrees C in physiological saline solution with nicardipine and tetrodotoxin, in the presence or absence of substance P. Tissue was then fixed and whole-mount preparations were processed for fluorescence immunohistochemistry, using antibodies raised against the C-terminus of the neurokinin 1 receptor. The intracellular and surface distributions of receptor immunoreactivity were analysed using confocal microscopy and quantified by computer analysis. In tissue not exposed to substance P, most neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity was confined to the surfaces of nerve cells, and 29% was intracellular. Exogenous substance P (10(-6) M) caused an increase in the amount of intracellular receptor to 72%. This internalization was concentration dependent, and maximum receptor internalization was achieved between 10(-6) M and 10(-5) M substance P (EC50 = 4.9 +/-1.6 x 10(-7) M). The specific neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, SR104333 (10(-6) M), inhibited substance P-induced endocytosis. In tissue that was incubated in 5 x 10(-5) M monensin (to trap endocytosed receptor in the cell), without the addition of substance P, a high level of intracellular neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity (81%) was also present. We deduce that endocytosis in the presence of monensin was stimulated by the release of tachykinins from intrinsic nerve endings, based on the following evidence: when endogenous release of tachykinin was blocked using a high magnesium/low calcium solution, or binding of tachykinins to the receptor was prevented using 10(-6) M SR140333, the intracellular receptor immunoreactivity remained at approximately 40%. Incubation with hypertonic sucrose also trapped receptors on the cell surface. Use of these protocols that modify receptor trafficking showed that agonist induced the neurokinin 1 receptors to aggregate, accumulate in endocytotic vesicles, move to perinuclear organelles and recycle to the surface in less than 1 h. This study indicates that there is sufficient release of endogenous tachykinins in the rat ileum to cause receptor internalization and implies that these intrinsic primary afferent neurons are likely to be under continuous influence from tachykinins in the normal intestine.
We have used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and calcium microfluorescence measurements to study the effects of ATP and elevated external K+ on properties of human microglia. The application of ATP (at 0.1 mM) led to the activation of a transient inward non-selective cationic current at a cell holding potential of -60 mV and a delayed, transient expression of an outward K+ current activated with depolarizing steps applied from holding level. The ATP response included an increase in inward K+ conductance and a depolarizing shift in reversal potential as determined using a voltage ramp waveform applied from -120 to -50 mV. Fura-2 microspectrofluorescence measurements showed intracellular calcium to be increased following the application of ATP. This response was characterized by an initial transient phase, which persisted in Ca2+-free media and was due to release of Ca2+ from intracellular storage sites. The response had a later plateau phase, consistent with Ca2+ influx. In addition, ATP-induced changes in intracellular Ca2+ exhibited prominent desensitization. Elevated external K+ (at 40 mM) increased inward K+ conductance and shifted the reversal potential in the depolarizing direction, with no effect on outward K+ current or the level of internal Ca2+. The results of these experiments show the differential responses of human microglia to ATP and elevated K+, two putative factors associated with neuronal damage in the central nervous system.
In the Weaver mutant mouse (wv/wv), an animal model for hereditary cerebellar ataxia, electrophysiological experiments have revealed a disorganized output of cerebellar Purkinje cells (the latter using GABA as an inhibitory transmitter) which, by a cascade of mechanisms, was thought to be the cause of the poor motor abilities. In Purkinje cell degeneration mice (pcd/pcd) lacking nearly all Purkinje cells and displaying milder motor deficiencies than wv, in comparison to wild-type mice, a strong increase in parvalbumin- and (co-localized with parvalbumin) glycine-immunopositive somata in the deep cerebellar and vestibular nuclei has recently been found. It was therefore intriguing to investigate whether motor performance in weaver mutants could be ameliorated by applying cerebellar lesions to eliminate the faulty output and to look for a change in transmitter weighting, indicated by a strong increase in parvalbumin-positive somata in areas (the respective target areas) which were formerly devoid of it. Ten Weaver mutants were subjected to cerebellar lesions. After removal of the vermis a total abolition of tremor, a definite improvement in the balance of affected body parts, an increase in locomotor activity when tested in an open-field matrix, and a strong increase in parvalbumin expression in Weaver mutant deep cerebellar and vestibular nuclei in comparison to wild-types have indeed been found. Increase in motor activity (or explorative behaviour) has been placed in relation to learning mechanisms. The increase in parvalbumin expression and the observed improvement in motor abilities and mechanisms probably related to learning underline the hypothesis that any change in the physiological equilibrium of the brain function by removal of input or output related to an assembly of nerve cells leads to a cascade of changes at the transmitter and neuronal level in near or distant connected brain structures.
To determine the role of the frontal cortex in the generalization of limbic seizures, we first produced unilateral cortical spreading depression to reversibly suppress neuronal activity in the motor cortex and then triggered an amygdala-kindled seizure. Three minutes following induction of unilateral spreading depression, stimulation of the ipsilateral kindled amygdala produced only a brief electrographic seizure, and completely failed to produce the bilateral electrographic and clonic convulsive seizures that were normally present during control trials. A very different outcome occurred when unilateral spreading depression was induced in the cortex contralateral to the kindled amygdala. In these cases, the electrographic amygdala seizures were normal and bilateral like control trials, yet the clonic convulsive seizures were lateralized and appeared to be controlled by the non-depressed, kindled hemisphere. These lateralized convulsions were identical to those observed following forebrain commissurotomy, when direct communication between the frontal cortices was permanently severed. The results of the present study further define the pathways of temporal lobe seizure propagation, and highlight the important contribution frontal cortical regions provide to both the electrographic and convulsive expression of amygdala-kindled seizures by amplifying local seizures and projecting them into downstream brainstem and spinal cord circuits.
Although the immature brain is highly susceptible to seizures, it is more resistant to seizure-induced neuronal loss than the adult brain. The developing brain contains high levels of neurotrophins which are involved in growth, differentiation and survival of neurons. To test the hypothesis that neurotrophins may protect the developing brain from seizure-induced neuronal loss, brain-derived neurotrophic factor up-regulation was blocked by intracerebroventricular infusion of an 18mer antisense oligodeoxynucleotide sequence to brain-derived neurotrophic factor in 19-day-old rats using micro-osmotic pumps. Control rats were infused with sense or missense oligodeoxynucleotide. Status epilepticus was induced by intraperitoneal administration of kainic acid 24 h after the start of oligodeoxynucleotide infusion. Seizure duration was significantly increased in the antisense oligodeoxynucleotide plus kainic acid group compared to groups that received kainic acid alone or kainic acid plus sense or missense oligodeoxynucleotide. There was no difference between groups in the latency to forelimb clonus. A twofold increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels was observed in the hippocampus 20 h following kainic acid-induced seizures. This kainic acid-induced increase was absent in animals receiving infusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to brain-derived neurotrophic factor at time of seizure induction. Hippocampi of rats in this group (antisense oligodeoxynucleotide plus kainic acid) showed a loss of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells and hilar interneurons. This neuronal loss was not dependent upon seizure duration since animals injected with diazepam to control seizure activity in the antisense plus kainic acid group also showed similar neuronal loss. Administration of kainic acid or infusion of antisense alone did not produce any cell loss in these regions. Induction of seizures at postnatal day 20, in the presence or absence of antisense oligonucleotide, did not produce an impairment in learning and memory when tested 15 days later in the Morris water maze. The hippocampi of these animals did not show any synaptic reorganization as assessed by growth-associated protein-43 immunostaining and Timm staining. Our findings confirm prior studies demonstrating that seizures in the immature brain are associated with little, if any, cell loss. However, when seizure-induced increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor is blocked, seizures do result in neuronal loss in the developing brain. Thus, brain-derived neurotrophic factor appears to provide protection against kainic acid seizure-induced neuronal damage in the developing brain.
Opioids and receptor antagonists of excitatory amino acids attenuate mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in animal models of neuropathic pain. Recently, a kainate receptor antagonist, 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate, has been developed but has not been tested for antinociceptive effects in animal models of neuropathic pain. We evaluated whether 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate attenuated responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli in uninjured (control) rats and increased responsiveness in rats with chronic constriction injury. Rats were tested for a number of withdrawal responses using a calibrated von Frey filament (mechanical stimulus) and withdrawal latencies from a radiant heat source (thermal stimulus). In control rats, 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate produced a small but significant decrease in responses from the mechanical stimulus (25 mg/kg) and significantly increased withdrawal latencies from the thermal stimulus at the highest dose administered (100 mg/kg). In addition, 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate greatly attenuated increased responsiveness in rats with chronic constriction injury. At four to eight days following chronic constriction injury, animals that displayed increased responsiveness to mechanical and thermal stimuli were injected intraperitoneally with either dizocilpine maleate (0.1 mg/kg), morphine (4 mg/kg), vehicle as controls, or 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate (25, 50, 75 or 100 mg/kg). 2S,4R-4-Methylglutamate (25, 50, 75 and 100 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the frequency of responses to mechanical stimuli (Wilcoxon, P &lt; 0.05) and the latency of responses to thermal stimuli (analysis of variance and Duncan's, P &lt; 0.05). Dizocilpine maleate and morphine, as expected, also reduced these responses. These results suggest that, in addition to opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, kainate receptors may play a role in the maintenance of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia associated with peripheral nerve injury.
To investigate different types of potential signalling mechanisms that regulate neuronal reactions to axotomizing injury, we compared the re-expression of the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, p75NTR, and the down-regulation of choline acetyltransferase expression, after various combinations of axotomy, crush injury and blockade of axonal transport in adult hypoglossal motor neurons in the rat. We found that pure axotomy in the absence of crush injury down-regulated choline acetyltransferase, but did not induce p75NTR re-expression. Blockade of axonal transport with colchicine had an identical effect. In contrast, both a crush injury on its own, or a crush injury proximal to a complete axotomy, induced p75NTR re-expression and down-regulated expression of choline acetyltransferase. Blockade of axonal transport with colchicine or tight ligation proximal to a crush prevented the crush injury-induced re-expression of p75NTR. Infusion of vehicle, nerve growth factor or ciliary neurotrophic factor induced low levels of p75NTR re-expression that were not significantly different from each other and were substantially lower than crush-induced levels. These findings confirm previous suggestions that the loss of choline acetyltransferase expression is due to the interruption of a constitutive retrograde signal, and show that the re-expression of p75NTR by adult motor neurons after axotomy is triggered by the retrograde transport of a positive signal derived from axons that are regrowing through damaged or denervated peripheral nerve tissue. The precise source and nature of this signal are not yet clear.
Effects of delivery of nerve growth factor, from a catheterized osmotic mini-pump to the proximal stump of a transected sciatic nerve, were compared with the effects of normal saline. A pilot measured retrograde axonal transport of nerve growth factor to determine a pump concentration which raised axonal transport ipsilaterally, but not contralaterally. The effects of this delivery over 12 days were then determined on expression of growth-associated protein-43, trkA, p75NTR and preprotachykinin A ipsilateral and contralateral to the pump in dorsal root ganglia at L4 and L5 (pooled). Ganglionic expression was measured both as messenger RNA and protein. Axotomy (saline pumps) increased growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA (318 +/- 14%: all changes are percent of contralateral, non-axotomized ganglia with saline pumps) and immunoreactivity (431 +/- 43%). The increase was significantly less (P &lt; 0.001) ipsilateral to nerve growth factor pumps (191 +/- 45%). Axotomy reduced expression of p75NTR (messenger RNA: 52 +/- 17%, P &lt; 0.01; immunoreactivity: 74 +/- 3%, P &lt; 0.05). These decreases were converted to increases by nerve growth factor delivery (respectively 143 +/- 40% and 281 +/- 67%; both P &lt; 0.01). With trkA, axotomy decreased the expression of the messenger RNA (68 +/- 40%, P &lt; 0.01) and of the primary translation product--110,000 mol. wt protein (55 +/- 12%, P &lt; 0.01)--but not the fully glycosylated trkA protein (mol. wt 145,000). Nerve growth factor delivery did not affect trkA expression. Axotomy reduced messenger RNA for the substance P precursor, preprotachykinin A, to 42 +/- 17% (P &lt; 0.01) and this reduction was prevented by nerve growth factor treatment. We suggest that the primary effect of nerve growth factor on axotomized C-fibres is not to promote regeneration, although that may be its secondary effect via an action on Schwann cells. It is possible that reduced neuronal sensitivity to nerve growth factor during regeneration is advantageous in suppressing nociception.
An extracellular electric field has been shown to influence the regeneration of nerve fibers within the adult mammalian spinal cord. However, in these studies, few axons were labeled by local application of intracellular markers relative to the number of axons transected. This has limited an evaluation of the robustness of the response, and the direction of growth of regenerating axons that might be influenced by the orientation of the applied voltage gradient. In this study, a hollow silicone rubber tube (c. 6 mm x 1 mm outside diameter) containing a cathodal (negative) electrode was inserted longitudinally into the dorsal half of the adult guinea-pig spinal cord. The electric field ( approximately 100 microV/mm) was imposed within the damaged spinal cord with an implanted d.c. stimulator for about three weeks. Based on previous studies, this orientation of the electric field would be expected to both initiate axonal regeneration and guide growing axons to, and into, the silicone guidance channel. In experimental animals (n = 20), a robust regeneration of axons into the tube was observed in more than half the cases. These axons were traced from surrounding white and gray matter by anterograde and retrograde labeling using a tetramethylrhodamine-conjugated dextran as an intracellular marker. Control animals (n = 16) received tubes with inactive electrodes. It was rare to find any axons within control guidance channels, since adult mammalian central nervous system axons do not regenerate. This report provides evidence for not only the facilitated regeneration of adult mammalian central axons, but also their guidance, by an imposed electric field.
PC12 cells undergo apoptosis when cultured under conditions of serum deprivation. In this situation, the activity of caspase-3-like proteinases was elevated, and the survival rate could be maintained by treatment with acetyl-DEVD-cho, a specific inhibitor of caspase-3. In a culture of PC12 cells treated with acetyl-DEVD-cho, where caspase-3-like proteinases are not activated, CA074, a specific inhibitor of cathepsin B induced active death of the cells. Cathepsin B antisense oligonucleotides showed a similar effect to CA074 on the induction of active cell death. By double staining of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling and activated caspase-3, the dying cells treated with CA074 were positive for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling staining but negative for activated caspase-3. Ultrastructurally, the cells were relatively large and had nuclei with chromatin condensation. The initiation of cell death by CA074 or the cathepsin B antisense were inhibited by the addition of pepstatin A, a lysosomal aspartic proteinase inhibitor, or by cathepsin D antisense. To examine whether this cell death pathway was present in cell types other than PC12 cells, we analysed dorsal root ganglion neurons obtained from rat embryos on the 15th gestational day, a time when they require nerve growth factor for survival and differentiation in culture. When cultured in the absence of nerve growth factor, the neurons survived in the presence of acetyl-DEVD-cho or acetyl-YVAD-cho. Under these conditions, CA074 reduced the survival rate of the neurons, which was subsequently restored by the further addition of pepstain A. These results suggest that a novel pathway for initiating cell death exists which is regulated by lysosomal cathepsins, and in which cathepsin D acts as a death factor. We speculate that this death-inducing activity is normally suppressed by cathepsin B.
Cerebral hypoxia/ischemia was shown to induce delayed, apoptotic neuronal death occurring through biochemical pathways potentially sharing common events with cell proliferation. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that a sublethal hypoxia may promote mitotic activity in developing central neurons. After six days in vitro, cultured neurons from the forebrain of 14-day-old rat embryos were exposed to hypoxia (95% N2/5% CO2) for 3 h and re-oxygenated for up to 96 h. Controls were kept in normoxia. As a function of time, cell viability was measured by diphenyltetrazolium bromide, and rates of DNA and protein synthesis were monitored using [3H]thymidine and [3H]leucine, respectively. Morphological features of apoptosis, necrosis and mitosis were scored under fluorescence microscopy after nuclear staining with 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, and the expression profile of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, a cofactor for DNA polymerase, was analysed by immunohistochemistry. Data were compared to those obtained after transient hypoxia for 6 h followed by re-oxygenation for 96 h and which was shown to induce apoptosis. Whereas a 6-h insult reduced cell viability, with 23% of the neurons exhibiting apoptosis by the end of re-oxygenation, a 3-h hypoxia led to a cycloheximide-sensitive increase in the final number of living neurons compared to controls (13%, P &lt; 0.01), with no signs of apoptosis, significantly increased thymidine incorporation into acid-precipitable fraction, and persistent over-expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Accordingly, final score of mitotic nuclei was significantly enhanced. In addition, the cell cycle inhibitor olomoucine (50 microM) prevented apoptosis consecutive to a 6-h hypoxia, but impaired the stimulatory effects of a 3-h insult. These findings support the conclusion that some neurons exposed to sublethal hypoxia may dodge apoptotic death by fully achieving the cell cycle.
The production and release of the corticosteroids, namely the glucocorticoids and the mineralocorticoids, are regulated by various stimuli, including stress. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that chronic exposure to stress or to stress levels of glucocorticoids produces atrophy of the apical dendrites of CA3 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. This stress-induced dendritic remodeling is blocked by the anti-epileptic drug phenytoin, which suppresses glutamate release, and also by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. These results suggest an interaction between glucocorticoids and excitatory amino acids in the development of stress-induced atrophy of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Since nitric oxide is proposed to play an important role in mediating both the physiological and pathophysiological actions of excitatory amino acids, we examined the regulation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA expression by corticosterone and phenytoin in the rat hippocampus. The expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA in hippocampal pyramidal neurons and granule neurons of the dentate gyrus was unaffected by 21-day administration of corticosterone (40 mg/kg), phenytoin (40 mg/kg) or the combination of corticosterone and phenytoin. However, in hippocampal interneurons, corticosterone/ phenytoin co-administration led to a significant reduction in neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA levels when compared with vehicle controls. These results suggest that, during exposure to stress levels of corticosterone, phenytoin inhibits glucocorticoid-induced atrophy of CA3 pyramidal neurons by reducing neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression in hippocampal interneurons. Moreover, these results may provide another example of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus mediated by nitric oxide synthase.
The impact of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion on cognitive function and cerebral capillary morphology in the hippocampus was examined. Young adult Wistar rats were subjected to permanent ligation of both common carotid arteries (two-vessel occlusion). One month after vascular occlusion, a small but non-significant impairment in the acquisition of spatial information was registered compared with sham-operated controls. Two months after surgery, the occluded animals displayed an impaired performance throughout the training period. One year after surgery, the acquisition curves demonstrated a significant attenuation of the learning rate in the occluded rats group, whereas no significant differences in long-term retention were observed. Thus, chronic hypoperfusion induced by two-vessel occlusion gave rise to impairment of spatial memory. Following behavioural testing, the rats were killed at the age of 17 months, and capillaries in the CA1 and dentate gyrus were examined using transmission electron microscopy. Typical age-related capillary abnormalities such as degenerative pericytes and thickened basement membranes (with or without fibrosis) were detected in the hippocampus of sham animals. In occluded rats, the occurrence of capillaries displaying such abnormalities almost doubled in the CA1 region, but was similar in the dentate gyrus, compared with sham controls. A highly significant correlation was found between the last Morris maze performance and the percentage of capillaries with deposits in the basement membrane in the hippocampal CA1 area of occluded rats, which was not present in the sham animals. We conclude that a long-term hypoperfusion accelerated the development of age-related ultrastructural aberrations of capillaries in the hippocampal CA1 area, but not in the dentate gyrus. Thus, not only neurons, but also capillaries in the hippocampal CA1 area are sensitive to an impaired microcirculation. Moreover, the cognitive performance of hypoperfused rats correlated closely with the condition of the capillaries in the CA1 area, suggesting that capillary integrity is one of the important determinants of brain function in conditions that compromise cerebral microcirculation.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the response to injury in the central nervous system are incompletely understood. Many cell activation systems may be involved. Tyrosine kinase receptors and their ligands play key roles in cell activation throughout life. The Eph family of tyrosine kinase receptors/ ligands are developmentally regulated and have been implicated in neural pathfinding. However, nothing is known about their role in the adult brain. We have used a model of central nervous system lesion in the rat, in which intraventricular injection of kainate was performed. This produced neuronal death in the CA3-CA4 fields and glial activation in the hippocampus. Highly degenerate primers, corresponding to the catalytic domain of the tyrosine kinase family, were used for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of pooled RNA extracted from injured hippocampi. The amplified products were cloned and 100 clones (arbitrarily named TK1-TK100) were examined and inserts sequenced. We obtained four clones containing inserts which belong to the Eph receptor family. Two of these inserts (TK17 and TK63) were EphA4 and the other were EphB2 (TK25) and EphA5 (TK23). We performed in situ hybridization, and we found our clones to be present in all fields of the hippocampus, their expression being mainly neuronal. Three days after lesion, prominent expression appeared in CA1 as compared to the same field in the non-treated contralateral hippocampus. We performed northern blot analysis for quantification, and found that, three days after injury, the values decreased to 33 +/- 4%, 33 +/- 1% and 46 +/- 1% of control values for TK63 (EphA4), TK25 (EphB2) and TK23 (EphA5), respectively. Neuronal death in CA3-CA4 might account for this fact. Later, five days post-injury, the expression increased to 63 +/- 3%, 71 +/- 1% and 111 +/- 5% of control values, respectively. This increase was due to an up-regulation of these genes in the hippocampal neurons that survive after the injury, as indicated by in situ hybridization.
Synaptic plasticity is generally believed to provide a cellular mechanism for learning and memory. One manifestation of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation in the CA1 region, was compared in hippocampal slices from young and older rats, both control animals and streptozotocin-treated diabetics with moderate hyperglycemia ( approximately 15 mM). Long-term potentiation of excitatory synaptic potentials, elicited by tetanic stimulation or by 2-deoxy-D-glucose application, was readily obtained in slices from young (four-month-old) control and diabetic rats, but not in slices from middle-aged (12-month-old) control rats. Both forms of potentiation, however, could be elicited in slices from 12-month-old diabetics. The unexpected finding that long-term potentiation is restored in moderately hyperglycemic older rats suggests that the blood glucose level of older animals may be important for synaptic plasticity and perhaps for the ability to learn.
Synaptic plasticity has been implicated in the mechanisms contributing to the shaping of the cortical circuits responsible for the transmission of the visual input in the rat primary visual cortex. However, the degree of plasticity of the thalamocortical synapse may change during development, perhaps reflecting the degree of stabilization of the circuitry subserving it. We have chosen the ability of this synapse to be first depressed and then potentiated as a specific indicator of its plasticity. In this study we have investigated how this parameter changes during development and the factors controlling it. Extracellular field potentials in cortical layers 2/3 were evoked by stimulation of the white matter in rat primary visual cortex slices prepared at different postnatal ages. Low-frequency stimulation (900 pulses at 1 Hz) of the white matter was used to induce long-term depression of field potential amplitude, whereas long-term potentiation was evoked by high-frequency stimulation consisting of three trains at 100 Hz. We provide evidence that while it is possible to potentiate previously depressed synapses soon after eye opening (postnatal day 17) this synaptic characteristic decreases rapidly thereafter. The decrease in this form of cortical synaptic plasticity closely matches the stabilization of the cortical circuitry towards an adult pattern of connectivity and function. Depressed cortical synapses cannot be potentiated in normal rats at postnatal 23, but they can be potentiated in rats reared in the dark from postnatal days 17 to 29. Moreover, application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, known to be expressed in an activity-dependent manner, was able to restore the ability of synapses to be potentiated after long-term depression, thus indicating its important modulatory role in brain development.
Fos-like immunoreactivity was used to compare the auditory brain stem excitation elicited by bipolar electrical stimulation of the cochlea at various current levels relative to the electrically evoked auditory brain stem response threshold for a 50-micros/phase monophasic pulse. Fos-like immunoreactive cells were labeled in primary auditory brain stem regions. The distribution of labeled cells was restricted to regions known to be cochleotopically related to the stimulated region of the scala tympani. Some labeled cells were observed at 2x electrically evoked auditory brain stem response threshold. The number, density and spatial distribution of labeled cells were quantified in the dorsal cochlear nucleus and inferior colliculus, and found to increase with increasing level of stimulation. For 50-micros pulses, the location of labeled neurons remained reasonably restricted to narrow bands within each region until the 1Ox level of stimulation (20 dB above electrically evoked auditory brain stem response threshold) was reached. While a monotonic increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity with increasing stimulus level was observed in most nuclei, for cells of the superficial layer of the dorsal cochlear nucleus, a non-monotonic change with increasing stimulus level was seen. This dorsal cochlear nucleus non-monotonicity may indicate that, at higher levels of stimulation, a secondary indirect inhibitory input, probably associated with activation of deep layer dorsal cochlear nucleus cells, reduces excitatory responses at the superficial layer of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Electrically evoked auditory brain stem response and Fos expression showed parallel changes as a function of stimulus level and pulse duration. The data indicate that discrete activation of cell populations within the central auditory pathways can occur with bipolar electrical stimulation to the highest levels of stimulation typically useful in humans. The data also indicate a close, but not identical, quantitative relationship between Fos-like immunoreactivity and electrophysiological response amplitude. These findings support the view that a study of Fos-like immunoreactivity can provide a powerful and quantitative tool for study of the dynamic response characteristics of cells of the central auditory system to electrical stimulation at suprathreshold levels. The data suggest that there is a monotonic increase in the number of neurons responsive to intracochlear electrical stimulation as a function of stimulus level, at least through the upper half of the dynamic range, but that this increase does not result in a complete loss of spatial selectivity. Coupled with previous psychophysical studies, these results suggest that the increase in the number of activated neurons is functionally beneficial, resulting in improved discrimination of changes in the electrical signals.
It is well established that low-level broad band noise can elicit an amplitude decrease in evoked otoacoustic emissions recorded in the opposite ear. However, the influence of the temporal characteristics of the contralateral stimulus on this effect remains largely unknown. In the present study, otoacoustic emissions evoked by 60 dB SPL clicks were recorded in 19 normal-hearing subjects using the Otodynamics IL088, successively in absence and presence of a contralateral noise that was either steady or modulated sinusoidally in amplitude at different depths (from 25% to 100% in 25 point steps) and rates (from 50 Hz to 800 Hz in half-octave steps). The energy was kept constant whatever the modulation depth. The results showed that the evoked otoacoustic-emission attenuation effect induced by contralateral stimulation varied depending on the modulation depth and frequency of the contralateral amplitude-modulated noise. The largest suppression effect was observed at the 100 Hz modulation frequency and the 100% modulation depth. The 50 Hz modulation resulted in less suppression than with unmodulated noise. An interpretation of these results in terms of the influence of temporal amplitude fluctuations falling within a certain range on medial olivocochlear bundle activity is discussed.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors are present in the nodose ganglion, which contains the cell bodies of vagal afferents, and in the nucleus tractus solitarius, where these afferent fibers terminate. This suggests that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are located presynaptically on visceral vagal afferents and/or their target neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius. To test this hypothesis, we combined anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine, following injections into the left nodose ganglion, with electron microscopic immunogold labeling of antipeptide antiserum against the R1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the nucleus tractus solitarius of rat brain. Within the medial nucleus tractus solitarius, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor R1 immunoreactivity was seen in dendrites (39% of 639 profiles), axons and axon terminals (41%), and a few neuronal perikarya and glia. Many vagal afferent axons and terminals (40% of 468 profiles) contained N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor R1 immunogold labeling. In addition, 42% of the dendrites contacted by vagal afferent terminals (n = 206) contained N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor R1 immunoreactivity. In axons and dendrites, the gold particles were occasionally seen within asymmetric postsynaptic junctions or at non-synaptic sites on the plasma membrane. More commonly, however, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor R1 labeling was seen on membranes of vesicular cytoplasmic organelles, suggesting that there is abundant N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor protein available for activity-dependent mobilization to the plasmalemma. Since many vagal afferents are glutamatergic, our results implicate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in autoregulation of the presynaptic release and postsynaptic responses to glutamate at the level of the first central synapse in the nucleus tractus solitarius.
The serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel that is distributed widely in the nervous system. Within the CNS, a significant portion of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors appears to be present on presynaptic nerve terminals and, using an imaging approach, it was shown previously that presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors on individual isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes) from rat corpus striatum display a distinctive set of properties-slow onset, little desensitization and high apparent permeability for Ca2+-when compared to those observed for 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors localized at postsynaptic sites on neuronal cell bodies. To consider whether their characteristic nature is a common feature of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors across the brain, we used confocal microscopy to measure changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration resulting from 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist-induced responses in synaptosomes from representative rat brain regions, ranging in expression of overall levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors from relatively low (cerebellum) to intermediate (corpus striatum and hippocampus) to high (amygdala). Application of 100 nM m-chlorophenyl biguanide, a specific 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor agonist, induced changes in relative intracellular Ca2+ concentration in subsets of synaptosomes from the corpus striatum (approximately 6% of total), hippocampus (approximately 3% of total), amygdala (approximately 30% of total) and cerebellum (approximately 32% of total). In order to assure the viability of the synaptosomes that did not respond to 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist stimulation, KCl (45 mM) was subsequently added to depolarize the same population of synaptosomes, and increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration were then seen in 80-90% of the synaptosomes from all four regions. The kinetics of the intra synaptosomal Ca2+ changes produced by K+-evoked depolarization were similar in all regions, showing a rapid rise to a peak followed by an apparent plateau phase. In contrast, the changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration evoked by m-chlorophenyl biguanide displayed substantially slower kinetics, similar to previous findings, but which varied among responding synaptosomes from one region to another. In particular, m-chlorophenyl biguanide-induced changes were notably slower in synaptosomes from the amygdala (rise time constant, tau = 25 s), when compared to responses in synaptosomes from other regions (striatum, tau = 12 s; hippocampus, tau= 9.6 s; cerebellum, tau = 7 s). To independently demonstrate the presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors on nerve terminals in the various regions using a molecular approach, we double-immunostained the synaptosomes for the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, using, respectively, a polyclonal antibody raised against an N-terminal peptide of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor and a monoclonal anti-synaptophysin antibody, and observed 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in varying subsets of the synaptosomes from each region, providing direct support for the results obtained in our functional experiments. These results suggest that the distinctive properties of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors are found throughout the brain, with evident differences in the kinetics of the responses to agonist stimulation observed across the brain regions studied. As expected, the proportion of the synaptosomal population that responded on application of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist varied in preparations from one region to another; however, the presence of a relatively high proportion of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in the cerebellum contrasts with previous binding studies demonstrating a relatively low overall density of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in this region. We hypothesize that presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors present on nerve terminals regulate the
The ascending serotonergic projections are derived largely from the midbrain median and dorsal raphe nuclei, and contribute to the regulation of many behavioral and physiological systems. Serotonergic innervation of the hamster circadian system has been shown to be substantially different from earlier results obtained with other methods and species. The present study was conducted to determine whether similar differences are observed in other brain regions. Ascending projections from the hamster dorsal or median raphe were identified using an anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgans leucoagglutinin, injected by iontophoresis into each nucleus. Brains were processed for tracer immunoreactivity, and drawings were made of the median raphe and dorsal raphe efferent projection patterns. The efferents were also compared to the distribution of normal serotonergic innervation of the hamster midbrain and forebrain. The results show widespread, overlapping projection patterns from both the median and dorsal raphe, with innervation generally greater from the dorsal raphe. In several brain regions, including parts of the pretectum, lateral geniculate and basal forebrain, nuclei are innervated by the dorsal, but not the median, raphe. The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus is the only site innervated exclusively by the median and not by the dorsal raphe. The pattern of normal serotonin fiber and terminal distribution is generally more robust than would be inferred from the anterograde tracer material. However, there is good qualitative similarity between the two sets of data. The oculomotor nucleus and the medial habenula are unusual to the extent that each has a moderately dense serotonin terminal plexus, although neither receives innervation from the median or dorsal raphe. In contrast, the centrolateral thalamic nucleus and lateral habenula have little serotonergic innervation, but receive substantial other neural input from the raphe nuclei. The normal serotonergic innervation of the hamster brain is similar to that in the rat, although there are exceptions. The anterograde tracing of ascending median or dorsal raphe projections reveals a high, but imperfect, degree of correspondence with the serotonin innervation data, and with data from rats derived from immunohistochemical and autoradiographic tract-tracing techniques.
Volume transmission in the brain is mediated by the diffusion of neurotransmitters, modulators and other neuroactive substances in the extracellular space. The effects of nitric oxide synthase inhibition on extracellular space diffusion properties were studied using two different approaches, the histological dextran method and the real-time iontophoretic tetramethylammonium method. The spread of biotinylated dextran (mol. wt 3000) in the extracellular space was measured morphometrically following microinjection into the neostriatum of male rats. Two parameters were used to describe the spread of biotinylated dextran in brain tissue, namely, total volume of spread and the mean grey value. The nonspecific nitric oxide synthase inhibitors NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10-100 mg/kg) and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate (30-200 mg/kg) decreased the total volume of spread of dextran in a dose-dependent manner. 7-Nitroindazole monosodium salt (50-100 mg/kg), a specific neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, did not change the total volume of spread of dextran. Using the tetramethylammonium method, the extracellular space diffusion properties can be described by the volume fraction (alpha = extracellular space volume/total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda2 = free diffusion coefficient/apparent diffusion coefficient in tissue), and non-specific uptake kappa' [Nicholson C. and Sykov E. (1998) Trends Neurosci. 21, 207-215]. Nitric oxide synthase inhibition by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (50 mg/kg) had relatively little effect on volume fraction and tortuosity, and no changes were observed after NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate (20 mg/kg) or 7-nitroindazole monosodium salt (100 mg/kg) treatment. A substantial increase was found only in non-specific uptake, by 13% after NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and by 16% after NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate, which correlates with the decreased total volume of spread of dextran observed with the dextran method. NG-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester treatment (100 mg/kg) decreased striatal blood flow and increased mean arterial blood pressure. The changes in dextran spread and non-specific uptake can be explained by an increased capillary clearance following the inhibition of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, as neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibition had no effect. The observed changes after non-specific nitric oxide synthase inhibition may affect the extracellular space concentration of neurotransmitters and modulators, and influence volume transmission pathways in the central nervous system by increased capillary and/or cellular clearance rather than by changes in extracellular space diffusion.
To examine changes in corticostriatal synaptic transmission in rats with ethanol withdrawal syndrome, intracellular and extracellular responses to subcortical white matter stimulation were recorded in neostriatal slice preparations. The resting membrane potential, input resistance and depolarizing postsynaptic potentials to single cortical white matter stimulation were similar in the neostriatum of naive and ethanol withdrawal rats. Repetitive stimulation of the white matter induced more pronounced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated postsynaptic potentials in ethanol withdrawal than naive rat neostriatum. In intracellular recording, tetanic stimulation (50 Hz, 20 s) induced more pronounced post-tetanic potentiation of depolarizing postsynaptic potentials in the neostriatum of ethanol withdrawal than naive rats. However, in extracellular recording, tetanic stimulation induced smaller post-tetanic depression of population spikes in the neostriatum of ethanol withdrawal than naive rats. Tetanic stimulation of the subcortical white matter induced long-term potentiation of postsynaptic potentials and population spikes in the ethanol withdrawal rat neostriatum, while long-term depression was evoked in the naive rat neostriatum. The induction of long-term potentiation was blocked by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or 7-chlorokynurenic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, but not by (RS)-methyl-4-carboxyphenyl-glycine, a metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. Dopamine also significantly depressed the induction of long-term potentiation in ethanol withdrawal rat neostriatum and this depressant effect was antagonized by the D2 antagonist L-sulpiride but not by the D1 antagonist SCH23390. These results indicate that the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of the corticostriatal glutamatergic responses, which might be necessary for induction of long-term potentiation, was enhanced in ethanol withdrawal rats. The depression of long-term potentiation induction by activation of D2 receptor suggests that corticostriatal N-methyl-D-aspartate response or intracellular mechanisms involving in the induction of the long-term potentiation can be suppressed by D2 activation and that the D2 effects are inhibited in the neostriatum of ethanol withdrawal rats.
We investigated whether the parafascicular thalamic nucleus and the prefrontal cortex, the two major excitatory inputs to the striatum, modulate the nitric oxide/cyclic GMP pathway in rat striatum. Electrical stimulation (10 pulses of 0.5 ms, 10 V applied at 10 Hz, 140 microA) delivered bilaterally to the parafascicular thalamic nucleus for a total of 4, 10 and 20 min, time-dependently facilitated cyclic GMP output in the dorsal striatum of freely moving rats, assessed by trans-striatal microdialysis. Electrical stimulation to the prefrontal cortex for a total duration of 20 min did not affect striatal cyclic GMP levels. The facilitatory effect observed after electrical stimulation of the parafascicular thalamic nucleus was blocked by co-perfusion with tetrodotoxin, suggesting that the effect is mediated by neuronal process(es). The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (30 microM infused into the dorsal striatum), and the competitive one, 3-[(R)-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-phosphonic acid (50 microM infused), but not local perfusion of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid antagonist, 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (15 microM perfused locally), abolished the cyclic GMP response in the striatum. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole, applied locally (1 mM), blocked the electrically evoked increase in striatal extracellular cyclic GMP. This increase was also prevented by local application (100 and 300 microM) of 1H-(1,2,4)-oxadiazolo-(4,3a)-quinoxalin-1-one, a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase. The results provide direct functional evidence of selective thalamic facilitation of the nitric oxide/cyclic GMP pathway in the dorsal striatum, through activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
This paper reports the localization pattern of calretinin, a calcium-binding protein, in the human retina during development, as studied by immunohistochemistry. A comparison is made of the cellular distribution of calretinin with two other calcium-binding proteins, calbindin and parvalbumin, recently reported by us in the human retina, and by parallel labeling with both antisera in the same tissues. At 11-12 weeks of gestation, calretinin immunoreactivity was expressed in many prospective ganglion cells of the central inner neuroblastic zone. At 16-17 weeks of gestation, the immunoreactivity was localized in the ganglion cell layer, inner plexiform layer, and in most differentiated amacrine, horizontal and cone cells located in the central (1-2 mm temporal from optic disc) to midperipheral parts of the retina. By midgestation (20-21 weeks), calretinin immunoreactivity was strongly developed in the cone photoreceptors. Parallel labeling with calbindin and parvalbumin antisera revealed that the calretinin-positive horizontal cells were somewhat smaller and less frequent and less intense than the calbindin- and parvalbumin-positive counterparts, at 16-21 weeks of gestation. No horizontal cells were calretinin immunopositive in the postnatal (four-month-old infant) and adult retinas examined. Also, at both stages, a few bipolar and cone cells were weakly immunoreactive. These observations suggest a critical role for calretinin in the development and maturation of a select class of horizontal cells. The widespread expression of immunoreactivity in the early ganglion cells indicates that calretinin may be involved in their differentiation. The weak immunoreactivity pattern noted in the adult photoreceptor and bipolar cells, and an apparent lack of immunoreactivity in the mature horizontal cells, tends to indicate that, unlike calbindin and parvalbumin, calretinin plays little role in the transport and physiological buffering of Ca2+ in these neurons of the human retina. It appears, however, that calretinin is predominantly involved in both processes in amacrine cells.
Optokinetic nystagmus is a reflex to stabilize an object image on the retina by compensatory eye movements. In lower vertebrates, the nucleus of the basal optic root participates in generating this reflex. Visual responses of 135 neurons were extracellularly recorded from the nucleus in pigeons and their receptive field properties were analysed on-line with a workstation. These cells could be categorized into slow (84%), intermediate (3%) and fast (13%) cells, preferring motion velocities of 0.25-8, 16 and 32-64 deg./s, respectively. Using whole-field gratings as stimuli revealed that 97% of the cells were selective for direction of motion and 3% were not. The directional cells preferred motion in the dorsoventral (35%), nasotemporal (34%), ventrodorsal (23%), or temporonasal (8%) directions. The omni-directional neurons were equally excited or inhibited by motion in all directions. The receptive field of basal optic neurons usually consisted of an excitatory receptive field and an inhibitory receptive field, both of which possessed opposite (heterodirectional) or identical (homodirectional) directionalities. In the case of homodirectional co-existence of both fields, whether whole-field gratings could produce visual responses from the cells would depend on the interaction between excitation and inhibition evoked in their excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields, respectively. Therefore, in some cases a single object was more effective than whole-field gratings in eliciting visual responses from basal optic neurons in pigeons. All of these receptive field properties revealed by on-line computer analysis may underlie the detection of optic flow and the induction of optokinetic responses.
Cooperation between vision and somatomotor behavior, such as manual exploration of objects, suggests close functional coupling between the visual and sensorimotor systems. We observed this type of interaction in human volunteers during binocular rivalry while following the level of sensorimotor mu rhythm with a whole-scalp neuromagnetometer. The observers viewed a weak vertical grating in the lower visual field of one eye and a strong horizontal grating in the same spatial window of the other eye. When stationary, the weak grating was permanently invisible because of its low contrast and spatial frequency. A sudden brief drifting movement of the weak grating wiped out the dominant grating, and the weak grating became visible for less than the 3-s interval between the movements. The postcentral 8- to 15-Hz mu rhythm was found in six of nine observers, and its level increased transiently by 10-15%, starting about 450 ms after the beginning of the movement. The mu level was also enhanced by the actual disappearance of the stronger stimulus, when it occurred in random order with the rivalry stimuli. Identical visual motion, when not accompanied by a perceptual dominance change, produced only minor effects on the mu rhythm. Our results show that a change in visual percept, even with no real or imagined motor response, is associated with modified activity of the postcentral gyrus. This modification may reflect visuohaptic interactions and/or activity of the distributed cortical network implementing visually guided movements.
The properties of postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of cortical, retinal and GABAergic thalamic afferents were examined in vitro in thalamocortical neurons of the guinea-pig dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Brief trains of stimulation (2-10 stimuli) delivered to corticothalamic fibers led to a frequency-dependent increase in excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude associated with an increase in activation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors. In addition, repetitive stimulation of corticothalamic fibers also gave rise to a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential that was blocked by local application of the glutamate metabotropic receptor antagonist alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine. In contrast, repetitive stimulation of optic tract fibers resulted in monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials that did not potentiate and were not followed by the generation of a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. Repetitive activation of the optic radiation also evoked both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. These inhibitory postsynaptic potentials exhibited frequency-dependent depression during repetitive activation. The presence of frequency-dependent facilitation of corticothalamic excitatory postsynaptic potentials and frequency-dependent decrement of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, as well as the ability of corticothalamic fibers to activate glutamate metabotropic receptors, suggests that sustained activation of corticothalamic afferents in vivo may result in postsynaptic responses in thalamocortical cells that are initially dominated by GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials followed by prominent monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials as well as a slow depolarization of the membrane potential.Therefore, the corticothalamic system may inhibit or enhance the excitability and responsiveness of thalamocortical neurons, based both on the spatial and temporal features of thalamocortical interactions.
Alzheimer's disease is a chronic degenerative disorder characterized by the intracellular accumulation of &quot;paired helical filaments&quot; consisting of highly phosphorylated tau and by extracellular deposits of aggregated Abeta-peptide. Furthermore, neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease is associated with the appearance of neuritic growth profiles that are aberrant with respect to their localization, morphological appearance, and composition of cytoskeletal elements. During early stages of Alzheimer's disease, a variety of growth factors and mitogenic compounds are elevated. Most of these factors mediate their cellular effects through activation of the p21ras-dependent mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, a pathway that is also involved in the regulation of expression and post-translational modification of the amyloid precursor protein and tau protein. We previously reported on the elevated expression of p21ras associated with paired helical filament formation and Abeta-deposits. However, the question arises as to whether induction of p21ras and the downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade is an early event with rather primary importance in the pathogenetic chain or simply occurs as a cellular response to neurodegeneration. The present study shows that expression of p21ras is clearly elevated in very early stages of the disease, preceding both neurofibrillary pathology and formation of Abeta.
Bovine SCO-spondin was shown to be a brain-secreted glycoprotein specifically expressed in the subcommissural organ, an ependymal differentiation located in the roof of the Sylvian aqueduct. Also, SCO-spondin makes part of Reissner's fiber, a phylogenetically and ontogenetically conserved structure present in the central canal of the spinal cord of chordates. This secretion is a large multidomain protein probably involved in axonal growth and/or guidance. As Reissner's fiber is highly conserved in the chordate central nervous system, we sought genes orthologous to the bovine SCO-spondin gene by Southern blot analysis in several members of the chordate phylum: urochordates, cephalochordates, cyclostomes, and lower and higher vertebrates, including humans. In addition, conserved glycoproteins present in the subcommissural organ and Reissner's fiber were revealed by immunohistochemistry using antibodies raised against bovine Reissner's fiber. Variation in the sites of Reissner's fiber production according to chordate subphylum, presence of this structure in the spinal cord, and conservation of the SCO-spondin gene are discussed in the context of chordate central nervous system development. These results indicate that SCO-spondin is an ancient ependymal secretion, making part of Reissner's fiber, that may have had an important function during the evolution of the central nervous system in chordates, including that of the spinal cord.
The vertebrate motor system chiefly employs motor unit recruitment and rate coding to modulate muscle force output. In this paper, we studied how the recruitment of new motor units altered the firing rate of already-active motor units during precision force production in the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Six healthy adults performed linearly increasing isometric voluntary contractions while motor unit activity and force output were recorded. After motor unit discharges were identified, motor unit firing rates were calculated before and after the instances of new motor unit recruitment. Three procedures were applied to compute motor unit firing rate, including the mean of a fixed number of inter-spike intervals and the constant width weighted Hanning window filter method, as well as a modified boxcar technique. In contrast to previous reports, the analysis of the firing rates of over 200 motor units revealed that reduction of the active firing rates was not a common mechanism used to accommodate the twitch force produced by the recruitment of a new motor unit. Similarly, during de-recruitment there was no tendency for motor unit firing rates to increase immediately following the cessation of activity in other motor units. Considerable consistency in recruitment behavior was observed during repeated contractions. However, firing rates during repeated contractions demonstrated considerably more fluctuation. It is concluded that the neuromuscular system does not use short-term preferential motor unit disfacilitation to effect precise regulation of muscular force output.
The activity of 259 task-related red nucleus neurons was recorded using chronic electrophysiological methods in free moving rats. Modulations in activity were analysed in relation to onset (first detected wrist movement) and end (arrival of the paw over the food) of a reach-to-grasp movement. Excitatory peaks were found to begin before, during and after the reach, but there were clear peaks in the distribution of onset times after reach-onset and before reach-end, reflecting the fact that one third of all peaks began specifically during the reach, although this occupied only a small fraction of the analysis time. Both excitations and inhibitions showed a strong tendency to end in close temporal association with reach-end. Analysis of excitatory modulation amplitudes showed that the largest peaks were formed when data was aligned to reach-end, and that these largest peaks nearly all began during the reach and ended precisely at the time the paw would have been about to grasp the food. The spread of neural activation onset times throughout the course of the complex reach-to-grasp movement is consistent with a relationship of individual neurons in the rat red nucleus with movements of all parts of the forelimb, as would be expected if all limb muscle groups are represented in the nucleus. On the other hand the disproportionate number of modulations that occur during the reach and their strong alignment with time of reach-end suggests there is a bias in red nucleus function towards the control of distal motions associated with accurate grasp, consistent with the result of recent lesion studies. This provides indirect evidence that functionally the rat red nucleus may be organized in a similar way to that of monkeys, in which an important role in control of accurate distal movements is well established. The possibility is discussed that red nucleus offers a timing signal for co-ordination of movements across joints, in particular the precise distal-proximal binding normally seen in accurate reach-to-grasp movements.
Deficits in forepaw adjusting steps in rats have been proposed as a non-drug-induced model of the akinesia associated with Parkinson's disease. The present study examined the relationship between contralateral forepaw adjusting steps and dopamine depletion after medial forebrain bundle lesions with 6-hydroxydopamine. Depletion of striatal dopamine by &gt;80% resulted in dramatic reductions in the ability of rats to make adjusting steps, but rats with &lt; 80% dopamine depletion had no detectable deficit. The deficit in forepaw adjusting steps was evident by three days after lesions and did not recover for up to 13 weeks. Compared to apomorphine-induced rotation, the deficit in adjusting steps was evident at milder dopamine depletion. Discrete striatal lesions were also utilized to localize the striatal subregions that mediate forepaw adjusting steps. Forepaw adjusting steps were reduced after lesions of dorsolateral, ventrolateral or ventrocentral striatum, but not after lesions of dorsomedial, dorsocentral or ventromedial striatum. The reductions in adjusting steps after the discrete striatal lesions were not as severe as after medial forebrain bundle lesions. Furthermore, none of the discrete striatal lesions resulted in rotation after apomorphine administration, although a few resulted in increase in amphetamine-induced rotation. Administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine partially reversed the reductions of forepaw adjusting steps in both sets of lesion experiments. Together, these results suggest that forepaw adjusting step deficits in the rat provide a good model for the akinesia of Parkinson's disease both in medial forebrain bundle and striatal lesions, and would be a useful tool for investigating the efficacy of various therapeutic strategies.
The objective of this study was to investigate whether bilateral dopamine depletion within the medial prefrontal cortex affects depression state, as well as the antidepressant efficacy of desipramine, in the forced swimming test. The rat's behaviour was evaluated by quantifying duration of immobility, climbing, swimming and diving. Immobility latency was also quantified and proved to be a suitable novel parameter. Monoamine levels within the medial prefrontal cortex were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography during Porsolt's test, as well as one week after it. While Porsolt's test was followed by a typical depression-like profile in sham rats, depletion of prefrontocortical dopamine (86% vs sham controls) reduced immobility and enhanced swimming, which is consistent with a diminished depression tonus. The observed enhancement of swimming was correlated with a high prefrontocortical serotonergic neurotransmission. On the other hand, desipramine induced antidepression-like effects in sham rats by increasing prefrontocortical noradrenaline and serotonin neurotransmisson, but also by blocking the normal increase in dopamine activity during the swimming test. Interestingly, desipramine behaved in a quite different manner in lesioned rats. Thus, immobility duration was not further reduced and only climbing, but not swimming, was enhanced. These effects were correlated with a preferential enhancement of noradrenaline neurotransmission. In conclusion, the results indicate that: (i) dopamine neurotransmission within the medial prefrontal cortex is a factor involved in depression, since dopamine reduction led to a low depression tonus; (ii) desipramine induces antidepression not only by enhancing prefrontocortical noradrenaline and serotonin neurotransmission, but also by blocking the normal increase in dopamine neurotransmission during a depressant situation; (iii) a selective enhancement of prefrontocortical serotonin neurotransmission mediates swimming; and (iv) a selectively augmented prefrontocortical noradrenaline activity mediates climbing during Porsolt's test.
The effects of a traumatic neocortical lesion on c-fos, junB, c-jun, MKP-1 and hsp72 expression were examined by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry 1-6 h following transcranial cold injury. The direct current potential was recorded in the injury-remote cortex to evaluate the role of transient direct current shifts, i.e. spreading depressions, in gene expression. In 14 out of 21 injured rats, spreading depression-like depolarizations of the direct current potential were noticed, which were accompanied by a transient decrease in electroencephalographic activity and increase in laser Doppler flow. In seven injured animals, no spontaneous spreading depressions were seen. In animals without spreading depressions, only a short-lasting response of c-fos, junB, c-jun and MKP-1 messenger RNAs as well as c-Fos protein was bilaterally found in the piriform cortex, and--with ipsilateral dominance--the dentate gyrus and hippocampal CA3/4 fields at 1 h after lesioning. In injured animals with spreading depressions however, a strong elevation was seen in layers II-IV and VI of the injury-remote ipsilateral cerebral cortex, which persisted over as long as 6 h. Messenger RNA levels for c-fos, junB and MKP-1 were closely related to the time interval between the last depolarization and the end of experiment. Levels were highest shortly after transient direct current shifts, and decreased thereafter mono-exponentially with half-lives of 48, 75 and 58 min for c-fos, junB and MKP-1 messenger RNAs, respectively. In 6 h animals with spreading depressions, hsp72 messenger RNA was slightly elevated in layer II of the injury-remote cortex, but heat shock protein 72 was not increased. The present results demonstrate that spreading depression is the most prominent factor influencing the trauma-related gene response in the lesion-remote cortical tissue.
To test the hypothesis that the human immunodeficiency virus-1-derived Tat protein may cause neuronal damage in the CNS, we evaluated the neurotoxicity of recombinant human immunodeficiency virus-1-derived Tat in vivo in seven-day-old rats. The intrinsic neurotoxicity of Tat (250 ng-1 microg) and the effects of direct intra-hippocampal co-infusion of Tat with N-methyl-D-aspartate were assessed. Extent of injury in the lesioned hippocampus was evaluated five days later, based on histopathology and morphometric measurements of hippocampal volume. To confirm that any observed neurotoxic effects were attributable to Tat bioactivity, all experiments included controls that received equal amounts of heat-treated (boiled) Tat. Intra-hippocampal injection of Tat, alone, elicited minimal focal tissue damage immediately adjacent to the injection track, and no hippocampal atrophy. Co-injection of Tat (500 ng) with N-methyl-D-aspartate (5 nmol, threshold excitotoxic dose) doubled the severity of hippocampal injury, quantified by comparison of bilateral hippocampal volumes, in comparison with animals that received heat-treated Tat or saline co-injections; in animals that received injections of N-methyl-D-aspartate (5 nmol) in combination with saline, heat-treated Tat, or Tat [mean(+/-S.E.M.) % volume loss values in the lesioned hippocampus were: 11(+/-3), 11(+/-3), and 26(+/-3), respectively (P&lt;0.002, ANOVA)]. Co-injection of 100 ng Tat with 5 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate exacerbated the severity of excitotoxic injury to a similar extent, whereas co-injection of 20 ng Tat had no effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated injury. Treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-((RS)-2-carboxypiperazin4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (20 mg/kg) markedly attenuated hippocampal injury resulting from co-injection of 100 ng Tat with N-methyl-D-aspartate [mean(+/-S.E.M.) % volume loss in lesioned hippocampus: 0.1(+/-2) in 3-((RS)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid-treated vs 19(+/-3) in controls, P&lt;0.001, ANOVA]. Co-injection of Tat had no effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated striatal damage or on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-pro hippocampal damage. These data support the hypothesis that locally released Tat could exert neurotoxic effects, mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, in vivo in the immature brain.
Among the basal cells of the olfactory epithelium is a stem cell which divides and whose progeny differentiate into new sensory neurons throughout adult life. Olfactory neurogenesis is highly regulated, for example it is stimulated by epithelial damage. Previous reports implicate several growth factors in progenitor cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation in vitro but these studies differ in growth conditions and age of donors making it difficult to determine precisely the roles of neurogenic stimuli and their sites of action. The aims of the present study were to develop purified basal cell cultures from adult olfactory epithelium and to stimulate neurogenesis in defined growth conditions in order to elucidate the cellular mechanisms by which neurogenesis is stimulated after epithelial damage. We show here that differentiated olfactory sensory neurons arise after biochemical or mechanical stress of rat and mouse olfactory epithelial cell cultures in the absence of growth factors, complex media (e.g., serum, conditioned media, pituitary and hypothalamic extracts), or other cells (e.g., explants, feeder layers of glia, or other non-epithelial cells). Prior to the stress, these cultures contained basal cells and supporting cells but not neurons. After the stress, some cells differentiated into bipolar neurons expressing a number of neuronal proteins including olfactory marker protein. Bromodeoxyuridine experiments show that the differentiated neurons arose from recently divided cells which did not divide again before differentiating. We conclude that stress disrupts cell surface contacts to induce the immediate neuronal precursors to undergo final differentiation into olfactory sensory neurons. This may be a mechanism for enhanced neurogenesis after epithelial damage.
Recently, we have reported that 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin activates Ca2+ channels in neuronal cells independently of its cofactor activities. Several reports indicate that depolarization-induced activation of Ca2+ channels enhances neuronal survival. Here, we investigated the effects of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin on survival of differentiated PC12 cells. Depletion of serum and nerve growth factor caused cell death, which was prevented by high potassium. 6R-Tetrahydrobiopterin also prevented death of PC12 cells cultured without serum and nerve growth factor in a dose-related manner at physiological concentrations (1-100 microM). However, surviving cells cultured with 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin showed undifferentiated form. 6S-Tetrahydrobiopterin, a diastereoisomer of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin, also had a cell-surviving effect, but it was less potent as compared with that of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin. The cell-surviving effect of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin was eliminated by a Ca2+ channel blocker, but persisted in the presence of an inhibitor for tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine, L-DOPA, an inhibitor for nitric oxide synthase and a nitric oxide generator. The effect of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin was mimicked by a cyclic-AMP analogue and inhibited by an inhibitor for protein kinase A. Ca2+ channel activity was preserved but dopamine-releasing activity was disturbed in surviving cells cultured with 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin. 6R-Tetrahydrobiopterin had no effect on mitogen-activated protein kinase. These findings suggest that, independently of its cofactor activities and mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin enhances survival of PC12 cells by activating Ca2+ channels via the cyclic-AMP-protein kinase A pathway, but that 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin does not preserve neuronal character induced by nerve growth factor.
We have studied the regulation of survival and serotonergic markers by neurotrophins and several trophically active cytokines in neurons cultured from the embryonic rat raphe region under defined conditions. At embryonic day 14, saturating concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4 and basic fibroblast growth factor elicited a two- to 2.5-fold increase in numbers of tryptophan hydroxylase- and serotonin-immunoreactive neurons over a four-day culture period. Transforming growth factor beta-1 and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor were less potent, while fibroblast growth factor-5 was only marginally effective. Distinct responses to different factors were noted depending on embryonic age and regional origin of serotonergic neurons. Thus, brain-derived neurotrophic factor augmented numbers of tryptophan hydroxylase-positive neurons at embryonic day 16 by a factor of seven, but only 1.5- to two-fold when cultures were established from day 13 or 14 embryos. In cultures of rostral serotonergic groups (B4-B9), numbers of tryptophan hydroxylase-positive neurons decreased in the absence of factors, whereas numbers of tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in cultures from caudal serotonergic groups (B1-B3) increased during a 12-day culture period. There was no evidence that serotonergic neurons undergo apoptosis (as visualized by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling) or proliferate (as visualized by 5-bromodeoxyuridine incorporation) in culture. Numbers of serotonergic neurons also increased when cultures were treated with a brief 24-h pulse of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, supporting the notion that changes in numbers of serotonergic neurons reflected alterations of phenotype rather than cell death or proliferation. The ability of cells to specifically take up the serotonin analog 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine was also up-regulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor in both rostral and caudal raphe cultures. Lability of the serotonergic phenotype was further suggested by the observation that ciliary neurotrophic factor fully prevented the brain-derived neurotrophic factor-mediated increase in tryptophan hydroxylase-positive neurons. The effect of ciliary neurotrophic factor was dependent on the presence of astrocytes. We conclude that serotonergic neurons show spatially and temporally distinct responses to neurotrophic factors, which seem to have a profound influence of the transmitter phenotype rather than on survival.
Single- and double-antigen localization procedures were used to study the distribution, morphological characteristics and chemical phenotype of neurons containing the calcium-binding protein calretinin in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei of the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). Calretinin was detected in neurons that belonged to a highly heteromorphic and widely distributed subpopulation of the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei in the cynomolgus monkey. Double-immunostaining experiments revealed that about 12% of these calretinin-containing neurons displayed immunoreactivity for another calcium-binding protein, Calbindin-D28k. The calretinin/Calbindin-D28k double-labeled neurons had small to medium-sized perikarya, from which emerged a bipolar or multipolar dendritic arborization. Calretinin was also present in approximately 8% of the cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine/laterodorsal nuclear complex, as visualized on single sections immunostained for both calretinin and choline acetyltransferase. These calretinin/choline acetyltransferase double-labeled neurons displayed markedly different sizes and shapes, and occurred preferentially in the pars compacta and dissipata of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Numerous calretinin-immunoreactive fibers were also present within and around the superior cerebellar peduncle. Some of these varicose fibers closely surrounded large non-immunoreactive neurons, as well as large neurons staining positively for choline acetyltransferase. This study provides the first evidence for the existence of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons within the primate pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. Our data suggest that calretinin may play a role in the function of the pedunculopontine/laterodorsal nuclear complex by acting either alone or in conjunction with acetylcholine or Calbindin-D28k.
The distribution of messenger RNA encoding the human GAT-1 (a high-affinity GABA transporter) was investigated in the subthalamic nucleus of 10 neurologically normal human post mortem cases. Further, the distribution of messenger RNA and protein encoding the three neuronally expressed calcium-binding proteins (calbindin D28k, parvalbumin and calretinin) was similarly investigated using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques. Cellular sites of calbindin D28k, parvalbumin, calretinin and GAT-1 messenger RNA expression were localized using human-specific oligonucleotide probes radiolabelled with [35S]dATP. Sites of protein localization were visualized using specific anti-calbindin D28k, anti-parvalbumin and anti-calretinin antisera. Examination of emulsion-coated tissue sections processed for in situ hybridization revealed an intense signal for GAT-1 messenger RNA within the human subthalamic nucleus, indeed the majority of Methylene Blue-counterstained cells were enriched in this transcript. Further, a marked heterogeneity was noted with regard to the expression of the messenger RNA's encoding the three calcium-binding proteins; this elliptical nucleus was highly enriched in parvalbumin messenger RNA-positive neurons and calretinin mRNA-positive cells but not calbindin messenger RNA-positive cells. Indeed, only an occasional calbindin messenger RNA-positive cell was detected within the mediolateral extent of the nucleus. In marked contrast, numerous parvalbumin messenger RNA-positive cells and calretinin messenger RNA-positive cells were detected and they were topographically distributed; parvalbumin messenger RNA-positive cells were highly enriched in the dorsal subthalamic nucleus extending mediolaterally; calretinin messenger RNA-positive cells were more enriched ventrally although some degree of overlap was apparent. Computer-assisted analysis of the average cross-sectional somatic area of parvalbumin, calretinin and GAT-1 messenger RNA-positive neurons revealed them all to be in the range of 300 microm2. The unique patterns of calcium-binding protein gene expression were similarly reflected at the protein level; an abundance of parvalbumin- and calretinin-immunopositive neurons were observed whereas only occasional intensely-labelled calbindin-immunopositive fibres were seen, no calbindin-immunopositive cells were detected. Single and double labelling studies show that parvalbumin-immunopositive neurons were mainly localized in the dorsal region of the nucleus, and calretinin-immunopositive neurons were mainly localized in the ventral region although there was overlap with double-labelled neurons located in the middle and dorsal regions. The significance of these findings, in particular the expression of GAT-1, a high-affinity GABA uptake protein, for basal ganglia signalling is discussed.
Previous studies have shown that exposure of organotypic cerebellar explants to cytosine arabinoside (Sigma) for the first five days in vitro drastically reduced the granule cell population and severely affected glial function. Myelination was absent and astrocytes failed to ensheath Purkinje cells. In the absence of astrocytic ensheathment, Purkinje cell somata became hyperinnervated by Purkinje cell recurrent axon collaterals. Recurrent axon collaterals also projected to Purkinje cell dendritic spines. In later studies, exposure of cerebellar cultures to a different formulation of cytosine arabinoside (Pfanstiehl) also affected granule cells and oligodendrocytes but did not compromise astrocyte function. The different susceptibility of astrocytes to the two preparations of cytosine arabinoside (Sigma and Pfanstiehl) has provided the opportunity to examine the electrophysiological properties of Purkinje cells in the presence and absence of functional glia. Ensheathed Purkinje cells in granuloprival cultures exhibit within two weeks in vitro similar passive membrane properties as Purkinje cells in control cultures. Their input resistance is significantly higher and their spontaneous single-unit discharge is significantly lower than that of unensheathed Purkinje cells. This effect suggests that ensheathed Purkinje cells in cytosine arabinoside (Pfanstiehl)-treated cultures are more responsive to the profuse Purkinje cell recurrent axon collateral inhibitory projection to dendritic spines. These studies also show that the presence of functional glia and/or astrocytic ensheathment can be correlated with the development of complex spike activity by Purkinje cells in vitro. Purkinje cells in cultures treated with cytosine arabinoside (Pfanstiehl), which does not compromise astrocytic ensheathment, display membrane conductances and spike activity similar to mature Purkinje cells in control cultures. By contrast, Purkinje cells in cultures treated with cytosine arabinoside (Sigma), and devoid of astrocytic ensheathment, display mainly simple spike activity reminiscent of the type of activity seen in less mature neurons.
Inflammation and hyperalgesia induce a dramatic up-regulation of opioid messenger RNA and peptide levels in nociceptive neurons of the spinal dorsal horn. Descending axons modulate nociceptive transmission at the spinal level during inflammatory pain, and may play a role in the development of persistent pain. The role of descending bulbospinal pathways in opioid-containing nociceptive neurons was examined. Removal of descending inputs to the spinal cord was performed by complete spinal transection at the midthoracic level. Seven days after spinal transection, rats received a unilateral hindpaw injection of complete Freund's adjuvant, a noxious stimulus that produces inflammation and hyperalgesia. Tissues from the L4 and L5 segments of the spinal cord were removed and analysed by northern blotting and immunocytochemistry. Spinal transection resulted in a further increase in both dynorphin and enkephalin messenger RNA content following complete Freund's adjuvant injection. There was a similar distribution and number of dynorphin-immunoreactive cells in transected rats compared to rats which received sham surgery. These data suggest that increased dynorphin messenger RNA ipsilateral to inflammation, in rats without descending axons, was due to increased expression within the same cells and not to recruitment of additional dynorphin-expressing cells. This reflects a greater dynamic response of nociceptive neurons to noxious stimuli in the absence of descending modulation. Therefore, the net effect of descending afferents on spinal nociceptive circuits may be to reduce the response of opioid-containing neurons to noxious stimulation from the periphery.
Nociceptive-specific and multireceptive neurons in the lumbar dorsal horn are excited by noxious stimuli applied to the hindpaw and inhibited by noxious stimuli applied to distant body regions. Given that at least a subset of these neurons are part of the circuit for nociceptive reflexes, inhibition of nociceptive-specific and multireceptive neurons should inhibit nociceptive reflexes. Unfortunately, previous attempts to test this hypothesis have been inconclusive because of methodological differences between electrophysiological and behavioral experiments. The present study overcame this problem by recording neural and reflex activity simultaneously. Rats were anesthetized with halothane and surgically prepared for single-unit recording from the lumbar dorsal horn. Hindpaw heat caused a burst of activity that reliably preceded hindpaw withdrawal in 10 nociceptive-specific and 17 multireceptive neurons. A distant noxious stimulus (tail in 50 degrees C water or ear pinch) inhibited the evoked activity of both nociceptive-specific and multireceptive neurons and simultaneously changed the topography of the hindpaw reflex from flexion to extension without altering reflex latency. The present data are consistent with previous reports of inhibition of nociceptive-specific and multireceptive neurons during application of a distant noxious stimulus. However, inhibition of nociceptive-specific and multireceptive neurons concomitant with a shift in the hindlimb reflex from flexion to extension suggests that these neurons are part of the circuit for flexor reflexes specifically. Presumably, lateral inhibition from the flexor to extensor circuit allows for the release of hindlimb extension when neurons in the flexion circuit are inhibited by a distant noxious stimulus. Such a system reduces the chance of injury by allowing for withdrawal reflexes to a single noxious stimulus and escape reactions, such as running and jumping, to multiple noxious stimuli.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of outward currents were obtained from acutely dissociated neurons of the rat neostriatum in conditions in which inward Ca2+ current was not blocked and intracellular Ca2+ concentration was lightly buffered. Na+ currents were blocked with tetrodotoxin. In this situation, about 53 +/- 4% (mean +/- S.E.M.; n = 18) of the outward current evoked by a depolarization to 0 mV was sensitive to 400 microM Cd2+. A similar percentage was sensitive to high concentrations of intracellular chelators or to extracellular Ca2+ reduction (&lt;500 microM); 35+/-4% (n=25) of the outward current was sensitive to 3.0 mM 4-aminopyridine. Most of the remaining current was blocked by 10 mM tetraethylammonium. The results suggest that about half of the outward current is activated by Ca2+ entry in the present conditions. The peptidic toxins charybdotoxin, iberotoxin and apamin confirmed these results, since 34 +/- 5% (n = 14), 29 5% (n= 14) and 28 +/- 6% (n=9) of the outward current was blocked by these peptides, respectively. The effects of charybdotoxin and iberotoxin added to that of apamin, but their effects largely occluded each other. There was additional Cd2+ block after the effect of any combination of toxins. Therefore, it is concluded that Ca2+-activated outward currents in neostriatal neurons comprise several components, including small and large conductance types. In addition, the present experiments demonstrate that Ca2+-activated K+ currents are a very important component of the outward current activated by depolarization in neostriatal neurons.
It has been demonstrated in rats that embryonic striatal grafts placed in the excitotoxically lesioned striatum establish neuronal connections with the host globus pallidus. In order to determine whether the morphologically verified connections between the grafts and host are functional, the present study investigated the effects of embryonic striatal grafts on changes in the neuronal activity of the globus pallidus in rats with quinolinic acid-induced striatal lesions. The activity of pallidal neurons was determined by use of quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry and an electrophysiological technique. Striatal lesions induced an increase in both the cytochrome oxidase activity and the spontaneous firing rate of the globus pallidus ipsilateral to the lesions. Grafts derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence, but not the medial ganglionic eminence, reversed the lesion-induced increase in the cytochrome oxidase activity of the globus pallidus with concomitant reduction of apomorphine-induced rotational asymmetry. The lateral ganglionic eminence grafts also attenuate the increase in the firing rate of pallidal neurons in rats with striatal lesions. The present results provide evidence that striatal lesions lead to the loss of a tonic inhibitory input to the globus pallidus with consequent increase in the activity of pallidal neurons, and that intrastriatal striatal grafts reverse the altered activity of pallidal neurons. The findings strongly suggest that embryonic striatal grafts functionally repair the damaged striatopallidal pathway.
We previously presented evidence [Nagy et al. (1997) Neuroscience 78, 533-548] that, in addition to their ubiquitous expression of connexin43, astrocytes produce a second connexin suggested to be connexin30, a recently discovered member of the family of gap junction proteins. A connexin30 specific antibody was subsequently developed and utilized here to confirm and extend our earlier observations. On western blots, this antibody detected a 30,000 mol. wt protein in rat, mouse, cat and human brain, and exhibited no cross-reaction with connexin43, connexin26 or any other known connexins expressed in brain. Immunohistochemically, connexin30 was localized in astrocytes, at gap junctions between these cells and on the astrocyte side of gap junctions between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Double labelling revealed co-localization of connexin30 and connexin43 at astrocytic gap junctions. Punctate immunolabelling patterns for both connexins were qualitatively similar, but differences were evident. In contrast to regional connexin43 expression, diencephalic and hindbrain areas exhibited considerably greater expression than forebrain areas, subcortical perivascular astrocytic endfeet were more heavily labelled for connexin30, white matter tracts such as corpus callosum, internal capsule and anterior commissure were devoid of connexin30, and appreciable levels of connexin30 during development were not seen until about postnatal day 15. These results indicate that connexin30 is expressed by gray, but not white matter astrocytes, its distribution is highly heterogeneous in gray matter, it is co-localized with connexin43 at astrocytic gap junctions where it forms homotypic or heterotypic junctions, and its emergence is delayed until relatively late during brain maturation. Taken together, these results suggest that astrocytic connexin30 expression at both regional and cellular levels is subject to regulation in adult brain as well as during brain development.
Syntaxin 1 has been shown to play an outstanding role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Two isoforms of this protein are expressed in neurons, syntaxin 1A and 1B. However, the physiological significance of the occurrence of such closely related isoforms is not still understood. Here, by means of isoform-specific immunocytochemistry, we show that syntaxin 1A and 1B display different patterns of expression in the rat peripheral nervous system. Nerve terminals of sensory neurons reaching the spinal cord were clearly enriched in immunoreactive syntaxin 1A. Both isoforms were detected in cell bodies of sensory neurons at the dorsal root ganglia, although specific immunolabelling displayed very different patterns at the cellular level. Motor endplates and muscle spindles were only immunostained for syntaxin 1B. Syntaxin 1A was mainly associated with nerve fibres reaching small blood vessels. In addition, nerve plexuses of the enteric nervous system showed immunostaining for both syntaxin isoforms. The different distribution pattern of the two neuronal syntaxin isoforms in the rat peripheral nervous system could be related to isoform-specific biochemical properties involved in the exocytotic process.
Synaptotagmins are a large family of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins, that appear to be involved in neurotransmitter secretion from small secretory vesicles. We have quantitatively analysed the messenger RNA levels of synaptotagmin I-IV isoforms in adult hypothalamic and pituitary tissues in order to determine which of these isoforms dominate in these tissues which mainly secrete peptides from large dense core vesicles. We also studied the expression of these isoforms during prenatal (E15, and E17) and postnatal (P1, P7, P14 and P21) rat hypothalamic development. In order to assay small individual samples (e.g., pituitary and embryonic tissues), we employed quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction methods. Our results show that synaptotagmin I messenger RNA is the most abundant isoform in all tissues, and is about 5.4- or 38-fold higher in hypothalamus than in neurointermediate and anterior pituitary lobe, respectively. Synaptotagmin II, which is very abundant in cerebellum, is relatively low in hypothalamus (5% of cerebellum) and virtually absent from the pituitary. Synaptotagmin III is about 10 times greater in the neural tissues versus the pituitary, and synaptotagmin IV was the least abundant isoform in all the tissues. Developmental analyses of the synaptotagmin isoforms in rat hypothalamus shows that all isoforms are at low levels during embryonic stages and increase postnatally. Synaptotagmin I and II have similar patterns and rise to maximum (adult) levels around P14, whereas synaptotagmin III and IV reach their maximum levels considerably earlier, at P1. These data show that synaptotagmin I is the dominant isoform in both predominantly peptide secreting systems (e.g., in pituitary tissues) and in neurotransmitter secreting systems (e.g., in cerebellum). While the developmental expression patterns of synaptotagmin I and II parallels the temporal development of synaptogenesis in the nervous system, the early maximal expression of synaptotagmin III and IV suggests that these isoforms may have other functions during early postnatal development.
Nerve growth factor differentiates precursor cells into sympathetic neurons. Does acquisition of a &quot;neuronal&quot; phenotype after nerve growth factor involve biosynthesis of chromogranin A, the major soluble protein in chromaffin granule cores? Nerve growth factor activated chromogranin A gene expression 7.6-fold in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells, and similarly activated PC12-transfected mouse, rat or human chromogranin A promoter/reporter constructs. Chromogranin A promoter 5'-deletions narrowed the nerve growth factor response element to a region from - 77 to - 61 bp upstream of the cap site, a region containing the chromogranin A cyclic AMP response element (TGACGTAA). Three different site-directed mutations of the cyclic AMP response element each reduced the nerve growth factor effect by &gt;90%. Transfer of the cyclic AMP response element to a heterologous (thymidine kinase) promoter activated that promoter approximately 5-fold after nerve growth factor, while transfer of a cyclic AMP response element point-gap mutant (TGA-GTAA) to a heterologous promoter abolished the nerve growth factor effect. These findings indicate that the cyclic AMP response element in cis is, at least in part, both necessary and sufficient to activate the chromogranin A gene. Chemical blockade of the nerve growth factor receptor TrkA or the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway component MEK substantially diminished nerve growth factor-induced expression of chromogranin A. By contrast, the response of chromogranin A to nerve growth factor was not impaired after blockade of phospholipase C-gamma or phosphoinositide-3 kinase. Chemical blockade of TrkA, Ras, MEK or mitogen-activated protein kinase similarly inhibited nerve growth factor activation of chromogranin A. Expression of constitutively activated Ras, Raf or MEK mutants increased chromogranin A promoter activity. Expression of dominant negative (inhibitory) mutants of Sos, Ha-Ras, Rafl, mitogen-activated protein kinase, ribosomal protein S6 serine kinase II (CREB kinase) or CREB (KCREB) each inhibited the nerve growth factor-induced increase in chromogranin A promoter activity. Thus, each component of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway is crucially involved in relaying the nerve growth factor signal in trans to the chromogranin A gene, in the following proposed sequence: nerve growth factor --&gt; TrkA --&gt; Shc/Grb2/Sos --&gt; Ras --&gt; Raf --&gt; MEK --&gt; mitogen-activated protein kinase --&gt; ribosomal protein S6 serine kinase II --&gt; CREB cyclic AMP response element.
In this study, we describe the distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the binocular primary visual cortex of the rat during postnatal development, starting at postnatal day (P) 13. High-resolution non-isotopic in situ hybridization combined with Nissl staining were used to quantify the number of cells expressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. At P13, most of the cells express brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. After eye opening (P14-P15), the relative number of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA-positive cells decreases by a factor of two in layer IV, i.e. that receiving the visual input, and in layer V. To verify the hypothesis that light could trigger this decrease, pups were kept in complete darkness from birth. At P22, pups reared in the dark were killed and the visual cortex processed for in situ hybridization and northern blotting. The results obtained in dark-reared animals prove that light deprivation can: (i) decrease the general levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA, and (ii) increase the relative number of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA-positive cells in layers IV and V with respect to control rats. Exposure to light for five days after the period of darkness restored the number of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA-positive cells. We conclude that the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the rat primary visual cortex is regulated during development and that this process is under the control of visual input.
In the human thalamic ventralis lateralis nucleus the responses of 184 single units to verbally ordered voluntary movements and some somatosensory stimulations were studied by microelectrode recording technique during 38 stereotactic operations on parkinsonian patients. The tests were carried out on the same previously examined population of neurons classified into two groups, named A- and B-types according to the functional criteria of their intrinsic structure of spontaneous activity patterns. The evaluation of the responses of these units during functionally different phases of a voluntary movement (preparation, initiation, execution, after-effect) by means of the principal component analysis and correlation techniques confirmed the functional differences between A- and B-types of neurons and their polyvalent convergent nature. Four main conclusions emerge from the studies. (1) The differences of the patterns of A- and B-unit responses during the triggering and the execution phases of a voluntary movement indicate the functionally different role of these two cell types in the mechanisms of motor signal transmission. (2) The universal non-specific form of anticipatory A- and B-unit responses during the movement preparation and initiation of various kinds of voluntary movements reflect the integrative &quot;triggering&quot; processes connected with the processing and programming of some generalized parameters of a motor signal and not with the performance of a certain forthcoming motor act. (3) The expressed intensity of these &quot;triggered&quot; non-specific processes in the anterior parts of the ventralis lateralis nucleus indicates their relation not only to the motor but to the cognitive attentional functions forming a verbally ordered voluntary movement. (4) The appearance of the transient cross-correlations between the activities of adjacent A- and B-cells and also the synchronization of their 5 +/- 1 Hz frequency during and/or after motor test performances point to the contribution of these two populations to central mechanisms of the voluntary movement and the parkinsonian tremor. The functional role of two A- and B-cell types is discussed with references to the central mechanisms of verbally ordered voluntary movements and the parkinsonian tremor.
In the human thalamic ventralis lateralis nucleus the spontaneous activity of 235 single units during 38 stereotactic operations in locally anaesthetized parkinsonian patients was analysed. Two basic cell types (A and B) were shown to exist in this nucleus: (i) with unitary irregular (2-40/s) discharges characterized by a tendency to spike grouping in the range of 4-6 Hz and 10-30 Hz (A-type, 74%), (ii) with bursting discharges firing in short trains (5-30 ms) characterized by an unstable rhythmic 3-6 Hz pattern similar to a low-threshold Ca2+ intrinsic burst structure of discharges (B-type, 26%). The functional brain changes after a motor tests performance were accompanied by the appearance of two different transient modifications of activity of A-cells pattern into rhythmic burst discharges: (i) in the range of 3-6 Hz, similar to the bursts found for B-cells and recorded mainly in the anterior ventrolateral region in rigid patients, (ii) in the range of 5 +/- 1 Hz, characterized by other interspike interval and recorded in the posterior ventrolateral region in patients with tremor. Modifications during short-term anaesthesia resulted in 10-15 Hz burst discharges that were associated with gradual disappearance of A-cells activity. In contrast to what happens for A-cells, the activity of bursting B-units was characterized by an invariant intrinsic structure of discharges irrespective of the functional brain changes or the forms of parkinsonian pathology. The nature of A- and B-units as well as the mechanisms of transient modifications of their spontaneous activity patterns due to the functional brain changes are discussed.
Cortistatin is a 14-residue putative neuropeptide with strong structural similarity to somatostatin. Even if it shares several biological properties with somatostatin, the effects of cortistatin on cortical electrical activity and sleep are opposite to those elicited by somatostatin. We recently demonstrated that somatostatin could modulate glutamate sensitivity, either positively through activation of the sstl receptor subtype, or negatively through activation of the sst2 receptor subtype in hypothalamic neurons in culture which express almost exclusively these two sst subtypes. Thus, in the present study we compared the effects of cortistatin and somatostatin in hypothalamic neurons in culture, in order to define the former peptide activity on both subtypes. We first determined that the affinities of cortistatin and somatostatin were similar on cloned rat sstl and sst2 receptor subtypes in transfected cells and hypothalamic neurons membranes. We then found that cortistatin, like somatostatin, depresses the glutamate response but, unlike somatostatin, never potentiates glutamate sensitivity in hypothalamic neurons. The observed effect of cortistatin is strongly suggestive of an activation of the somatostatin sst2 receptor subtype in hypothalamic neurons in culture.
Non-volatile general anaesthetics are thought to reduce brain activity by potentiating inhibitory GABA(A) receptor channels but also cause adverse effects by suppress ing L-type calcium channels in the heart. In sections of the spinal cord, the non-volatile anaesthetics pentobarbital, thiopental and propofol reduced excitability of sensorimotor neurons by suppressing plateau potentials mediated by L-type calcium channels. This effect was independent of GABA(A) receptor potentiation but occurred in an overlapping concentration range. Therefore, the suppressive effect of non-volatile anaesthetics on L-type calcium channels can contribute to the reduction of spinal sensorimotor activity during anaesthesia. The results support the idea that general anaesthesia is achieved through several mechanisms and suggest that procedures for anaesthesia may be improved by combining selective agents for each mechanism in optimal concentrations.
Axon collaterals originating from pyramidal cells are one of the most abundant presynaptic elements in the neocortical circuits. To understand a quantitative aspect of synaptic transmission between pyramidal cells, we attempted to estimate single channel conductance by applying non-stationary noise analysis to unitary excitatory postsynaptic currents. Simultaneous recordings were carried out in two pyramidal cells of superficial layers in visual cortical slices. Unitary postsynaptic currents, which were evoked by action potentials of presynaptic cells impaled with conventional sharp electrodes, were recorded from postsynaptic cells with whole-cell patch clamp techniques. Estimated single channel conductance was 12.8 3.8(S.D.) pS for kittens and 10.4 +/- 1.5 pS for rats. Dividing these values by the conductance for unitary postsynaptic currents, we calculated the number of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels activated during the postsynaptic currents. The obtained estimates were 52 (kittens) and 41 (rats). To further estimate the number of channels involved in each quantal event, we analysed amplitude histograms of miniature and spike-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. The derived number of estimates from these two kinds of histograms agreed quite well; about 20 channels were required for individual quantal events. Assuming open probability of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels to be 0.7, our results suggest that the number of channels available for synaptic transmission between individual pyramidal cells would be 74 (kittens) and 59 (rats). We propose that at pyramidal-pyramidal synapses, the number of open channels is several times smaller than that previously reported for the synapses between geniculo-cortical afferent and layer IV spiny stellate cells.
Studies carried out within the primary visual system have shown that neural responses to light stimuli transmitted via the retinogeniculate pathway are significantly altered when these stimuli are made aversive through conditioning. The effect of such aversive conditioning on neural responses to light transmitted within the circadian visual system has not been investigated. In mammals, the principal projection of the circadian visual system, the retinohypothalamic tract, is functionally and anatomically distinct from the primary visual pathway allowing for direct transmission of light from the retina to the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the circadian clock. Light transmitted within this pathway is essential for entrainment of circadian rhythms providing the critical stimulus for resetting the circadian clock. We asked whether the response of neural elements within the suprachiasmatic nucleus to a resetting light stimulus would be altered if that stimulus had acquired aversive properties through conditioning. To study this we assessed the effect of a light stimulus made aversive through pairings with footshock on a cellular correlate of clock resetting, the expression of the transcription factor Fos in neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. We show that Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus in response to light previously paired with footshock is significantly suppressed. This finding provides the first evidence that the effectiveness of a light as a resetting stimulus can be modulated by its conditioned aversive properties.
Electron energy loss spectroscopic analysis of squid giant axons in a phosphorus energy window yielded bright signals, which were shown to originate from highly phosphorylated neurofilaments. The frequency and distribution of these signals were analysed at defined intervals in cross-sections of the giant axon, starting from its origin in the stellate ganglion and extending distally along the stellar nerve. The analysis revealed a proximodistal gradient of increasing neurofilament phosphorylation. Within the stellate ganglion and for some distance beyond, the increase in frequency of signals correlated with the widening of the neurofilament meshwork and the radial growth of the axon. This agrees with the hypothesis that neurofilament phosphorylation regulates axon calibre by affecting interfilament spacing. In distal axon domains where the axon diameter diminished, contrary to expectations, the spacing of signals increased and the signals were significantly larger. Hyperphosphorylation apparently compensated for a diminishing supply of neurofilament protein. Contrary to predictions, the presynaptic terminal of the giant synapse contained a distinct and highly phosphorylated neurofilament meshwork. We conclude that the growth of the axon diameter is a function of neurofilament phosphorylation, interfilament spacing and neurofilament density. A mature and highly phosphorylated neurofilament cytoskeleton completely filled the presynaptic terminal of the giant synapse.
Transient global ischemia results in delayed selective neuronal death of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Glucocorticoids increase and adrenalectomy decreases the rate of neuronal death; however, they also produce changes in brain temperature, serum glucose and adrenocorticotropic hormone levels. In order to understand the role of glucocorticoids in regulating ischemic cell death, we studied RU 38486, a glucocorticoid receptor blocker, and Org 2766, a non-steroidogenic adrenocorticotropic hormone 4-9 analog. Male Mongolian gerbils were subjected to 5 min of bilateral carotid artery occlusion under a controlled temperature environment (37.0-38.0 degrees C). Animals were injected with either physiological saline, Org 2766 (10 microg/kg/24 h) or RU 38486 (50 mg/kg/8 h), beginning just prior to the occlusion until killing at either day 4 or 7. Blood was collected for serum glucose and cortisol analysis. Damage was evaluated by blinded counts of CAI neurons. Both RU 38486 and Org 2766 treatment significantly (P&lt;0.004) reduced hippocampal CA1 damage at day 4, but not on day 7. While RU 38486 raised serum cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone levels, neither treatment affected temperature or serum glucose. The fact that RU 38486 mimicked adrenalectomy without changing temperature suggests that the decreased rate of cell death resulted from either removal of glucocorticoids or increases in adrenocorticotropic hormone. The ability of Org 2766 to affect this rate strongly suggests that adrenocorticotropic hormone is the active regulatory hormone rather than glucocorticoids. While both RU 38486 and Org 2766 prolong the survival of CA1 neurons after transient global ischemia, only RU 38486, which is available and tested in both animals and humans, can block the detrimental effects of post-ischemia glucocorticoid elevations. Thus, the administration of RU 38486 may be a practical adjunct to other neuroprotective agents for victims of cardiac arrest, anesthetic accidents or drowning.
Volumes of neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid NG 108-15 cells were electronically measured in order to characterize the mechanisms involved in volume regulation in isosmotic and anisosmotic conditions. The cells behave as perfect osmometers when tonicity was changed at constant chloride concentration by adding sucrose or replacing NaCl with CaCl2 or MgCl2. In contrast, the cell volume was poorly dependent on tonicity when the Cl- concentration was changed by adding NaCl or H2O. Cell shrinkage was induced by cell stirring or after a hypotonicity-induced swelling. These volume decreases were abolished by caffeine but not by ryanodine or EGTA. Shrinkage was also induced by the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin. The ionomycin-induced volume decrease was abolished by EGTA. Cell swelling induced an outwardly rectifying Cl- current which was blocked by 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid and dihydroindenyloxy-alkanoic acid. When the tonicity was reduced at constant Cl- concentration by replacing NaCl with CaCl2 or MgCl2, the volume increased and then slowly decreased towards its control value. This regulatory volume decrease was blocked by 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid and dihydroindenyl-oxy-alkanoic acid. Long-term (hours-days) cell shrinkage was induced by a reduction of the culture medium osmolarity. Long-term cell swelling was induced by an increase of the culture medium osmolarity. These volume changes were abolished by the protein translation inhibitor cycloheximide. The results suggest that NG 108-15 cell volume is regulated by at least four interacting mechanisms controlled, respectively, by intracellular Ca2+, extracellular NaCl, cell volume and intracellular ionic strength. The speculative nature of ionic systems responsible for these volume regulating mechanisms is discussed.
Synaphin is a 19,000 mol. wt cytosolic protein we first found to co-purify with the docking/fusion complex crucial to neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals. Two isoforms of synaphin (synaphins 1 and 2) (also called complexins II and I, respectively) exist in the rat brain. On density gradient centrifugation of a Triton X-100 extract of brain membranes, synaphin was found to be associated with the 7S complex that contains synaptotagmin, syntaxin, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt and vesicle-associated membrane protein. A smaller complex devoid of synaphins was also identified by immunoprecipitation with a monoclonal antibody against synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt. Messenger RNAs for synaphins 1 and 2 were expressed predominantly in the brain. In situ hybridization using probes specific to synaphins 1 and 2 indicated that the distribution of their mRNAs was significantly different in brain regions such as olfactory bulb, hippocampus, cerebral cortex, piriform cortex, cerebellum, thalamus and facial nuclei. These results show synaphin as a component of the 7S complex and suggest different physiological implications for the two isoforms.
We investigated the pathophysiological role of nitric oxide synthesized by inducible nitric oxide synthase in the brain, by injecting lipopolysaccharide directly into the rat cerebral cortex/hippocampus. The levels of nitric oxide metabolites, nitrite and nitrate, began to increase in a dose-dependent manner with a 3-h lag, and reached approximately seven-fold the basal levels 8 h after the direct injection of lipopolysaccharide (5 microg). The lipopolysaccharide-induced increase in nitrite and nitrate levels was inhibited by treatment with the specific inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor aminoguanidine. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide delayed the onset of the increase in nitric oxide metabolite levels, and reduced the peak levels. Lipopolysaccharide increased Ca2+-independent, but not Ca2+-dependent, nitric oxide synthase activity in the brain. Intense nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity was observed in round cells in the vicinity of the site of injection of lipopolysaccharide 8 h after the injection. Neuronal death was observed seven days after the injection of lipopolysaccharide. Spatial memory, as assessed by performance in a water maze task and spontaneous alternation behavior in a Y-maze, was significantly impaired in rats which had had previous bilateral injections of lipopolysaccharide into the hippocampus. The lipopolysaccharide-induced neuronal death and spatial memory impairments were prevented by aminoguanidine. These results suggest that direct injection of lipopolysaccharide into the brain causes an induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase in vivo. Furthermore, it is suggested that nitric oxide produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase is responsible for the lipopolysaccharide-induced brain dysfunction.
Ageing in mammals is characterized by a decline in plasma levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 that appears to contribute to both structural and functional changes in a number of tissues. Although insulin-like growth factor-1 has been shown to provide trophic support for neurons and administration of insulin-like growth factor-1 to ageing animals reverses some aspects of brain ageing, age-related changes in insulin-like growth factor-1 or type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptors in brain have not been well documented. In this series of studies, insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA and protein concentrations, and type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor levels were analysed in young (three to four- and 10-12-month-old), middle-aged (19-20-month-old) and old (29-32-month-old) Fisher 344 x Brown Norway rats. Localization of insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA throughout the lifespan revealed that expression was greatest in arteries, arterioles, and arteriolar anastomoses with greater than 80% of these vessels producing insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA. High levels of expression were also noted in the meninges. No age-related changes were detected by either in situ hybridization or quantitative dot blot analysis of cortical tissue. However, analysis of insulin-like growth factor-1 protein levels in cortex analysed after saline perfusion indicated a 36.5% decrease between 11 and 32 months-of-age (P&lt;0.05). Similarly, analysis of type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor messenger RNA revealed no changes with age but levels of type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptors indicated a substantial decrease with age (31% in hippocampus and 20.8 and 27.3% in cortical layers II/III and V/VI, respectively). Our results indicate that (i) vasculature and meninges are an important source of insulin-like growth factor-1 for the brain and that expression continues throughout life, (ii) there are no changes in insulin-like growth factor-1 gene expression with age but insulin-like growth factor-1 protein levels decrease suggesting that translational deficiencies or deficits in the transport of insulin-like growth factor-1 through the blood-brain barrier contribute to the decline in brain insulin-like growth factor-1 with age, and (iii) type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor messenger RNA is unchanged with age but type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptors decrease in several brain regions. We conclude that significant perturbations occur in the insulin-like growth factor-1 axis with age. Since other studies suggest that i.c.v. administration of insulin-like growth factor-1 reverses functional and cognitive deficiencies with age, alterations within the insulin-like growth factor-1 axis may be an important contributing factor in brain ageing.
The putative neurotrophic effects of the immunophilin ligand GPI-1046 were evaluated in established experimental systems of neuron survival and axon growth in vitro and in vivo. GPI-1046 marginally increased neurite outgrowth of chick dorsal root ganglia in culture under conditions where a very robust effect of nerve growth factor was seen. GPI-1046 failed to protect dopaminergic neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium in culture or to protect cultured cortical neurons from experimentally induced apoptosis in vitro. In adult rats in vivo, daily administration of GPI-1046 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) for three days enhanced the maximal regeneration distance of both motor and large myelinated sensory axons measured using an electrophysiological assay. However, detailed morphometric analysis of these animals failed to provide evidence for an increase in axon numbers in GPI-1046-treated animals. The ability of GPI-1046 to promote the recovery of dopaminergic function following unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra was also tested in rats. In the first study, the duration of amphetamine (3 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced circling, but not the maximal number of rotations, was significantly reduced in animals treated with GPI-1046 for five days (10 mg/kg/day). In a second study, testing the effects of delayed GPI-1046 administration, chronic treatment with GPI-1046 (10 mg/kg/day) for two weeks, beginning one month after surgery, did not alter circling responses. Morphometric analysis failed to reveal any changes in either the density of tyrosine hyroxylase-positive fibres in dopaminergic target areas or in cell numbers in the substantia nigra in both experiments. Thus, while GPI-1046 produced marginal effects on neurite outgrowth in dorsal root ganglia cultures and on functional paramaters of nerve regeneration in vivo, we failed to obtain evidence in support of the notion of a general neuroprotective effect of the compound or for an effect on morphologic nerve regeneration in vivo.
An electron microscopic analysis of the nucleus basalis in the macaque monkey was carried out following the immunohistochemical labeling of choline acetyltransferase, either by itself or in conjunction with glutamate decarboxylase or tyrosine hydroxylase. Cholinergic axon varicosities were frequently encountered, and formed large, usually asymmetric, synapses on both choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive and -immunonegative dendrites of nucleus basalis neurons. Catecholaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive) axon varicosities formed synapses which in most cases were classified as asymmetric, and glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive (GABAergic) axons formed clearly symmetric synapses, each on to choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive or -immunonegative dendrites. These findings indicate that cholinergic cells in the nucleus basalis of the monkey, also known as Ch4 neurons, receive numerous synaptic inputs from cholinergic, catecholaminergic and GABAergic axons.
The present study investigated the effect of serotonin depletion on the neuronal activity and transcription of corticotropin-releasing factor in the rat brain during the acute-phase response. Conscious male rats received an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection with the immune activator lipopolysaccaride (25 microg/100 g body wt) after being treated for three consecutive days with para-chlorophenylalanine (30mg/100 g/day). This irreversible inhibitor of tryptophane-5-hydroxylase decreased hypothalamic serotonin levels by 96%. One, 3 and 6 h after a single i.p. injection of lipopolysaccharide or vehicle solution, rats were killed and their brains cut in 30-microm coronal sections. Messenger RNAs encoding c-fos, nerve-growth factor inducible-B gene, corticotropin-releasing factor and the heteronuclear RNA encoding corticotropin-releasing factor primary transcript were assayed by in situ hybridization using 35S-labeled riboprobes, whereas Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were labeled by immunocytochemistry. Lipopolysaccharide induced a wide neuronal activation indicated by the expression of both immediate-early gene transcripts and Fos protein in numerous structures of the brain. The signal for both immediate-early gene transcripts was low to moderate 1 h after lipopolysaccharide administration, maximal at 3 h and decline at 6 h post-injection, whereas at that time, Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were still detected in most of the c-fos messenger RNA-positive structures. Interestingly, the strong and widespread induction of both immediate-early gene transcripts was almost totally inhibited by para-chlorophenylalanine treatment; in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus for example, c-fos messenger RNA signal and the number of Fos-immunoreactive positive cells were reduced by 80 and 48%, respectively, in serotonin-depleted rats treated with the bacterial endotoxin. This blunted neuronal response was also associated with an attenuated stimulation of neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing factor transcription and plasma corticosterone release. Indeed, lipopolysaccharide caused a selective expression of corticotropin-releasing factor primary transcript in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and this effect was significantly reduced by treatment with the serotonin inhibitor. However, basal expression of corticotropin-releasing factor messenger RNA across the brain (bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, central nucleus of the amygdala, etc.) was not affected by the para-chlorophenylalanine treatment. These results suggest that the integrity of serotonin pathways plays a role in the neuronal activity triggered by the systemic endotoxin insult. The fact that serotonin depletion largely prevented activation of neurosecretory parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing factor gene transcription in response to immunogenic challenge provides the evidence that serotonergic system is part of the brain circuitry involved in the corticotroph axis-immune interface.
The expression and axonal transport of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) was studied in the cultured vagus nerve of the rat by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. The number of neurons immunoreactive for PACAP increased markedly within the nodose ganglion during a 24-48 h culture period, as did the number of cells containing messenger RNA for PACAP. PACAP was found to be axonally transported and accumulated at the site of a crush injury. The peptide was also released at this site. Addition of PACAP to regenerating nerves in culture did not affect axonal outgrowth, neither did antibodies against PACAP. Separate experiments showed that neither PACAP-27 nor PACAP-38 affected proliferation of non-neuronal cells measured as the incorporation of [3H]thymidine. In contrast, forskolin, another potent stimulator of adenylate cyclase besides PACAP, dramatically decreased [3H]thymidine incorporation. The results showed that, during regeneration of peripheral nerves, PACAP expression increases and the peptide is transported into the regenerating nerve, where it is released. The functional significance of this release is unknown, but it does not seem to be directly related to the initiation of proliferation of Schwann cells or initial axonal outgrowth.
The effect of high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on parkinsonian-like resting tremor was investigated in two monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Unilateral tremor of the arm and leg was induced by electrical coagulation of the brainstem area including the substantia nigra and the red nucleus. The tremor was only seen at rest condition with a very stable frequency of 4.46+/-0.59 Hz (mean+/-S.D.). Apomorphine (0.10-0.4 mg/kg, s.c.) completely blocked the tremor, suggesting that it was a dopaminergic-dependent symptom just like the parkinsonian tremor. When the stimulating frequency varied from 20 to 1000 Hz, both mono- and bipolar stimulation (square pulses, 0-5 mA, 0.06 ms) of the subthalamic nucleus suppressed resting tremor in a frequency-dependent manner but monopolar stimulation was more effective. These effects remained stable for more than two years. The present results suggest that the subthalamic nucleus is involved in the control and mechanism of resting tremor and that the high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus can be used as an alternative therapy in parkinsonian patients with akinesia, rigidity and resting tremor.
Inflammatory processes may play a critical role in the degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic cells that underlies some of the cognitive impairments associated with Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, the proinflammagen lipopolysaccharide, from the cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria, was used to produce inflammation within the basal forebrain of rats. The effects of acute, high-dose injections of lipopolysaccharide (2, 20 or 40 microg) upon basal forebrain chemistry and neuronal integrity were compared with the effects of chronic, low-dose lipopolysaccharide infusions (0.18, 0.25, 1.8 or 5.0 microg/h) for either 14, 37, 74 or 112 days. Acute exposure to lipopolysaccharide decreased cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and the number of immunoreactive choline acetyltransferase-positive cells within a small region of the basal forebrain. Regional levels of five different neuropeptides were unchanged by acute, high-dose lipopolysaccharide injections. Chronic lipopolysaccharide infusions produced (i) a time-dependent, but not dose-dependent, decrease in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity that paralleled a decline in the number of choline acetyltransferase- and p75-immunoreactive cells within the basal forebrain, and (ii) a dense distribution of reactive astrocytes and microglia within the basal forebrain. Chronic neuroinflammation might underlie the genesis of some neuropathological changes associated with normal ageing or Alzheimer's disease.
Transgenic mice, which had been transfected with the human extracellular superoxide dismutase gene, causing an approximate five-fold increase in brain parenchymal extracellular superoxide dismutase activity, were used to investigate the role of extracellular superoxide dismutase in ischemic brain injury. Transgenic (n = 21) and wild-type (n = 19) mice underwent 90 min of intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion and 24 h of reperfusion. Severity of resultant hemiparesis and cerebral infarct size were measured. Wild-type mice had larger infarcts (cortex: wild type =37+/-14 mm3, transgenic = 27+/-13 mm3, P=0.03; subcortex: wild type = 33+/-14 mm3, transgenic = 23+/-10 mm3, P = 0.02). Neurological scores, however, were similar (P = 0.29). Other mice underwent autoradiographic determination of intra-ischemic cerebral blood flow. The volume of tissue at risk of infarction (defined as volume of tissue where blood flow was &lt;25 ml/100g/min) was similar between groups (cortex: wild type = 51+/-15 mm3, transgenic = 47+/-9 mm3, P=0.65; subcortex: wild type = 39+/-16 mm3, transgenic= 37+/-17 mm3, P=0.81). These results indicate that antioxidant scavenging of free radicals by extracellular superoxide dismutase plays an important role in the histological response to a focal ischemic brain insult.
The distribution of the messenger RNA encoding the 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter was investigated in rat brain. 5-Hydroxytryptamine transporter messenger RNA was found exclusively in the B1-B9 cell groups containing the cell bodies of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons. Combined in situ hybridization and 5-hydroxytryptamine immunocytochemistry demonstrated 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter gene expression in the majority of and exclusively in 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons. Cells differed in their levels of expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter messenger RNA and 5-hydroxytryptamine immunofluorescence, but with a tight correlation between the two parameters. Image analysis of cells from B7, the dorsal raphe nucleus, and B8, the median raphe nucleus, revealed significant differences between groups in the mean cellular level of 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter gene expression. Cells in the ventromedial subdivision of B7 displayed higher levels of expression than cells in B8 or cells in the lateral wings of B7. There was also heterogeneity in the distribution of the cellular levels of expression for two other genes expressed by 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons: l-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase messenger RNA and tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA. However, the relative levels of expression of these two genes within the four regions studied differed from that of 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter messenger RNA. These results indicate intraregional differences between 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons with respect to 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter messenger RNA levels. Such differences may account for the differential sensitivity of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons to cytotoxins.
In the present study, a cationic membrane conductance activated by the acetylcholine agonist carbachol was characterized in vitro in neurons of the basolateral amygdala. Extracellular perfusion of the K+ channel blockers Ba2+ and Cs+ or loading of cells with cesium acetate did not affect the carbachol-induced depolarization. Similarly, superfusion with low-Ca2+ solution plus Ba2+ and intracellular EGTA did not affect the carbachol-induced depolarization, suggesting a Ca2+-independent mechanism. On the other hand, the carbachol-induced depolarization was highly sensitive to changes in extracellular K+ or Na+. When the K+ concentration in the perfusion medium was increased from 4.7 to 10 mM, the response to carbachol increased in amplitude. In contrast, lowering the extracellular Na+ concentration from 143.2 to 29 mM abolished the response in a reversible manner. Results of coapplication of carbachol and atropine, pirenzepine or gallamine indicate that the carbachol-induced depolarization was mediated by muscarinic cholinergic receptors, but not the muscarinic receptor subtypes M1, M2 or M4, specifically. These data indicate that, in addition to the previously described reduction of a time- and voltage-independent K+ current (IKleak), a voltage- and time-dependent K+ current (IM), a slow Ca2+-activated K+ current (sIahp) and the activation of a hyperpolarization-activated inward rectifier K+ current (IQ), carbachol activated a Ca2+-independent non-selective cationic conductance that was highly sensitive to extracellular K+ and Na+ concentrations.
An understanding of the interaction between oestrogen and the nitric oxide synthase/nitric oxide system is important for determining the roles of nitric oxide in central nervous control of osmotic homeostasis and certain aspects of reproduction. The effects of oestrogen on nitric oxide synthase and nitric oxide synthase activity were investigated in the magnocellular neurosecretory system. Ovariectomized female rats were injected subcutaneously with 17beta-estradiol benzoate either 10 microg daily for four days (short-term low-dose) or 200 microg daily for 21 days (long-term high-dose). In the neurohypophysis the density of NADPH-diaphorase staining--a marker for nitric oxide synthase activity--was increased after both short-term low-dose and long-term high-dose estradiol treatment, but no difference in nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was observed after either treatment. In the magnocellular supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, short-term low-dose oestrogen treatment did not induce any detectable changes in nitric oxide synthase gene expression, the proportion of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons, or the proportion of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons. Long-term high-dose oestrogen treatment also had no effect on nitric oxide synthase gene expression or immunoreactivity, but caused a reduction of the proportion of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in the supraoptic nucleus and a reduction in the intensity of this histochemical staining. Qualitatively similar changes were observed in the magnocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus. The results provide, for the first time, evidence of a complex interaction between oestrogen and nitric oxide synthase in the neuroendocrine system in which nitric oxide synthase activity is regulated differently in the magnocellular cell bodies and axonal terminals and in which the activity of the enzyme rather than its expression is controlled.
We have studied the control of the primary motor cortex on the activity of lemniscal neurons in semi-chronic implanted cats. In each experiment, two to three foci in the primary motor cortex were identified by intracortical microstimulation at low threshold (up to 20 microA) for their capacity to evoke movements of contralateral single limb joints. Neurons belonging to the dorsal column nuclei (main cuneate nucleus and gracile nucleus), or to the ventral posterolateral nucleus, were sampled for their response to stimulation of the peripheral cutaneous fields, as well as the antidromic response to stimulation of the contralateral medial lemniscus and ipsilateral somatosensory cortex, respectively. These neurons were then tested for stimulation of the cortical foci using a current intensity equal to the threshold needed to evoke motor effects, although we reduced the duration of the stimulating trains; thus, we avoided evoking movements which could elicit afferent volleys along the somatosensory paths. It was found that the primary motor cortex was able to modulate the transmission of exteroceptive signals at the level of both dorsal column nuclei and ventral posterolateral nucleus with analogous modalities. In particular: (i) a high percentage of responses, with a prevalence of excitatory effects, was observed when the receptive field of the neurons topographically corresponded to, or was very close to, the joint controlled by a given cortical focus; (ii) in these cases, higher percentages of excitations were observed in tests which concerned the distal segments of limbs than the proximal segments; (iii) the percentage of responses became lower as the neuronal receptive field was located further from the cortical motor target, the pattern being more frequently inhibitory in nature. From a functional point of view, the motor cortex control appears to be organized in a very precise manner. Its excitatory nature might subserve integrative mechanisms by which exteroceptive information arising in a given limb segment would be enhanced by a motor command inducing movements of the same body part. Moreover, a better definition of the afferent input could be obtained by a simultaneous depression of neurons, which send towards the cortex signals from adjacent or more distant cutaneous regions. It can be hypothesized that such an organization of the cortical control could improve the discriminative somatosensory aspects during the execution of explorative movements, besides supplying a sharper cutaneous feedback to the motor cortex.
The sensory input to the neostriatum from groups of cortical cells related to individual facial vibrissae has been investigated at both light- and electron-microscopic resolution. The purpose of the study was to establish the extent to which corticostriatal input maintains the anatomical coding of spatial information that is present in cortex. A double anterograde tracing method was used to identify the output projections from groups of adjacent neurons in different barrel columns, so that the anatomical relationships between two groups could be studied throughout their length. Adjacent whiskers are represented in adjoining cortical barrels and an examination of corticostriatal projections from these reveals two patterns of projection. In one, the anatomical topography is partially preserved; the barrels are represented in adjoining, discrete, areas of the somatosensory neostriatum. In the second projection pattern, the neostriatal innervation is diffuse and adjacent barrels are represented in overlapping regions of the neostriatum. Moreover, the fibres are thinner, have smaller boutons, and are present in both the ipsilateral and contralateral neostriatum. The two systems also enter the neostriatal neuropile separately. The discrete topographic system enters the adjacent neostriatum as collaterals which leave the descending corticofugal fibres at right angles, while the diffuse system enters directly from the corpus callosum at an acute angle. Examination of the neostriatal terminal fields by correlated light and electron microscopy, shows that characteristic axospinous terminals on spiny neurons are made by both groups of cortical fibres, although they differ in their size and morphology. It is concluded that at least two corticostriatal pathways arise from the barrel cortex. One connection maintains some of the anatomical code implicit in the barrel pattern of primary somatosensory cortex, but another, more diffuse, system is overlaid upon it which may carry different information from this complex area of cortex.
The cellular mechanisms involved in the generation of spontaneous epileptiform potentials were investigated in the pirifom cortex of the in vitro isolated guinea-pig brain. A single, unilateral injection of bicuculline (150-200 nmol) in the anterior piriform cortex induced locally spontaneous interictal spikes that recurred with a period of 8.81+/-4.47 s and propagated caudally to the ipsi- and contralateral hemispheres. Simultaneous extra- and intracellular recordings from layer II and III principal cells showed that the spontaneous interictal spike correlates to a burst of action potentials followed by a large afterdepolarization. Intracellular application of the sodium conductance blocker, QX-314 (80 mM), abolished bursting activity and unmasked a high-threshold slow spike enhanced by the calcium chelator EGTA (50 mM). The slow spike was abolished by membrane hyperpolarization and by local perfusion with 2 mM cadmium. The depolarizing potential that followed the primary burst was reduced by arterial perfusion with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (100-200 microM). The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM), completely and reversibly blocked the spontaneous spikes. The interictal spikes were terminated by a large afterpotential blocked either by intracellular QX-314 (80 mM) or by extracellular application of phaclofen and 2-hydroxysaclofen (10 and 4 mM, respectively). The present study demonstrates that, in an acute model of epileptogenesis, spontaneous interictal spikes are fostered by a primary burst of fast action potentials that ride on a regenerative high-threshold, possibly calcium-mediated spike, which activates a recurrent, glutamate-mediated potential responsible for the entrainment of adjacent and remote cortical regions. The bursting activity is controlled by a GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic potential.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the density, laminar distribution, size, morphology, and neurotransmitter phenotype of rat cortical neurons expressing latexin, an inhibitor of carboxypeptidase A. Immunohistochemical analyses established that latexin-immunoreactive neurons are restricted essentially to the infragranular layers of lateral cortical areas in the rat. The overall density, laminar or sublaminar localization, and cell size distribution of latexin-positive neurons differed substantially across cytoarchitectonic areas within lateral cortex. Numerous latexin-positive neurons had the morphology of modified pyramidal cells especially of layer VI. The vast majority of latexin-positive neurons were glutamate-immunoreactive in the six lateral neocortical areas examined, while neurons immunoreactive for both latexin and GABA were virtually absent. Thus the majority of latexin-positive neurons are likely to be excitatory projection neurons. The area- and lamina-specific distribution of the latexin-expressing subpopulation of glutamate-immunoreactive neurons is a distinctive feature that may contribute to the functional specialization of the lateral cortical areas.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide stimulates cholinergic phenotype development by inducing choline acetyltransferase in the rat medial septal nucleus in vitro. Adult senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8, a substrain of the senescence-accelerated-prone mouse, show a remarkable age-accelerated deterioration in learning and memory. We cloned mouse hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein complementary DNA. The deduced amino acid sequence showed that the neurostimulating peptide itself is the same as that found in the rat. In situ hybridization revealed that the highest expression of the precursor protein messenger RNA was in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Compared with a strain of senescence-accelerated-resistant mouse (control mouse), adult senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8 showed increased expression of both the precursor messenger RNA and the neurostimulating peptide-related immunodeposits in the hippocampal CA1 field. The deposits were intensely and diffusely precipitated in neuropils throughout the strata oriens and radiatum in senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8, but not in control mice. The neurostimulating peptide content in the hippocampus was higher in senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8 than in control mice, while its precursor protein itself was not different between the two strains. Furthermore, our previous and present data show that the medial septal and hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity was significantly lower in senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8 than in control mice. The data suggest that, in hippocampal neurons in adult senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8, the production of hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein in neuronal somata, which is associated with an increased expression of its messenger RNA in the CA1 field, occurs as a consequence of low activity in their presynaptic cholinergic neurons. This is followed by accelerated processing to generate bioactive peptide and transport to its functional fields. However, certain mechanisms reduce the release of the peptide and lead to its accumulation in the neuropil. These disturbances of the septohippocampal cholinergic system might be the biochemical mechanism underlying the characteristic deterioration of senescence-accelerated-prone mice/8.
At hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses, activation of beta-adrenergic receptors and adenylyl cyclase increases transmitter release. However, this effect is transient, which is in contrast to that seen at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses, where activation of cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase results in long-lasting facilitation of transmitter release, a phenomenon known as a presynaptic form of long-term potentiation. The present study was aimed at investigating whether forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase activator, could produce long-term effects at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses using extracellular recording techniques. As has been reported previously, forskolin persistently increased the amplitude of evoked population spikes without having a long-term effect on the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. However, under the conditions where adenosine A1 receptors are inhibited, cyclic-AMP metabolism is disrupted or the transport of cyclic-AMP is blocked, forskolin induces long-term potentiation. Forskolin-induced potentiation is associated with a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation and is blocked by the cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor Rp-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate. Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is not required for forskolin-induced long-term potentiation, because pretreatment of slices with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate did not prevent forskolin-induced potentiation. These results suggest that blockade of adenosine A1 receptors unmasks forskolin-induced long-term potentiation, and activation of cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase induces a form of long-term potentiation which is different from that induced by tetanic stimulation.
The crucial role of free cytosolic Ca2+ in ischemic neuronal damage has been studied in recent years. In the present report, changes in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration in the hippocampal CA1 area during transient global ischemia and reperfusion were measured using in vivo Ca2+ fluorometry with fura-2 in the four-vessel occlusion and reperfusion model in halothane-anesthetized rats. Marked changes were seen during 10-min global ischemia, with the intracellular Ca2+ concentration increasing gradually following application of the ischemic insult and rapidly about 2 min after the beginning of ischemia, and continuing to increase until reperfusion. On reperfusion, the intracellular Ca2+ concentration began to decrease and returned to the pre-ischemic level within 15 min. Induction of severe global ischemia was confirmed by the complete suppression of synaptic activity and the decrease in hippocampal temperature in the CA1 area. After seven days, CA1 pyramidal cell loss was observed histopathologically in the same rats which had undergone measurement of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration changes. In the present study, a temporal profile of the free cytosolic Ca2+ dynamics during ischemic and early post-ischemic period was determined in vivo. The results demonstrate that the intracellular Ca2+ concentration in the hippocampal CA1 area is transiently and markedly increased during a brief ischemia-inducing delayed neuronal death, implying that Ca2+ overload during cerebral ischemia is a possible cause of the delayed cell death of CA1 pyramidal neurons.
Two characteristic interneuron types in the hippocampus, the so-called hilar perforant path-associated cells in the dentate gyrus and stratum oriens/lacunosum-moleculare neurons in the CA3 and CA1 regions, were suggested to be involved in feedback circuits. In the present study, interneurons identical to these cell populations were visualized by somatostatin-immunostaining, then reconstructed, and processed for double-immunostaining and electron microscopy to establish their postsynaptic target selectivity. A combination of somatostatin-immunostaining with immunostaining for GABA or other interneuron markers revealed a quasi-random termination pattern. The vast majority of postsynaptic targets were GABA-negative dendritic shafts and spines of principal cells (76%), whereas other target elements contained GABA (8%). All of the examined neurochemically defined interneuron types (parvalbumin-, calretinin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, cholecystokinin-, substance P receptor-immunoreactive neurons) received innervation from somatostatin-positive boutons. Recent anatomical and electrophysiological data showed that the main excitatory inputs of somatostatin-positive interneurons originate from local principal cells. The present data revealed a massive GABAergic innervation of distal dendrites of local principal cells by these feedback driven neurons, which are proposed to control the efficacy and plasticity of entorhinal synaptic input as a function of local principal cell activity and synchrony.
Neuroleptic-induced oral dyskinesias in rats, a putative analogue to human tardive dyskinesia, may be due to excitotoxic degeneration within the striatum. Haloperidol treatment for 34 weeks increased the optical density of preproenkephalin messenger RNA in individual striatal neurons and enkephalin peptide in the neuropil, regardless of the level of oral dyskinesia produced. However, using unbiased stereological methods, an increased number of striatal neurons expressing preproenkephalin messenger RNA was observed only in rats that did not develop pronounced oral dyskinesias during haloperidol treatment. Said in another manner, the haloperidol-treated animals that developed pronounced oral dyskinesias, failed to produce an increase in the number of neurons expressing preproenkephalin messenger RNA. These results indicate that the mechanism by which neuroleptics induce oral dyskinesias in rats, and perhaps tardive dyskinesia in humans, involves a functional disturbance or even damage to a subpopulation of enkephalinergic neurons in the striatum.
Characteristics of responses and background activity, as well as of tuning to a single bar orientation and to cross or corner shape and orientation have been compared in one third (561174) of neurons in the cat striate cortex. Shortening of the response latency to cross vs bar, to corner vs bar and to corner vs cross was revealed in most of the units studied. Direct correlation between the response and tuning characteristics for bar, cross and corner was revealed: units with better tuning to one type of stimulus were typically better tuned to the other types of stimuli. At the middle cortical depth (700-1200 microm from the surface) we found a reliable improvement of response magnitude and latency, cross/bar response ratio and selectivity of tuning in comparison with more superficial and deeper layers. Although we could not find a direct correlation between characteristics of tuning to figures and the type of the receptive field (simple, complex or hypercomplex), our data pointed to a lower cross/bar ratio and selectivity of tuning in the units with small receptive fields. The functional implication of neuronal sensitivity to cross and corner and possible meaning of correlation between their functional characteristics are discussed.
The goal of this study was to investigate changes in glutamatergic synapses in the striatum of rats at two different time-points following a unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle. One month following this lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway, there was an increase (70%) in the mean percentage of asymmetrical synapses within the dorsolateral striatum containing a discontinuous, or perforated, postsynaptic density, possibly suggesting an increase in glutamatergic activity. This was correlated, in the same brain region, with a decrease (44%) in the density of glutamate immunoreactivity within nerve terminals associated with all asymmetrical synapses and also with those terminals associated with a perforated postsynaptic density. These morphological changes were consistent with an increase (&gt;two-fold) in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate, as measured by in vivo microdialysis. The density of GABA immunolabeling within symmetrical nerve terminals was increased (25%) at this one month time-period. Dopamine levels within the lesioned striatum were &gt;99% depleted. However, at three months, while an increase in the mean percentage of striatal perforated synapses was maintained, a significant increase (50%) in the density of striatal nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling within all asymmetrical synapses and those associated with a perforated postsynaptic density was observed. This was correlated with a small, but significant, decrease (32%) in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate. The density of GABA immunolabeling within nerve terminals associated with a symmetrical contact remained elevated at this three month time-period, while striatal dopamine levels remained depleted. While the density of nerve terminal GABA immunolabeling remained elevated at both the one and three month time-periods, there appeared to be a differential effect on glutamatergic synapses. The in vivo microdialysis data suggest that glutamate synapses were more active at a basal level at one month and become less active compared to the control group at the three month time-period. These data suggest that there are compensatory changes in glutamatergic synapses within the striatum following a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion that appear to be independent of the level of striatal dopamine or GABA. We propose that changes in the activity of the thalamo-cortico-striatal pathway may help to explain the differential time-course change in striatal glutamatergic synaptic activity.
Any research pertaining to smoking or nicotine must demonstrate that its findings relate to changes in smoking or nicotine self-administration in order to be potentially relevant to understanding nicotine dependence or to treating smoking cessation. Nicotine alone, isolated from tobacco smoke, is self-administered by animals and humans. Pharmacological factors such as speed of dosing, dose amount, and pre-treatment with nicotinic antagonists clearly influence onset or rate of nicotine self-administration. However, environmental cues associated with nicotine intake can also substantially influence rate of self-administration and must be considered in the development of any treatment for smoking cessation. The specific acute subjective and behavioral effects of nicotine responsible for maintaining self-administration need to be identified, along with the minimum nicotine dose necessary for these effects. Individual differences in these effects, such as between men and women, also need to be examined. Findings in neuroscience and other areas of research need to be directly related to nicotine self-administration in order to clearly understand how they influence nicotine dependence. Overlooked by researchers is the influence of environmental factors, including social facilitation, on smoking or nicotine self-administration; these factors must be the primary cause of smoking relapse that occurs more than a week or so after a quit attempt. Laboratory-based findings must be extended to the natural environment to determine the degree to which they relate to smoking and nicotine reinforcement among smokers in the community (the population and venue for future treatment efforts).
In this article we discuss the influence of age on the vestibulo-ocular reflex in a comparison of data from different age groups. In order to examine the influence of age, the pendular rotation test was performed in 25 otoneurologically healthy subjects and 12 patients with unilateral peripheral vestibular disorders, from 25 to 72 years of age. The subjects were divided into three groups: 20-39, 40-64 and older than 65 years. The stimulus modes were an amplitude and a frequency of 30 degrees at 0.25 Hz and of 60 degrees at 0.1 Hz, respectively. The gain, phase lag and visual suppression in VOR of the pendular rotation test were measured, and the age-dependent changes in these scores were evaluated. The following results were obtained: 1. The gain in VOR with eyes open in a dark booth was significantly decreased in the older than 65 years group. 2. The phase lag was significantly increased in the older than 65 years group. 3. There were no significant differences of VOR-visual suppression between any of the age groups. The gain in normal subjects was significantly larger than that of the affected side in patients with unilateral peripheral vestibular disorders. The phase lag in patients with unilateral peripheral vestibular disorders was significantly larger than in normal subjects. Similar to normal subjects, this stimulation caused no significant differences in the VOR-VS between the affected side and the normal side in patients with unilateral peripheral vestibular disorders.


The Author relates the latest discoveries of the Neuro-Endocrine-Immunology about the answers global and integrated kind with which organism responds to any cause which may alter its equilibrium. This &quot;NET&quot; model makes the comprehension of the illness as stress easier: a situation of derangement (lack of balance) to which the organism opposes the integrated reactions of all the Psycho-Neuro-Endocrine-Immunologic &quot;NET&quot; reactions of all the Psycho-Neuro-Endocrine-Immunologic &quot;NET&quot; which tries to defend and return to its own physiologic condition. This point of view can answer for physiologic and pathologic phenomena only apparently far from the narrow field we are studying and therefore is closer to the reality of each single individual, facilitating the task of the physician who must heal her.
A retrospective review of conventional cerebral angiograms of 46 children with ischemic stroke was undertaken. Comparison was made with findings on magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography where available. Thirty-six children (78%) underwent magnetic resonance angiography in addition to conventional cerebral angiography. Seven patients had normal cerebral angiograms. Magnetic resonance angiography was diagnostic in 25 of 28 patients with large vessel occlusion, stenosis, or moya-moya syndrome. Conventional angiography was abnormal in four of nine patients with a normal magnetic resonance angiography. All patients with normal conventional angiograms also had normal magnetic resonance angiograms. Conventional angiography, either diagnostic or yielding further information, altered management in five patients with arterial dissection, one patient with large vessel occlusion, one patient with large vessel stenosis, and four patients with arteritis. On the basis of this experience, a clinical algorithm for the use of conventional cerebral angiography in the investigation of ischemic stroke in children is proposed.
Effects of peptides on the central nervous system are presented in two ways so as to provide a cross-listing. In the first table, the peptides are listed alphabetically. In the second table, the central nervous system effects are arranged alphabetically. No longer can there be any doubt that peptides affect the central nervous system, sometimes in several ways.
We have cloned the guinea pig neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor and found it to be 92-93% identical to other cloned mammalian Y1 receptors. Porcine NPY and peptide YY (PYY) displayed affinities of 43 pM and 48 pM, respectively. NPY2-36 and NPY3-36 had 6- and 46-fold lower affinity, respectively, than intact NPY. Functional coupling was measured by using a microphysiometer. Human NPY and PYY were equipotent in causing extracellular acidification with EC50 values of 0.59 nM and 0.69 nM, respectively, whereas NPY2-36 and NPY3-36 were about 15-fold and 500-fold less potent, respectively, than NPY. The present study shows that the cloned guinea pig Y1 receptor is very similar to its orthologues in other mammals, both with respect to sequence and pharmacology. Thus, results from previous studies on guinea pig NPY receptors might imply the existence of an additional Y1-like receptor sensitive to B1BP3226.
A behavioral model of dopaminergic function in the rat was used to examine the anticataleptic effects of L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) and peptidomimetic analogs of PLG. Administration of 1 mg/kg PLG intraperitoneally significantly attenuated haloperidol (1 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy (as measured by the standard horizontal bar test), whereas doses of 0.1 and 10 mg/kg PLG did not. Eight synthetic PLG peptidomimetics (Calpha, alpha-dialkylated glycyl residues with lactam bridge constraint [1-4] and without [5-8]) were tested in the same manner (at a dose of 1 microg/kg) and categorized according to their activity, i.e. very active (5), moderately active (2, 3, 4, and 6), and inactive (1, 7, and 8). The catalepsy-reversal action of the diethylglycine-substituted peptidomimetic 5 was examined further and found to exhibit a U-shaped dose-response effect with an optimal dose of 1 microg/kg. The similarity between the effects of PLG and the synthetic peptidomimetics suggests a common mechanism of action. Finally, the synthetic peptidomimetics examined here, particularly peptidomimetic 5, were more effective than PLG in attenuating haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
The aim of this study was to determine the pattern of fixations during the performance of a well-learned task in a natural setting (making tea), and to classify the types of monitoring action that the eyes perform. We used a head-mounted eye-movement video camera, which provided a continuous view of the scene ahead, with a dot indicating foveal direction with an accuracy of about 1 deg. A second video camera recorded the subject's activities from across the room. The videos were linked and analysed frame by frame. Foveal direction was always close to the object being manipulated, and very few fixations were irrelevant to the task. The first object-related fixation typically led the first indication of manipulation by 0.56 s, and vision moved to the next object about 0.61 s before manipulation of the previous object was complete. Each object-related act that did not involve a waiting period lasted an average of 3.3 s and involved about 7 fixations. Roughly a third of all fixations on objects could be definitely identified with one of four monitoring functions: locating objects used later in the process, directing the hand or object in the hand to a new location, guiding the approach of one object to another (e.g. kettle and lid), and checking the state of some variable (e.g. water level). We conclude that although the actions of tea-making are 'automated' and proceed with little conscious involvement, the eyes closely monitor every step of the process. This type of unconscious attention must be a common phenomenon in everyday life.
The single-neuron doctrine is reexamined, and the search for causal links between single units and sensation reviewed. Although several decades of single-unit recording have been very successful in elucidating physiological mechanisms, linking signals from a single cell and perception has progressed at a slower rate. Nevertheless, analysing the activity of single neurons has achieved significant gains and remains the most promising level for elucidation of processing algorithms in the visual system. At the subcortical level, the conclusion that signals from just a single cell can carry enough information for some kinds of performance remains (almost) valid. Under carefully controlled conditions, just a few impulses in a few retinal ganglion cells are an adequate signal for the cortex to initiate a behavioural response. Elucidating cortical codes has been more difficult, and evidence exists suggesting the sharing of responsibility for a task among cell assemblies; how large these assemblies are, and how to test for them neurophysiologically, remains a challenge.
Gestalt psychologists in the early part of the century challenged psychophysical notions that perceptual phenomena can be understood from a punctate (atomistic) analysis of the elements present in the stimulus. Their ideas slowed later attempts to explain vision in terms of single-cell recordings from individual neurons. A rapprochement between Gestalt phenomenology and neurophysiology seemed unlikely when the first ECVP was held in Marburg, Germany, in 1978. Since that time, response properties of neurons have been discovered that invite an interpretation of visual phenomena (including illusions) in terms of neuronal processing by long-range interactions, as first proposed by Mach and Hering in the last century. This article traces a personal journey into the early days of neurophysiological vision research to illustrate the progress that has taken place from the first attempts to correlate single-cell responses with visual perceptions. Whereas initially the receptive-field properties of individual classes of cells--e.g., contrast, wavelength, orientation, motion, disparity, and spatial-frequency detectors--were used to account for relatively simple visual phenomena, nowadays complex perceptions are interpreted in terms of long-range interactions, involving many neurons. This change in paradigm from local to global processing was made possible by recent findings, in the cortex, on horizontal interactions and backward propagation (feedback loops) in addition to classical feedforward processing. These mechanisms are exemplified by studies of the tilt effect and tilt aftereffect, direction-specific motion adaptation, illusory contours, filling-in and fading, figure--ground segregation by orientation and motion contrast, and pop-out in dynamic visual-noise patterns. Major questions for future research and a discussion of their epistemological implications conclude the article.


An illusion similar to the stationary visual phantom illusion presented earlier by Gyoba (1983, Vision Research 23 205-211) is reported. This illusion is visible in photopic vision and we have tentatively named it the 'photopic phantom illusion'. A typical example of this illusion is a white and light-gray square-wave grating occluded by a black region. In this figure, a phantom grating running across the occluder with clear contours but less contrast, is seen. The critical spatial frequencies of photopic phantoms have been measured and compared with those of scotopic phantoms that have been reported previously, revealing a great resemblance between them. We discuss the characteristics of this illusion in terms of transparency, stereoscopic viewing, and perceptual completion.
Object recognition was studied in human subjects to determine whether the storage of the visual objects was in a two-dimensional or a three-dimensional representation. Novel motion-based and disparity-based stimuli were generated in which three-dimensional and two-dimensional form cues could be manipulated independently. Subjects were required to generate internal representations from motion stimuli that lacked explicit two-dimensional cues. These stored internal representations were then matched against internal three-dimensional representations constructed from disparity stimuli. These new stimuli were used to confirm prior studies that indicated the primacy of two-dimensional cues for view-based object storage. However, under tightly controlled conditions for which only three-dimensional cues were available, human subjects were also able to match an internal representation derived from motion of that of disparity. This last finding suggests that there is an internal storage of an object's representations in three dimensions, a tenet that has been rejected by view-based theories. Thus, any complete theory of object recognition that is based on primate vision must incorporate three-dimensional stored representations.
In the 1920s Max Wertheimer enunciated a credo of Gestalt theory: the properties of any of the parts are governed by the structural laws of the whole. Intense efforts at the time to discover these laws had only very limited success. Psychology was in the grips of the Fechnerian tradition to seek exact relationships between the material and the mental and, because the Gestalt movement could not deliver these, it never attained a major standing among students of perception. However, as neurophysiological research into cortical processing of visual stimuli progresses the need for organizing principles is increasingly making itself felt. Concepts like contour salience and figure segregation, once the province of Gestalt psychology, are now taking on renewed significance as investigators combine neural modeling and psychophysical approaches with electrophysiological ones to characterize neural mechanisms of cognition. But it would be perilous not to take heed of some of the lessons that the history of the Gestalt movement teaches.
The effect of field size, velocity, and visual fixation upon the perception of self-body rotation and tilt was examined in a rotating furnished room. Subjects sat in a stationary chair in the furnished room which could be rotated about the body roll axis. For full-field conditions, complete 360 degrees body rotation (tumbling) was the most common sensation (felt by 80% of subjects). Constant tilt or partial tumbling (less than 360 degrees rotation) occurred more frequently with a small field of view (20 deg). The number of subjects who experienced complete tumbling increased with increases in field of view and room velocity (for velocities between 15 and 30 degrees s-1). The speed of perceived self-rotation relative to room rotation also increased with increasing field of view.

The effects of high pressure (up to 10.1 MPa) on the spontaneous firing of Purkinje neurons in guinea-pig cerebellar slices were studied using the macropatch clamp technique. Pressure did not significantly alter the single somatic Na+ spike parameters or the frequency of regular Na+ spike firing. When Na+ currents were blocked by 0.5-1 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX), a pressure of 10.1 MPa slightly reduced the dendritic Ca2+ spike amplitude to 90.2+/-3.1% of its control value, and slowed its kinetics. The effects of pressure on the single Ca2+ spike were even less prominent when K+ currents were blocked by 5 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). Pressure prolonged the active period of Ca2+ spike firing to 152.2+/-10.4% of the control value. Within the active period pressure increased the inter-spike interval to 164.9+/-8.7% and suppressed the typical firing of doublets. The latter changes were reversed by a high extracellular potassium concentration ([K+]o) and 1 microM 4-AP, whereas in the presence of 5 mM 4-AP the pattern was insensitive to pressure. A high [Ca2+]o reduced the firing frequency and suppressed doublet firing in a manner reminiscent of the pressure effect, but these changes could not be reversed by 4-AP. A low [Ca2+]o slightly increased the firing of doublets. These results show that the single somatic Na+ spike is insensitive and the dendritic Ca2+ spike is only mildly sensitive to pressure. However, alterations in Ca2+ spike firing pattern suggest that modulation of dendritic K+ currents induce depression of dendritic excitability at pressure.
The actions of external Cd2+ on the twitch and tetanic contractions, action potentials and potassium (K+) contractures of rat soleus muscle fibre bundles have been investigated. Cd2+ at 1-1.5 mM did not significantly alter tetanic tension, but increased twitch tension and increased the duration and overshoot of action potentials. At &gt;/=3 mM, Cd2+ (1) depressed tetanic contractions and initially potentiated but later depressed twitches, (2) abolished the action potential overshoot, and (3) shifted peak K+ contracture tension to more positive membrane potentials. Twitch and tetanic contractions, and action potentials remained depressed when Cd2+ was washed out of the bath. The effects of Cd2+ on the twitch, tetanus and action potential were mimicked by Zn2+, while La3+ and Co2+ at 3 mM - or Mg2+ and Ca2+ at 30 mM - depressed peak twitch and tetanic tension, but did not potentiate twitches. The results suggest that: (1) Cd2+ and Zn2+ potentiate twitch tension by prolonging action potential depolarisation; (2) Cd2+ depresses twitch and tetanic tension by reducing the action potential overshoot, and causing a positive shift in the voltage dependence of contraction; and (3) the irreversible depression of action potential amplitude in rat soleus muscle is a specific property of Cd2+ and Zn2+ that is not shared by Co2+, Mg2+ or Ca2+.
Levodopa remains the most effective drug for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, its benefits are limited owing to extensive metabolism by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), especially if levodopa is used in combination with peripheral dopa-decarboxylase inhibitors. A new generation of potent, orally active, selective, and reversible COMT inhibitors has become available recently. Among these, tolcapone and entacapone have been best characterised. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that COMT inhibitors markedly enhance levodopa availability and prolong its plasma half-life. In recent large clinical trials they proved to be able to ameliorate motor fluctuations, reduce disability, and decrease levodopa requirements in PD patients. The tolerability profiles of entacapone and tolcapone are good. COMT inhibition promises to become an important means of extending the benefits of levodopa therapy in PD.
Individual differences in behavioral and physiological response patterns to stress may contribute to vulnerability for stress-related illnesses such as functional gastrointestinal disorders. Animal models could give clues about specific individual determinants of intestinal reactivity to stress and stress-induced sensitization. Rats fitted with permanent electrodes on the proximal colon were exposed to a single session of foot shocks (10 x 6 s in 15 min, preshocked) or no shocks (control). Two weeks later, the preshocked group showed a significantly greater colonic spike burst response to a novel shock-prod stressor in the home cage than controls. The increase in burst frequency was positively correlated with the duration of active burying of the threatening prod in both experimental groups, but not with other behavioral components. Basal colonic burst frequency at rest was negatively correlated with the increase in burst frequency due to shock-prod stress in both groups, but the degree of sensitization in preshocked rats vs. controls was of similar magnitude in rats with low and high basal colonic burst frequency. The results indicate that colonic responsivity to stress is related to both basal motility status and individual coping strategies.
Control of CTFR Channel Gating by Phosphorylation and Nucleotide Hydrolysis. Physiol. Rev. 79, Suppl.: S77-S107, 1999. - The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) Cl- channel is the protein product of the gene defective in cystic fibrosis, the most common lethal genetic disease among Caucasians. Unlike any other known ion channel, CFTR belongs to the ATP-binding cassette superfamily of transporters and, like all other family members, CFTR includes two cytoplasmic nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs), both of which bind and hydrolyze ATP. It appears that in a single open-close gating cycle, an individual CFTR channel hydrolyzes one ATP molecule at the NH2-terminal NBD to open the channel, and then binds and hydrolyzes a second ATP molecule at the COOH-terminal NBD to close the channel. This complex coordinated behavior of the two NBDs is orchestrated by multiple protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation events, at least some of which occur within the third large cytoplasmic domain, called the regulatory domain. Two or more kinds of protein phosphatases selectively dephosphorylate distinct sites. Under appropriately controlled conditions of progressive phosphorylation or dephosphorylation, three functionally different phosphoforms of a single CFTR channel can be distinguished on the basis of channel opening and closing kinetics. Recording single CFTR channel currents affords an unprecedented opportunity to reproducibly examine, and manipulate, individual ATP hydrolysis cycles in a single molecule, in its natural environment, in real time.
In 1873 Golgi invented a revolutionary method for microscopic research of the nervous system, based on a particular technique for staining nerve cells, which came to be known as &quot;black reaction&quot;. Thanks to this method, he was able to provide a thorough and precise description of nerve cells in various regions of the cerebro-spinal axis, clearly distinguishing the axon from the dendrites. He drew up a new classification of cells on the basis of the structure of their nervous prolongation, and he criticized Gerlach's theory of the &quot;protoplasmic network&quot;. Golgi claimed to observe in the gray matter an extremely dense and intricate network, composed of a web of intertwined branches of axons coming from different cell layers (&quot;diffuse nervous network&quot;). This structure, which emerges from the axons and is therefore essentially different from that hypothesized by Gerlach, appeared in his view to be the main organ of the nervous system, the organ that connected different cerebral areas both anatomically and functionally by means of the transmission of an electric nervous impulse. Golgi's reticular theory, along with the other reticular theories of the nervous system prevalent at the end of the nineteenth century, had in a certain sense overturned the 'atomistic-reductionist' principle that lay behind the cell theory. These theories were in fact based on a holistic model, according to which the cerebro-spinal axis was considered to be a continuous structure, and its functions the result of a collective action. At the end of the 1880's, Ramon y Cajal began to elaborate the neuron theory, using Golgi's microscopic technique. Golgi, however, did not accept this theory, and a controversy arose between the two scientists that was not put to rest even after the rivals were both awarded the Nobel Prize in 1906. If we look at the reasons for which Golgi opposed the neuron theory, we can see that they derived not so much from disagreement over the actual data observed, as from a different way of conceiving the anatomo-physiological architecture of the nervous system: Golgi appeared to support a holistic conception of the nervous system, the same that lay behind the theories of the opponents to cerebral localization, whereas Cajal and the 'neuronists' embraced an 'atomistic-reductionist' assumption, according to which the nervous system is made up of the sum of just so many neurons, each of which is an anatomical, functional, and embryological individuality, and not merely a &lt;transit station&gt; in a network of nervous filaments.
Wilhelm Wundt (1832-1920), the first to establish an Institute devoted exclusively to psychological research in Germany, started his career as a (neuro)physiologist. He gradually turned into a psychologist in the 1860's and 1870's, at a time when neuroscience had to deal with the problem of giving an adequate physiological interpretation of the data accumulated by neuroanatomy. Neither the functional interpretation of brain morphology, nor the options provided by the reflex model seemed acceptable to Wundt. In his Physiological Psychology, first published in 1874, Wundt adds another aspect to this discussion by showing that psychology may help, and indeed is required, to clarify some of the most controversial problems in brain research. He thus became a key figure in neuroscience's struggle to locate itself within the various research traditions. The following theses will be argued for: 1. Wundt's turn to psychology resulted from his view that the methodological basis of physiological brain research of the time was unsatisfactory. 2. Psychology, in its attempt to solve these problems, implied a new conception of an interaction between experimental and theoretical brain research. 3. Wundt tried to demonstrate the necessity of psychological considerations for experimental brain research. These points are discussed with reference to Wundt's treatment of the localization of functions in the brain. According to Wundt, psychology can show, by analyzing the complex structure of intellect and will, that mental phenomena can be realized in the brain only in the form of complex interations of the elements of the brain. The results of the psychological considerations imply that a strict localizations cannot be correct; but they are also turned against the conception of a complete functional equivalence of the various parts of the cortext. For Wundt, a reconstruction of brain processes cannot start with neurones, but only with patterns of a functional organization of brain activity. Wundt accordingly proposes a functional interpretation on the level of the physiology of nervous tissue as well as for the over-all organization of the brain.
Cerebral localizations discovered by Luciani will be compared with those observed by Ferrier, the 'father' of cerebral cartography. The two neurophysiologists' different experimental results will be analyzed from an epistemological point of view, in the light of their respective methodologies, models and theoretical assumptions. Luciani was always profoundly aware of the importance of theoretical assumptions and their impact both on methodological approaches and on how to interpret the results of experiments (results which were often the same as those obtained by Goltz, even though they were interpreted in quite dissimilar ways because they were based on different models). Agreement or disagreement with Ferrier's interpretation of cerebral functioning, and the two men's conception on the functional differentiation of well-identified cortical areas will be interpreted on epistemological ground. Reference will be made, on the one hand, to the theoretical model behind Luciani's experiments, on the other hand, to methods and procedures which allowed him to observe his experimental subjects for a longer period of time after the operation because of their longer survival rates. He was, consequently, able to carry out a more detailed analysis of the effects of experimentation on animal behavior. In this sense the time factor acquired a fundamental importance in the development of notions such as compensation and functional recovery. From Luciani's vast amount of activity in the field of physiology at the turn of the century, we shall take a look at the results of his investigations into cerebral localization in order to highlight the state of Italian neurophysiology in relation to the situation in contemporary Europe and, in particular, to the situation in Great Britain.
Cerebral localization, including hierarchical organization of the nervous system, was the critical conceptual advance that made possible the development of modern neuroscience in the nineteenth century. Some of our most basic ideas about neural organization were contributed by Hughlings Jackson. In the early twentieth century, Charles Sherrington combined localization with the neurone theory to create the paradigm of neurophysiological integration. Because Sherrington was educated in the Jacksonian tradition of British neurology, Sherringtonian integration contains ideas that are derived from Jackson and from Herbert Spencer.
In the latter decades of the nineteenth century Thomas Henry Huxley was at the heart of British Science: President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (1870), President of the Royal Society (1883-86), Chairman of innumerable committees. His thought in many ways characterises the spirit of the 'high' Victorian age in Britain. He was not only the most eminent academic biologist of his time but also deeply interested in philosophical issues. His re-examination of the evolution of the brain in response to Richard Owen's 'telenomic' views formed the kernel of the notorious debate at the 1860 meeting of the British Association in Oxford. From his early youth until old age he thought long and hard about the mind/body problem. This paper follows the development of his ideas and shows how in debate with many of the leading thinkers of his age, in the X-club and the Metaphysical Society, he struggled to develop a biologically-based account of the relationship between mind and brain. However, at the end, he seems to have recognized that his position was not entirely satisfactory and ultimately famously confessing himself 'agnostic' turned from metaphysics to devote himself to more practical issues. The unresolved problems of mind and brain which perplexed Huxley remain to torment his epigoni.
Between 1828 and 1838 Johannes Muller (1801-1858) published his important neurophysiological and anatomical investigations (primary fibres, cranial nerves, reflex movement, experimental proof of Charles Bell's law). Muller's strategies and concepts in neurophysiology can be used as an example for his scientific approach. An analysis of the four editions of Muller's Handbook of Physiology shows that he specified his arguments continuously by introducing clear definitions of physiological terms (stimulus, excitability, cosensual movement, reflex), which were based on his own manifold experiments and a critical review of recently published researches. Following his own epistemological view of physiological sciences he changed his fundamental belief in the incompatibility of the force of nerves and physical electricity in regard to Du Bois-Reymond's electrophysiological investigations. Muller's strategy in explaining scientific problems provides information for a historical understanding of why he had such a great influence on the development of physiology, anatomy and marine biology in the 19th century.
OCD was once considered a rare psychiatric disorder, but recent studies estimate that, in the general population, the lifetime prevalence of OCD is 1 to 2%, twice that of schizophrenia or panic disorder. The most common form of OCD is compulsive checking. Our studies show that the behavior of rats treated chronically with the dopamine agonist, quinpirole, meets the ethological criteria of compulsive checking in OCD; may have a similar motivational basis as compulsive checking in the human; and is partially attenuated by the anti-OCD drug, clomipramine. Thus, the behavioral changes induced by chronic treatment with quinpirole may constitute an animal model of OCD checking. Since behavioral sensitization is an associated effect of quinpirole treatment, the induction of compulsive checking by quinpirole may involve the same mechanisms as the induction of drug-induced sensitization. In this respect, we demonstrated that the MAO inhibitor clorgyline, not only prevented the development of locomotor sensitization to quinpirole, but also reversed it in sensitized rats. To the extent that the quinpirole treatment is an animal model of OCD with strong face validity, it strengthens the hypothesis that dopamine systems play a role in OCD and raises the possibility that MAO inhibitors, which are used clinically for OCD, may exert their effects by acting at the MAO inhibitor displaceable quinpirole binding site.
Computed tomography (CT) scanning is important prior to acute stroke treatment. We wished to identify factors associated with being able to obtain a CT scan quickly, from a recent large stroke treatment trial. A questionnaire survey on the organisation of CT scanning services for stroke was sent to 179 UK and Italian hospitals who had randomised patients into the International Stroke Trial and performed at least one pre-randomisation CT scan. Data from the questionnaire were analysed in conjunction with other patient data. Italian doctors expected the CT scans to be done more quickly than UK doctors, their hospitals were more likely to have a CT scanner operating all the time, and a porter was used less frequently to take the patient to the CT scanner. A few simple changes in the way CT scanning is organised for stroke patients in the UK could speed access to CT considerably.










Scientific fields as they emerge initially appear to be unrelated to other projects even if they are in a similar area of interest. This is especially true in the case of opiate, cannabinoid, and eicosanoid signaling processes. In this limited speculative review, we attempt to examine aspects of their intracellular cascading signaling systems for their commonalities. We find intracellular calcium mobilization, nuclear factor kappa B involvement, adenylate cyclase activity, and, finally, constitutive nitric oxide release to be converging points for these signaling processes, occurring by separate and distinct receptor-mediated effector systems. Phosphokinase C, mitogen activated protein kinase, and cytosolic phospholipase A2 also represent points of common impact. In this regard, aspirin also appears to be involved in an aspect of this signaling convergence. We conclude that many of the physiological observations regarding the actions of these signaling molecules, for example, immunosuppression, neurotransmission, vasodilation, cellular adherence, and cytotoxicity, can now be understood by considering their converging biochemical cascades.
The time has come for the development of standards to ensure quality and cost-effective care for the treatment of persons with schizophrenia. Advances in understanding the efficacy of treatments for schizophrenia, the promise of new treatment advances derived from a rapidly evolving neuroscience, pressures to contain health care costs while maintaining or increasing quality, and the growth of advocacy on behalf of persons with schizophrenia are driving this need. The evidence for the efficacy of pharmacotherapies, psychological interventions, family interventions, vocational rehabilitation, and case management and assertive community treatment is substantial, yet many patients do not receive treatments consistent with this evidence. Service systems must do much more to ensure that efficacious treatments are available, that both effectiveness and costs are considered in the allocation of resources, and that evaluative systems are in place to promote on-going quality improvement to provide the best care.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has rapidly emerged as a powerful technique in cognitive neuroscience. We describe and critique a new class of imaging experimental designs called event-related fMRI that exploit the temporal resolution of fMRI by modeling fMRI signal changes associated with behavioral trials as opposed to blocks of behavioral trials. Advantages of this method over block designs include the ability to (a) randomize trial presentations, (b) test for functional correlates of behavioral measures with greater power, (c) directly examine the neural correlates of temporally dissociable components of behavioral trials (e.g., the delay period of a working memory task), and (d) test for differences in the onset time of neural activity evoked by different trial types. Consequently, event-related fMRI has the potential to address a number of cognitive psychology questions with a degree of inferential and statistical power not previously available.
Until a few years ago, visual search tasks were of exclusive pertinence to psychophysicists and cognitive psychologists trying to understand the operating principles and computational constraints of visual perception and visual selective attention. In recent years, cognitive neuroscience, with its powerful tools, has started to explore more directly the neuronal mechanisms underlying search performance in humans and macaques, aiming at the same general goals. New observations from a number of cognitive neuroscience approaches are promising a near future of great excitement in this field of research. This article offers a critical review of some of these recent contributions and highlights some of the interpretational problems that they pose.
To name an object, we need both to recognize it and to access the associated phonological form, and phonological retrieval itself may be constrained by aspects of the visual recognition process. This paper reviews evidence for such constraints, drawing on data from experimental psychology, neuropsychology, functional imaging, and computational modelling. Data on picture identification in normal observers demonstrate that the speed of name retrieval processes differs for natural objects and artifacts, due at least in part to differences in visual similarity between exemplars within these categories. Also, effects of variables on early and late stages of object identification combine in an interactive rather than an additive manner, consistent with object processing stages operating in a continuous rather than a discrete manner. Neuropsychological evidence supports this proposal, demonstrating that subtle perceptual deficits can produce naming problems, even when there is good access to associated semantic knowledge. Functional activation studies further show increased activity in visual processing areas when conditions stress object naming relative to the recognition of familiar object structures. These studies indicate that object naming is based on a series of continuous processing stages and that naming involves increased visual processing relative to recognition tasks. The data can be modelled within an interactive activation and competition framework.
Delusions of pregnancy in men have been reported rather infrequently. This case report is of a male schizophrenic patient who developed a delusion of pregnancy on two successive occasions each time when his wife became pregnant. The authors view briefly various aetiological hypotheses of delusions of pregnancy and whether the couvade phenomenon had any role in the origin of this delusion.
In the present study, the reactivity of striatal dopamine and dopamine-sensitive neurons in super-fused striatal slices of ethanol-experienced rats was compared to that of ethanol-naive rats, 3 weeks after oral ethanol self-administration. During the acquisition phase (17 days), rats were offered increasing concentrations of ethanol (from 2 to 10%, 24 h per day) on an alternate-day schedule in a free choice with water. Following 2 weeks of unrestricted 10% ethanol consumption, the highest and lowest drinkers (representing about 25% of the upper and lower extremes of the total population) were selected. Preliminary experiments revealed that both groups of rats displayed a profound increase in ethanol consumption and preference 3 weeks after cessation of ethanol self-administration (deprivation effect). This deprivation effect was associated with an increase in electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine from superfused nucleus accumbens slices, whereas the evoked [3H]dopamine release from caudate putamen slices remained unchanged. In slices of the caudate putamen, but not in nucleus accumbens slices, postsynaptic dopamine D1 receptor-stimulated cyclic AMP production was also enhanced. In addition, prior ethanol consumption enhanced the electrically evoked release of [14C]acetylcholine release in both striatal regions. Interestingly, the magnitude of these long-term neuroadaptations correlated with the amount of daily ethanol consumption, i.e. neuronal hyperresponsiveness in the striatum was more profound in the high than in the low ethanol drinkers. These data show for the first time that unrestricted free-choice ethanol consumption in rats is associated with a long-term increase in dopaminergic and cholinergic neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens and caudate putamen. These (and other) neuroadaptations may underlie the enhanced motivation to self-administer ethanol and the maintenance of ethanol consumption long after deprivation.
Thirteen healthy subjects were subjected to tryptophan (TRP) depletion, lysine (LYS) depletion, and a placebo condition in a double blind cross-over study. The aim of the study was to test the specificity of psychological effects induced by TRP depletion. Subjects ingested a 100 g amino acid mixture with or without TRP or LYS. Six hours later, plasma TRP levels had decreased by 77% in the TRP depletion test and LYS levels by 51% in the LYS depletion condition. After 6 h of TRP depletion, subjects reported significantly more tiredness and lowering of mood, compared to subjects in the placebo group, and memory performance declined. After 6 h of LYS depletion, no significant differences in mood and memory compared to placebo were found. We conclude that the effects of TRP depletion on mood and memory are specific for the depletion of TRP and are not caused by the depletion of an amino acid per se. This supports the hypothesis that TRP depletion affects brain serotonin metabolism and not only brain protein metabolism in general.
The atypical antipsychotic olanzapine was compared to other atypical as well as typical antipsychotic agents for in vivo occupancy of D1, D2, D3, 5HT2, and muscarinic receptors in rat brain. Blockade of D2 receptors was determined by measuring the levels of the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). To assess the interaction with phosphoinositide (PI)-coupled 5HT2A and muscarinic receptors in vivo, we used a novel radiometric technique to measure in vivo PI hydrolysis. The antagonism of olanzapine and other antipsychotic agents on 5HT2A and muscarinic receptors was determined by in vivo blockade of PI hydrolysis, stimulated by the 5HT2 agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) or the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine. Olanzapine inhibited 5HT2, D2, and D3 in vivo binding with high potency (ID50=0.15, 0.6 and 1.2 mg/kg, IP, respectively), while inhibiting D1 and muscarinic in vivo binding with much less potency (ID50 &gt; 10 mg/kg, IP). The binding of olanzapine to D2 receptors in neostriatum was well correlated with the increase of DOPAC (ED200 = 0.8 mg/kg, IP) in vivo, indicating dopamine D2 antagonism. In vivo PI hydrolysis was increased by DOI in frontal cortex and by pilocarpine in hippocampus up to 2- and 7-fold above the basal level, respectively. The agonist-induced increases in PI hydrolysis were fully blocked by the 5HT2A antagonist MDL100907 and the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, indicating the mediation by 5HT2A receptors in frontal cortex and PI-coupled muscarinic receptors (ml, m3, and m5) in hippocampus, respectively. Olanzapine was about 8-fold more potent in vivo in blocking DOI-induced stimulation of PI hydrolysis (ID50 = 0.1 mg/kg, IP) than pilocarpine-induced stimulation of PI hydrolysis (ID50 = 0.8 mg/kg, IP). In conclusion, olanzapine is more potent in blocking the 5HT2A receptor than D1, D2, D3 and muscarinic receptors in vivo, consistent with its favorable clinical profiles. In addition, the novel in vivo PI hydrolysis assay proved to be a useful and reliable in vivo method to assess the functional efficacy of compounds that interact with the 5HT2 and muscarinic receptors.
Low platelet membrane alpha2-adrenergic receptor (alpha2AR) density and low basal and forskolin-stimulated cyclic adenosine monophosphate responses, which have been reported in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), suggest either abnormal alpha2AR coupling to G(i) protein or dysregulation in post-receptor signal transduction mechanisms. alpha2AR density in the high- and low-conformational states, agonist affinity in both states and coupling to G(i) protein were investigated in 23 drug-free combat PTSD patients and 25 normal controls. alpha2AR coupling measures were not different between PTSD patients and controls. Total alpha2AR density was higher in PTSD patients than controls, due to a higher density of the receptor in the high-conformational state. There were no differences in agonist affinity to the receptor in either conformational state. Results rule out dysregulation in alpha2AR coupling to G(i) protein. Studies of post-receptor signal transduction mechanisms are warranted.
The D4 dopamine receptor, a member of the D2-like dopamine receptor family, may be important in the etiology and treatment of schizophrenia. The present study was designed to examine the effects of dopamine agonist exposure on adenylate cyclase activity in HEK293 cells stably expressing recombinant-D4 receptors. Two hour pretreatment with dopamine receptor agonists resulted in heterologous sensitization of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in intact cells expressing the D4.2, D4.4, or D4.7 dopamine receptor variant. The potency and efficacy of dopamine for sensitization of cyclic AMP accumulation was comparable at all D4 receptor variants. D4 dopamine receptor-mediated sensitization was blocked by the D4 antagonist, clozapine, and prevented by overnight pretreatment with pertussis toxin, implying a role for Gi/Go proteins in heterologous sensitization. Further, long-term (18 h) agonist exposure resulted in a greater degree of sensitization of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in both intact cells and membrane preparations of cells expressing the D4 receptor, compared to 2 h agonist exposure, without altering the density of the receptors. In addition, long-term agonist exposure decreased the abundance of Gialpha without altering the abundance of Gsalpha, whereas short-term agonist treatment had no effect on the immunoreactivity of either G protein. In summary, long-term agonist-induced sensitization of adenylate cyclase by the D4 receptor may involve mechanisms that do not contribute to short-term sensitization.
There is uncertainty concerning the extent to which the auditory streaming effect is a function of attentive or preattentive mechanisms. The mismatch negativity (MMN), which indexes preattentive acoustic processing, was used to probe whether the segregation associated with the streaming effect occurs preattentively. In Experiment 1, alternating high and low those were presented at fast and slow paces while subjects ignored the stimuli. At the slow pace, tones were heard as alternating high and low pitches, and no MMN was elicited. At the fast pace a streaming effect was induced and an MMN was observed for the low stream, indicating a preattentive locus for the streaming effect. The high deviant did not elicit an MMN. MMNs were obtained to both the high and low deviants when the interval between the across-stream deviance was lengthened to more than 250 ms in Experiment 2, indicating that the MMN system is susceptible to processing constraints.
The neural mechanisms of deviancy and target detection were investigated by combining high density event-related potential (ERP) recordings with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). ERP and fMRI responses were recorded using the same paradigm and the same subjects. Unattended deviants elicited a mismatch negativity (MMN) in the ERP. In the fMRI data, activations of transverse/superior temporal gyri bilateral were found. Attended deviants generated an MMN followed by an N2/P3b complex. For this condition, fMRI activations in both superior temporal gyri and the neostriatum were found. These activations were taken as neuroanatomical constraints for the localization of equivalent current dipoles. Inverse solutions for dipole orientation provide evidence for significant activation close to Heschl's gyri during deviancy processing in the 110-160-ms time interval (MMN), whereas target detection could be modeled by two dipoles in the superior temporal gyrus between 320 and 380 ms.
In a within-subjects design, event-related potentials were compared for two types of sentence-final syntactic errors: Incorrect verb inflection and incorrect word category (phrase structure). In a grammatical judgment task, these errors triggered robust N400 and P600 components. To assess the degree of automaticity of the underlying linguistic processes, the N400 and P600 effects were measured in a task for which the participants judged whether a word in a sentence was printed in upper case. In this physical judgment task, the N400 and P600 following verb inflection errors were greatly attenuated or absent, whereas those elicited by word category violation were only slightly diminished in amplitude. The data suggest that word category information is processed more automatically than inflectional information. The P600 appears to reflect a relatively controlled language-related process.



Contractile responses to endothelin-1 (ET-1) were investigated in isolated trachea from rats previously exposed to chronic hypoxia (10% O(2)) or room air for 14 days. Concentration-response curves were constructed to ET-1 (10(-11)-3x10(-7)m ) in the presence and absence of the ET(A)receptor antagonist FR 139317 (10(-8), 10(-7)and 10(-6)m ), the ET(B)receptor antagonist BQ 788 (10(-6)and 3x10(-6)m ), the non-selective ET receptor antagonist SB 209670 (10(-7)and 10(-6)m ) and a combination of FR 139317 (10(-6)m ) and BQ 788 (10(-6)m ). Concentration-response curves were also conducted to the ET(B)receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c (10(-11)-3x10(-7)m ). In addition, responses to ET-1 (10(-11)-3x10(-7)m ) were examined in the presence and absence of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME. In control rat trachea, both FR 139317 and BQ 788 failed to inhibit ET-1-induced contractions and, indeed, FR 139317 (10(-8)m ) and BQ 788 actually potentiated responses. In trachea from chronic hypoxic rats, FR 139317 did not alter ET-1 responses whereas BQ 788 again potentiated ET-1-induced contractions. The non-selective ET receptor antagonist SB 209670 attenuated ET-1-evoked contractions in trachea from control and chronically hypoxic rats. A combination of FR 139317 (10(-6)m ) and BQ 788 (10(-6)m ) also attenuated ET-1 responses in control rat trachea, but not trachea from chronically hypoxic rats. In trachea from both control and chronically hypoxic rats, L-NAME significantly potentiated responses to ET-1. To investigate ET receptor-mediated relaxation, tissues were preconstricted with methacholine and concentration-response curves were conducted to ET-1 (10(-13)-10(-8)m ) in the presence and absence of BQ 788 (10(-6)m ) and to the ET(B)receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c (10(-13)-10(-8)m ). In trachea from control and chronic hypoxic rats, ET-1 and sarafotoxin S6c evoked only very small, non-reproducible relaxatory responses.
A novel combination of methods, two-dimensional liquid-phase electrophoresis (2D-LPE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS), have been used for the analysis of intact brain-specific proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). 2D-LPE is especially useful for isolating proteins present in low concentrations in complex biological samples. The proteins are separated in the first dimension by liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) in the Rotofor cell and in the second dimension by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) in the Preparative cell. The removal of SDS by chloroform/methanol/water, followed by sample preparation with the addition of n-octylglucoside, easily interfaced 2D-LPE with MALDI-TOFMS for analysis of intact proteins. Further characterization by proteolytic digestion is also demonstrated. The knowledge of both the molecular weights of the protein and of the proteolytic fragments obtained by peptide mapping increases specificity for protein identification by searching in protein sequence databases. Two brain-specific proteins in human CSF, cystatin C and transthyretin, were isolated in sufficient quantity for determination of the mass of the whole proteins and their tryptic digest by MALDI-TOFMS. This approach simplified the interface between electrophoresis and MALDI-TOFMS.
Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) is widely used for protein solubilization and for separation of proteins by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). However, SDS interferes with other techniques used for characterization of proteins, such as mass spectrometry (MS) and amino acid sequencing. In this paper, we have compared three procedures to remove SDS from proteins, including chloroform/methanol/water extraction (C/M/W), cold acetone extraction and desalting columns, in order to find a rapid and reproducible procedure that provides sufficient reduction of SDS and high recovery rates for proteins prior to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS). A 1000-fold reduction of SDS concentration and a protein recovery at approximately 50% were obtained with the C/M/W procedure. The cold acetone procedure gave a 100-fold reduction of SDS and a protein recovery of approximately 80%. By using desalting columns, the removal of SDS was 100-fold, with a protein recovery of nearly 50%. Both the C/M/W and the cold acetone methods provided sufficient reduction of SDS, high recovery rates of protein and allowed the acquisition of MALDI spectra. The use of n-octyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside in the protein sample preparation enhanced the MALDI signal for protein samples containing more than 2 10(-4)% SDS, after the C/M/W extraction. Following the cold acetone procedure, the use of n-octylglucoside was found to be necessary in order to obtain spectra, but they were of lower quality than those obtained with the C/M/W method, probably due to higher residual amounts of SDS.
Intense activity in the field of circadian rhythms has led in recent years to a basic understanding of how an endogenous clock is generated. Oscillating products of the period (per) and timeless (tim) genes, which feed back to regulate their own synthesis, and transcription factors, which activate these genes, combine to generate a molecular loop that apparently drives behavioral and physiological rhythms. The best-characterized component of this system is the per gene, with considerable effort directed towards identifying the mechanisms that regulate cyclic expression of RNA and protein. Since the cycling of PER protein is controlled largely by post-transcriptional mechanisms, the relative importance of RNA versus protein cycling has been addressed in several studies that are discussed in this chapter. However, it now is clear that regulation of per cannot be dissociated from that of tim, since they are co-dependent components. The overt behavioral phenotype likely depends upon the effect that any perturbation has on both components, rather than on either alone. Major features of the feedback loop appear to be conserved, from fruit flies to mammals. One difference between the two systems is the manner in which the &quot;molecular clock&quot; responds to light. In flies, levels of TIM protein are reduced in response to light, while in mammals, per RNA is induced. The pathway that conducts light to the clock is poorly understood but there is increasing evidence in support of a dedicated pathway for circadian photoreception, as opposed to the sole use of the visual transduction system.
Oxidative stress, growth factor starvation, and activation of the Fas/APO-1/CD95 receptor all induce apoptosis in a variety of cell-types, including the established human Jurkat T-cell line. Oxidative stress, in the form of exposure of the cells to a bolus dose of hydrogen peroxide, results in intralysosomal, iron-catalyzed oxidative reactions. This is accompanied by a time- and dose-dependent lysosomal destabilization--as evaluated by a decreased lysosomal uptake of the metachromatic fluorochrome, and weak base, acridine orange--in combination with leakage to the cytosol of lysosomal contents, including hydrolytic enzymes. Moderate lysosomal rupture is followed by apoptosis within initially intact plasma membranes, while necrosis and cell lysis are associated with a more complete lysosomal breach. Prior endocytosis of the potent iron-chelator desferrioxamine, resulting in binding of intralysosomal low molecular weight iron in a non-redox active form, largely prevents not only oxidative stress-induced lysosomal labilization, but apoptosis as well. When apoptosis is induced by the use of a monoclonal IgM anti-human Fas/APO-1/CD95 receptor antibody, the apoptotic process is again found to be accompanied by lysosomal leak. It is, however, not prevented by a preceding endocytosis of desferrioxamine and, consequently, could not be a function of intralysosomal iron-catalyzed oxidative reactions, but must be due to other mechanisms. Growth factor starvation of Jurkat cultures for a few days results in a high proportion of apoptotic cells, which contain lysosomes many of which have lost their proton gradient and appear to have released their contents. Overall, our results indicate that lysosomal leakage/rupture precedes apoptosis in Jurkat cells regardless of the initiating agent, but that such rupture may occur through multiple mechanisms. Lysosomal enzymes, leaking out of their normal vacuolar compartment, may then induce apoptosis, perhaps by proteolytic activation of the caspase-family of enzymes. Regardless of the precise mechanism, these observations suggest that partial rupture of the acidic vacuolar compartment may be one of the final pathways in apoptosis.
Although there is considerable information about the mechanisms through which injury stimuli produce acute pain, recent studies indicate that there are significant long-term consequences of persistent injury. Pain is exacerbated, in part, because of a reorganization of spinal cord circuitry in the setting of persistent injury. This review describes our studies of the contribution of the primary afferent neurotransmitter, substance P (SP), to these changes. By following internalization of the SP receptor in spinal cord dorsal horn neurons, we have identified the stimuli that evoke SP release and the neurons that respond to these stimuli. Importantly, based on the intensities of stimuli required to evoke internalization, we conclude that SP is only released under conditions in which severe pain would be produced, that the release can be evoked by intense stimulation of somatic and visceral tissue, and that multiple stimulus modalities are effective. We also found that the numbers of neurons that are influenced increases dramatically in the setting of inflammation. Using a knockout strategy, we have also raised mice with a deletion of the preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) gene, which encodes for SP and neurokinin A (NKA), and have identified a specific behavioral phenotype in which the animals do not detect a window of &quot;pain&quot; intensities; this window cuts across stimulus modalities. These results provide an important behavioral correlate of the receptor internalization studies. On the other hand, the allodynia (lowered pain threshold) that occurs in the setting of injury was not altered in these animals. Among the factors that could underlie injury-induced allodynia are the second messenger systems that are activated in dorsal horn neurons. Our studies have recently implicated the gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma) in the development of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. Specifically, we found that although acute pain responses of mice with a deletion of PKCgamma are not altered, partial injury to the sciatic nerve (which induces a severe thermal and mechanical allodynia in the wild type mouse) is without effect in the knockout. Furthermore, the anatomical/neurochemical reorganization that typically follows sciatic nerve section does not occur in the PKCgamma mutant mice. Because the spinal cord distribution of interneurons that express PKCgamma is concentrated almost exclusively in the inner part of lamina II, we believe that changes in the properties of these neurons are key to the development of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain conditions. Taken together, these studies emphasize that persistent pain should be considered a disease state of the nervous system, not merely a symptom of some other disease conditions. In the setting of persistent injury, the nervous system undergoes dramatic changes that exacerbate and prolong the pain condition. Our studies underscore the importance of preventing the long-term changes that result from persistent injury.
GABAergic drugs can positively or negatively influence recovery of neurobehavioral function following brain injury. Direct potentiation of GABA-mediated inhibition at the post-synaptic receptor (i.e., via GABA, muscimol, diazepam, phenobarbital) after brain damage has been associated with impaired functional recovery. What remains unclear, however, is whether the mechanism of action by which GABA is augmented contributes to a drug's impact on the recovery process. Vigabatrin, a novel anti-convulsant that inhibits GABA-transaminase, was administered chronically after unilateral anteromedial cortex lesions and recovery from somatosensory deficits assessed. In contrast to the direct GABA receptor agonists, vigabatrin did not adversely impact (i.e., was neutral) recovery from neurobehavioral deficits at any of the anti-convulsant doses tested. Measurable secondary drug effects like sedation and hypothermia diminished over time and were reversible upon drug discontinuation. These results suggest that the degree to which a GABAergic agent impacts the recovery process after brain injury is dependent on the drug's mechanism of action.
A conference was held in Magdeburg, Germany on March 4-6 where experts discussed current research in neurotraumatology and neurop-sychological rehabilitation. A total of about 60 research projects of a nationwide program project funded by the German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) were presented in conjunction with projects from the BMBF-initiative program &quot;Neuropathology&quot; of the Otto-v.-Guericke University of Magdeburg and the Graduate Program in Neuroscience which were funded by the German Research Society (DFG) and the State of Sachsen-Anhalt. The scientific program ranges from molecular, cell biological, anatomical, physiological and behavioral analyses of secondary cell death, regeneration and plasticity to clinical outcome studies and epidemiological evaluations. As such, the conference provides a broad overview of German neuroscience in the areas of neurotrauma, rehabilitation and brain plasticity. The abstracts are part of a special issue of Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience on &quot;Neurotrauma and Neuropsychological Rehabilitation&quot; which was published on the occasion of the conference.
Among the pathological sequelae of facial paralysis is a paralytic eye. Apart from the psychological and aesthetic deficits, facial paralysis if left untreated can lead to dryness, ulceration and eventual blindness. Although numerous restorative microsurgical approaches have been introduced to address the sequelae of this problem, complete restoration of function to denervated facial muscles remains elusive.Utilizing the rat model of facial paralysis the present research has as an objective to examine a dual treatment approach. Specifically, this study combined the current microsurgical treatment of the cross-facial nerve graft with local administration of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I).The efficacy of this combined approach (cross-facial nerve graft + IGF-I) was assessed in the following ways: (a) behavior measurement of the blink response and (b) histomorphometry light and electron microscopy of the entire nerve graft. These data will help provide insight into the restoration of facial muscle function after trauma and assist in the future development of more potent treatment strategies.7he local adnnistration of IGF-I (50 micro g/ml) to the cross-facial nerve graft was found to restore the blink response faster and to strengthen the degree of eye closure. Light microscopy examination revealed that IGF-I significantly enhanced axonal regeneration within a nerve graft (a 22% increase in the mean number of axons), and increased the mean nerve fiber diameter and myelin thickness. Electron microscopy assessment of the nerve grafts demonstrated that the IGF-I treated grafts possessed a greater density of microtubules, which were evenly distributed within the axoplasm.
Using stabilized visual field mapping techniques, seven hemianopic subjects were extensively investigated for residual visual abilities. Isolated islands of detection abilities were demonstrated by four of these subjects. Additional abilities demonstrated within these islands included saccadic and verbal localization, wavelength discrimination, form discrimination, and motion detection. These abilities were also accompanied by low-confidence ratings, and thus have the character of blindsight. It is noteworthy that different subjects demonstrated different abilities at different visual field locations, underscoring the between and within subject variability often observed with blindsight. Furthermore, magnetic resonance images obtained for each subject demonstrated variable sparing of occipital cortex. Such cortical sparing, in conjunction with the behavioral variability, supports the notion that some instances of blindsight are mediated by remnants of the primary visual pathway.
MS is a little girl who suffered severe, bilateral destruction of her primary visual areas at six weeks, after premature birth at 30 weeks. Between the ages of 4.5 and 5.5 years she partially recovered different aspects of visual function, and, in particular, the ability to segregate figures from background, based on texture cues. The recovery might have been due to the compensatory role of the remaining visual areas that could have acquired response properties similar to those of the primary visual areas. This is not supported by the available FMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) responses to visual stimuli. Instead, abnormalities in the pattern of stimulus-induced changes of interhemi-spheric EEG-coherence in this patient suggest that her visual callosal connections, and possibly other cortico-cortical connections have re-organized abnormally. Since cortico-cortical connections, including the callosal ones appear to be involved in perceptual binding and figure-background segregation, their reorganization could be an important element in the functional recovery after early lesion, and/or in the residual perceptual impairment.
This is an introduction to a special issue of the journal Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience which contains a series of papers presented at a satellite symposium held in conjunction with the European Forum of Neuroscience, Berlin, July 1-2, 1998, entitled &quot;Visual System Damage: Residual Vision and Plasticity&quot;. The symposium highlighted research findings both from animals and humans which sustained brain injury in early development and in adulthood. The findings demonstrate the degree of residual vision the injured brain possesses and summarize the effects of drugs and training on the plasticity of the visual system. As this conference demonstrated, the visual system is able to respond in many ways in an adaptive manner to lesions inflicted early in life and in adulthood. These changes may bring about spontaneous recovery of visual functions as long as the brain contains a sufficient capacity of residual vision. Both in children and in adults, systematic visual training can help patients to regain some visual functions which have previously been considered to be irrevocably lost. By carefully assessing residual vision it is proposed that the potential for plasticity of the visual system can be utilized to achieve clinical improvement using appropriate training paradigms.
Fimbria-fornix lesions abolish the hippocampal electrophysiological activity time-locked to the theta rhythm and alter some functional characteristics of place cells. The present experiment investigated whether homotopic grafts of fetal septal cells can alleviate some of these alter-ations when combined with a polymeric hydrogel bridging a fimbria-fornix lesion-cavity. Eleven months after grafting surgery, unit recordings were obtained from hippocampal neurons of seven rats [two sham-operated (S), two lesion-only (L) and three grafted (G)] while they explored a radial maze. The lesions induced dramatic loss of hippocampal acetylcholinesterase(AChE)-positive reaction products. Surviving grafts were found in the three grafted rats and several AChE-positive processes could be observed in the polymeric hydrogel, as well as in the most dorsal portion of the hippocampal parenchyma. Of 168 recorded units, 132 were hippocampal interneurons (i.e., fired rapidly everywhere in the maze), and 36 were pyramidal place cells (i.e., fired only when the rat was in a specific location in the maze, the place field). The overall firing characteristics of either cell type were similar in S, L and G rats. However, while none of the interneurons recorded from L rats was found to fire rhythmically, a significant proportion of interneurons recorded from S and G rats had an activity pattern time-locked to the theta rhythm [S: 16/19 (84 %); G : 22/70 (31 %)]. In addition, the increase in firing activity observed in interneurons recorded from S rats when they were moving was disrupted in cells from L rats, but partially restored in cells from G rats. Concerning place cells, most (93 %) place fields in S rats were stable relative to extra-maze cues when the radial maze was rotated, while they followed the maze rotation in both L and G rats. Because of the low number of rats used, the present results should be considered with caution. Nevertheless, they indicate graft-induced recovery of some properties of hippocampal function following fimbria-fornix damage, and suggest that homotopic transplants of projection neurons may foster some func-tional recovery when provided with a biomaterial allowing the host or grafted neurons to cross the lesion cavity.
A conference was held in Magdeburg, Germany on March 46 where experts discussed current research in neurotraumatology and neurop-sychological rehabilitation. A total of about 60 research projects of a nationwide program project funded by the German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) were presented in conjunction with projects from the BMBF-initiative program Neuropathology of the Otto-v.-Guericke University of Magdeburg and the Graduate Program in Neuroscience which were funded by the German Research Society (DFG) and the State of Sachsen-Anhalt. The scientific program ranges from molecular, cell biological, anatomical, physiological and behavioral analyses of secondary cell death, regeneration and plasticity to clinical outcome studies and epidemiological evaluations. As such, the conference provides a broad overview of German neuroscience in the areas of neurotrauma, rehabilitation and brain plasticity. The abstracts are part of a special issue of Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience on Neurotrauma and Neuropsychological Rehabilitation which was published on the occasion of the conference.

Neuroanatomical tract-tracing methods are powerful tools for the study of brain circuits. The use of axonal tracers has become very popular during the past few years. Tract-tracing allows us to study the way in which two or more brain areas are connected and can be used to obtain detailed data on the processing of information within a particular area. The recent development of protocols combining several tracers has resulted in an important breakthrough. Although technically very demanding, these multitracer procedures have become state of the art protocols in several laboratories, rendering a broad range of possibilities for their application in Neurobiology.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most devastating brain disorders of elderly humans. The last decade has witnessed a steadily increasing effort directed at discovery of the etiology of the disease and development of pharmacological treatment stategies. Symptomatic treatment mainly focussing on cholinergic therapy has been clinical evaluated by randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group studies measuring performance based tests of cognitive function, activity of daily living and behavior. Significant progress has been made in recent years to develop and apply functional brain imaging techniques allowing early diagnosis of dementia and evaluation of treatment efficacy. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a suitable method for functional studies of pathological changes in brain which as a clinical instrument not solely reveal dysfunctional changes early in the course of the disease but also may provide a deep insight into the functional mechanisms of new potential drug treatment strategies. The advantage with PET is the capacity not only to measure changes in glucose metabolism, cerebral blood flow but also to obtain further insight into neuronal communicative processes (transmitter/receptor interactions) in brain and pharmacokinetic events and drug mechanisms. PET studies have so far revealed disturbances in some neuroreceptor systems in brain of AD patients. A significant correlation can be observed between the impairment of nicotinic receptors in the temporal cortex and the cognitive impairment of AD patients. Cholinergic drugs including cholinesterase inhibitors such as physostigmine, tacrine, velnacrine as well as the acetylcholine releaser linopiridine have been reported to increase the cerebral blood flow in AD patients both after acute and fairly short period of treatment. Increase in cerebral glucose metabolism has also been measured following fairly long periods of treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors (months). The cholinergic nicotinic and muscarinic receptors do also respond to treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors in AD patients. An improvement of the nicotinic receptors has been found in cortical regions following treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors and nerve growth factors (NGF) to AD patients. Functional PET activation studies performed simultaneously with memory tasks will provide further valuable insight into the mechanisms of action of new drug, how they interact and can improve the efficacy of memory processes in AD brains.
Carotid endarterectomy may well be the most studied operation ever. Unlike many if not most surgical interventions, there are several randomised trials, and now meta-analyses, to inform clinical practice. On balance, accepting the small but definite risk of stroke as a result, surgery-is a reasonable option for many patients with severe and recently symptomatic carotid stenosis who have such a high risk of stroke without surgery. Although operating on asymptomatic stenosis is safer, the unoperated risk of stroke is--on average--so low that surgery is generally not worthwhile. The challenge now is to make surgery even safer, and perhaps angioplasty will be safer still and as durable although so far there is no good randomised evidence. At the same time we must identify, if we can, those few patients with severe symptomatic stenosis who will have a stroke and focus surgery just on them, and not offer it to all the patients with severe symptomatic stenosis who might have a stroke. This will require the development and validation of mathematical models of risk. But, however well focused surgery becomes and so however small we can make &quot;the numbers-needed-to-treat&quot;, it will have a negligible impact on stroke incidence because so few strokes are preceded by transient ischaemic attacks in patients with severe carotid stenosis.
Stroke units can improve outcome after stroke as demonstrated by a meta-analysis which evidenced a reduction of the odds ratio for mortality (18 +/- 8 p. 100) and for poor outcome, death, or institutional care (25 +/- 10 p. 100), and death or dependancy (29 +/- 11 p. 100). Improved quality of life and shorter hospital stay have not been so clearly established. Stroke units are helpful in organizing acute neurology care. Moreover, stroke units are involved in teaching and research. Their development should be promoted in hospitals.
In this article the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia is reviewed. The concept of penumbra is explained, and a distinction is made between ischemic necrosis, which occurs in the severely ischemic regions and is associated with loss of calcium and glutamate homeostasis, and programmed cell death, or apoptosis, which is more likely to occur in the moderately ischemic regions, evolves more slowly and depends on the activation of a sequence of genes. Despite this knowledge, it is pointed out that currently only a small percentage of stroke patients can access therapies. Some thoughts are provided on future research directions and therapies.
Understanding the complex structure and function of the central nervous system requires the integration of many scientific disciplines and descriptive levels, and the development and application of adequate research tools. The fast growing field of computational neuroscience plays an important role within this integrative effort. In Europe, an active community is emerging that investigates structure-function relationships in the nervous system at subcellular, cellular, network, and behavioural levels. An increasing number of courses and conferences are offering opportunities for development and exchange of ideas between scientists interested in computational neuroscience. Thus, it is timely to present a spectrum of European activities in this field and to foster the communication between scientists across disciplines towards joint efforts.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), on the medial surface of the frontal lobes, has frequently been hypothesized to make critical contributions to the function of neural systems involved in the executive control of cognition. Three principal theories have been developed to account for this role. The first, 'motivated attention', emphasizes the limbic identity of the ACC and the effects of lesions to this area of the brain. The second, 'attention allocation', emphasizes the fact that during functional neuroimaging studies activation of the ACC is seen during tasks that elicit incompatible response tendencies that must be resolved for correct performance. The third theory, 'error detection', reflects the observation of a negative scalp potential occurring during incorrect responses which appears to have a medial frontal generator. The first and last theories suggest evaluative functions by the ACC in the service of control, while attention allocation suggests a strategic function. We have proposed that the data supporting all three theories can be reconciled if the ACC were detecting conflicting processes during task performance that might be associated with errors. In support of this hypothesis we describe results using event-related fMRI which confirm that the ACC does show error related activity but that the same region of the brain also shows increased response related activity during correct responses associated with response competition. This suggests a re-conceptualization of the contribution of the ACC to executive processes that support an evaluative role, specifically the on-line detection of processing conflicts that may be associated with deteriorating performance. Unresolved questions related to the contribution of this region to executive processes and potential future directions for research on the function of this region of the brain are discussed.
The advent of the use of in vivo microdialysis and voltammetry techniques in behaving animals has ushered in a great deal of research on the neurochemistry of cognition. While studies exploring the relationship between neurotransmitter release and cognitive processing are quite feasible, a number of methodological and conceptual issues pose challenges to the interpretation of experimental results. These challenges include: 1) a demonstration that the behavioral task highlights the particular cognitive construct under study; 2) a determination of the role of non-cognitive variables (i.e. transfer effects, sensory stimulation, motivational variables, and motor activity) in affecting transmitter release, and 3) a recognition of the value of a distributed systems approach to studying the neurochemistry of cognition. This review summarizes the data on the validity of microdialysis and voltammetry as correlates of neurotransmitter release and then illustrates the impact that the above challenges can have on the conclusions drawn from various studies.

There is mounting criticism regarding the validity of blood oxygenation level dependent contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) studies. The main sources of error in BOLD-fMRI are pixel misalignment and physiological noise. One of the widely practiced tactics to ameliorate motion related fictitious activation is post-processing motion correction algorithms. Nevertheless, the validity of activation data following application of such algorithms has not been totally confirmed. In this article, the practical pitfalls of BOLD-fMRI and potential correction algorithms are concisely discussed.
Multiple sclerosis is a putative autoimmune disease in which limited numbers of autoimmune T cells reactive to myelin basic protein or proteolipid protein would play critical roles in initiation or augmentation of the inflammatory processes. Owing to the recent immunological studies, it is now possible to discuss the possible link between infectious agents and the development of MS on the molecular terms. This article deals with key issues in this subject such as molecular mimicry between autoantigen and viral peptide, autoimmune T cell stimulation by bacterial superantigens, and regulatory network in MS. In addition to reviewing the current activity in other laboratories, I point out that there might be much more broader range of peptide ligands for autodestructive T cells causing MS. This postulate is based on our recent discovery for the presence of degenerate autoimmune T cells in animal model of MS (EAE). I also indicate the possibility that immune regulatory system could be destroyed by some infectious agents. These informations should have significant implications for management of MS patients.


The mammalian cochlea receives innervation from the central nervous system via two efferent systems: the lateral and the medial olivocochlear bundles. Advances in cochlear physiology have clarified the origins and terminations of these fibers. However, to date, while the functional significance of lateral efferents remains totally unknown, that of medial efferents is still controversial. The peripheral effects of medial olivocochlear system activation have been described, but the role of this inhibitory feedback onto the cochlea is still unclear. This overview summarizes the main results of several psychophysiological studies performed in humans dealing with the functional significance of medial olivocochlear efferents in hearing.
Evoked otoacoustic emissions have been shown to be suppressed by sounds applied in the contralateral ear and this effect can be largely explained by the involvement of medial olivocochlear efferent fibers. Thus, EOAE recording during contralateral stimulation provides a non-invasive means of investigating auditory efferent system functioning in humans. The question remains, however, as to whether this test provides a tool, which could be useful in a variety of clinical applications. This review describes current clinical applications for this test, showing that it may prove useful for improving identification of retrocochlear pathologies. Some new areas are also identified. Methodological topics are discussed and suggestions for maximizing the value of this test are proposed.
The aim of this study was to examine and describe how nursing students developed their reasoning and knowledge about the state of health of, and their possible actions regarding, two fictitious elderly patient case histories during their three-year education. The descriptions were audiotaped, transcribed verbatim and analysed by content analysis. The findings show a development in the students' reasoning concerning the more acute case, but no development in reasoning regarding the case of a confused person. This could be due either to a lack of education in gerontology and geriatrics, or to the students receiving limited guidance during their education on how to reason about and reflect upon different ways of approaching emerging problems. The findings could also be understood in the light of traditions and history in nursing education.
A health care reform for senior citizens took effect in 1992 in Sweden. Shortcomings as regards geriatric rehabilitation were identified and, in 1995, governmental grants were assigned to local developmental projects. The aim of this study was to report the staff and administration perspectives in a geriatric rehabilitation developmental process over a 1-year period. In all, 782 staff and 45 administration respondents took part. The investigation was based on questionnaires and series of interviews. Significant positive changes with respect to collaboration between the authorities involved were demonstrated at the administrative level, while the most positive results at staff level concerned competence development in the group of employees without college education. A positive process as regards geriatric rehabilitation has started in the study district, indicating that governmental grants assigned for the stimulation of developmental activities are beneficial. Official goals for geriatric rehabilitation, points of departure for the organization of rehabilitation services and the content of general and specialized rehabilitation programmes are pinpointed as some of the areas deserving further attention.


Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder associated with cognitive disturbances that may reflect underlying deficits in the functioning of brain transient memory storage systems. This study investigates performance in three distinct tasks that require transient memory storage: (1) tone discrimination, (2) object weight discrimination, and (3) &quot;AX&quot;-type visual continuous performance task. The tests used were chosen to investigate the degree to which a similar pattern of performance deficit could be observed across multiple sensory and cognitive domains in schizophrenia. In each of the paradigms, a similar pattern emerged: subjects with schizophrenia showed severe performance deficits whenever performance depended on functioning of transient memory systems. The deficits were apparent at both short and long interstimulus intervals (ISI), however, and schizophrenia subjects were no more affected by increasing ISI than were controls. Moreover, when short ISI performance was matched across groups by manipulating task difficulty, subsequent decay in performance was equivalent across groups. Thus, although schizophrenia subjects show severe performance deficits in memory-dependent tasks, the deficits do not appear to reflect impaired transient memory per se. Rather, they appear to reflect impaired precision of operation of such systems, irrespective of the duration over which representations must be maintained. The severe deficits in processing precision, despite the relatively preserved maintenance of representation, may be relevant to pathophysiological models of schizophrenia.
Research in psychopathology and the cognitive neurosciences suggests new applications in psychiatric rehabilitation. Analysis of performance deficits on laboratory tasks can contribute to treatment planning, individual and family counseling, and staff consultation, much like it does in cases of brain injury and other types of central nervous system neuropathology. Recognition of the nature of cognitive impairments in schizophrenia can inform design of psychosocial techniques such as social and living skills training. Cognitive impairments are increasingly seen as potential targets for pharmacological and psychosocial treatment and rehabilitation. In this article, three key issues for application of cognitive technology in psychiatric rehabilitation of schizophrenia and related disorders are formulated as straightforward, clinically relevant questions: (1) What is the prognostic significance of cognitive impairment in acute psychosis? (2) Can cognitive functioning improve in the chronic, residual course? (3) How does cognitive improvement benefit other aspects of recovery and rehabilitation? These questions are addressed through review of previous findings and new multivariate analyses of cognitive functioning in the acute, post-acute, and chronic residual phases of schizophrenia.
Brain laterality in schizophrenia has been examined through the application of functional neuroimaging methods. These methods have included the 133Xenon technique for measuring cerebral blood flow (CBF); positron emission tomography for assessing rates of glucose metabolism, CBF, and neuroreceptor functioning; single photon emission computerized tomography for studying CBF and neuroreceptors; and functional magnetic resonance imaging for measuring changes attributable to CBF. This article highlights the application of this technology in schizophrenia research, emphasizing more recent studies that have evaluated hemispheric differences. There is evidence for lateralized abnormalities in some studies that have examined this dimension. In general, the results implicate abnormalities in left hemispheric activity. Recent advances in basic and clinical neuroscience provide an opportunity for focused application of functional imaging in neurobiological studies of schizophrenia.
Recently, GBR1, a seven-transmembrane domain protein with high affinity for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B receptor antagonists, was identified. Here, a GBR1-related protein, GBR2, was shown to be coexpressed with GBR1 in many brain regions and to interact with it through a short domain in the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic tail. Heterologously expressed GBR2 mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase; however, inwardly rectifying potassium channels were activated by GABAB receptor agonists only upon coexpression with GBR1 and GBR2. Thus, the interaction of these receptors appears to be crucial for important physiological effects of GABA and provides a mechanism in receptor signaling pathways that involve a heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein.
Clopidogrel, a new platelet ADP receptor antagonist, is more effective than aspirin in reducing the risk of subsequent vascular ischemic events in patients with a broad spectrum of symptomatic atherosclerosis (recent ischemic stroke, recent myocardial infarction, or symptomatic peripheral arterial disease). In CAPRIE (clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients at risk of ischemic events), a randomized, blinded, active control trial in 19,185 high-risk patients, clopidogrel reduced the combined risk of ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death by 8.7% compared with aspirin (p = 0.043). The CAPRIE cohort had a mean age of 62.5 years, which was reflected in the high proportion of patients who had medical conditions other than symptomatic atherosclerosis, and in the extensive use of concurrent therapies, including commonly used cardiovascular drugs. For all concomitant medications analysed, there was no evidence of statistically or clinically significant interactions with clopidogrel. The CAPRIE data confirm the findings of earlier clinical studies, which suggested that clinically significant drug interactions with clopidogrel are rare, that it can safely be prescribed with a range of other drugs (including phenobarbital, cimetidine, estrogen, digoxin, theophylline, atenolol, nifedipine, or nifedipine-atenolol in combination), and that the clinically proven dose of 75 mg once daily is suitable for all age groups studied. Moreover, CAPRIE demonstrated that there is no need for an adjustment of clopidogrel dose on the basis of gender, weight or race, and that there is no need for routine hematological monitoring. Additional clinical pharmacology studies have shown that the absorption of clopidogrel is unaffected by food or antacids, and that no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment or with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment. Due to pharmacologic considerations and limited clinical data, clopidogrel should be used cautiously with heparin, warfarin or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. With a simple regimen of 75 mg once daily indicated for all patients, clopidogrel combines a favorable risk/benefit ratio with ease of use in clinical practice.

Previous light microscopical studies have indicated that fibres from the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus (VL) establish direct axo-somatic and axo-dendritic presumed contacts with layers III and V neurones of the intact frontal cortex projecting to the striatum. Additional experiments provided evidence that this thalamo-fronto-striate pathway could be partly reconstructed by transplantation of embryonic frontal tissue into the damaged cortex. The present study was undertaken to validate these results at the ultrastructural level. Several months after the transplantation of fetal frontal tissue into the damaged frontal cortex of newborn rats, a retrograde neurotracer (subunit b of the cholera toxin) was used to label the grafted neurones projecting to the striatum whereas an anterograde neurotracer (Phaseolus vulgaris leuco-agglutinin) was used to label within the transplant, axons and terminations arising from the VL. The same injection procedures were applied to intact adult rats (control). The distribution of retrograde and anterograde labellings within the intact cortex and within the graft was examined at light and electron microscopic levels to identify the synaptic contacts. Our findings showed that labelled contacts were less numerous within the transplant than within the intact cortex but their synaptic organization was similar: asymmetrical synaptic axo-dendritic and axo-somatic contacts. This synaptic articulation is probably supplied by a thalamic excitatory input. These results provide ultrastructural evidence of the capacity of a frontal cortical transplant placed in damaged frontal cortex of newborn rats to help reconstruction of appropriate synaptic integration within the thalamo-fronto-striate system.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the detectability of a uniquely oriented line element in a field of uniformly oriented line elements depends on element length. Displays containing various numbers of elements were presented briefly and followed by a mask. The length and orientation of the elements were varied. With longer (1.0-deg) elements, detection performance varied little with the number of elements present. With shorter (0.25-deg) elements, performance worsened as the element number increased, especially when the uniformly oriented elements were oblique. It seems that rapid spatially parallel processes facilitate detection of targets in many-element displays of long elements but not of short elements.
When a sinewave grating is moving within a cross-shaped aperture, a strongly multi-stable phenomenon is perceived. The percept switches between the coherence of an extended surface moving in a single direction and the segregation of two patterned strips sliding across each other in directions parallel to the branches of the cross. We studied how the balance between these two percepts is affected by the length of the arms and by the shape of their ends. We report here that human observers report the segregation into two surfaces more often when the branches of the cross are extended, and when the small sides of the arms are oriented parallel to the grating. Two kinds of early motion signals interact in the crossed barber-pole stimulus: (a) the signals extracted in the middle of the bars are ambiguous with regard to their direction, and usually would be interpreted as motion normal to the grating orientation; (b) the signals from regions where the grating is intersected by the borders of the aperture convey motion signals in direction of the border. Our results show that the global appearance of our display can be dramatically influenced by the reliability of motion signals located in small regions that may be separated by large distances. To explain this long-range effect, we tentatively propose the existence of a representation level situated between the extraction of low-level local signals and the final global percept. The postulated processing level is concerned with the segmenting of the entire image into surfaces that are likely to belong to the same object, even if they are not contiguous in space. This hypothetical mechanism involves the construction of coarse-scale 'patches' from the local motion signal distributions, each carrying a single velocity associated with a certain degree of reliability. Our experiments indicate that the probability of grouping together similar patches depends on their respective reliabilities.
This study was undertaken to investigate the outcomes, complication rates and risk factors of stereotactic intrastriatal neurotransplantation for Parkinson's disease (PD). Bilateral stereotactic neurotransplantation was performed (as previously described) in 60 patients with idiopathic PD. Clinical outcome was evaluated using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). The incidence of complication was evaluated by retrospective analysis of the clinical outcomes of the transplanted patients. Patients demonstrated significant improvement in UPDRS scores 12 months after transplantation. Nine patients experienced adverse effects after neurotransplantation, 3 requiring surgical intervention. Patients showed a significant overall improvement and no greater incidence of risk than that of other intracranial procedures.

Nautical and cerebral navigation share similar elements of functional need and similar developmental pathways. The need for orientation necessitates the development of appropriate concepts, and such concepts are dependent on technology for practical realization. Occasionally, a concept precedes technology in time and requires periods of delay for appropriate development. A temporal concatenation exists where time allows the additive as need, concept and technology ultimately provide an endpoint of elegant solution. Nautical navigation has proceeded through periods of dead reckoning and celestial navigation to satellite orientation with associated refinements of instrumentation and charts for guidance. Cerebral navigation has progressed from craniometric orientation and burr hole mounted guidance systems to simple rectolinear and arc-centered devices based on radiographs to guidance by complex anatomical and functional maps provided as an amalgam of modern imaging modes. These maps are now augmented by complex frame and frameless systems which allow not only precise orientation, but also point and volumetric action. These complex technical modalities required and developed in part from elements of maritime navigation that have been translated to cerebral navigation in a temporal concatenation.

This research focused on two main problems: 1) low cost, high fidelity stereoscopic imaging of complex tissues and organs; and 2) virtual cutting of tissue. A further objective was to develop these images and virtual tissue cutting methods for use in a telemedicine project that would connect remote sites using the Next Generation Internet. For goal one we used a CT scan of a human heart, a desktop PC with an OpenGL graphics accelerator card, and LCD stereoscopic glasses. Use of multiresolution meshes ranging from approximately 1,000,000 to 20,000 polygons speeded interactive rendering rates enormously while retaining general topography of the dataset. For goal two, we used a CT scan of an infant skull with premature closure of the right coronal suture, a Silicon Graphics Onyx workstation, a Fakespace Immersive WorkBench and CrystalEyes LCD glasses. The high fidelity mesh of the skull was reduced from one million to 50,000 polygons. The cut path was automatically calculated as the shortest distance along the mesh between a small number of hand selected vertices. The region outlined by the cut path was then separated from the skull and translated/rotated to assume a new position. The results indicate that widespread high fidelity imaging in virtual environment is possible using ordinary PC capabilities if appropriate mesh reduction methods are employed. The software cutting tool is applicable to heart and other organs for surgery planning, for training surgeons in a virtual environment, and for telemedicine purposes.


Hippocampal serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) synthesis, as determined by the accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) following inhibition of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase with NSD 1015, was inhibited by systemic administration of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p.) and paroxetine (3 mg/kg i.p.). Pretreatment of rats with the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 for a period of 7 days using subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps (1 mg/kg/day) was sufficient to block the inhibition of 5-HT synthesis following the 5-HT 1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg s.c.), but failed to inhibit the decrease of hippocampal 5-HT synthesis by fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p.) or paroxetine (3 mg/kg i.p.). Similarly, pretreatment of rats with GR 127935 (5 mg/kg i.p.), an antagonist with high affinity for 5-HT1B/D receptors, blocked the reduction of hippocampal 5-HT synthesis following the 5-HT receptor agonist TFMPP (3 mg/kg s.c.) without affecting the reduction of hippocampal 5-HT synthesis by either fluoxetine or paroxetine. In contrast, pretreatment with WAY 100635 (1 mg/kg/day, for 7 days s.c. in osmotic minipumps) in combination with GR 127935 (5 mg/kg i.p.) significantly attenuated the decrease of hippocampal 5-HT synthesis by both fluoxetine and paroxetine. These results indicate that both 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B/1D receptors, which function in the rat as inhibitory somatodendritic and nerve terminal autoreceptors, independently regulate hippocampal 5-HT synthesis and must be simultaneously blocked to prevent the inhibition of 5-HT synthesis by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors which increase 5-HT availability at both nerve terminals in hippocampus and 5-HT cell bodies in the raphe nuclei.
The high concentration of the tyrosine-rich polypeptide, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and the increase in the number of its receptor subtypes that have been characterized in the brain, raise the question of a functional role for NPY in the CNS. In addition to its peripheral actions on cardiovascular regulation, much attention has, therefore, been devoted to the CNS effects of NPY because of its stimulatory properties on food intake, its role in anxiolysis and its putative involvement in memory retention. Emerging evidence points to an important role for NPY in the regulation of neuronal activity both under physiological conditions and during pathological hyperactivity such as that which occurs during seizures. This article reviews recent studies that have shown the changes induced by seizures in the level and distribution of NPY, its receptor subtypes and their respective mRNAs in rat forebrain. Biochemical and electrophysiological findings in experimental models and tissue from human epilepsy sufferers suggest that NPY-mediated neurotransmission is altered by seizures. The pharmacological evidence and functional studies in NPY knockout mice highlight a crucial role for endogenous NPY, acting on different NPY receptors, in the control of seizures.
Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is caused by mutations in an ATP-binding-cassette transporter located in the peroxisomal membrane, which result in a fatal demyelinating disease in boys and a milder phenotype in men and some heterozygous women. There is no molecular signature to indicate a particular clinical course. The underlying molecular mechanisms of this disease have yet to be targeted clinically. Is the increase in very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) the disease trigger? Why is there no phenotype in ALD null mice that show this increase? Do VLCFA destabilize human myelin, once formed, and lead to the inflammation seen in this genetic disease? Bone-marrow transplantation might save a child by providing normal brain macrophages and allowing myelin regeneration early in disease. The processes that underlie ALD challenge neuroscientists to elucidate peroxisomal transporter functions in the nervous system and to pursue the gene-transfer strategies leading to remyelination until a preventive therapy emerges.

In situ freezing is a procedure, typically applied in neuroscience, to halt metabolism and diffusion. However, the freezing process is not instantaneous, and the regional concentrations of a compound under study may change before the tissue is completely frozen. Knowing the local freezing time, metabolic rate and the diffusion coefficient of the compound of interest, it should be possible to reconstruct the spatial concentration profile prevailing before the object was placed in the cryogen. A mathematical model for calculating the temperature changes at different depths in rabbit and rat heads cooled in liquid nitrogen has been developed. By comparing with experimental results it has been found that the mathematical model can be used for prediction of the local freezing time with a small error.
A correlation between the serum levels of the stress hormone cortisole, neurophysiological parameters, and age was examined in 23 elderly healthy examinees (whose mean age was 65.7 +/- 2.1 years). The latency of the components of visual evoked potentials (VEP) was found to progressively increase with age. The individuals having high cortisole levels showed an increase in the latency of late VEP components associated with accelerated ageing and/or with the degenerative changes in the brain limbicoreticulocortical pathways. The DC potential level (DCPL) reflecting the intensity of brain energy expenditures correlated with the content of cortisole. Increased DCPL and longer latency of late VEP components were interrelated. It is suggested that high cortisole level produces a neurotoxic action and promotes accelerated ageing of brain regions having glucocorticoid receptors. Imbalance between the significant intensification of catabolic processes, the rise of energy expenditures and the limited increase in anabolism in elderly age is a course of this process.
The spatiotemporal structure of cortical activity evoked by diffuse light flashes was investigated in an isolated eyecup-brain preparation of the pond turtle, Pseudemys scripta. By combining a photomicroscopic image of the preparation with voltage-sensitive dye signals recorded by a 464-element photodiode array, the spread of depolarization within different cortical areas could be directly visualized with millisecond temporal resolution. Diffuse stimulation of the contralateral eyecup initially depolarized the visual cortex at the junction between its lateral and medial divisions in a small area rostral of the ventricular eminence. From this point, the depolarization spread at different velocities (10-100 microm/ms) depending upon the direction of travel. Since the initial depolarization was always in the rostral pole, the largest spread invariably occurred in a rostral --&gt; caudal direction. Within the confines of the medial visual cortex, depolarization spread at a constant velocity but slowed after entering the adjoining medial cortex. Increasing the stimulus illuminance increased the velocity of spread. Rostrocaudal spread of depolarization was also observed in response to electrical stimulation of the geniculocortical pathway and by direct focal stimulation of the cortical sheet. These data suggest that excitatory connections between pyramidal cell clusters play a prominent role in the initial activation of the cortex by diffuse retinal stimulation.
Results from earlier experiments indicate that different species of rodent vary both in the number of cone types found in their retinas and in the spectral sensitivities of the cone pigments. These features have now been examined in two types of hamster commonly used for research purposes: Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) and Siberian dwarf hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry, behavioral discrimination tasks, and opsin antibody labeling were used to investigate hamster photoreceptors and their visual consequences. Results from the three approaches support the following conclusions: (1) The retinas of both species have an abundant population of rods containing a photopigment with peak sensitivity of about 498-500 nm; (2) Siberian dwarf hamsters have two classes of cone: one with maximum sensitivity in the ultraviolet (c. 360 nm), the other with peak sensitivity closely similar to that of its rod; and (3) Syrian golden hamsters have a class of cone with peak sensitivity at about 506 nm, but they lack a second cone type. Implications of these alternative arrangements are discussed.
Signals relayed through the magnocellular layers of the LGN travel on axons with faster conduction speeds than those relayed through the parvocellular layers. As a result, magnocellular signals might reach cerebral cortex appreciably before parvocellular signals. The relative speed of these two channels cannot be accurately predicted based solely on axon conduction speeds, however. Other factors, such as different degrees of convergence in the magnocellular and parvocellular channels and the retinal circuits that feed them, can affect the time it takes for magnocellular and parvocellular signals to activate cortical neurons. We have investigated the relative timing of visual responses mediated by the magnocellular and parvocellular channels. We recorded individually from 78 magnocellular and 80 parvocellular neurons in the LGN of two anesthetized monkeys. Visual response latencies were measured for small spots of light of various intensities. Over a wide range of stimulus intensities the fastest magnocellular response latencies preceded the fastest parvocellular response latencies by about 10 ms. Because parvocellular neurons are far more numerous than magnocellular neurons, convergence in cortex could reduce the magnocellular advantage by allowing parvocellular signals to generate detectable responses sooner than expected based on the responses of individual parvocellular neurons. An analysis based on a simple model using neurophysiological data collected from the LGN shows that convergence in cortex could eliminate or reverse the magnocellular advantage. This observation calls into question inferences that have been made about ordinal relationships of neurons based on timing of responses.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) has been transmitted in the laboratory and also by iatrogenic accident. However, research has failed to find evidence that its most common form (sporadic CJD) is a natural infection and, in particular, that there is a causal link with scrapie. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) probably resulted from scrapie infection in cattle food. In the wake of the BSE epidemic, a novel clinico-pathological form of CJD has been recognized: new variant CJD (nvCJD). This paper reviews the relationship between nvCJD and BSE and presents the accumulated evidence supporting the view that nvCJD resulted from BSE contamination of human food.
The gaseous signal molecule, nitric oxide (NO*), is generated enzymatically by NO synthase (NOS) from L-arginine. Overproduction of NO contributes to cell and tissue damage as sequelae of infection and stroke. Strategies to suppress NO synthesis rely heavily on guanidino-substituted L-arginine analogs (L-NAME, L-NA, L-NMMA, L-NIO) as competitive inhibitors of NOS, which are often used in high doses to compete with millimolar concentrations of intracellular arginine. We show that these analogs are also a source for non-enzymatically produced NO. Enzyme-independent NO release occurs in the presence of NADPH, glutathione, L-cysteine, dithiothreitol and ascorbate. This non-enzymatic synthesis of NO can produce potentially toxic, micromolar concentrations of NO and can oppose the effects of NOS inhibition. NO production driven by NOS inhibitors was demonstrated ex vivo in the central nervous and peripheral tissues of gastropod molluscs Aplysia and Pleurobranchaea using electron paramagnetic resonance and spin-trapping techniques. These results have important implications for therapeutic regulation of NO homeostasis.

During fertilization in Chlamydomonas, gametes of opposite mating types interact with each other through sex-specific adhesion molecules on their flagellar surfaces. Flagellar adhesion brings the cell bodies of the gametes into close contact and initiates a signal transduction pathway in preparation for cell-cell fusion. We have identified a cDNA, gsp1, whose transcript levels are upregulated during flagellar adhesion. The GSP1 polypeptide is a novel, gamete-specific homeodomain protein, the first to be identified in an alga. Its homeodomain shows significant identity with several higher plant homeodomain proteins. Although encoded by a single copy gene present in cells of both mating types, immunoblot analysis showed that GSP1 was expressed in mating type (mt)+ gametes, but was not detectable in mt- gametes or in vegetative cells of either mating type. Moreover, GSP1 appeared late during gametogenesis, suggesting that it may function during adhesion with mt- gametes or after zygote formation. GSP1 is expressed in imp11, mt- mutant gametes, which have a lesion in the mid gene involved in sex determination and exhibit many phenotypic characteristics of mt+ gametes. Thus, gsp1 is negatively regulated by mid and is the first molecule to be identified in Chlamydomonas that shows sex-limited expression.
The interhemispheric connections of somatosensory cortex in the gray-headed flying fox (Pteropus poliocephalus) were examined. Injections of anatomical tracers were placed into five electrophysiologically identified somatosensory areas: the primary somatosensory area (SI or area 3b), the anterior parietal areas 3a and 1/2, and the lateral somatosensory areas SII (the secondary somatosensory area) and PV (pairetal ventral area). In two animals, the hemisphere opposite to that containing the injection sites was explored electrophysiologically to allow the details of the topography of interconnections to be assessed. Examination of the areal distribution of labeled cell bodies and/or axon terminals in cortex sectioned tangential to the pial surface revealed several consistent findings. First, the density of connections varied as a function of the body part representation injected. For example, the area 3b representation of the trunk and structures of the face are more densely interconnected than the representation of distal body parts (e.g., digit 1, D1). Second, callosal connections appear to be both matched and mismatched to the body part representations injected in the opposite hemisphere. For example, an injection of retrograde tracer into the trunk representation of area 3b revealed connections from the trunk representation in the opposite hemisphere, as well as from shoulder and forelimb/wing representations. Third, the same body part is differentially connected in different fields via the corpus callosum. For example, the D1 representation in area 3b in one hemisphere had no connections with the area 3b D1 representation in the opposite hemisphere, whereas the D1 representation in area 1/2 had relatively dense reciprocal connections with area 1/2 in the opposite hemisphere. Finally, there are callosal projections to fields other than the homotopic, contralateral field. For example, the D1 representation in area 1/2 projects to contralateral area 1/2, and also to area 3b and SII.
Cells in the lateral hypothalamus and in the arcuate nucleus play prominent roles in the central control of food intake; however, a neurochemical link connecting these potential components of a hypothalamic circuitry regulating energy metabolism remains to be established. In the present study, the topographical relationship between cells expressing mRNAs encoding melanin-concentrating hormone and the newly discovered neuropeptide family hypocretins/orexins was studied in the rat and mouse lateral hypothalamus by using double-labeling in situ hybridization. Cells expressing the two mRNAs formed completely distinct populations, with hypocretin/orexin cells located primarily perifornically and in the magnocellular lateral hypothalamic nucleus; melanin-concentrating hormone cells extended in a wider area both laterally and periventricularly and appeared to partly surround the hypocretin/orexin population. In the arcuate nucleus, cells expressing neuropeptide Y and agouti gene-related protein were studied by routine fluorescence and/or confocal microscopy immunohistochemistry. Double staining demonstrated that a large proportion of the neuropeptide Y-positive cell bodies in this nucleus also contained agouti gene-related protein-like immunoreactivity. Moreover, these two peptides also coexisted in nerve terminals surrounding and in close relationship to perikarya and processes of both hypocretin/orexin- and melanin-concentrating hormone-immunoreactive cells in the lateral hypothalamus, whereby the former appeared to receive a more dense innervation. These results thus provide evidence for an arcuate-lateral hypothalamic neuropeptide Y/agouti gene-related protein pathway. Furthermore, the results implicate hypocretin/orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone-expressing cells as downstream targets in neuropeptide Y-induced feeding.

Neurosecretion competence is intended as the ability of neurosecretory cells to express dense and clear vesicles discharged by regulated exocytosis (neurotransmitter release). Such a property, which so far has never been studied independently, is investigated here by a heterotypic cell fusion approach, using a clone of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells totally incompetent for neurosecretion that still largely maintains its typical molecular and cellular phenotype. When fused with wild-type partners of various species (rat, human) and specialization (PC12, neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y, HeLa), the defective cells reacquire their competence as revealed by the expression of their secretion-specific proteins. Fused wild-type cells therefore appear able to complement defective cells by providing them with factor(s) inducing the reactivation of their secretory program. The mechanism of action of these factors may consist not in a coordinate unblocking of transcription but in the prevention of a rapid post-transcriptional degradation of the mRNAs for secretion-specific genes.
The clinical efficacy of clozapine in treating schizophrenia may stem from its lack of receptor selectivity. If true, several clozapine-sensitive receptors may be co-expressed by neurons dysfunctional in schizophrenia. To test this hypothesis, neurons from the rat medial prefrontal cortex were acutely isolated and subjected to single cell RT-PCR analysis. The co-ordinated expression of five clozapine-sensitive receptors (D4, m1, 5-HT2a, 5-HT2c, 5-HT7) was examined in interneurons and pyramidal neurons. Profiling of GABAergic interneurons commonly revealed the co-expression of two or more clozapine-sensitive receptor mRNAs. Although co-expression of these receptors was less extensive in pyramidal neurons, it was also commonly found. These results suggest that clozapine's therapeutic effects may be mediated by antagonism of dopaminergic, cholinergic and serotoninergic signaling pathways at the single cell level.
The interaction between tubulin subunits and microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) such as tau is fundamental for microtubule structure and function. Previous work has suggested that the &quot;microtubule binding domain&quot; of tau (composed of three or four imperfect 18-amino acid repeats, separated by 13- or 14-amino acid inter-repeat regions) can bind to the C-terminal ends of both alpha and beta tubulin monomers. Here, using covalent cross-linking strategies, we demonstrate that there are two distinct tau cross-linking sites (designated as &quot;C-terminal&quot; and &quot;internal&quot;) on each alpha and beta tubulin monomer. The C-terminal tau cross-linking site is located within the 12 C-terminal amino acids of both alpha and beta tubulin, while the internal tau cross-linking site is located within the C-terminal one-third of alpha and beta tubulin but not within the last 12 amino acids. In addition, we show that tau cross-links to the C-terminal site via its repeat 1 and/or the R1-R2 inter-repeat. The cross-linking of tau to the internal site is mediated by some subset of its other repeat units. Integrating these and earlier data with the 3.7 A resolution model of the alphabeta tubulin dimer recently presented by E. Nogales et al. [(1998), Nature 391, 199-203], we propose a new model for the tau-microtubule interaction.
The recent discovery of glycine transporters in both the central nervous system and the periphery suggests that glycine transport may be critical to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function by controlling glycine concentration at the NMDAR modulatory glycine site. Data obtained from whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of hippocampal pyramidal neurons, in vitro, demonstrated that exogenous glycine and glycine transporter type 1 (GLYT1) antagonist selectively enhanced the amplitude of the NMDA component of a glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic current. The effect was blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and 7-chloro-kynurenic acid but not by strychnine. Thus, the glycine-binding site was not saturated under the control conditions. Furthermore, GLYT1 antagonist enhanced NMDAR function during perfusion with medium containing 10 microM glycine, a concentration similar to that in the cerebrospinal fluid in vivo, thereby supporting the hypothesis that the GLYT1 maintains subsaturating concentration of glycine at synaptically activated NMDAR. The enhancement of NMDAR function by specific GLYT1 antagonism may be a feasible target for therapeutic agents directed toward diseases related to hypofunction of NMDAR.
Although neuronal synchronization has been shown to exist in primary motor cortex (MI), very little is known about its possible contribution to coding of movement. By using cross-correlation techniques from multi-neuron recordings in MI, we observed that activity of neurons commonly synchronized around the time of movement initiation. For some cell pairs, synchrony varied with direction in a manner not readily predicted by the firing of either neuron. Information theoretic analysis demonstrated quantitatively that synchrony provides information about movement direction beyond that expected by simple rate changes. Thus, MI neurons are not simply independent encoders of movement parameters but rather engage in mutual interactions that could potentially provide an additional coding dimension in cortex.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive technique to induce electric currents in the brain. Although rTMS is being evaluated as a possible alternative to electroconvulsive therapy for the treatment of refractory depression, little is known about the pattern of activation induced in the brain by rTMS. We have compared immediate early gene expression in rat brain after rTMS and electroconvulsive stimulation, a well-established animal model for electroconvulsive therapy. Our result shows that rTMS applied in conditions effective in animal models of depression induces different patterns of immediate-early gene expression than does electroconvulsive stimulation. In particular, rTMS evokes strong neural responses in the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) and in other regions involved in the regulation of circadian rhythms. The response in PVT is independent of the orientation of the stimulation probe relative to the head. Part of this response is likely because of direct activation, as repetitive magnetic stimulation also activates PVT neurons in brain slices.
Bipolar affective disorder (BPAD; manic-depressive illness) is characterized by episodes of mania and/or hypomania interspersed with periods of depression. Compelling evidence supports a significant genetic component in the susceptibility to develop BPAD. To date, however, linkage studies have attempted only to identify chromosomal loci that cause or increase the risk of developing BPAD. To determine whether there could be protective alleles that prevent or reduce the risk of developing BPAD, similar to what is observed in other genetic disorders, we used mental health wellness (absence of any psychiatric disorder) as the phenotype in our genome-wide linkage scan of several large multigeneration Old Order Amish pedigrees exhibiting an extremely high incidence of BPAD. We have found strong evidence for a locus on chromosome 4p at D4S2949 (maximum GENEHUNTER-PLUS nonparametric linkage score = 4.05, P = 5. 22 x 10(-4); SIBPAL Pempirical value &lt;3 x 10(-5)) and suggestive evidence for a locus on chromosome 4q at D4S397 (maximum GENEHUNTER-PLUS nonparametric linkage score = 3.29, P = 2.57 x 10(-3); SIBPAL Pempirical value &lt;1 x 10(-3)) that are linked to mental health wellness. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that certain alleles could prevent or modify the clinical manifestations of BPAD and perhaps other related affective disorders.
In an effort to understand the unusual cytogenetic damage earlier encountered in the Yanomama Indians, plasma samples from 425 Amerindians representing 14 tribes have been tested for hemagglutination inhibition antibodies to the human JC polyoma virus and from 369 Amerinds from 13 tribes for hemagglutination inhibition antibodies to the human BK polyoma virus. There is for both viruses highly significant heterogeneity between tribes for the prevalence of serum antibody titers &gt;/=1/40, the pattern of infection suggesting that these two viruses only relatively recently have been introduced into some of these tribes. Some of these samples, from populations with no known exposure to the simian polyoma virus SV40, also were tested for antibodies to this virus by using an immunospot assay. In contrast to the findings of Brown et al. (Brown, P., Tsai, T. &amp; Gajdusek, D. C. (1975) Am. J. Epidemiol. 102, 331-340), none of the samples was found to possess antibodies to SV40. In addition, no significant titers to SV40 were found in a sample of 97 Japanese adults, many of whom had been found to exhibit elevated titers to the JC and BK viruses. This study thus suggests that these human sera contain significant antibody titers to the human polyoma viruses JC and BK but do not appear to contain either cross-reactive antibodies to SV40 or primary antibodies resulting from SV40 infection.
Amplification of auditory stimuli by hair cells augments the sensitivity of the vertebrate inner ear. Cell-body contractions of outer hair cells are thought to mediate amplification in the mammalian cochlea. In vertebrates that lack these cells, and perhaps in mammals as well, active movements of hair bundles may underlie amplification. We have evaluated a mathematical model in which amplification stems from the activity of mechanoelectrical-transduction channels. The intracellular binding of Ca2+ to channels is posited to promote their closure, which increases the tension in gating springs and exerts a negative force on the hair bundle. By enhancing bundle motion, this force partially compensates for viscous damping by cochlear fluids. Linear stability analysis of a six-state kinetic model reveals Hopf bifurcations for parameter values in the physiological range. These bifurcations signal conditions under which the system's behavior changes from a damped oscillatory response to spontaneous limit-cycle oscillation. By varying the number of stereocilia in a bundle and the rate constant for Ca2+ binding, we calculate bifurcation frequencies spanning the observed range of auditory sensitivity for a representative receptor organ, the chicken's cochlea. Simulations using prebifurcation parameter values demonstrate frequency-selective amplification with a striking compressive nonlinearity. Because transduction channels occur universally in hair cells, this active-channel model describes a mechanism of auditory amplification potentially applicable across species and hair-cell types.





Galanin can normally be detected only in a few dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, but it is dramatically upregulated after peripheral nerve injury in both rat and monkey. Galanin is stored in large dense core vesicles, which after axotomy are often found close to the membrane of afferent nerve endings in the dorsal horn. In the monkey there is an increase in galanin in many nerve terminals in the superficial dorsal horn after axotomy, but such an increase is more difficult to detect in the rat. Galanin is also present in local dorsal horn neurons, where it is upregulated by peripheral inflammation. Both galanin-R1 and galanin-R2 receptor mRNAs are expressed in rat DRGs, mainly in, respectively, large and small DRG neurons. Galanin-R1 receptor mRNA is downregulated in DRG neurons after axotomy, and a small decrease in galanin-R2 receptor mRNA levels can also be seen. After peripheral tissue inflammation galanin-R1 receptor mRNA levels decrease and galanin-R2 receptor mRNA levels increase. The present results show that galanin and galanin receptors are present in sensory and local dorsal horn neurons and are regulated by nerve injury and inflammation. Galanin may therefore be involved in processing of pain information, primarily exerting analgesic effects. Whereas local dorsal horn neurons represent a defense system against inflammatory pain, we have proposed that a second defense system, against neuropathic pain, is intrinsic to DRG neurons.
This paper presents evidence that galanin is a potent in vivo modulator of basal acetylcholine release in the rat brain with qualitatively and quantitatively differential effects in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Galanin perfused through the microdialysis probe decreased basal acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus, while it enhanced acetylcholine release in the dorsal hippocampus. Galanin (3 nmol/rat) infused into the ventral hippocampus impaired spatial learning acquisition, while it tended to facilitate acquisition when injected into the dorsal hippocampus. These effects appear to be related to activation of GAL-R1 (ventral hippocampus) and GAL-R2 (dorsal hippocampus) receptors, respectively. However, the effects of galanin on acetylcholine release and on spatial learning appear not to be directly related to cholinergic mechanisms, but they may also involve interactions with noradrenaline and/or glutamate transmission. Galanin administered into the lateral ventricle failed to affect acetylcholine release, while this route of administration produced a long-lasting reduction in 5-HT release in the ventral hippocampus, indicating that galanin is a potent inhibitor of mesencephalic 5-HT neurotransmission in vivo. Subsequent studies supported this hypothesis, showing that the effects on 5-HT release in vivo are most likely mediated by a galanin receptor in the dorsal raphe. The implications of these findings are discussed in relation to the role of acetylcholine in cognitive functions in the forebrain and the role of the raphe 5-HT neurons in affective disorders.
The reciprocal interactions between galanin and 5-HT1A receptors in the rat brain are presented. Galanin and its NH2-terminal fragments antagonize 5-HT1A receptor-mediated transmission at the postjunctional level, whereas galanin receptor activation mimics the inhibitory action of 5-HT1A receptor activation at the soma-dendritic level, leading to reductions of 5-HT metabolism and release. These interactions have been shown in both receptor binding studies and functional studies. In view of the present findings, galanin antagonists may represent a new type of anti-depressant drug, based on the 5-HT hypothesis of depression, by enhancing 5-HT release and postjunctional 5-HT1A-mediated transmission. Moreover, following intracerebroventricular injection galanin was found to be internalized in a population of hippocampal nerve cells mainly representing GABA, somatostatin, and/or NPY-immunoreactive nerve cells. The relevance of these findings is discussed in relation to the concept of volume transmission.
Galanin can be synthesized in several ascending systems including cholinergic forebrain neurons, serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons, and the noradrenergic locus coeruleus system. Recent immunohistochemical studies suggest that of these three systems, the locus coeruleus neurons express the highest levels of galanin and that in cortex and hippocampus galanin peptide can only be detected in the noradrenergic projections. Electrophysiologic studies show that galanin hyperpolarizes both serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons and noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons at fairly high concentrations (10(6)-10(-7) M). In addition, galanin at low concentrations (10(-9) M) enhances the 5-HT- and noradrenaline-induced hyperpolarization. Consequently, a galanin antagonist could attenuate an inhibitory tone on both dorsal raphe and locus coeruleus neurons and thus perhaps exert antidepressant activity.
Galanin is a pleiotropic neuroendocrine signal produced in discrete subpopulations of neurons distributed in several sites in the hypothalamus. Neuropeptide Y and beta-endorphin also display pleiotropism, but they are produced by subpopulations of neurons located only in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Each of these neuropeptides exerts a regulatory influence on reproduction and appetitive behavior. Experimental and morphologic evidence from our laboratory show direct contacts and interplay among these diverse signals. Seemingly, an interconnected network composed of these three neuropeptide-producing neurons provides precision and site specificity in the relay of information necessary to govern reproduction and appetite. Disruptions in this interplay are likely to manifest in untoward consequences such as infertility and obesity.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is known to negatively regulate the transcription of the rat galanin gene both in vivo and in vitro in dorsal root ganglion neurons, yet it is unclear how this regulation actually occurs. We propose here several possible pathways whereby NGF could interact to exert negative control on galanin regulation. These include: (1) repression of AP1-mediated transcription, (2) repression of nuclear binding protein-mediated transcription, and (3) repression of cytokine-mediated transcription. Although not enough data are available for speculation on which, if any, of these pathways is most relevant for NGF repression of galanin transcription, the mechanisms we describe can provide putative models for regulatory pathways. From here we can carry out further experiments that may help to elucidate the possible mechanisms of NGF repression in vivo.
The authors serially sectioned seven dye-filled neuronal somata and more than 1.6 mm of their dendrites from the lumbar sympathetic ganglia of guinea pigs and examined them ultrastructurally to determine the distribution of preganglionic synaptic inputs to their dendrites and cell bodies. Most of the surface of the neurons was covered with Schwann cells. Apposing boutons were rare, with an average density of one axosomatic bouton per 125 microm2 of somatic membrane and one axodendritic bouton per 25 microm of dendrite. Many dendritic segments that were more than 50 microm long completely lacked any apposing boutons. Although the average density of apposing boutons was low, local densities could be high, so that clusters of up to four adjacent boutons occurred on cell bodies and dendrites alike. The spatial arrangement of the apposing boutons for each of the cells examined here was not significantly different from a random distribution. Consequently, the number of apposing boutons observed for any neuron was simply proportional to the amount of neuronal surface sampled in the serial section run. About 50% of boutons directly apposing the neurons lacked any detectable presynaptic specialisations. When they were present, the presynaptic densities had a mean length of about 220 nm, with no difference between boutons that made axosomatic or axodendritic appositions. By applying these data to complete reconstructions of the dendritic trees of dye-filled sympathetic neurons at the light microscopic level, the authors estimated that few neurons in the lumbar sympathetic chain of guinea pigs would receive more than 200 synapses or apposing boutons and that many of them would receive less than 100 synapses. Up to 50% of these boutons would be predicted to make axosomatic contacts. These new observations provide a strong morphological framework for a better understanding of how sympathetic final motor neurons process their preganglionic synaptic inputs.
The purpose of this study was to test the previous report that generation of the mismatch negativity (MMN) component of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) is indifferent to the predictable occurrence of stimulus deviance. A pattern of standards (S) and deviants (D) were delivered in a predictable fashion (SSSSD) at two different speeds (1.3 s and 100 ms). An MMN was obtained to the D position tone at the slow but not the fast pace. These results demonstrate that, unlike the P3 component, the MMN is sensitive to the predictable occurrence of stimulus deviance when the predictability can be detected by the brain within the estimated limits of sensory memory.
The purpose of this study was to assess the in vivo effects of melatonin, as an antioxidant, on striatal dopaminergic function in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the striatum. Compared with sham-operated controls and expressed as a ratio relative to the contralateral side, there was an increase in the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA, 142%) and a significant reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) enzyme activity (28%) and dopamine (DA, 32%) and its metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC, 50%) 2 weeks after 6-OHDA injection. Melatonin treatment almost completely restored MDA levels to normal, suggesting the in vivo action of melatonin as an antioxidant. In parallel, partial, but statistically significant recovery of striatal dopaminergic function, including TH enzyme activity and DA levels, also occurred following melatonin treatment. Taken together with our previous reports showing behavioral and histochemical effects of melatonin on the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, the present results strongly support the hypothesis that melatonin, as an antioxidant, may have beneficial effects on therapeutic approaches for the treatment of oxidative stress-induced neurodegenerative disease such as Parkinson's disease (PD).
The cytokine IFN-gamma was shown to regulate growth and differentiation of human embryonic forebrain astrocytes. This work investigated a signalling pathway used by IFN-gamma during the process of growth regulation of human fetal astrocytes obtained from first trimester embryos. IFN-gamma induced significantly higher cell survival compared to that of unexposed cultures, and this survival could be suppressed by incubation with the tyrosine protein kinase (TPK) specific inhibitor tyrphostin A47 at the non-toxic concentration of 10(-6) M. The signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1 was translocated into the nucleus upon IFN-gamma stimulation, which was also blocked by incubation with A47. Our data demonstrate that TPKs are actively involved in growth regulation of the developing brain astrocytes induced by IFN-gamma.
We report the distinct cellular distribution in the human cerebellar cortex of the mammalian mt1 (Mel1a) and MT2 (Mel1b) (1) melatonin receptor subtypes. Specific binding of the non-selective radioligand 2-[125I]iodomelatonin to the outer molecular layer was significantly higher than to the granule cell layer. Melatonin receptor subtype expression was assessed by in situ hybridization using selective and specific digoxigenin-labeled antisense oligonucleotide probes. This is the first demonstration of MT2 melatonin receptor mRNA expression in human cerebellar Bergmann glia and astrocytes. On the other hand, the mt1 melatonin receptor mRNA was expressed in both basket-stellate cells and granule cells. We conclude that mt1 and MT2 melatonin receptors are heterogeneously expressed in human cerebellar cortex.





The involvement of the protein kinase C substrate, B-50 (GAP-43), in the release of glutamate from small clear-cored vesicles in streptolysin-O-permeated synaptosomes was studied by using anti-B-50 antibodies. Glutamate release was induced from endogenous as well as 3H-labelled pools in a [Ca(2+)]-dependent manner. This Ca(2+)-induced release was partially ATP dependent and blocked by the light-chain fragment of tetanus toxin, demonstrating its vesicular nature. Comparison of the effects of anti-B-50 antibodies on glutamate and noradrenaline release from permeated synaptosomes revealed two major differences. Firstly, Ca(2+)-induced glutamate release was decreased only partially by anti-B-50 antibodies, whereas Ca(2+)-induced noradrenaline release was inhibited almost completely. Secondly, anti-B-50 antibodies significantly reduced basal glutamate release, but did not affect basal noradrenaline release. In view of the differences in exocytotic mechanisms of small clear-cored vesicles and large dense-cored vesicles, these data indicate that B-50 is important in the regulation of exocytosis of both types of neurotransmitters, probably at stages of vesicle recycling and/or vesicle recruitment, rather than in the Ca(2+)-induced fusion step.
Antipsychotic drugs are traditionally classified as typical or atypical on the basis of their property to cause or not to cause extrapyramidal side-effects. A widely accepted selectivity for the mesolimbic, vs. the nigrostriatal, dopaminergic system is postulated to underlie the existence of fewer or no extrapyramidal side-effects during treatment with atypical neuroleptics. In order to verify this hypothesis we examined the effect of acute clozapine on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons recorded from non-anaesthetised and from chloral hydrate-anaesthetised rats. Extracellular single-unit recording coupled with antidromic activation from the neostriatum was used. Intravenous administration of cumulative doses of clozapine (1.25-10 mg/kg) increased the firing rate of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in non-anaesthetised rats, but failed to significantly modify the activity of the same units under chloral hydrate anesthesia. These results indicate that acute clozapine activates nigrostriatal dopamine cells in non-anaesthetised rats and cast doubts about a direct link between the lack of significant extrapyramidal side-effects and the selectivity of atypical neuroleptics, such as clozapine, for the mesolimbic dopamine system.
The major substrates for the type I insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) receptor are Shc and insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins. In the current study, we report that IGF-I induces a sustained tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc and its association with Grb2 in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. The time course of Shc tyrosine phosphorylation parallels the time course of IGF-I-stimulated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Transfection of SH-SY5Y cells with a p52 Shc mutant decreases Shc tyrosine phosphorylation and Shc-Grb2 association. This results in the inhibition of IGF-I-mediated ERK tyrosine phosphorylation and neurite outgrowth. In contrast, IGF-I induces a transient tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-2 and an association of IRS-2 with Grb2. The time course of IRS-2 tyrosine phosphorylation and IRS-2-Grb2 and IRS-2-p85 association closely resembles the time course of IGF-I-mediated membrane ruffling. Treating cells with the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase inhibitors wortmannin and LY294002 blocks IGF-I-induced membrane ruffling. The ERK kinase inhibitor PD98059, as well as transfection with the p52 Shc mutant, has no effect on IGF-I-mediated membrane ruffling. Immunolocalization studies show IRS-2 and Grb2, but not Shc, concentrated at the tip of the extending growth cone where membrane ruffling is most active. Collectively, these results suggest that the association of Shc with Grb2 is essential for IGF-I-mediated neurite outgrowth, whereas the IRS-2-Grb2-phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase complex may regulate growth cone extension and membrane ruffling.
Many studies show that monoamine oxidase B in blood cells is a biological marker for personality characteristics such as sensation seeking. The mechanism underlying this association is so far not explored. In the present study we have performed electrophoretic mobility-shift assays to investigate the pattern of protein binding to a 150 bp fragment of the proximal 5'-flanking region of the human monoamine oxidase B gene. We compared the pattern using nuclear extracts from human brain and lymphocytes. Interestingly, a correlation was observed between monoamine oxidase B enzyme activity in blood cells (platelets) and the binding pattern of two uncharacterized transcription factors. These data are well in line with the long-standing notion that interindividual differences in platelet monoamine oxidase may represent differences in expression of the enzyme rather than genotypic variation.


Serotonin exerts multiple electrophysiological effects on neurons of the central nervous system. It is now known that this diversity reflects at least in part the existence of multiple serotonin receptor subtypes. An example of this occurs in the CA1 region of the hippocampus where as many as ten different serotonin receptor subtypes appear to be expressed. Recent electrophysiological studies have been able to assign specific functional roles to at least 5 of these receptors. These receptors are differentially expressed in the two different cell types present in this region, pyramidal cells and GABAergic interneurons, and mediate different effects on membrane excitability. This distribution is consistent with the different functional roles played by these cells in hippocampus. Thus the differential expression of serotonin receptor subtypes in the CA1 region allows serotonin to modify the function of hippocampal neuronal networks in a manner that is both selective and precise.
Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that the 5-HT2C serotonin receptor can be rendered constitutively active by changing amino acid 312 (third intracellular loop) from serine to lysine (S312K). In the present study, detailed radioligand binding analyses were performed to characterize the constitutively activated state of S312K mutant receptors. All agonists tested displayed high affinity for both [3H]5-HT and [3H]mesulergine binding to S312K receptors, but displayed low affinity for [3H]mesulergine binding to native 5-HT2C receptors. [3H]5-HT labeled the same total number of S312K binding sites as [3H]mesulergine. 5-HT2C antagonists inhibited S312K basal inositol phosphate production. These results suggest that S312K receptors mimic the active conformation of native 5-HT2C receptors and provide a good model system for evaluating drugs for inverse agonist activity. Also, S312K receptors may represent a new system for screening 5-HT2C agonist activity by comparing [3H]mesulergine binding to native and S312K mutant receptors.
Constitutively active GPCR have revealed novel properties of drugs that exhibit classical competitive antagonism at the native forms of GPCR. These drugs reverse basal levels of constitutive activity, indicating that they have inverse agonist activity. We were interested in determining if competitive antagonists of the native 5-HT2A receptor, in particular, antipsychotic drugs, exhibit inverse agonist activity at the constitutively active 5-HT2A receptor. All of the drugs tested reduced basal IP production of constitutively active 5-HT2A receptors, indicating that they all exhibited inverse agonist activity. Risperidone and ketanserin produced the greatest inhibition of basal IP production resulting in a reduction of basal activity in the C322K mutant receptor of 82% and 80%, respectively. Antipsychotic drugs display inverse agonist activity, indicating that stabilization of the inactive conformation of the 5-HT2A receptor may be a key component of their mechanism of action.
Sensorimotor gating of the startle reflex occurs when the presentation of a weak &quot;prepulse&quot; 30-500 msec prior to a startling stimulus inhibits the reflex, and is called prepulse inhibition (PPI). The study of PPI has recently been extended to mice to take advantage of recent advances in molecular genetics, because several neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, obsessive compulsive disorder, and schizotypal personality disorder are characterized by PPI deficits. Studies in wild-type and 5-HT1B knockout mice suggest that activation of 5-HT1B receptors decreases PPI. The direct 5-HT1A/1B agonist RU24969 decreases PPI in wild-type but not 5-HT1B knockout mice. Likewise, the serotonin releasing compounds MDMA(+), MBDB(+/-), and alpha-ethyltryptamine (AET) have no effect on PPI in wild-type mice, but increase PPI in 5-HT1B knockout mice. As the direct 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT increases PPI in mice, the unmasking of these effects may also contribute to the PPI-increasing effects of 5-HT releasers in 5-HT1B knockout mice.
This paper reviews the pathophysiology of panic disorder (PD), within the context of newly described &quot;fear circuitries,&quot; which have been well characterized in preclinical models. Substantial advances in the neurosciences have made it possible for clinical neuroscientists to refine our understanding of the pathophysiology of PD and the mechanisms of currently effective treatment. These advances have in turn helped generate testable hypotheses for future neurobiological and psychopharmacologic research. Perturbation of mutual modulation (&quot;cross talk&quot;) between key brain transmitter systems (serotonin, norepinephrine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, corticotropin-releasing factor, and others) may underlie the pathogenesis of panic-anxiety. Restoration of normal homeostasis may be an important therapeutic component of antipanic therapy and may provide information about underlying neurocircuits. Neuroimaging, an important new tool, has already begun to bridge the gap between the preclinical and clinical neurosciences through confirmation of hypothesized dysfunction of the complex human prefrontal cortex and its subcortical components. In higher species, such as humans, dysfunction of cortical inhibition or excessive cortical activation of caudal limbic structures is postulated to lead to activation of the phylogenetically conserved amygdalofugal pathways. Consistent with probable subtypes of PD, overlapping theoretical models of panic neurocircuitries are proposed, including ventilatory dysregulation, which is coupled with neurovascular instability in a critical area of the panic neurocircuitry--the amygdalohippocampus. Neuroimaging appears a critical tool in guiding further elaboration of the interaction of cortical and subcortical components of the panic neurocircuitry, whereas challenge studies appear crucial in gathering further information regarding brain stem dysfunction.
The mouse mutant weaver exhibits developmental deficits and cell death in several neuronal classes. weaver is almost certainly a mutation in the potassium channel, Girk2. In some vulnerable neurons, including those in the midbrain, it is not known whether weaver expression is the primary defect, or whether deficits are secondary to weaver expression elsewhere. In wild-type mice, our results point to subsets of dopamine-containing cells of the midbrain as primary targets of weaver. In the midbrain, all Girk2-positive cells examined in A9 (substantia nigra), A10, and A8 (retrorubral nucleus) are tyrosine hydroxylase-positive. The expression of Girk2 varies among and within these regions. Girk2-positive cells are most numerous in the substantia nigra, pars compacta, a region badly affected in homozygous weavers; in this region, Girk2 expression is found in cell somata and dendrites. In addition, in homozygous weavers, the remaining neuronal processes in A9 (as well as A8) are stunted. Within A10, a region largely spared in weaver homozygotes, Girk2 expression is undetectable in the most medially placed nuclei and is present in the nuclei that border A9. In the cerebellum, Girk2 immunoreactivity was also found in somata and dendrites of populations vulnerable to weaver, including the deep cerebellar nuclei. In a region not previously known to be affected, the olfactory bulb, Girk2 protein is detectable only in processes. The expression of mutated Girk2 has consequences for the olfactory bulb where ectopic cells are present in the external plexiform layer of the homozygous weaver. Our results emphasize that the Girk2 mutation may act to alter the development and maintenance of cell processes and that defects may be present in all Girk2-containing regions in weaver mutants.
Abnormality of protease activities and imbalance of intracellular calcium are two most salient aberrant events in Alzheimer's disease (AD). As such, calcium-dependent proteases such as calpain, as a critical link between these two events, must play a key role in the pathogenesis of AD, particularly in the abnormal processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein. Because alpha-secretase in this process appears to be a calcium-dependent protease and its enzymatic characteristics are impressively similar to those of calpain, a challenging possibility arises: Calpain might act as alpha-secretase in vivo. However, as the experimental evidence both for and against this possibility is compelling, the issue currently remains as a theoretical dilemma in which a central question is whether calpain, a cytosolic enzyme, can somehow reach the cell surface. This difficult issue needs to be addressed now. As a first attempt to explore the issue, we propose a working model for the membrane orientation of calpain and suggest several experiments that will critically test this model. The quest to this dilemma will not only impact our understanding of AD, but may also expand the current knowledge about Ca2+ signal transduction pathway. Finally, we discuss several competing models and the potential role of presenilins as &quot;regulators&quot; of alpha-secretase. It is of interest to note that some of our previous theoretical predictions have been experimentally observed.
The END-1 GATA factor has been implicated in specifying endoderm in Caenorhabditis elegans and is the earliest known zygotic protein expressed in the lineage of E, the clonal endoderm progenitor. We report that ubiquitous end-1 expression during a critical period in embryogenesis causes all non-endodermal lineages to produce endoderm instead of ectoderm and/or mesoderm. END-1 expression bypasses the requirement for maternal SKN-1 and the maternal Wnt signaling pathway in endoderm formation. This suggests that a primary function of these maternal factors is to regulate zygotic end-1 expression, which is then sufficient to initiate the entire program for endoderm development.
Members of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase family appear to be targeted to caveolae membrane. We have used a Rat-1 cell expressing a temperature sensitive pp60(v-src) kinase to assess the initial changes that take place in caveolae after kinase activation. Within 24-48 h after cells were shifted to the permissive temperature, a set of caveolae-specific proteins became phosphorylated on tyrosine. During this period there was a decline in the caveolae marker protein, caveolin-1, a loss of invaginated caveolae, and a 70% decline in the sphingomyelin content of the cell. One of the phosphorylated proteins was caveolin-1 but it was associated in coimmunoprecipitation assays with both a 30 kDa and a 27 kDa tyrosine-phosphorylated protein. Finally, the cells changed from having a typical fibroblast morphology to a rounded shape lacking polarity. In light of the recent evidence that diverse signaling events originate from caveolae, pp60(v-src) kinase appears to cause global changes to this membrane domain that might directly contribute to the transformed phenotype.
Monitoring the TCR repertoire is indispensable for the assessment of T cell-associated autoimmune diseases and subsequent TCR-based immunotherapy. In the present study, we examined the TCR repertoire of spinal cord T cells of Lewis rats by CDR3 spectratyping during chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by immunization with spinal cord homogenate. It was found that Vbeta8.2 spectratype with the shortest CDR3 expanded oligoclonally throughout the course of the disease. In addition, Vbeta12 spectratype expansion was observed at the first and second attacks of EAE. Sequence analysis revealed that clones with the DSSYEQYF sequence, which is a representative sequence of myelin basic protein (MBP)-reactive T cell clones, constituted the predominant population in the Vbeta8.2 family. Surprisingly, Vbeta12 also used the identical amino acid sequence in the CDR3 region. These findings indicate that although infiltrating T cells in the central nervous system are activated polyclonally, the TCR repertoire remains unchanged throughout the course. Moreover, the finding that the predominant CDR3 amino acid sequence of Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta12 spectratypes is identical with that of MBP-induced EAE suggests that a single Ag in spinal cord homogenate, possibly MBP, is involved in disease development.
The skeletal muscle L-type Ca channel serves a dual role as a calcium-conducting pore and as the voltage sensor coupling t-tubule depolarization to calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this channel cause hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HypoPP), a human autosomal dominant disorder characterized by episodic failure of muscle excitability that occurs in association with a decrease in serum potassium. The voltage-dependent gating of L-type Ca channels was characterized by recording whole-cell Ca currents in myotubes cultured from three normal individuals and from a patient carrying the HypoPP mutation R528H. We found two effects of the R528H mutation on the L-type Ca current in HypoPP myotubes: (1) a mild reduction in current density and (2) a significant slowing of the rate of activation. We also measured the voltage dependence of steady-state L-type Ca current inactivation and characterized, for the first time in a mammalian preparation, the kinetics of both entry into and recovery from inactivation over a wide range of voltages. The R528H mutation had no effect on the kinetics or voltage dependence of inactivation.
Lesions of glutamatergic afferents to the nucleus accumbens have been reported to block psychostimulant-induced behavioral sensitization. However, thalamic glutamatergic projections to the nucleus accumbens have received little attention in the context of psychostimulant actions. We examined the effects of acute amphetamine and cocaine administration on expression of Fos protein in the thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT), which provides glutamatergic inputs to the nucleus accumbens and also receives dopaminergic afferents. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical studies revealed that both psychostimulants dose-dependently increased PVT Fos expression. PVT neurons retrogradely labeled from the nucleus accumbens were among the PVT cells that showed a Fos response to amphetamine. D2 family dopamine agonists, including low doses of the D3-preferring agonist 7-OH-DPAT, increased the numbers of Fos-like-immunoreactive neurons in the PVT. Conversely, the effects of cocaine and amphetamine on PVT Fos expression were blocked by pretreatment with the dopamine D2/3 antagonist raclopride. Because PVT neurons express D3 but not other dopamine receptor transcripts, it appears that psychostimulants induce Fos in PVT neurons through a D3 dopamine receptor. We suggest that the PVT may be an important part of an extended circuit subserving both the arousing properties and reinforcing aspects of psychostimulants.
The opiate antagonist naltrexone suppresses ethanol-reinforced behavior in animals and decreases ethanol intake in humans. However, the mechanisms underlying these actions are not well understood. Experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that naltrexone attenuates the rewarding properties of ethanol by interfering with ethanol-induced stimulation of dopamine activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Simultaneous measures of the effects of naltrexone on dialysate dopamine levels in the NAcc and on operant responding for oral ethanol were used. Male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer ethanol (10-15%, w/v) in 0.2% (w/v) saccharin during daily 30 min sessions and were surgically prepared for intracranial microdialysis. Experiments began after reliable self-administration was established. Rats were injected with naltrexone (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline and 10 min later were placed inside the operant chamber for a 20 min waiting period with no ethanol available, followed by 30 min of access to ethanol. A transient rise in dialysate dopamine levels was observed during the waiting period, and this effect was not altered by naltrexone. Ethanol self-administration reliably increased dopamine levels in controls. Naltrexone significantly suppressed ethanol self-administration and prevented ethanol-induced increases in dialysate dopamine levels. Subsequent dose-effect analyses established that the latter effect was not merely a function of reduced ethanol intake but that naltrexone attenuated the efficacy of ethanol to elevate dialysate dopamine levels. These results suggest that suppression of ethanol self-administration by opiate antagonists is the result of interference with dopamine-dependent aspects of ethanol reinforcement, although possible additional effects via nondopaminergic mechanisms cannot be eliminated as a factor in opiate antagonist-induced reduction of ethanol intake.
The ventral complex of the lateral lemniscus (VCLL, i.e., the ventral and intermediate nuclei) is composed of cells embedded in the fibers of the lateral lemniscus. These cells are involved in the processing of monaural information and receive input from the collaterals of the fibers ascending to the inferior colliculus. Whereas tonotopic organization is a feature of all other nuclei of the auditory system, this functional principle is debated in the VCLL. We have made focal injections of the tracer biotinylated dextran amine into different frequency band representations of the inferior colliculus in cat. Retrogradely labeled cells and terminal fibers (collaterals of efferent local axons and other ascending lemniscal fibers) were found in the ipsilateral VCLL. The spatial distribution of the labeling was analyzed using three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction and computer graphical visualization techniques. A complex topographic organization was found. In all cases, labeled fibers and cells were distributed in multiple clusters throughout the dorsoventral extent of the VCLL. The shape, size, and location of the labeled clusters suggest an interdigitation of clusters assigned to different frequency-band representations. But an overall mediolateral distribution gradient was observed, with high frequencies represented medially and lower frequencies progressively more laterally. We conclude that the clusters may represent discontinuous frequency-band compartments as a counterpart to the continuous laminar compartments in the remaining auditory nuclei. The 3-D orderly mosaic pattern indicates that the VCLL preserves the spectral decomposition originated in the cochlea in a way that facilitates across-frequency integration.
The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) receives convergent inputs from subcortical limbic structures that overlap with a dopaminergic (DA) innervation. In this study, we describe the effects of DA agonists on the basal and evoked electrophysiological activity of identified thalamic cells of rats recorded in vitro. Administration of the D1 agonist SFK 38393 (10 microM) did not produce a clear effect on the physiological properties of the thalamic cells recorded. In contrast, bath administration of the D2 agonist quinpirole (10 microM) resulted in an enhancement of membrane excitability, facilitation of the occurrence of low-threshold spikes (LTSs), and changes in the resting membrane potential of the thalamic cells tested. The quinpirole-mediated responses were reversed by administration of the D2 antagonist haloperidol. Results from experiments performed with different [K+] and K+ channel blockers suggest that the effects of quinpirole are mediated at least in part by changes in K+ conductances. The results from this study suggest that DA can modulate the excitability of thalamic cells and in turn may influence the way that the thalamocortical system integrates information.
We have investigated the mechanism by which activation of dopamine (DA) receptors regulates the glutamate sensitivity of medium spiny neurons of the nucleus accumbens. Our results demonstrate that DA regulates the phosphorylation state of the NR1 subunit of NMDA-type glutamate receptors. The effect of DA was mimicked by SKF82526, a D1-type DA receptor agonist, and by forskolin, an activator of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and was blocked by H-89, a PKA inhibitor. These data indicate that DA increases NR1 phosphorylation through a PKA-dependent pathway. DA-induced phosphorylation of NR1 was blocked in mice bearing a targeted deletion of the gene for dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32 kDa (DARPP-32), a phosphoprotein that is a potent and selective inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1, indicating that the effect of PKA is mediated, in part, by regulation of the DARPP-32/protein phosphatase-1 cascade. In support of this interpretation, NR1 phosphorylation was increased by calyculin A, a protein phosphatase-1/2A inhibitor. A model is proposed in which the ability of DA to regulate NMDA receptor sensitivity is attributable to a synergistic action involving increased phosphorylation and decreased dephosphorylation of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor.
Human ingestion of &quot;chickling peas&quot; from the plant Lathyrus sativus, which contains an excitatory amino acid, L-BOAA (L-beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine), leads to a progressive corticospinal neurodegenerative disorder, neurolathyrism. Exposure to L-BOAA, but not its optical enantiomer D-BOAA, causes mitochondrial dysfunction as evidenced by loss of complex I activity in vitro in male mouse brain slices and in vivo in selected regions of mouse CNS (lumbosacral cord and motor cortex). Loss of complex I activity in lumbosacral cord after L-BOAA administration to mice was accompanied by concurrent loss of glutathione. The inhibited complex I activity in mitochondria isolated from lumbosacral cord of animals treated with L-BOAA rebounded after incubation with the thiol-reducing agent dithiothreitol, indicating that oxidation of protein thiols to disulfides was responsible for enzyme inhibition. The inhibition of complex I could be abolished by pretreatment with antioxidant thiols such as glutathione ester and alpha-lipoic acid. Chronic treatment of male mice, but not female mice, with L-BOAA resulted in loss of complex I activity and vacuolation and dendritic swelling of neurons in the motor cortex and lumbar cord, paralleling the regionality of the aforementioned biochemical effects on CNS mitochondria. These results support the view that thiol oxidation and concomitant mitochondrial dysfunction (also implicated in other neurodegenerative disorders), occurring downstream of glutamate receptor activation by L-BOAA, are primary events leading to neurodegeneration. Maintenance of protein thiol homeostasis by thiol delivery agents could potentially offer protection against excitotoxic insults such as those seen with L-BOAA.
Mitochondria within cultured rat cerebellar granule cells have a complex influence on cytoplasmic free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]c) responses to glutamate. A decreased initial [Ca2+]c elevation in cells whose mitochondria are depolarized by inhibition of the ATP synthase and respiratory chain (conditions which avoid ATP depletion) was attributed to enhanced Ca2+ extrusion from the cell rather than inhibited Ca2+ entry via the NMDA receptor. Even in the presence of elevated extracellular Ca2+, when [Ca2+]c responses were restored to control values, such cells showed resistance to acute excitotoxicity, defined as a delayed cytoplasmic Ca2+ deregulation (DCD) during glutamate exposure. DCD was a function of the duration of mitochondrial polarization in the presence of glutamate rather than the total period of glutamate exposure. Once initiated, DCD could not be reversed by NMDA receptor inhibition. In the absence of ATP synthase inhibition, respiratory chain inhibitors produced an immediate Ca2+ deregulation (ICD), ascribed to an ATP deficit. In contrast to DCD, ICD could be reversed by subsequent ATP synthase inhibition with or without additional NMDA receptor blockade. DCD could not be ascribed to the failure of an ATP yielding metabolic pathway. It is concluded that mitochondria can control Ca2+ extrusion from glutamate-exposed granule cells by the plasma membrane in three ways: by competing with efflux pathways for Ca2+, by restricting ATP supply, and by inducing a delayed failure of Ca2+ extrusion. Inhibitors of the mitochondrial permeability transition only marginally delayed the onset of DCD.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) accumulates in nerve growth cones (NGC) during perinatal development and it is neuroprotective in ischemia. Because the phospholipases A2 (PLA2) are present in NGC and these enzymes function in both ischemia and long-term potentiation, the relationship between DHA and PLA2 was investigated in the NGC of nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells. When PC12 cells were incubated with [3H]DHA, it primarily esterified in ethanolamine glycerolipids and concentrated initially in cell bodies with similar levels present in the neurite/nerve growth cone (N/NGC) fraction after 4 days. PLA2 activity in the N/NGC fraction was investigated using [14C]arachidonic acid-labeled phosphatidylinositol ([14C-AA]PI) as substrate. Heat denaturation and pharmacological inhibition showed that much of the PLA2 activity was calcium-independent and secretory rather than cytosolic. Supplementing the media with as little as 33 nM DHA significantly reduced PLA2 activity in the N/NGC fraction.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) neurones in rat midbrain slices. Monosynaptic IPSCs were evoked by electrical stimulation of the cerebral peduncle in the presence of the glutamate receptor antagonists CNQX (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione) and AP5 (2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid). 2. IPSCs were predominantly outward at -70 mV (in 124/135 cells), with a reversal potential of -83 mV, a time to peak of 2.6 ms and a decay time constant of 6.5 ms. Faster inward IPSCs were also observed in thirty-five cells, with a time to peak of 1.0 ms, a decay time constant of 2.3 ms, and a reversal potential of -61 mV. Both IPSCs were sensitive to the GABAA receptor antagonists picrotoxin or bicuculline. 3. In cells recorded with Cs+-filled pipettes, the outward IPSC reversal potential was shifted to -76 mV, closer to the estimated Cl- equilibrium potential of -56 mV, while that of the inward IPSC was unchanged at -64 mV. 4. The outward IPSC was reversibly depressed by up to 100 % by dopamine in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 10.5 microM, while the inward IPSC was relatively insensitive. 5. Dopamine was without effect on cell holding current, or on outward IPSC reversal potential, but it increased paired-pulse IPSC facilitation, consistent with a presynaptic site of action. 6. The D1-like dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393 (10 microM) depressed the outward IPSC by 43 %, while the D2-like dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole (10 microM) was without effect. 7. It is concluded that GABA-ergic synaptic input onto distal rather than proximal regions of SNr neurones is susceptible to presynaptic inhibition via a D1-like receptor. These inputs are probably from striato-nigral fibres, and their inhibition by dopamine is likely to influence the patterning of basal ganglia output.
1. Acetylcholine (ACh)-activated currents and their interaction with ATP-activated currents were studied in primary cultures of myenteric neurons from guinea-pig small intestine using patch clamp techniques. Peak currents caused by co-application of ACh (1 mM) and ATP (300 microM) were 78 +/- 2 % of the sum of currents activated by each agonist alone (P &lt; 0.05, n = 29). Reversal potentials measured during co-application of ACh and ATP did not differ from those measured during application of ACh or ATP alone. Addition of BAPTA (10 mM) to the pipette solution or replacement of extracellular Ca2+ with Na+ did not prevent occlusion. 2. Responses caused by co-application of 5-HT (300 microM), acting at 5-HT3 receptors, and ACh (3 mM) or ATP (1 mM) were additive (94 +/- 3 or 96 +/- 4 %, respectively, of the sum of currents activated by 5-HT and ACh or ATP alone; P &gt; 0.05). Currents caused by GABA (1 mM), acting at GABAA receptors, and ACh (3 mM) or ATP (1 mM) were also additive (105 +/- 4 or 100 +/- 3 %, respectively, of the sum of currents activated by GABA and ACh or GABA and ATP applied separately; P &gt; 0. 05). 3. Single channel currents caused by ACh and ATP in the same outside-out patches were less than additive (85 +/- 10 % of the predicted sum, P &lt; 0.05). 4. P2X receptors and nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAChRs) are linked in a mutually inhibitory manner in guinea-pig myenteric neurons. The functional interaction does not involve ligand binding sites, Ca2+-dependent mechanisms, a change in the driving force for Na+ or cytoplasmic signalling mechanisms.
Improgan, an analog of the histamine receptor antagonist cimetidine, produces highly effective analgesia following intraventricular injection. The present study examined changes in the antinociceptive effects of improgan following once daily intraventricular injections. Improgan (100-150 microg) produced near maximal antinociception 10 and 30 min after daily administration on all 4 test days, whereas comparable morphine treatments (50 microg) induced considerable tolerance. Thus, improgan produced highly effective analgesia without the development of tolerance.
The lactating rat has been shown to lack a behavioral response and immediate early gene expression (cFos) in the hippocampus (Hipc) following intravenous or intracerebroventricular administration of an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist. The purpose of this study is to determine whether neurons in the Hipc have an intact postsynaptic NMDA receptor system. The presence of NMDA receptor protein was determined by Western blot analysis for the NR1, NR2A, and NR2B subunits. The presence of functional NMDA receptors in the Hipc was determined by behavioral responses and the expression of cFos immunoreactivity (-ir) in response to microinjection of an NMDA receptor agonist into the hilus of the dentate gyrus. No difference in NR1 and NR2A subunit protein in the Hipc was detected between the lactating and nonlactating rats. However, there was a 26% decrease in NR2B subunit protein in this region in the lactating rat. Lactating rats receiving NMA injections displayed hyperactive behavior, similar to that observed in the nonlactating animals receiving the same treatment. The lactating rat and the nonlactating rat also displayed equivalent bilateral cFos-ir in the dentate gyrus (DG), CA1 and CA3 regions of the Hipc in response to unilateral NMA injections into the Hipc. These data indicate that the lactating rat has an intact postsynaptic NMDA receptor system. Thus, Hipc refractoriness to peripheral and third ventricular injections of an NMDA receptor agonist may reflect inhibition of presynaptic input and glutamate release.
A mouse homolog of the Drosophila Disabled (dab) gene, disabled-1 (mdab1), encodes an adaptor molecule that functions in neural development. Targeted disruption of the mdab1 gene (mdab1-1 mice) leads to anomalies in the development of the cerebrum, hippocampus, and cerebellum. Here we describe a number of histologic abnormalities in the cerebellum of the mdab1-1 mouse. There is a complete absence of foliation, and most Purkinje cells are clumped in central clusters. However, lamination appears to develop normally in areas where the Purkinje cells and external granular layer are closely apposed. The granular layer forms a thin rind over most of the cerebellar surface, but is subdivided by both transverse and parasagittal boundaries. The Purkinje cells, identified by anti-zebrin II in the adult or anti-calbindin in the new born mdab1-1 mutant cerebellum, form a parasagittal banding pattern, similar to but distorted compared with the wild-type design. The data suggest that the development of the mdab1-1 cerebellum parallels the development of reeler. The reeler gene encodes an extracellular protein (Reelin) that is secreted by the external granular layer. Because Reelin expression is retained in the mdab1-1 mutant mouse, mDab1 p80 may act in a parallel pathway or downstream of Reelin, leading to the transformation of embryonic Purkinje cell clusters into the adult parasagittal bands.
Light microscopic analysis of the optic nerve, chiasm, and optic tracts of Rana pipiens after the anterograde and retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase has shown that retinal ganglion-cell axons reach the optic nerve head in chronotopically organized fascicles that form bands across the intraocular optic nerve. These bands of fascicles are divided along the midline in a &quot;zone of reorganization&quot; to create two full maps of the retinal surface; however, this map is discontinuous in that nasal and temporal quadrants are adjacent to one another. In the intracranial portion of the optic nerve, axons undergo another reorganization such that peripheral retinal axons shift position and become localized laterally and ventrally, whereas centrally placed axons become localized dorsally. Within this reorganization, the nerve is reconfigured into laminae of axons, and each lamina consists of age-related axons organized into two retinal maps. In the ipsilateral chiasm, axons diverge to form three central, optic tracts: the medial optic tract, the projection to the corpus geniculatum, and the basal optic root. Ipsilateral axons leave the chiasm at the same level of the chiasm as do their contralateral counterparts. The remaining axons converge in the lateral diencephalon to form a fourth fascicle, the marginal optic tract. Thus, within the optic chiasm, a sequence of positional transformations occur that result in the formation of multiple optic pathways. The various changes in axonal trajectory always coincide with changes in the orientation of cell groups that lie within the nerve and optic chiasm.
A data-analytical method is described for identifying behavioral and biological variables in psychiatric patients with predictive value in defining clinical subgroups. The procedure, based on principal component analysis (PCA) and graphical analysis, was applied in a group of 28 depressed patients. The 28 depressed patients of unipolar type were observed for up to 15 years for re-evaluation of the diagnoses at the start of the study. Platelet monoamine oxidase activity, post-dexamethasone serum cortisol and serum melatonin predicted two main clinical subgroups as well as a smaller subgroup of bipolar patients. The selection procedure revealed which of several variables were predictive of subgroups that were not possible to identify by univariate methods. The three biological variables may thus be useful in further assessment of clinical subgroups of unipolar depressed patients studied by other research groups.


The PACAP ligand/type I receptor system is expressed throughout the embryonic nervous system, suggesting roles in regulating neural patterning and neurogenesis. In the forebrain, precursors of the six-layered cerebral cortex cease dividing in a highly reproducible spatiotemporal sequence. The time of cell cycle exit in fact determines neuron laminar fate. Our studies indicate that PACAP signaling may elicit cortical precursor withdrawal from the cell cycle, antagonizing mitogenic stimulators. PACAP inhibited embryonic day 13.5 rat cortical precursor [3H]thymidine incorporation, decreasing the proportion of mitotic cells. PACAP promoted morphological and biochemical differentiation, indicating that PACAP-induced cell cycle withdrawal was accompanied by neuronal differentiation. In vivo, embryonic cortex contains PACAP. In culture, 85% of cells expressed PACAP while 64% exhibited receptor. Co-localization studies indicated that PACAP ligand and receptor were expressed by the mitotic precursors that divided in response to bFGF, suggesting that precursors integrate mitogenic and anti-mitogenic signals to determine the timing of cell cycle exit. The expression of PACAP ligand and receptor in precursors raised the possibility of autocrine function. Indeed, peptide antagonists increased proliferation, suggesting that the PACAP system is expressed to elicit cell cycle exit. During ontogeny, an inhibitory signal, such as PACAP, may be required to counter the stimulatory activity of mitogenic bFGF and IGFI whose expression during cortical neurogenesis is sustained. The dynamic interplay of positive and negative regulators would regulate the timing of cell cycle withdrawal, and thus neuronal phenotype and laminar position.
To function as a trophic factor PACAP and PACAP-R must be expressed in the nervous system during early development. We report here on the distribution of PACAP mRNA in the developing nervous system of the rat and compare its expression with that of PACAP-R. We discuss primary neuron culture experiments that study the neurotrophic activity of PACAP. Experimental results that indicate the presence of PACAP and its receptor in the developing nervous system, together with the observed neuropeptide activity on various populations of neurons, support the view that PACAP exhibits important neurotrophic activities comparable to those of the classical neurotrophic factors.
The cis-acting elements of the VIP gene important for basal and stimulated transcription have been studied by transfection of VIP-reporter gene constructs into distinct human neuroblastoma cell lines in which VIP transcription is constitutively high, or can be induced to high levels by protein kinase stimulation. The 5.2 kb flanking sequence of the VIP gene conferring correct basal and inducible VIP gene expression onto a reporter gene in these cell lines was systematically deleted to define its minimal components. A 425-bp fragment (-4656 to -4231) fused to the proximal 1.55 kb of the VIP promoter-enhancer was absolutely required for cell-specific basal and inducible transcription. Four additional components of the VIP gene were required for full cell-specific expression driven by the 425 bp TSE (region A). Sequences from -1.55 to -1.37 (region B), -1.37 to -1.28 (region C), -1.28 to -.094 (region D), and the CRE-containing proximal 94 bp (region E) were deleted in various combinations to demonstrate the specific contributions of each region to correct basal and inducible VIP gene expression. Deletion of region B, or mutational inactivation of the CRE in region E, resulted in constructs with low transcriptional activity in VIP-expressing cell lines. Deletion of regions B and C together resulted in a gain of transcriptional activity, but without cell specificity. All five domains of the VIP gene were also required for cell-specific induction of VIP gene expression with phorbol ester. Gelshift analysis of putative regulatory sequences in regions A-D suggests that both ubiquitous and neuron-specific trans-acting proteins participate in VIP gene regulation.
The purpose of the present study was to clarify how the regional differentiation of sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) is modified during natural sleep in humans. In humans, muscle and skin sympathetic nerve activities (MSNA, SSNA) have been reported to discharge independently according to a regional differentiation of SNA during wakefulness. However, in natural sleep, MSNA and SSNA have been documented to synchronize during sleep stage 2 (Rechtschaffen and Kales). In the present study, we measured MSNA and SSNA simultaneously using a double recording technique of microneurography in eight healthy volunteers during natural sleep, and analyzed how MSNA and SSNA can be synchronized. We found that the synchronicity of MSNA and SSNA was accelerated in correlation with the deepening of the non-rapid eye movement (nonREM) sleep stages. We also documented that the burst properties of MSNA different from those of SSNA in wakefulness become similar to those of SSNA in the sleep stage, and MSNA synchronizes with SSNA. The synchronicity of MSNA and SSNA is presumably caused by a reduced effect of central inhibitory baroreflex pathways on MSNA during nonREM sleep. The present findings suggest that the regional differentiation of sympathetic nerve activity is attenuated with the deepening of nonREM sleep stages.
The present study describes brainstem nuclei that participate in the autonomic innervation of the pancreas, using a retrograde viral transneuronal tracing technique. It aimed at identifying the neuronal architecture of the parasympathetic, gustatory-induced insulin release by the endocrine pancreas (preabsorptive insulin response, PIR). Autonomic pathways organized for reflex adjustments of the end organ, as it happens in the PIR, involve relatively simple circuits. This implies a short brainstem circuit from the rostral gustatory nucleus of the solitary tract to the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The present findings confirm projections to the pancreas, originating from preganglionic neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Transneuronal labeling was detected in the medial, and to a lesser extent in the lateral nucleus of the solitary tract mainly at caudal and intermediate levels. Furthermore, infected neurons were seen in the brainstem in the dorsal and ventral part of the medullary reticular formation, in the area postrema and in the raphe nuclei. Sparse labeling was found in the gustatory zone of the nucleus tractus solitarius. These results indicate that a direct connection between the rostral nucleus tractus solitarius and the medial dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus is very unlikely, so that one or more intermediate stations may be involved. Candidates to complete this pathway are the intermediate or caudal nucleus tractus solitarius, the medullary reticular formation or the parabrachial nucleus.
Although the enteric nervous system is usually described as a separate and independent entity, animal studies show that gastric distension causes a reflex increase in arterial pressure and a sympathetically mediated increase in heart rate and peripheral vascular resistance. To assess the influence of gastric distension on sympathetic outflow and blood pressure, we recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the peroneal nerve by microneurography in eight healthy volunteers. The stomach was distended by means of a barostat, using a single staircase protocol by which pressure was increased by 2 mmHg every 3 min. Gastric sensory function was assessed at each distension step by using a visual analog scale (VAS) for sensations of fullness, nausea and pain. For comparison, we also performed a cold pressor test. The MSNA increased on barostat-induced gastric distension with an almost concomitant elevation of blood pressure. The increase in both was proportional to the intragastric pressure and both decreased towards initial values after the end of distension. Heart rate increased inconsistently and only at higher distension pressures that were associated with high VAS scores. The opposite was found for the cold pressor test. The results of this study confirm the existence of a functional relationship between gastrointestinal distension and cardiovascular function. Decrease in this gastrovascular response may play a role in postprandial hypotension in the elderly, since the MSNA responses to simulated microgravity decrease with age.
Second-order relay neurons (referred to as rapidly adapting pulmonary stretch receptors (RARs)-cells) activated by vagal afferents originating from RARs were identified electrophysiologically in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed and artificially ventilated rats. Their location in the commissural subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) and firing properties in response to lung inflations and deflations were studied in detail for the first time in the rat. Importantly, in all the RAR-cells examined, their firing was suppressed to various extent during a period from inspiration to early expiration. This means that the information from the RARs to the central nervous system is gated by the central respiratory system at the level of RAR-cells in the NTS.
Neurotransmitter receptors, neurotransmitter synthesis and release pathways, and heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled second messenger pathways are highly conserved between Caenorhabditis elegans and mammals, but gap junctions and chemosensory receptors have independent origins in vertebrates and nematodes. Most ion channels are similar to vertebrate channels but there are no predicted voltage-activated sodium channels. The C. elegans genome encodes at least 80 potassium channels, 90 neurotransmitter-gated ion channels, 50 peptide receptors, and up to 1000 orphan receptors that may be chemoreceptors. For many gene families, C. elegans has both conventional members and divergent outliers with weak homology to known genes; these outliers may provide insights into previously unknown functions of conserved protein families.
The expression of the mRNAs of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and the neurotrophin receptor, TrkB, was studied in the rat hippocampus by in situ hybridization following normothermic (37 degreesC) and protective hypothermic (33 degreesC) transient cerebral ischemia of 15 min duration. In the resistant dentate gyrus, normothermic ischemia transiently induced NGF mRNA at around 8 h of recovery, while the NT3 mRNA levels were depressed over at least a 24-h recovery period. The levels of BDNF and TrkB were transiently and markedly elevated with a maximal expression at 24 h of recovery. Intraischemic hypothermia reduced the induction of NGF mRNA, while the increase of BDNF mRNA expression occurred earlier during recovery, and the post-ischemic NT3 mRNA depression was not affected. Also, the expression of TrkB mRNA was enhanced, and occurred concomitantly with the elevation of BDNF mRNA. In contrast, there were no changes in neurotrophin and TrkB mRNA in the CA3 and CA1 regions. The expression of BDNF mRNA at 24 h after normothermic ischemia, was attenuated by intraischemic hypothermia. We conclude that, the expressions of NGF, BDNF, NT3 or TrkB mRNA in ischemia-sensitive hippocampal subregions are not increased by protective hypothermia. In contrast, hypothermia induces neurotrophin mRNA alterations in the ischemia-resistant dentate gyrus that may convey protection to sensitive regions.
IL-15 is a pleiotropic cytokine modulating growth and differentiation of several hematopoietic cell types. Recently, we have demonstrated that mouse microglial cells, the brain macrophages, express both IL-15 and IL-15/IL-2 receptors. Based on single-cell RT-PCR data, we describe here an alternatively spliced IL-15 mRNA variant found in a small subpopulation of mouse microglia (5%, 3 out of 60 cells expressing IL-15 transcripts). PCR cycle sequencing of this larger transcript revealed the mouse homologue of the alternatively spliced exon A as it is known from the human IL-15 gene. Analysis of the corresponding mouse IL-15 gene region shows that the larger IL-15 transcript contains an yet unidentified 5' sequence of exon 5 while the shorter transcript uses an internal splice acceptor site. The mouse exon 5A segment has a length of 136 nt (17 nt longer than the human exon A). It contains five in-frame stop codons at its 5' end and a new translation initiation site at its 3' end. This new start site is surrounded by a favourable Kozak consensus sequence suggesting a more efficient translation rate. Further translational control by stem-loop binding factors is inferred by a predicted RNA stem-loop structure around the start site. Insertion of exon 5A would lead to an IL-15 polypeptide with a shortened leader sequence of 26 amino acids, as compared to the 48 amino acid leader sequence encoded by the transcript lacking exon 5A. Thus, the final IL-15 protein of the two splice variants is identical; different leader sequences could, however, lead to differences in the intracellular sorting, processing and/or secretion of IL-15.
The transcription factor NF-kappaB is a ubiquitously expressed inducible regulator of a broad range of genes. Recent studies have shown that activation of NF-kappaB predominantly is associated with protecting cells from apoptosis, but in some cell models, it is associated with promoting cell death. We used a rabbit spinal cord model of reversible ischemia to determine whether NF-kappaB was activated by ischemic and reperfusion injury. DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB was analyzed by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay in animals subjected to varying durations of ischemia and reperfusion. A low level of constitutive NF-kappaB DNA binding was detected in normal lumbar spinal cord extracts. Animals subjected to a short ischemic insult of 15 min, from which they usually recover neurologic function, had a significant increase in the amount of active NF-kappaB in nuclear extracts after 18 h reperfusion. There was no change in nuclear NF-kappaB DNA binding in animals occluded for 60 min that are permanently paraplegic and exhibit extensive neuropathological damage. The amount of deoxycholate-releasable NF-kappaB sequestered in the cytosol, however, decreased after 18 h reperfusion in rabbits occluded for 60 min. This correlated with a decrease in the amount of RelA(p65) NF-kappaB subunit. The results suggest that activation of NF-kappaB after a limited ischemic injury may participate in a neuroprotective response and not in cell death.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the endogenous melanocortin receptor antagonist, agouti gene-related protein (AGRP), coexist in the arcuate nucleus, and both exert orexigenic effects. The present study aimed primarily at determining the brain distribution of AGRP. AGRP mRNA-expressing cells were limited to the arcuate nucleus, representing a major subpopulation (95%) of the NPY neurons, which also was confirmed with immunohistochemistry. AGRP-immunoreactive (-ir) terminals all contained NPY and were observed in many brain regions extending from the rostral telencephalon to the pons, including the parabrachial nucleus. NPY-positive, AGRP-negative terminals were observed in many areas. AGRP-ir terminals were reduced dramatically in all brain regions of mice treated neonatally with monosodium glutamate as well as of mice homozygous for the anorexia mutation. Terminals immunoreactive for the melanocortin peptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone formed a population separate from, but parallel to, the AGRP-ir terminals. Our results show that arcuate NPY neurons, identified by the presence of AGRP, project more extensively in the brain than previously known and indicate that the feeding regulatory actions of NPY may extend beyond the hypothalamus.
Tyrosine phosphorylation has been shown to be an important modulator of synaptic transmission in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Such findings hint toward the existence of extracellular ligands capable of activating this widely represented signaling mechanism at or close to the synapse. Examples of such ligands are the peptide growth factors which, on binding, activate receptor tyrosine kinases. To gain insight into the physiological consequences of receptor tyrosine kinase activation in squid giant synapse, a series of growth factors was tested in this preparation. Electrophysiological, pharmacological, and biochemical analysis demonstrated that nerve growth factor (NGF) triggers an acute and specific reduction of the postsynaptic potential amplitude, without affecting the presynaptic spike generation or presynaptic calcium current. The NGF target is localized at a postsynaptic site and involves a new TrkA-like receptor. The squid receptor crossreacts with antibodies generated against mammalian TrkA, is tyrosine phosphorylated in response to NGF stimulation, and is blocked by specific pharmacological inhibitors. The modulation described emphasizes the important role of growth factors on invertebrate synaptic transmission.
The present study demonstrates that the motor cortex (MC) stimulation induces expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) in the rostro-caudal parts of ventrolateral medulla (VLM) and nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). The coupling of biotinylated dextran (BD) injections with the MC stimulation also permits to identify cortical labeled fibers in the vicinity of FLI neurons in the VLM. Results suggest that the MC is involved in a direct and an indirect modulation of bulbar cardiovascular nuclei.
Previous pharmacological studies have indicated that ATP receptors may be involved in the regulation of physiological functions in hypothalamus. In the present study, the distribution of P2X2 receptor in the rat hypothalamus was studied with immunohistochemistry. It was shown that P2X2 immunoreactivity-positive neurons and nerve fibres were localized in many hypothalamic nuclei. Intense labelling of both neuronal cell bodies and nerve fibres was observed in the paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, retrochiasmatic area, periventricular nucleus, and the ventral part of tuber cinereum area. In supraoptic, circular, and ventral tuberomammillary nuclei the neuronal cell bodies were strongly positive, but few nerve fibres were positive. Axons with strong P2X2 immunoreactivity were found in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and median eminence. Some scattered positive neurons and nerve fibres were found in many hypothalamic nuclei including preoptic nucleus. The results of the present study demonstrated the existence of P2X receptors in hypothalamus, as a basis for detailed studies of the roles of P2X receptors in the regulation of hypothalamic functions.
The Wobbler mouse possesses an inherited autosomal recessive form of motoneuron disease. The most characteristic abnormality is the degeneration of motoneurons, mostly in the cervical spinal cord, and in the brain stem cranial motor nuclei. The underlying pathology shows up as symptoms that are only detectable confidently around the time of weaning (age 3 weeks). We now report a new method designed to identify presymptomatic Wobbler mice by behavioral and statistical approaches. We measured body weight, righting reflex (RR) and gender to examine whether these parameters have an impact on the status of the disease before age 3 weeks. Using a total of 341 NFR/wr strain pups, we found a strong association between RR and the Wobbler disease status (p&lt;0.0001) between postnatal days 3 to 7, and achieved greater than 97% correct classification of Wobblers. Therefore the measurement of RR allows the early detection of the affected Wobbler (wr/wr) mice with a minimum of error. This method has been used in our laboratory for immunocytochemical studies that show the early sprouting of immunoreactive serotonin and peptidergic fibers in the cervical spinal ventral horn by postnatal days 7 and 12 respectively. The early detection of Wobbler mice thus facilitates significant new understanding regarding the pathogenesis of motoneuron disease. We can now examine potentially therapeutic approaches which may be more effective than when administered in the symptomatic weanlings (work in progress).
Fusimotor neurons, group Ia afferents and muscle spindles are absent in mutant mice lacking the gene for neurotrophin-3 (NT3). To partition the effect of Ia afferent or spindle absence from that of NT3 deprivation on fusimotor neuron development, we examined the fusimotor system in a mutant mouse (NesPIXpNT3) that lacks Ia afferents and spindles, but has normal or elevated tissue levels of NT3 during embryogenesis. Fusimotor fibers were absent in lumbar ventral spinal roots, and limb muscles were devoid of Ia afferents and spindles in adult NesPIXpNT3 mice. In contrast, no deficiency in motoneuron numbers was observed in the trigeminal nucleus which contains cell bodies of motor axons innervating muscles of mastication. Spindles and Ia afferents were also present in the masticatory muscles. Thus, the development and/or survival of fusimotor neurons correlates with the presence of Ia afferents and/or spindles, and not with the amount of NT3 in the spinal cord or muscle.
The neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophin (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) synergistically enhance survival of spiral ganglion neurons such that simultaneous exposure to both compounds produces a larger response than would be expected from their individual effects. To elucidate the functional role of this neurotrophin interaction, we examined its temporal and cell-type specificity in vitro for both mouse and gerbil spiral ganglion neurons. Synergistic effects were transient; they were maximal within the first two postnatal days and declined during the first postnatal week. Both neurotrophins were, however, still efficacious at increasing cell survival. After postnatal day 10, the effects of coexposure to BDNF and NT-3 were additive rather than synergistic. Synergism declined more rapidly in mouse than gerbil neurons, reflecting the difference in cochlear development for each species. Only neurons without peripherin epitopes, putative type I neurons, showed synergistic survival effects; survival of peripherin-expressing neurons was purely additive. Therefore, during a restricted time period, identical neurotrophin stimuli are capable of preferentially enhancing survival of one class of neurons that compose approximately 95% of the adult spiral ganglion.
On-line databases of anatomical information are being compiled for a number of genetically manipulable organisms, including the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Based on the success of the molecular databases that preceded them, they face formidable problems in data cataloguing, storage, and retrieval. The prospect for such databases, which is apparent already, is to alter permanently the approach to neuroanatomy in such species. Experience with Drosophila indicates the possibility to arbitrate controversies over and, in some cases, to redefine the borders drawn in the brain by conventional neuroanatomical methods. Two publications in this issue of Journal of Comparative Neurology by Nassif et al. and by Hartenstein et al. highlight one of the first demonstrations of a further opportunity in Drosophila. In some cases, it is already possible to suggest how individual cellular elements--neurons, tracts, and neuropil regions--might be traced from the time when they first express a precocious marker, such as the product of the fasciclin-II gene, through the metamorphic pupal stage, and into the adult. In this way, it becomes possible to identify the structures of the adult brain from the time of their first emergence in the embryo and to follow their transitional positions throughout the course of development. Critical in this process is the neuroanatomical organization of the larval brain, which contains not only the fully functional central nervous system of the larva but also the developing elements of the adult brain, because this holds the key to understanding both the cellular elements that are inherited from the embryo and the elements that are in the process of forming the adult nervous system.
13C has become an important tracer isotope for studies of intermediary metabolism. Information about relative flux through pathways is encoded by the distribution of 13C isotopomers in an intermediate pool such as glutamate. This information is commonly decoded either by mass spectrometry or by measuring relative multiplet areas in a 13C NMR spectrum. We demonstrate here that groups of glutamate 13C isotopomers may be quantified by indirect detection of protons in a 2D HMQC-TOCSY NMR spectrum and that fitting of these data to a metabolic model provides an identical measure of the 13C fractional enrichment of acetyl-CoA and relative anaplerotic flux to that given by direct 13C NMR analysis. The sensitivity gain provided by HMQC-TOCSY spectroscopy will allow an extension of 13C isotopomer analysis to tissue samples not amenable to direct 13C detection (approximately 10 mg soleus muscle) and to tissue metabolites other than glutamate that are typically present at lower concentrations.
Excessive cerebral accumulation of the 42-residue amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is an early and invariant step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Many studies have examined the cellular production of Abeta from its membrane-bound precursor, including the role of the presenilin proteins therein, but almost nothing is known about how Abeta is degraded and cleared following its secretion. We previously screened neuronal and nonneuronal cell lines for the production of proteases capable of degrading naturally secreted Abeta under biologically relevant conditions and concentrations. The major such protease identified was a metalloprotease released particularly by a microglial cell line, BV-2. We have now purified and characterized the protease and find that it is indistinguishable from insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), a thiol metalloendopeptidase that degrades small peptides such as insulin, glucagon, and atrial natriuretic peptide. Degradation of both endogenous and synthetic Abeta at picomolar to nanomolar concentrations was completely inhibited by the competitive IDE substrate, insulin, and by two other IDE inhibitors. Immunodepletion of conditioned medium with an IDE antibody removed its Abeta-degrading activity. IDE was present in BV-2 cytosol, as expected, but was also released into the medium by intact, healthy cells. To confirm the extracellular occurrence of IDE in vivo, we identified intact IDE in human cerebrospinal fluid of both normal and Alzheimer subjects. In addition to its ability to degrade Abeta, IDE activity was unexpectedly found be associated with a time-dependent oligomerization of synthetic Abeta at physiological levels in the conditioned media of cultured cells; this process, which may be initiated by IDE-generated proteolytic fragments of Abeta, was prevented by three different IDE inhibitors. We conclude that a principal protease capable of down-regulating the levels of secreted Abeta extracellularly is IDE.
alpha-Latrotoxin, a potent excitatory neurotoxin, binds to two receptors: a G-protein-coupled receptor called CIRL/latrophilin 1 (CL1) and a cell-surface protein called neurexin Ialpha. We now show that CL1 belongs to a family of closely related receptors called CL1, CL2, and CL3. CLs exhibit an unusual multidomain structure with similar alternative splicing and large extra- and intracellular sequences. CLs share domains with other G-protein-coupled receptors, lectins, and olfactomedins/myocilin. In addition, CLs contain a novel, widespread cysteine-rich domain that may direct endoproteolytic processing of CLs during transport to the cell surface. Although the mRNAs for CLs are enriched in brain, CLs are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues. To examine how binding of alpha-latrotoxin to CL1 triggers exocytosis, we used PC12 cells transfected with human growth hormone. Ca2+-dependent secretion of human growth hormone from transfected PC12 cells was triggered by KCl depolarization or alpha-latrotoxin and was inhibited by tetanus toxin and by phenylarsine oxide, a phosphoinositide kinase inhibitor. When CL1 was transfected into PC12 cells, their response to alpha-latrotoxin was sensitized dramatically. A similar sensitization to alpha-latrotoxin was observed with different splice variants of CL1, whereas CL2 and CL3 were inactive in this assay. A truncated form of CL1 that contains only a single transmembrane region and presumably is unable to mediate G-protein-signaling was as active as wild type CL1 in alpha-latrotoxin-triggered exocytosis. Our data show that CL1, CL2, and CL3 perform a general and ubiquitous function as G-protein-coupled receptors in cellular signaling. In addition, CL1 serves a specialized role as an alpha-latrotoxin receptor that does not require G-protein-signaling for triggering exocytosis. This suggests that as an alpha-latrotoxin receptor, CL1 recruits alpha-latrotoxin to target membranes without participating in exocytosis directly.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to exert a target-derived trophic factor for motor neurons. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that expression of GDNF in regeneration muscle fibers was up-regulated in polymyositis (PM) and Duchenne type muscular dystrophy (DMD). Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed that the full length GDNF was up-regulated in PM and DMD muscle; normal muscle exhibited mostly truncated GDNF. The results indicate that the GDNF expression is regulated in regeneration of human skeletal muscle.
The effect of the NMDA receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) on classical conditioning of the flexion reflex in spinal cat was examined. Animals perfused intrathecally with artificial cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) containing APV exhibited flexion reflex potentiation during the conditioning period that was not significantly different from cats receiving artificial CSF alone. However, the APV group exhibited no signs of reflex potentiation during the 2.5 h retention period, in contrast to the CSF alone group. The results suggest that NMDA receptor activation plays a critical role in the induction of associative long-term potentiation of flexion reflexes in spinal cat.
Cortical neurons communicate with various cortical and subcortical targets by way of stereotyped axon projections through the white matter. Slice overlay experiments indicate that the initial growth of cortical axons toward the white matter is regulated by a diffusible chemorepulsive signal localized near the marginal zone. Semaphorin III is a major component of this diffusible signal, and cortical neurons transduce this signal by way of the neuropilin-1 receptor. These observations indicate that semaphorin-neuropilin interactions play a critical role in the initial patterning of projections in the developing cortex.
Responses to tones of a basilar membrane site and of auditory nerve fibers innervating neighboring inner hair cells were recorded in the same cochleae in chinchillas. At near-threshold stimulus levels, the frequency tuning of auditory nerve fibers closely paralleled that of basilar membrane displacement modified by high-pass filtering, indicating that only relatively minor signal transformations intervene between mechanical vibration and auditory nerve excitation. This finding establishes that cochlear frequency selectivity in chinchillas (and probably in mammals in general) is fully expressed in the vibrations of the basilar membrane and renders unnecessary additional (&quot;second&quot;) filters, such as those present in the hair cells of the cochleae of reptiles.
Conventional approaches to understanding consciousness are generally concerned with the contribution of specific brain areas or groups of neurons. By contrast, it is considered here what kinds of neural processes can account for key properties of conscious experience. Applying measures of neural integration and complexity, together with an analysis of extensive neurological data, leads to a testable proposal-the dynamic core hypothesis-about the properties of the neural substrate of consciousness.
Loss of heterozygosity for 10q23-26 is seen in over 80% of glioblastoma multiforme tumors. We have used a positional cloning strategy to isolate a novel gene, LGI1 (Leucine-rich gene-Glioma Inactivated), which is rearranged as a result of the t(10;19)(q24;q13) balanced translocation in the T98G glioblastoma cell line lacking any normal chromosome 10. Rearrangement of the LGI1 gene was also detected in the A172 glioblastoma cell line and several glioblastoma tumors. These rearrangements lead to a complete absence of LGI1 expression in glioblastoma cells. The LGI1 gene encodes a protein with a calculated molecular mass of 60 kD and contains 3.5 leucine-rich repeats (LRR) with conserved flanking sequences. In the LRR domain, LGI1 has the highest homology with a number of transmembrane and extracellular proteins which function as receptors and adhesion proteins. LGI1 is predominantly expressed in neural tissues, especially in brain; its expression is reduced in low grade brain tumors and it is significantly reduced or absent in malignant gliomas. Its localization to the 10q24 region, and rearrangements or inactivation in malignant brain tumors, suggest that LGI1 is a candidate tumor suppressor gene involved in progression of glial tumors.
Modulation of vascular smooth muscle cells from a contractile to a synthetic phenotype is thought to be important in the development of the atherosclerotic lesion. Such modulation depends on growth factors and is influenced by cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. Whereas smooth muscle cells in the vessel wall are contractile, dispersed cells in culture rapidly modulate to synthetic phenotype, which complicates long-term in vitro studies. In contrast, vascular segments or smooth muscle strips in organ culture can maintain contractility for at least a week, sufficient for studies involving altered metabolism or protein expression. Examples are effects of endogenous polyamines on membrane ion channels and excitation-contraction coupling. While smooth muscle tissue is well preserved in serum-free culture, growth stimulation with fetal calf serum (FCS) causes multiple effects, including decreased contractility, ultrastructural changes, decreased expression of L-type Ca2+ channels, and increased SR release of Ca2+ via ryanodine receptors. These are all consequences of increased basal [Ca2+]i caused by FCS, as they are reversed by culture with verapamil in a concentration (1 microM) that does not inhibit stimulation of DNA and protein synthesis by FCS. The effects of FCS on contractility and Ca2+ channel expression are mimicked in serum-free culture with increased [Ca2+]i. Contractile protein patterns, including myosin isoform composition, are unaffected by FCS, suggesting that reversal to synthetic phenotype is limited and not the immediate cause of decreased contractility.
This review is focused on the cross-bridge interaction of the organized contractile system of smooth muscle fibres. By using chemically skinned preparations the different enzymatic reactions of actin-myosin interaction have been associated with mechanical events. A rigor state has been identified in smooth muscle and the binding of ATP causes dissociation of rigor cross-bridges at rates slightly slower than those in skeletal muscle, but fast enough not to be rate-limiting for cross-bridge turn over in the muscle fibre. The release of inorganic phosphate (Pi) is associated with force generation, and this process is not rate-limiting for maximal shortening velocity (Vmax) in the fully activated muscle. The binding of ADP to myosin is strong in the smooth muscle contractile system, a property that might be associated with the generally slow cross-bridge turn over. Both force and Vmax are modulated by the extent of myosin light chain phosphorylation. Low levels of activation are considered to be associated with the recruitment of slowly cycling dephosphorylated cross-bridges which reduces shortening velocity. The attachment of these cross-bridge states in skinned smooth muscles can be regulated by cooperative mechanisms and thin filament associated systems. Smooth muscles exhibit a large diversity in their Vmax and the individual smooth muscle tissue can alter its Vmax under physiological conditions. The diversity and the long-term modulation of phenotype are associated with changes in myosin heavy and light chain isoform expression.
Pathologically asymmetrical P300 fields with right lateralized peaks were described in core schizophrenia as an expression of left-temporal functional deficits, while higher than normal amplitudes were found in cycloid psychosis. This latter finding appeared to be specific for cycloid psychosis and was explained by a generalized cerebral hyperarousal. Based on some psychopathological analogies with cycloid psychosis, and on the comparable pharmacological treatment of the acute episodes, a group of 19 manic patients was investigated immediately after remission and clinical stabilization of an episode. Patients with psychotic features were excluded to avoid overlaps with cycloid psychosis. Patients showed normal P300 amplitudes and no pathological asymmetries of the field, but more posterior positive areas compared to age- and sex-matched controls. This indicates that the neurophysiological changes underlying mania are different from both core schizophrenia and cycloid psychosis. Based on previous three-dimensional source location studies, this finding indicates that disinhibition due to reduced frontal lobe activity, and not hyperarousal, is the basic functional mechanism of manic disorders.
Mood disorders are known to cluster within families, but the mode of transmission remains largely unknown. The purpose of our analysis was to determine whether selection of a sample that was homogeneous in its response to an antidepressant provided stronger evidence for a single major locus. Complex segregation analysis was applied to a sample of 171 Italian families of bipolar and unipolar probands that were responsive to the antidepressant fluvoxamine. We used regressive logistic analyses to determine the best fit from among environmental, arbitrary Mendelian, dominant, recessive and additive models. For the 171 affective families with probands that were responsive to the antidepressant fluvoxamine, a Mendelian model of inheritance was rejected. When considering 68 families of bipolar probands, the best fit was obtained for a Mendelian dominant model of transmission. The identification of a Mendelian mode of transmission in bipolar subjects who were selected according to their response to fluvoxamine supports the use of a pharmacological criterion as a tool for identifying true genetic disorders.
Bipolar disorder in adults is known to run an episodic course. However, little information exists on the long-term naturalistic course of bipolar disorder in juvenile populations. The present study was undertaken with the objectives of (i) documenting the rates of recovery and relapse, (ii) identifying the predictors of recovery and relapse and (iii) assessing the rates of comorbid conditions. A total of 30 subjects with onset of bipolar illness (according to DSM-III-R criteria) in childhood and adolescence were assessed systematically at baseline and 4 to 5 years later. All 30 subjects (100%) had recovered from their index episodes and none had exhibited chronicity. Twenty of the 30 subjects (67%) had relapsed, with most relapses occurring within 2 years of recovery from index episodes. No predictors of recovery and relapse could be identified. Conduct disorder was the only comorbid diagnosis in two subjects (7%). The main implication of our study, in view of the high rates of relapse in the crucial developmental phase of a young individual, is that long-term maintenance medication should be considered in juvenile bipolar patients, even if it is a first episode.
Clinical experience indicates that physical diseases are probably underdiagnosed in patients suffering from dementia. We investigated the prevalence of physical diseases in patients with different types of dementia by means of a retrospective patient record survey including 236 inpatients and outpatients referred for dementia evaluation to the Dementia Investigation Unit, University Hospital in Linkping during 1994. Forty-four patients had dementia of the Alzheimer type, 78 had vascular dementia, 28 had dementia due to multiple etiologies, 42 were not demented, and 44 patients could not be classified by the DSM IV criteria. The physical diseases were registered as separate diagnoses comprising all newly-diagnosed physical diseases and previously known diseases that had exacerbated and contributed to the medical contact. Sixty-four percent of the patients had previously unknown physical diseases and/or exacerbation of previously known diseases. The most common physical conditions were cobalamin deficiency and infectious diseases, which occurred in 27% and 24% of the patients, respectively. There was no difference in the number or kinds of diagnoses between the diagnostic groups. Associated physical diseases were underdiagnosed in patients referred for dementia evaluation. We suggest that thorough medical investigation and adequate treatment are of importance in the management of dementia.
In rodents, ethanol produces a greater impact on the ability to perform spatial reference memory tasks than nonspatial reference memory tasks. Such evidence may reflect a selective disruption in the use of previously acquired spatial information. However, a nonmnemonic explanation has yet to be ruled out Tasks used to study ethanol's effects on spatial memory commonly require subjects to utilize distal, or extramaze, cues to respond correctly. In contrast, many previously used nonspatial tasks could be solved using cues located on the maze itself. Because ethanol has been shown to disrupt sensory processing, it is possible that previously observed differences in the effects of ethanol on spatial and nonspatial performance were actually due to differences in the proximity of relevant cues in the spatial and nonspatial tasks and not to a selective disruption in spatial memory. The present study compares the effects of ethanol on the performance of spatial and nonspatial reference memory tasks that require subjects to discriminate among extramaze cues for correct responding. Subjects were trained while sober to navigate to a goal arm on a 12-arm maze. In the spatial task, the goal arm was defined by its location with respect to a number of extramaze cues. In the nonspatial task, the goal arm was defined by the presence of a single extramaze cue located directly beyond the end of the arm. Subjects were tested under 1 of 4 doses of ethanol (0.0, 0.7, 1.4, and 2.1 g/kg). Performance on the nonspatial task was more resistant to the effects of ethanol than performance on the spatial task. The results suggest that differences in the effects of ethanol on spatial and nonspatial performance are not due to differences in the proximity of relevant cues in previously used spatial and nonspatial tasks.
Education of nonscientists by scientists is assumed to be beneficial for enhancing public understanding of the research process and increasing public excitement about science. However, evaluation of audience response to receiving such information has rarely been performed. In particular, the effectiveness of communicating new research on alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence has never been evaluated. Evaluation data in the present study show significant knowledge transfer, belief changes, and participant reports of possible behavioral changes in targeted audiences. These occur when alcohol researchers present basic neuropharmacological concepts and new neurobiological research to audiences consisting primarily of chemical dependency counselors, social workers, criminal justice workers, physicians, nurses, family, clergy, and others interested in alcohol-related problems (defined as &quot;clinicians&quot; and the &quot;reachable public&quot;). Together, these results suggest that it is possible to change the beliefs, knowledge, and behavior of chemical dependency clinicians and the reachable public about alcoholism, its causes, and its treatment.
Parietal cerebral glucose metabolism is reduced before substantial impairments appeared in subjects carrying the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele, but the effect of the APOE epsilon4 allele on cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer disease (AD) is still undetermined. To investigate the effect of the APOE epsilon4 allele on cerebral metabolism in AD, we examined regional cerebral glucose metabolism in 83 patients with AD by using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. Cerebral glucose metabolism in the fronto-parieto-temporal association and limbic cortices was significantly decreased in the AD patients compared with 26 age- and sex-matched normal controls. Regional cerebral glucose metabolic rate was not correlated significantly with the number of APOE epsilon4 alleles in any region, which was consistent even after controlling the effects of age, sex, and severity of dementia, and in a subgroup analysis of those aged between 60 and 75. These results supported the view that the APOE epsilon4 allele is not associated with specific deficits in brain metabolism in AD despite evidence of preclinical alterations.
A conference was held in Brussels in November 1997 under the auspices of the International Working Group for Harmonization of Dementia Drug Guidelines. The meeting reviewed development of European Dementia Guidelines, with a focus on the roles of academics, industry, the European Commission, the European Parliament, and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency. The objectives of the meeting were to review progress in development of dementia drug guidelines across Europe, with particular reference to harmonization of these efforts with developments in other countries, particularly the United States and Japan. Specific topics covered included issues in developing trials to address disease progression, very mild disease, severe disease, and the non-Alzheimer dementias. Clinical trial designs and the types of measures chosen in these new areas are unlikely to be the same as those used in previous trials for symptomatic relief of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease. The assessment tools need to be specific for the purpose of the trial and ongoing research is still needed in this area. Little is known about the natural progression of disease based on the types of measures used in clinical trials. Evidence suggests that rates of decline are variable and nonlinear. Improved collaboration between academics, industry personnel, and regulators, particularly through the sharing of placebo data sets, could allow considerable advances in our understanding of natural disease progression.
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) in rat protects the brain against ischemia. We studied whether FN could reduce the cerebrovascular inflammation as a mechanism of protection. FN or dentate nucleus (sham controls) was electrically stimulated for 1 h, and 72 h later rats were either injected with interleukin (IL)-1beta into the striata or processed to analyze inflammatory responses in isolated brain microvessels. In striata, IL-1beta induced a recruitment of leukocytes that was reduced by 50% by FN stimulation. In isolated microvessels, IL-1beta induced the transient and dose-dependent upregulation of the mRNAs encoding for the inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), and inhibitory kappaB-alpha (IkappaB-alpha), an inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappaB. FN stimulation decreased the upregulation of NOS-2 and ICAM-1 mRNAs, whereas it increased IkappaB-alpha mRNA expression. Dentate nucleus stimulation did not mimic the FN actions. These findings suggest that FN stimulation may render brain microvessels refractory to IL-1beta by overproduction of IkappaB-alpha and support the hypothesis that alteration of microvascular inflammation may contribute to the central neurogenic neuroprotection elicited from the FN.
We investigated the characteristics of cocainelike binding sites in rat placenta using [125I]RTI-55. [3H]paroxetine binding and immunocytochemical staining for serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] and for the 5-HT transporter were also used to obtain evidence for rat placental 5-HT uptake. [125I]RTI-55 saturation analyses with membranes from normal gestational day 20 placentas yielded curvilinear Scatchard plots that were resolved into high- and low-affinity components (mean dissociation constants of 0.29 and 7.9 nM, respectively). Drug competition studies with various monoamine uptake inhibitors gave rise to complex multiphasic displacement curves, although the results obtained with the selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor citalopram suggest that the 5-HT transporter is an important component of placental high-affinity [125I]RTI-55 binding. The presence of a rat placental 5-HT uptake system was additionally supported by the [3H]paroxetine binding experiments and by the presence throughout the placenta of immunoreactivity for 5-HT and the 5-HT transporter. Immunostaining with both antibodies was most intense in the junctional zone, whereas the density of [125I]RTI-55 binding sites was greater in the placental labyrinth. This discrepancy may be due to the fact that [125I]RTI-55 appears to be labeling additional cellular components besides the 5-HT transporter. The presence of cocaine- and antidepressant-sensitive 5-HT transporters in the placenta has important implications for the possible effects of these compounds on pregnancy and fetal development.
Though immunoelectrodes can allow direct detection of very low protein amounts (about 0.1 pmol) in vitro and in vivo, they are not yet widely used because they need quality improvement. Based on a few works devoted to the basic electrochemical phenomenon occurring when antibodies are linked onto a solid support and during antigen/antibody complex formation, we have coated two different supports with antibodies: the classical glassy carbon fiber or an epoxy plate covered with an amorphous semimetallic (nickel/phosphorus) thin film obtained by means of an electrochemical deposit. The antibody/antigen complex formation induces direct and/or indirect ionic movements and a current flow through the conductive support toward a very low-noise and high-sensitivity preamplifier stage in an I/V configuration. The proposed electrochemical treatment (hydrophilization), applied to both carbon and Ni/P electrodes, improves antibody binding and reliability of the response to antigens. The Ni/P probes present several advantages when compared to carbon fiber: better conductivity, possibility of surface quality control, and semimetallic nature, making them unbreakable. Several applications were proposed: somatostatin-14 detection with both carbon fiber and Ni/P plate electrodes, and histamine detection in simple and complex fluid media. Dose-response curves and analysis of the results lead us to conclude that the obtained currents are directly related to the quantity of antigen.
The purpose of this study was to map the distribution of alpha-subunits of G-proteins--Galpha(olf s), Galpha(olf), Galpha(s), Galpha(i), Galpha(o), Galpha(z) and Galpha(q11)--in developing, denervated or injured rat molar teeth, using fluorescence microscopic immunohistochemistry coupled with immunogold electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. In rat fetuses (E17-E21), a widespread expression of Galpha(q11) was seen in maxillary/mandibular mesenchyme as well as in developing teeth. In addition, intensely Galpha(o)-positive nerve fibers were associated with the dental epithelium and the dental papilla of developing teeth. Other G proteins were absent or sparsely distributed during early tooth development. In the adult tooth pulp, odontoblasts appeared to express mainly Galpha(olf s), Galpha(o), and Galpha(q11). Nerve fibers were immunoreactive to Galpha(i), Galpha(o) and Galpha(z). In addition, pulpal blood vessels expressed varying levels of Galpha(olf s) Galpha(z) and Galpha(q11) while Galpha(olf s), Galpha(olf), Galpha(o) and Galpha(q11) were found in various pulpal mesenchymal cells. After adult denervation, nerve fiber-related G-protein immunoreactivity disappeared, but no other changes in pulpal G-protein immunoreactivity were noted. Odontoblasts and mesenchyme cells were intensely Galpha(i)-positive underneath a pulpal traumatic exposure, indicating an injury-induced pulpal upregulation of Galpha(i). The findings that Galpha(i), Galpha(o) and Galpha(z) are expressed in pulpal sensory nerve fibers suggest that these G proteins participate in signal conveyance from the target to the trigeminal nerve cell body.
The distribution of cervicothalamic tract (CTT) terminations, labeled with anterogradely transported tracers (WGA-HRP or biotinylated dextran amine) injected into the lateral cervical nucleus of cats, was compared with the distribution of immunoreactivity for a cell-surface antigen detected with the monoclonal antibody Cat-301. The most abundant CTT termination is present in the ventrobasal complex (VB), mainly in its lateral part (VPL) and only sparsely in its medial part (VPM). In the VPL, the CTT preferentially terminates in a Cat-301-sparse peripheral rim of the nucleus and in between its lateral and medial subdivisions (VPLI and VPLm). CTT terminations are sparse in the central Cat-301-dense parts of the VPL. In the ventral periphery of VB (VBvp), situated in between the VPL/VPM and the external medullary lamina, thin CTT fibers with spaced varicosities is seen among the large fibers of passage. The VBvp is essentially devoid of Cat-301 immunoreactivity. Scattered clusters of CTT termination are also seen caudal and dorsal to the VB in the medial division of the posterior complex (POm), which is virtually devoid of Cat-301 immunoreactivity. In the caudal thalamus, dense and focused CTT termination is present in the medial extension of the magnocellular medial geniculate nucleus (MGmc) but absent from its main lateral part. The termination in the MGmc is centered upon clusters of cells displaying dense Cat-301 immunoreactivity. The present study demonstrates previously unrecognized or unconfirmed CTT terminations in the VPM and in the VBvp, and confirm previously described projections to the VPL, POm and MGmc. The preferential termination of the CTT in the Cat-301-sparse peripheral region of the VPL demonstrates that the CTT is related to a chemically defined VPL compartment. In the light of previous data, this observation suggests that the CTT is related to one or more thalamocortical channels that are partly or completely separate from that (those) activated through the dorsal column-medial lemniscal pathway. The organization of the thalamocortical channel(s) activated through the CTT remains to be elucidated. In contrast to the termination in the VPL, CTT termination in the medial MGmc is focused to clusters of Cat-301 immunolabeled cells. The significance of this difference between CTT recipient cells in the VPL and in the MGmc is unclear.
There have been substantial advances in methods for defining connections among neurons over the past quarter century. However, most tracers have been limited in their ability to define populations of functionally related neurons that contribute to a multisynaptic circuit because they are not transported across synapses. As a result, the large body of literature that has employed these tracers has established regional associations between regions that must be further explored with electron microscopy and electrophysiological methods to define the synaptic relations among constituent neurons. Recently, neurotropic alpha herpesviruses have been used to visualize ensembles of neurons that contribute to polysynaptic networks. These pathogens invade permissive cells, replicate, and pass transynaptically to infect other neurons. In effect, the viruses become self-amplifying tracers whose natural tropism and invasiveness define populations of functionally related neurons. The recent increase in the use of this experimental approach has emerged from advances in our understanding of the life cycle of these viruses and the resulting evidence in support of specific transynaptic passage of progeny virus rather than infection by lytic release into the extracellular space. This article reviews the advances that have made this a viable experimental approach and considers ways in which this method has been creatively used to illuminate aspects of nervous system circuit organization that could not be defined with conventional tracers.
Dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD) is clinically characterized by a progressive deterioration of intellect, memory, judgment, and abstract thinking. It is incurable, and causal therapy is not yet available. For the development of therapeutic drugs, valid animal models are needed that mimic the pathophysiological change in brain functions and the concomitant behavioural deterioration seen in AD patients. This article provides an overview of the animal models that are used most often to study the substrates and mechanisms of the pathological changes underlying AD and to identify, characterize and develop putative neuroprotective, antidegenerative, revalidation-supporting and/or cognition-enhancing compounds or treatments. The first generation of agents for the symptomatic treatment of the disease has been developed on the basis of results obtained with these models. These drugs are presently undergoing clinical testing or are already used therapeutically. There is, however, no single animal model that can mimic the full range of pathophysiological alterations and key symptoms of AD. New, genetically engineered mouse models that mimic at least some of the key pathological changes of AD are expected to provide tools that will facilitate the development of symptomatic and preventive drug therapies.
Recent progress in our understanding of the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has made it clear that it is a heterogeneous disorder to which both genetic and environmental factors contribute. Therefore, it is unlikely that a single test for the diagnosis of this disease will be developed. Possible candidates for early diagnostic indices have been identified, in addition to biological markers, in the fields of neuropsychology, genetics and neuroimaging. Many studies have indicated that low scores in tests assessing delayed recall predict dementia already years before the actual criteria of dementia are fulfilled. Molecular genetic studies have confirmed that the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) is also a definite risk factor for AD, and other susceptibility genes will probably be identified and confirmed in the near future. Evaluation of the hippocampal atrophy by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans has been reported to be a sensitive and possible specific indicator of mild AD, while possibilities of using functional MRI are currently being explored. A combination of low scores in tests assessing delayed recall, small size of the hippocampus on MRI and APOE epsilon4 might point to a high risk of developing AD. We need extensive follow-up studies to identify which combination of molecular genetic factors and memory test scores supplemented with neuroimaging will prove to be most efficient in diagnosing AD in its preclinical phase, as this is the phase which offers the most promising therapeutic options.
Neuronal loss and axonal sprouting are the most typical histopathological findings in the hippocampus of patients with drug-refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). It is under dispute, however, whether remodeling of neuronal circuits is a continuous process or whether it occurs only during epileptogenesis. Also, little is known about the plasticity outside of the hippocampus. We investigated the immunoreactivity of the highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) in the surgically removed hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex of patients with drug-refractory TLE (n=25) and autopsy controls (n=7). Previous studies have shown that the expression of PSA-NCAM is associated with the induction of synaptic plasticity, neurite outgrowth, neuronal migration, and events requiring remodeling or repair of tissue. In patients with TLE, the optical density (OD) of punctate PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity was increased both in the inner and outer molecular layers of the dentate gyrus, compared with controls. The intensity of PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity in the inner molecular layer correlated with the duration of epilepsy, severity of hippocampal neuronal loss, density of mossy fiber sprouting, and astrogliosis. In TLE patients with only mild neuronal loss in the hippocampus, the density of infragranular immunopositive neurons was increased twofold compared with controls, whereas in TLE patients with severe neuronal loss, the infragranular PSA-NCAM-positive cells were not present. In the hilus, the somata and tortuous dendrites of some surviving neurons were intensely stained in TLE. PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity was also increased in CA1 and in layer II of the rostral entorhinal cortex, where immunopositive neurons were surrounded by PSA-NCAM-positive fibers and puncta. Our data provide evidence that synaptic reorganization is an active process in human drug-refractory TLE. Moreover, remodeling is not limited to the dentate gyrus, but also occurs in the CA1 subfield and the entorhinal cortex.



Jane was a healthy 16 year old girl who attended a high school dance and subsequently had a grand mal seizure--her first! She was taken home, developed a decreasing level of consciousness and was admitted to the local hospital, where it progressed to status epilepticus. We will describe the classifications of seizures including status epilepticus, which demands the highest level of clinical expertise and attention to preventative medicine, for a desirable outcome. During the eleven months of care a massive multi disciplinary team approach was instituted which extended across borders. Jane's story demonstrates a truly Neuroscience team effort from acute care to a rehabilitation center to home.
Rabbits with lesions of the midline thalamic nuclei were compared to rabbits with sham lesions on classical eyeblink (EB) and heart rate (HR) conditioning. Separate groups of sham and lesioned animals received either 25, 50 or 100% reinforcement with a periorbital shock unconditioned stimulus. Animals with lesions showed slightly impaired EB conditioning, compared to sham animals, under the partial but not continuous reinforcement schedules. Midline lesions also reduced the magnitude of the decelerative HR conditioned response under partial but not continuous reinforcement conditions. These findings suggest that the midline thalamic nuclei, like the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, process information required for response selection under non-optimal learning conditions.
Chicks exposed to light during late foetal life experience stimulation of the right eye only and, in consequence, develop asymmetries of the crossed visual projections from thalamus to forebrain and differences in performance of some visual tasks when using the right or left eye. The present study compared dark- and light-incubated chicks in a test of olfaction in which clove oil odour was presented together with a coloured bead. When the chicks were tested with a blue bead and using the right nostril (left nostril occluded by wax), head shaking and pecking were elevated, compared to pretest responses to an unscented, white bead. No significant elevation of head shaking occurred in chicks tested with the blue bead and using the left nostril, although pecking increased, which indicates that these chicks attended to the visual parameters of the bead but not the odour. It appears that, when the left nostril is used, attention to an attractive visual stimulus suppresses responses to olfactory input to the left hemisphere. When the clove oil odour was presented together with a less attractive, red bead, no significant lateralisation emerged. Light or dark experience prior to hatching had no effect on the lateralised performance of the blue-bead test.
The present study was conducted to investigate the effects of morphine self-administration into either the medial or lateral divisions of the septal region on spatial discrimination abilities in mice. To this end, BALB/c mice received a dose of 5 ng/50 nl of morphine sulfate, via a stainless steel injection cannula, inserted into either the medial septal area (MS) or the lateral septal nucleus (LS), when they are close to the end of one of the two choice arms of a Y-maze (acquisition period). In these conditions a discrimination between the reinforced arm and the neutral arm is acquired in MS as well as in LS mice. However both acquisition and subsequent extinction (vehicle only available) was more rapid in the LS group than in the MS group. Moreover, during the extinction period, numerous escape attempts from the Y-maze were observed for MS mice. When the dose of morphine was raised to 50 ng the pattern of acquisition was unchanged in the LS group. In contrast animals of the MS group learned to avoid the arm where the higher dose of morphine was delivered thus allowing us to conclude that in MS animals the drug effect became aversive at this higher dose. This possibility was directly investigated in a second experiment by closing the access to the neutral arm. Thus, for a 5-ng dose the rewarding effect of morphine was demonstrated in both MS and LS groups by the decrease of self-administration latencies which, furthermore, were notably lower than in the discrimination situation. Moreover, with the dose of 50 ng of morphine the latencies were identical for the two groups and at their lowest value thus indicating that morphine had similar appetitive effects in MS as well as in LS mice in this situation. Thus, the previously observed deficit of MS subjects, including escape attempts, disappeared when the dose of morphine was raised and the experimental context simplified. These results which demonstrate differential functional properties of these two septal divisions are discussed in terms of conflict resulting from the strongly appetitive effects of the morphine which induces, in parallel, deleterious consequences on cognitive processing in MS self-injected mice.
Lesions of the caudate nucleus and prefrontal cortex may display similar cognitive deficits. Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have clarified the functional role of prefrontal cortical areas in certain cognitive operations involved in simple language tasks. We have addressed the role of the caudate nucleus in tasks of lexical decision, semantic categorization, recognition memory, reading aloud and object naming by recording neuronal activity in patients with depth electrodes. During visual processing of words, caudate cells exhibited excitatory responses related to both semantic and phonological-articulatory encoding with non-overlapping time courses. The firing rate of the cells was increased when the semantic processing was required. This occurred within 400-600 ms after the stimulus onset, or within the first 200-300 ms of the delay period. The increased firing within 1000-1200 ms after the stimulus onset was related to the phonological processing. These responses turned out to be strikingly similar to those in Broca's area. Both reading aloud and explicit memory retrieval tasks elicited a sustained inhibition of firing of the same cells with a greater onset latency. Chronometric comparison of prefrontal, temporo-parietal and caudate activities in similar tasks relates the time course of these activations to the fronto-caudate anatomical loops and helps further understanding of the anatomy and circuitry involved in human cognition.
A unilateral injury to the forelimb area of the sensorimotor cortex results in an increase in dendritic arborization in the contralateral homotopic cortex which is followed by a pruning back of these dendritic arbors. The increase in arborization is due to an increase in the use of the unimpaired forelimb for postural-motor support; whereas, the dendritic pruning is related, in time, to the return to more symmetrical limb use, but is not prevented by the maintenance of asymmetrical limb use. Dendritic pruning can be prevented by administering an NMDA receptor antagonist (such as MK801 or ethanol) during the pruning phase. This manipulation also coincides with the chronic reinstatement of behavioral deficits. The purpose of this study was to see whether removing the antagonism of the NMDA receptor results in the eventual return of dendritic pruning and behavioral recovery. Therefore, MK801 was administered to lesioned animals starting at post-lesion day 18. One group received MK801 injections until day 60 (Lesion + MK60) and another lesioned group received MK801 until day 30 after which the injections were changed to saline until day 60 (Lesion + MK30). Lesion + MK60 animals showed a prevention of dendritic pruning as well as a chronic reinstatement of forelimb deficits. Lesion + MK30 animals also showed a prevention of dendritic pruning, however, they showed behavioral recovery. These findings suggest that pruning of dendritic arbors may not be directly related to behavioral recovery.
The effects of dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) on vicarious trial-and-error (VTE), and on simultaneous olfactory discrimination learning and its reversal, were observed in weanling rats. The term VTE was used by Tolman (The determiners of behavior at a choice point. Psychol. Rev. 1938;46:318-336), who described it as conflict-like behavior at a choice-point in simultaneous discrimination learning. It takes the form of head movements from one stimulus to the other, and has recently been proposed by Amsel (Hippocampal function in the rat: cognitive mapping or vicarious trial-and-error? Hippocampus, 1993;3:251-256) as related to hippocampal, nonspatial function during this learning. Weanling male rats received systemic MK-801 either 30 min before the onset of olfactory discrimination training and its reversal, or only before its reversal. The MK-801-treated animals needed significantly more sessions to acquire the discrimination and showed significantly fewer VTEs in the acquisition phase of learning. Impaired reversal learning was shown only when MK-801 was administered during the reversal-learning phase, itself, and not when it was administered throughout both phases.
Rats treated chronically with the dopamine agonist quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg, twice weekly x 10) met 5 criteria for performance of compulsive checking. Specifically, in a large open-field with single small objects in 4 of 25 locales, quinpirole rats revisited two places/objects excessively often and rapidly, compared with other locations in the environment or saline controls. They performed a ritual-like set of behavioral acts at these two places/objects and stopped in relatively few locales before returning to the preferred places/objects. Finally, they shifted their behavior to a new location when the object was moved there. Clomipramine (10 mg/kg, daily) postponed but did not prevent the development of the quinpirole effect. Quinpirole-induced compulsive checking may be an exaggeration of normal checking of home site in rats. Results suggest an animal model of obsessive-compulsive disorder and a role for dopamine in this disorder.
Our research has demonstrated that the lateral habenular nucleus (Lhb) is necessary for the hormonal onset but not the postpartum maintenance of maternal behavior in the rat (K. P. Corodimas, J. S. Rosenblatt, &amp; J. I. Morrell, 1992; K. P. Corodimas, J. S. Rosenblatt, M. E. Canfield, &amp; J. I. Morell, 1993; T. Matthews-Felton, K. P. Corodimas, J. S. Rosenblatt, &amp; J. I. Morell, 1995). To test the role of the Lhb in the nonhormonal onset of maternal behavior, we used the sensitization model in which the continual exposure of females to pups induces maternal behavior. Ovariectomized females received bilateral cytotoxic lesions of neurons of either the Lhb or the dorsal medial cingulate cortex-hippocampus, or they were unoperated. Maternal behavior, activity, and oromotor carrying capability were tested. Complete lesions of the neurons of the Lhb induced significant deficits in pup retrieval and nest building. Sniffing, licking, and crouching behaviors were unaltered. Activity and carrying ability were normal. These results indicate a role for the Lhb that extends to the nonhormonally dependent onset of maternal behavior, but they also indicate a more limited role than in the mediation of the hormonal onset of the behavior.
In conditions generating moderate levels of anxiety in the social interaction test (low light, unfamiliar arena or high light, familiar arena), parenteral administration of nicotine had bimodal actions, low doses (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg i.p.) had anxiolytic effects and high doses (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) had anxiogenic effects. In test conditions where anxiety was lowest (low light, familiar arena) and highest (high light, unfamiliar arena), nicotine was without effect after intraperitoneal or hippocampal administration. Thus, nicotine plays a modulatory role in which the activity of other neurotransmitters is crucial to its expression. After bilateral administration to the dorsal hippocampus, nicotine (0.1-8.0 microg) had anxiogenic effects in conditions of moderate anxiety; mecamylamine (30 ng) was silent in these conditions, indicating no intrinsic tone. Our results show that the dorsal hippocampus is one area that can mediate anxiogenic effects in the social interaction test, but the brain region mediating anxiolytic effects remains to be identified.

The aetiological spectrum of sphenoid sinus mucocele includes congenital anomaly, trauma, infection, allergy and surgery of the sphenoid sinus. Enlargement of the mucocele, even with a short history, can result in progressive expansion of the sinus and extension of the lesion into the pituitary fossa, the suprasellar region, nasopharynx, orbits, clivus or ethmoid air cells. It is a benign cystic lesion with an excellent prognosis when treated appropriately. Generally, these lesions are managed by an ear, nose and throat surgeon, but when there is extension into the sellar and parasellar (especially suprasellar) regions they are managed by the neurological surgeon. Sphenoid sinus mucocele should be considered in the differential diagnosis when there is suspicion of a cystic lesion in these regions. Three cases of large sphenoid sinus mucocele are presented, with discussion on their neurosurgical management and a review of the literature.
ACh-induced vasodilation was investigated in pulmonary arteries from 8 and 2 day pre-term foetal, neonatal (0-12 h and 4 day old) and adult rabbits. The effects of superoxide anion generation [with hypoxanthine (HX, 0.1 mM)/xanthine oxidase (XO, 15 mu ml(-1))], endogenous superoxide dismutase (SOD) inhibition [with the Cu-Zn SOD inhibitor triethylenetetramine (TETA, 1 mM)], endogenous superoxide anion scavenging [by superoxide dismutase (SOD, 50 u ml(-1))] and inhibition of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) [with, Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME, 0.1 mM)], on basal and ACh-induced NO activity were studied by examining phenylephrine-induced contraction and ACh-induced vasodilation respectively. L-NAME and endothelium removal abolished all ACh-induced vasodilation and 1 microM sodium nitroprusside fully dilated all vessels. ACh-induced vasodilation was absent in the 8 day pre-term foetus and 0-12 h neonate but present at all other ages. L-NAME itself contracted 2 day pre-term foetal vessels. At 0 12 h, SOD, but not the phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor zaprinast (1 microM), uncovered ACh-induced vasodilation. At this age SOD reduced phenylephrine-induced contraction which was not influenced by TETA, L-NAME or HX/XO, and L-NAME itself did not cause contraction. This suggests both ACh-induced and basal NO activity are compromise in these vessels by endogenous superoxide anion production and deficiencies in endogenous SOD activity. In 4 day vessels, but not adult vessels, L-NAME, TETA and HX/XO augmented contractions to phenylephrine, and L-NAME itself induced vasoconstriction, suggesting that basal NO and SOD activities were present by 4 days but were not evident in the adult. ACh-induced NO activity, and the influence of endogenous SOD on this, were present in the adult (and 4 day) vessels as superoxide generation with HX/XO significantly reduced ACh-induced vasodilation and this effect was inhibited by SOD and augmented by TETA. Increased oxygen tensions &gt; 500 mmHg attenuated ACh-induced vasodilation in the foetal but not neonatal rabbits. Raising the oxygen tension from approximately 20 to approximately 120 mmHg revealed ACh-induced vasodilation in the 8 day pre-term vessels. In summary, superoxide anion accumulation combined with deficiencies in SOD activity may transiently compromise basal and ACh-induced NO activity at birth. Experimental oxygen tensions markedly influence ACh-induced vasodilation in foetal rabbit pulmonary arteries.
Xanomeline [3(3-hexyloxy-1,2,5-thiadiazol-4-yl)-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-1-me thylpyridine] has been reported to act as a functionally selective muscarinic partial agonist with potential use in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This study examined the functional activity of xanomeline at 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptors in native tissue and/or human cloned receptors. Xanomeline had affinity for muscarinic receptors in rat cortical membranes where the ratio of the displacement affinity of [3H]-Quinuclidinyl benzilate vs that of [3H]-Oxotremorine-M was 16, indicative of partial agonist activity. Radioligand binding studies on human cloned receptors confirmed that xanomeline had substantial affinity for M1, M2, M3, M4, M5 receptors and also for 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes. Carbachol and xanomeline stimulated basal [35S]-GTPgammaS binding in rat cortical membranes with micromolar affinity. The response to carbachol was attenuated by himbacine and pirenzepine with pA2 of 8.2, 6.9 respectively consistent with the response being mediated, predominantly, via M2 and M4 receptors. Xanomeline-induced stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding was inhibited by himbacine with an apparent pKb of 6.3, was not attenuated by pirenzepine up to 3 microM and was inhibited by the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635 with an apparent pKb of 9.4. These data suggest the agonist effect of xanomeline in this tissue is, in part, via 5-HT1A receptors. Similar studies on human cloned receptors confirmed that xanomeline is an agonist at human cloned 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors. In studies using the fluorescent cytoplasmic Ca2+ indicator FLUO-3AM, xanomeline induced an increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration in SH-SY5Y cells expressing recombinant human 5-HT2C receptors. Atropine antagonized this response, consistent with mediation via endogenously-expressed muscarinic receptors. In the presence of atropine, xanomeline antagonized 5-HT-induced cytoplasmic changes in Ca2+ concentration in cells expressing h5-HT2A, h5-HT2B and h5-HT2c receptors with potencies similar to its affinity at these receptors. These studies indicate that xanomeline is a potent agonist at 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors and an antagonist at 5-HT2 receptor subtypes.
Angiography after a posterior circulation ischaemic event is often not considered because of the perception that it will not alter patient management. We identified 53 patients investigated with vertebral angiography over a 5 year period. This was significantly abnormal in 32 patients (60%). Five (9%) had vertebral artery dissections, nine (17%) had unilateral vertebral artery occlusion, two had a basilar artery disease. 16 (30%) had vertebral artery stenosis. 12 stenoses were considered suitable for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (23%). 11 patients were anticoagulated (21%). There was no significant correlation between clinical features, site of infarct or the presence of carotid stenosis that would have allowed the prediction of the findings in the posterior circulation. Our results indicate that using vertebral angiography to investigate posterior circulation ischaemia will identify a significant number of potentially treatable lesions.
Although the literature records instances of acute epidural haematoma and acute subdural haematoma related to playing basketball, there has not been a report of chronic subdural haematoma as a basketball injury. With the burgeoning interest in this sport in the United Kingdom and Europe, the possibility of this particular neurotrauma increases. Such an injury, along with the diagnosis and management of this often insidious lesion, is documented in this case report.
Levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease has been suggested to contribute to disease progression through free radical generation. We compared the time course of levodopa-induced dopamine metabolism, and the resulting oxidative stress, between rat brain regions with varying dopaminergic innervation. At 1, 4, 8, and 12 h after levodopa administration (100 mg/kg), dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and homovanillic acid were measured in striatum and ventral midbrain, regions containing marked dopaminergic innervation, and in prefrontal cortex and cerebellum, which possess little dopaminergic innervation. Malondialdehyde, a marker of oxidative stress, was measured in additional animals. The return of dopamine and its metabolites to control concentrations tended to be slower (by 3-8 h) in cerebellum and prefrontal cortex than in dopaminergic regions. Malondialdehyde concentrations were decreased (p &lt; 0.05) in ventral midbrain 8 h posttreatment, but increased in cerebellum 12 h posttreatment. We concluded that levodopa increases dopamine metabolism in nondopaminergic as well as dopaminergic regions, with delayed clearance of dopamine and its metabolites in nondopaminergic regions. The slower return of dopamine to control levels in nondopaminergic regions may be relevant to some of the side effects of levodopa. No support was found for the hypothesis that levodopa treatment induces oxidative stress.
Hippocrates was the first to suggest the healing power of food; however, it was not until the medieval ages that food was considered a tool to modify temperament and mood, although scientific methods as we know them today were not in use at the time. Modern scientific methods in neuroscience began to emerge much later, leading investigators to examine the role of diet in health, including mental wellbeing, with greater precision. This review shows how short- and long-term forced dietary interventions bring about changes in brain structure, chemistry, and physiology, leading to altered animal behavior. Examples will be presented to show how diets alter brain chemistry, behavior, and the action of neuroactive drugs. Most humans and most animal species examined in a controlled setting exhibit a fairly reproducible pattern of what and how they eat. Recent data suggest that these patterns may be under the neurochemical and hormonal control of the organisms themselves. Other data show that in many instances food may be used unconsciously to regulate mood by seemingly normal subjects as well as those undergoing drug withdrawal or experiencing seasonal affective disorders and obesity-related social withdrawal. We will discuss specific examples that illustrate that manipulation of dietary preference is actually an attempt to correct neurochemical make-up.
1. Free radicals may play an important role in several pathological conditions of the central nervous system (CNS) where they directly injure tissue and where their formation may also be a consequence of tissue injury. 2. Free radicals produce tissue damage through multiple mechanisms, including excito-toxicity, metabolic dysfunction, and disturbance of intracellular homeostasis of calcium. 3. Oxidative stress can significantly worsen acute insults, such as ischemia, as well as chronic neurodegenerative disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson's disease. 4. For instance, recent findings suggest a causal role for chronic oxidative stress in familial ALS, as this disease is linked to missence mutations of the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD). 5. Thus, therapeutic approaches which limit oxidative stress may be potentially beneficial in several neurological diseases.
Elevated target-derived smooth muscle nerve growth factor (NGF) and resultant neurogenic plasticity are associated with both hypertension and hyperactive voiding in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs: hypertensive, behaviorally hyperactive). In culture, vascular (VSMCs) and bladder (BSMCs) smooth muscle cells derived from SHRs secrete higher levels of NGF, proliferate more rapidly, and achieve higher density at confluence than do control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) cells. To elucidate growth-related contributions to the elevated tissue NGF observed in SHRs, we examined vascular VSMC and BSMC NGF secretion in two inbred cell lines (WKHTs, hypertensive; WKHAs, hyperactive) derived from SHRs and WKYs to assess the phenotypic association of altered NGF metabolism with either hypertension or behavioral hyperactivity. Cell density, rather than growth rates, was the most important factor with respect to NGF secretion. VSMC density varied such that WKHT=SHR&gt;WKY= WKHA, higher VSMC density being associated with higher NGF output. However, in BSMC cultures, NGF output was the lowest in high density cell lines, with WKHT&gt;SHR&gt;WKY&gt;WKHA. SHR BSMCs had the second highest cell density and NGF secretion level. Elevated packing density, presumably because of a lack of contact inhibition, co-segregated with the hypertensive phenotype in both VSMCs and BSMCs. Thus, dysfunctional smooth muscle growth characteristics may contribute to the augmented vascular and bladder NGF content associated with high blood pressure and hyperactive voiding in SHRs.
Nitric oxide (NO) acts as an intercellular messenger molecule in the nervous system. In the adrenal gland sympathetic preganglionic fibers innervating the medulla, as well as intrinsic neural ganglion cells, contain nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Nitric oxide stimulates the soluble enzyme guanylate cyclase forming cyclic GMP (cGMP). Using sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as nitric oxide donor we have studied the putative target cells for nitric oxide in the rat adrenal gland, both in vivo and in vitro. The guinea pig and a few mouse adrenal glands were studied after SNP perfusion for comparison. Our results show that after vascular perfusion with a high concentration (3 mM) of SNP both noradrenaline and adrenaline chromaffin cells express cGMP-like immunoreactivity in all three species. After incubation of rat adrenal slices with SNP primarily the noradrenaline chromaffin cells are cGMP-positive. In contrast, detectable levels of cGMP-like immunoreactivity were not found in neuronal ganglion cells. In the adrenal cortex cGMP-like immunoreactivity was seen in blood vessel walls, in small cells with processes forming a reticular network, at least partly presumably representing endothelial cells, as well as in some presumable nerve terminals. These findings support the view that chromaffin cells, especially the noradrenergic ones and blood vessels, are targets for nitric oxide in the adrenal gland.
In vivo electrophysiological assays in anesthetized rats have been used to compare the effects of the 5HT1B/1D receptor agonist, naratriptan, on central trigeminal nociceptive processing from dural and cutaneous inputs with its effects on nociceptive processing in the spinal cord. Naratriptan inhibited responses of single trigeminal neurons, to noxious electrical and mechanical stimulation of the dura and face, dose dependently by a maximum of 67+/-3% and 70+/-18%, respectively, at 3 mg kg(-1) i.v. In contrast, naratriptan did not affect spinal dorsal horn neuronal responses to noxious mechanical stimulation of the hind-paw. These findings suggest that 5HT1B/1D receptors have differential effects on nociceptive processing in the trigeminal versus spinal dorsal horns and provide a potential explanation for the lack of general analgesic effects of brain penetrant 5HT(1B/1D) agonist antimigraine drugs.

The G protein subunit alpha-gustducin is expressed in a subset of light (Type II) but not in dark (Type I) cells in rat vallate taste buds. The thymidine analogue 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) is incorporated into DNA during the S-phase of the cell cycle and can be used to determine the time of origin of a cell. In this study, 31 rats were injected with BrdU (50 mg/kg i.p.) and perfused at various times, from 2.5 to 10.5 days, following BrdU administration. Vallate papillae were embedded in polyester wax, cut into 4 microm transverse sections, and characterized with antibodies to BrdU and alpha-gustducin. Sections were processed for indirect immunofluorescence or with an immunoperoxidase procedure. From immunoperoxidase material on 21 rats, counts of alpha-gustducin- and BrdU-labeled cells were obtained from 300-800 taste bud profiles at each survival time; a total of 4122 taste bud profiles were examined. Cells with nuclei immunoreactive for BrdU occurred within the taste buds at 2.5 days and double-labeled cells were clearly evident at 3.5 days; a small number of double-labeled cells were seen as early as 2.5 days. Double-labeled cells reached a peak at 6.5 days and did not decline significantly by 10.5 days. Cells labeled for BrdU but not alpha-gustducin peaked at 5.5 days and showed a significant decline by 8.5 days. These latter cells included light cells not expressing alpha-gustducin and dark cells, which have previously been shown to have a shorter life span than light cells. These data suggest that expression of alpha-gustducin appears very early in a cell's life span and that these cells are longer lived than many of the cells that do not express this G protein.
This paper unfolds the events, the people and the times that led up to the founding of AChemS and fashioned its character during its early formative years. It describes the path over which AChemS came, going from the original assertions and denials for the need of such an organization to its later inception and nascent development. This narration highlights such topics as the debate over the need for AChemS, the role of National Science Foundation in the founding of AChemS, the derivation of the Association's name, the choice of Sarasota and the Hyatt House as the meeting site, the generation of the programs for the early annual meetings, the adoption of the bylaws, the process of incorporation and tax deferment, and the birth of the Givaudan Lectureship. Most emphatically highlighted, however, is the enthusiasm, commitment and hard work that the members of the chemosensory research community displayed in bringing AChemS to fruition.
Human clinical and psychophysical observations suggest that the taste system is able to compensate for losses in peripheral nerve input, since patients do not commonly report decrements in whole mouth taste following chorda tympani nerve damage or anesthesia. Indeed, neurophysiological data from the rat nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) suggests that a release of inhibition (disinhibition) may occur centrally following chorda tympani nerve anesthesia. Our purpose was to study this possibility further. We recorded from 59 multi- and single-unit taste-responsive sites in the rat NST before, during and after recovery from chorda tympani nerve anesthesia. During anesthesia, average anterior tongue responses were eliminated but no compensatory increases in palatal or posterior tongue responses were observed. However, six individual sites displayed increased taste responsiveness during anesthesia. The average increase was 32.9%. Therefore, disinhibition of taste responses was observed, but infrequently and to a small degree in the NST At a subset of sites, chorda tympani-mediated responses decreased while greater superficial petrosal-mediated responses remained the same during anesthesia. Since this effect was accompanied by a decrease in spontaneous activity, we propose that taste compensation may result in part by a change in signal-to-noise ratio at a subset of sites.
Five patients operated on between 6 months and 7 years earlier for breast cancer were surgically treated for chronic subdural haematoma. This unusual association may be explained on the basis of known factors such as coagulative impairment subsequent to chemotherapy, a degree of cerebral atrophy or mild trauma. On the other hand, since four of the patients were taking antioestrogen therapy to control the disease, it is speculated that the oestrogenic properties of tamoxifen may have contributed to subdural bleeding.
The main thesis of this article is that the debate about the credibility of &quot;recovered memories&quot;--reports by adults of recovered memories of childhood sexual abuse and trauma that were allegedly repressed for many years--can be usefully informed by considering the biological and behavioral facts and ideas about how memory works. Accordingly, the first section of this review describes current facts and ideas about the neurobiology and neuropsychology of memory and amnesia, including what parts of the brain are important for memory, distinctions between different memory systems in the brain, and the phenomena of infantile amnesia and source amnesia. The second section takes into account the information about the biological and behavioral bases of memory and addresses two questions about memory that have become a focus of debate in the recovered memory controversy, that is, whether memories for traumatic events change over time, and whether memories can be created for traumatic events that did not actually happen.
We have developed a distributed software package which allows neurophysiologists to have at hand a set of network and graphic tools in order to perform the analysis of data collected from the electrical activity of neurons, studied in the experimental laboratory. This system is built around three major components. First, the experimental data are processed in order to select specific data files from the networked computer and display the spike trains as raster dots. The second part selects one type of analysis (e.g., cross-correlation, out of a set of possible choices) after configuration of some specific parameters. Finally, the third component deals with the results of data analyses, which are selected and displayed on a multi-parameter graphic &quot;ring binder.&quot; We have used the Java programming language to implement this application. This recent object-oriented language offers platform-independent software tools including graphic package and standard network protocols.
The Croatian Institute for Brain Research has been founded at the Zagreb School of Medicine as a central institution for neuroscience research in Croatia. The major research program of the Institute is based on multidisciplinary research using a variety of approaches, from molecular to clinical, for studying the neurobiological basis of normal and disturbed development and functioning of the human brain. Basic organizational features and social goals of the Institute are: permanent correlation of basic and clinical neuroscience, optimal exploitation of resources and manpower, providing the best education and research opportunities for young investigators in neuroscience, and involvement of Croatian neuroscientists into global professional organizations and research programs. Thus, with the establishment of this Institute, Croatia strives to contribute to the overall advancement of neuroscience in The Decade of the Brain and to take part in pushing the frontiers of research along the path leading into the next millenium.
Motoneurons have distinct identities and muscle targets. Recent classical and molecular genetic studies in flies and vertebrates have begun to elucidate how motoneuron identities and target specificities are established. Many of the same molecules participate in the guidance of both vertebrate and fly motor axons. It is less clear, however, whether the same molecular mechanisms establish vertebrate and fly motoneuron identities.
Advances in our understanding of how the neuromuscular junction is modulated include an expanded appreciation of the many different types of modulatory influences, from soluble factors to second-messenger systems, to specific proteins in nerve and muscle. Recent studies indicate that modulation of neuromuscular function is effected on both the presynaptic and postsynaptic sides of the neuromuscular junction.
How does the CNS coordinate muscle contractions between different body segments during normal locomotion? Work on several preparations has shown that this coordination relies on excitability gradients and on differences between ascending and descending intersegmental coupling. Abstract models involving chains of coupled oscillators have defined properties of coordinating circuits that would permit them to establish a constant intersegmental phase in the face of changing periods. Analyses that combine computational and experimental strategies have led to new insights into the cellular organization of intersegmental coordinating circuits and the neural control of swimming in lamprey, tadpole, crayfish and leech.
To investigate pattern formation in the vertebrate hindbrain, we isolated a full length hoxb2 cDNA clone from zebrafish. In a gene phylogeny, zebrafish hoxb2 clusters with human HOXB2, and it maps on linkage group 3 along with several other loci whose orthologues are syntenic with human HOXB2. In the hindbrain, hoxb2 is expressed at high levels in rhombomere 3 (r3), lower levels in r4, still lower in r5, and at undetectable levels in r6. In r7, r8, and the rostral spinal cord, hoxb2 is expressed at a lower level than in r5. Lateral cells appearing to emanate from r4 express both hoxb2 and dlx2, suggesting that they are neural crest. Overexpression of hoxb2 by mRNA injections into early cleavage stage embryos resulted in abnormal morphogenesis of the midbrain and rostral hindbrain, abnormal patterning in r4, fusion of cartilage elements arising from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2, and ectopic expression of krx20 and valentino (but not pax2, rtk1, or hoxb1) in the rostral hindbrain, midbrain, and, surprisingly, the eye. Treatments with retinoic acid produced a phenotype similar to that of ectopic hoxb2 expression, including ectopic krx20 (but not valentino) expression in the eye, and fusion of cartilages from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2. The results suggest that hoxb2 plays an important role in the patterning of hindbrain and pharyngeal arches in the zebrafish.
The splenium (posterior 1/5) of the corpus callosum is sexually dimorphic in the adult rat brain. In the present study we examined the role of developmental hormones and cryoanesthesia (which is normally used during the performance of neonatal hormone manipulations) on the gross size of the splenium in male and female rats. There was a sex difference in splenial size (male &gt; female) among nonhormonally manipulated animals, p = .0007. While neonatal castration was ineffective in altering the size of the male splenium, testosterone injections in females were found to increase the size of the splenium relative to oil-injected females, p = .05. The effect of developmental testosterone was further observed: Sex ratio (males to females) of the litter correlated with splenial area in females, r = .55, p = .03. Duration of cryoanesthesia negatively correlated with splenial area in males, r = -.81, p = .03, with a similar trend in females.
Cholinesterase inhibitors are currently the most established treatment strategy in Alzheimer's disease. The treatment effect appears mainly to be symptomatic. Effects on progression of the disease following long term treatment, and possible neuroprotective effects, have been investigated. Delay until nursing home placement has been reported. Three cholinesterase inhibitors, tacrine, donepezil and rivastigmine, are in clinical use. Other cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine (galanthamine), metrifonate, physostigmine, eptastigmine, are currently under clinical evaluation. So far the efficacy appears to be comparable between the various cholinesterase inhibitors; treatment for up to 6 months has produced an improvement in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale -- Cognitive Subscale score (ADAS-cog) of between 1.8 and 4.9 in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Tacrine, donepezil, galantamine and physostigmine are reversible inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase, while metrifonate is considered to be an irreversible inhibitor and rivastigmine a pseudoirreversible inhibitor. Tacrine and physostigmine have lower bioavailability, 17 to 37% and 3 to 8%, respectively, than the other cholinesterase inhibitors such as rivastigmine, galantamine and donepezil (40 to 100%). The elimination half-life is considerably longer for donepezil (70 to 80h) in comparison to most of the other cholinesterase inhibitors (0.3 to 12h). Donepezil is therefore administered once daily in comparison to rivastigmine which is administered twice daily and tacrine which is administered 4 times daily. Simultaneous food intake lowers the plasma concentration of tacrine and reduces the adverse effects of rivastigmine. Drugs like theophylline and cimetidine have been reported to change the pharmacokinetics of tacrine and donepezil. In contrast, concomitant medication with various drugs with rivastigmine does not seem to cause any drug interactions in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Tacrine, donepezil and galantamine are metabolised via the cytochrome P450 (CYP) liver enzymes. Active metabolites are known for tacrine and galantamine. Rivastigmine is not metabolised via CYP enzymes, but via esterases and is excreted in the urine. Tacrine is associated with hepatotoxicity while other cholinesterase inhibitors seem devoid this adverse effect. Increased liver enzyme values have been observed in 49% of patients with Alzheimer's disease treated with tacrine. Rechallenge with tacrine reduces the incidence of elevated liver enzyme levels. Peripheral cholinergic adverse effects are common for the cholinesterase inhibitors, with an incidence ranging between 7 to 30%. For some cholinesterase inhibitors, such as rivastigmine, the cholinergic adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhoea and abdominal pain can be reduced by slowing the rate of dose titration.
The aim of the present study was to propose an improved method of quantitative assessment of EEG age-related changes. 40 EEG recordings of healthy subjects (aged 0.7-78 years) were analysed. Multidimensional scaling of EEG spectral data indicated a presence of an 'age factor' related non-linearly to the chronological age. Relative integrals of FFT spectra in 6 frequency bands were utilized as predictors of age or, alternatively, logarithmized age. Three regression models based on EEG spectral indicators were examined. Regression from logarithmic predictors to logarithm of age performed best in terms of linearity and residual errors. As a result, the Brain Electric Maturation Scale was proposed, being defined by the logarithm of ratio of the age predicted from the EEG data and chronological age. The scale could serve as an objective measure of brain maturation in children, or as an age-independent indicator of slow EEG abnormalities.
Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy is usually effective in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), reversing the excessive daytime sleepiness associated with OSA. We investigated how polysomnography and maintenance of wakefulness test (MWT) predicted response to CPAP therapy in 10 patients with obstructive sleep apnea and 10 healthy controls. After a full polysomnography and MWT the patients were started on CPAP. MWT was repeated to quantify the treatment effect. Oxygen desaturation index and the percentage of slow wave sleep were the best predictors for baseline S1 latency in MWT. Baseline S1 latency in the MWT was the most important determinant of improvement in MWT S latency after CPAP, followed by the latency to 10 min of continuous nocturnal sleep, arousal index and CPAP use. We suggest that in mild sleep apnea, knowledge of sleep architecture is not necessary before deciding whether or not to initiate CPAP treatment.
Nongenomic mechanisms of corticosterone (B) inhibition of nicotine (Nic)-induced calcium influx were investigated in PC12 cells. Corticosterone could rapidly inhibit the Ca2+ influx induced by Nic, and BSA-conjugated B had a similar inhibitory effect. The inhibition of Nic-induced Ca2+ influx by B could be mimicked by protein kinase C (PKC) activator (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) and reversed by PKC inhibitors, chelerythrine chloride and G6976. When PC12 cells were pretreated with pertussis toxin, the inhibitory effect of B on Nic-induced Ca2+ influx was blocked. Both B and BSA-conjugated B could activate PKC activity, with the maximal responses at 10(-9) and 10(-7) M at 37 C, respectively. The dose-response curve was bell shaped. At 25 C, however, the dose-response curve considerably shifted to the right, and B was most potent at 10(-5) M. The time course showed that PKC activity was highest at 5 min of B's action. The results suggest that B might act via putative membrane receptors and inhibit the Ca2+ influx induced by Nic through the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein-PKC pathway and that PKC plays an important role in the mechanisms of glucocorticoid nongenomic action.
Alterations in autonomic function are evident during spaceflight. These conditions are also simulated by ground-based experimental models of a microgravity environment such as 6 degrees head-down bed rest (BR). They include a reduction in baroreflex function, a decrease in vagal tone and a loss of circulatory blood volume during weightlessness. However, it is not clear whether vasomotor sympathetic outflow, which controls peripheral vascular tone neurally, and plasma norepinephrine concentration will change or not during weightlessness. The purpose of the present study is to examine changes in vasomotor sympathetic nerve activity during six days of 6 degrees head-down BR. Vasomotor sympathetic nervous activity was evaluated by the direct recording of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) by a use of microneurographic technique. MSNA on the sixth day during BR was the same as that in a horizontally supine position before BR (before BR; 15.4 +/- 1.6 bursts/min, during BR; 16.7 +/- 3.5 bursts/min), though plasma norepinephrine concentrations during BR were reduced by 25% compared with those before BR (before BR; 263 +/- 33 pg/ml, during BR; 193 +/- 79 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.05). This dissociation cannot be determined precisely, but it suggests the possibility of peripheral changes in terminal sympathetic nerve endings, etc.
This study aimed to clarify how muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans, which plays an important role in blood pressure control against gravity, is altered under microgravity (microG) conditions, and how the MSNA change is modified by breathing maneuvers. Ten subjects seated themselves in a jet aircraft with their knees extended. MSNA was recorded microneurographically from the left tibial nerve with simultaneous monitoring of ECG, blood pressure, respiration, and intrathoracic blood volume estimated by the impedance method during parabolic flight in a jet aircraft. In half of the parabolas, their respiration was controlled at 0.25 Hz by a metronome. Results: MSNA was enhanced under hypergravity just before microG entry, and immediately suppressed by microG induced by parabolic flight. The suppression was more marked with controlled than with uncontrolled respiration (51.6 +/- 7.2 vs 82.8 +/- 2.5%, mean +/- SE, 1G=100%). MSNA changes during microG correlated significantly to changes in blood pressure and intrathoracic blood volume. The blood pressure fall 10 to 15 sec after microG entry was less prominent with controlled than with uncontrolled respiration. We conclude that changes in arterial blood pressure and intrathoracic blood volume modulate MSNA during microG induced by parabolic flight, depending largely on breathing maneuvers.
The purpose of this study was to compare pure eccentric and concentric isokinetic training with respect to their possible specificity in the adaptation of strength and morphology of the knee extensor muscles. Ten moderately trained male physical education students were divided into groups undertaking eccentric (ETG) and concentric (CTG) training. They performed 10 weeks of maximal isokinetic (90 degrees x s(-1)) training of the left leg, 4x10 repetitions - three times a week, followed by a second 10-week period of similar training of the right-leg. Mean eccentric and concentric peak torques increased by 18% and 2% for ETG and by 10% and 14% for CTG, respectively. The highest increase in peak torque occurred in the eccentric 90 degrees x s(-1) test for ETG (35%) whereas in CTG strength gains ranged 8%-15% at velocities equal or lower than the training velocity. Significant increases in strength were observed in the untrained contra-lateral leg only at the velocity and mode used in ipsilateral training. Cross-sectional area of the quadriceps muscle increased 3%-4% with training in both groups, reaching statistical significance only in ETG. No major changes in muscle fibre composition or areas were detected in biopsies from the vastus lateralis muscle for either leg or training group. In conclusion, effects of eccentric training on muscle strength appeared to be more mode and speed specific than corresponding concentric training. Only minor adaptations in gross muscle morphology indicated that other factors, such as changes in neural activation patterns, were causing the specific training-induced gains in muscle strength.
Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), a specific component of the mammalian central nervous system, is located on the surface of the oligodendrocyte plasma membrane and the outermost lamellae of mature myelin; it is expressed during the latter steps of myelinogenesis. It has been shown that MOG may play a pathological role in autoimmune demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system, although its physiological function remains unknown. MOG is an integral membrane glycoprotein with an extracellular immunoglobulin-like domain and two hydrophobic segments which were predicted to be membrane-spanning on the basis of hydropathy analysis. As a first step in elucidation of MOG function, we have investigated its membrane topology, combining immunofluorescence studies on cultured oligodendrocytes and MOG-transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells with biochemical analyses, including in vitro translation, membrane insertion and protease-digestion assays. Our results indicate that the C-terminal tail of MOG is located into the cytoplasm, and that only the first hydrophobic region of MOG spans the membrane whereas the second hydrophobic region appears to be semi-embedded in the lipid bilayer, lying partially buried in the membrane with its N-terminal and C-terminal boundaries facing the cytoplasm.
To determine whether altered peptide ligands (APL) affect calcium signaling events, we investigated changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in human T cell clone stimulated with either the fully agonistic peptide M12p54-68, the partially agonistic analogue E63V or the simple antagonistic analogue E58M. Both E63V and E58M stimulated a Ca2+ response in approximately 40% of T cells, whereas M12p54-68 did so in approximately 70% of T cells. The most predominant pattern of a Ca2+ increase induced by M12p54-68 was a small sinusoidal peak followed by a sustained high response. The most frequent pattern of calcium response induced by E63V was a continuous high response without a preceding sinusoidal peak, whereas that induced by E58M was large with frequent oscillations. Genistein, an inhibitor of the protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), markedly inhibited the wild-type peptide-induced increase in [Ca2+]i, whereas it marginally inhibited the response induced by E63V or E58M. In contrast, GF109203X, a protein kinase C (PKC)-specific inhibitor, markedly inhibited the E63V- or E58M-induced Ca2+ response, whereas it marginally affected the wild peptide-induced Ca2+ response. Furthermore, in nominal Ca2+-free medium, the E58M-induced Ca2+ response was almost completely blocked, while the M12p54-68- or E63V-induced responses were only partially inhibited. Our results suggest that the Ca2+ response induced by the fully agonistic peptide depends on activation of the genistein-sensitive signaling pathway, including PTK, whereas the Ca2+ response to a simple antagonistic APL completely depends on extracellular Ca2+ and activation of the GF109203X-sensitive signaling pathway, including PKC. These differences in the CA2+i response in recognition of different APL may parallel the unique T cell activation patterns induced by APL in human T cells.
Neurons undergo complex morphological changes during differentiation and in cases of plasticity. A major determinant of cell morphology is the actin cytoskeleton, which in neurons is comprised of two actin isoforms, non-muscle gamma- and beta-actin. To better understand their respective roles during differentiation and plasticity, their cellular and subcellular localization was examined in developing and adult cerebellar cortex. It was observed that gamma-actin is expressed at a constant level throughout development, while the level of beta-actin expression rapidly decreases with age. At the light microscopic level, gamma-actin staining is ubiquitous and the only developmental change observed is a relative reduction of its concentration in cell bodies and white matter. In contrast, beta-actin staining almost completely disappears from the cytoplasm of cell bodies, primary dendrites and axons. In young cerebellar cultures, gamma-actin is found in the cell body, neurites and growth cones, while beta-actin is mainly found in growth cones, as previously reported in other primary neuronal culture systems [Kaech et al. (1997), J. Neuroscience, 17, 9565-9572; Bassell et al., (1998), J. Neuroscience, 18, 251-265]. Electron microscopy of post-embedding immunogold-labelled tissue confirms the widespread distribution of gamma-actin, and also reveals an increased concentration of gamma-actin in dendritic spines in the adult. During development, beta-actin accumulation is observed in actively growing structures, e.g., growth cones, filopodia, cell bodies and axonal tracts. In the adult cerebellar cortex, beta-actin is preferentially found in dendritic spines, structures which are known to retain their capacity for morphological modifications in the adult brain. This differential subcellular localization and developmental regulation of the two actin isoforms point to their different roles in neurons.
Iodine-123 labelled 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-4-iodophenylnortropane (nor-beta-CIT), a radioiodinated cocaine analogue, was evaluated as an agent for the in vivo labelling of serotonin transporters by biodistribution studies in rats. Intravenous injection of [123I]nor-beta-CIT resulted in high accumulation of radioactivity in brain areas with high densities of serotonin (hypothalamus) and dopamine transporters (striatum), although the binding was less pronounced in the hypothalamus. While binding of [123I]nor-beta-CIT in the hypothalamus was blocked significantly by fluvoxamine (a selective serotonin transporter blocker) but not by GBR12,909 (a selective dopamine transporter blocker), the opposite was observed in the striatum. The results of this study indicate that [123I]nor-beta-CIT, although not being a selective radioligand, binds specifically to serotonin transporters in the hypothalamus in vivo and thus suggest that [123I]nor-beta-CIT promises to be a suitable radioligand for single-photon emission tomography imaging of serotonin transporters in humans.

The reinforcing effects of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) were studied by means of intravenous self-administration in drug-naive mice. GHB self-administration was concentration-dependent (0.01-0.5 mg/kg/inj.) according to a bell-shaped curve. Pretreatment with the specific GHB receptor antagonist NCS-382 at a dose of 12.5 mg/kg i.p. completely antagonized the reinforcing effects of GHB. These data suggest that GHB is able to induce reinforcing effects in mice and support the hypothesis of an abuse liability of this drug.
Nerve growth factor therapy has been proposed as a potential means of preventing degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's disease and thereby improving cognition. However, NGF has been reported to upregulate expression of the beta-amyloid precursor protein, which in turn could accelerate deposition of &quot;mature&quot; beta-amyloid in the brain. To address this possibility, the brains of 16 adult and aged rhesus monkeys were examined for beta-amyloid plaque deposition in the presence or absence of NGF treatment. Six aged monkeys received intraparenchymal grafts into the cholinergic basal forebrain of autologous cells genetically modified to secrete NGF, six aged monkeys received intraparenchymal grafts of autologous control cells expressing the reporter gene beta-galactosidase, and four adult nonoperated monkeys served as additional controls. All brains were examined for expression of mature beta-amyloid using an antibody recognizing amino acids 1-40 of the beta-amyloid peptide. Amyloid plaques were systematically quantified in representative sections of the temporal, frontal, cingulate, insular, and parietal cortices and in the amygdala and hippocampus. Results disclosed that aging resulted in an increase in amyloid plaque formation: no plaques at all were detected in nonaged monkeys, whereas a mean of 20 +/- 13 plaques per section were present in control-aged monkeys. Aged subjects with intraparenchymal NGF-secreting grafts for 3 months contained a mean of 29 +/- 14 plaques per section, an amount that did not differ significantly from control-aged monkeys (P = 0.66). Thus, 3 months of intraparenchymal NGF delivery did not significantly increase beta-amyloid deposition.
We studied the multifunctional protein clusterin (apolipoprotein J, SGP-2, SP-40,40) in brain tissue using quantitative Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The material included postmortem brains from 19 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 6 with vascular dementia (VAD), and 7 age-matched control subjects. Intense clusterin staining was found in the soma of both neuronal and astroglial cells. In addition, positive staining was found in a portion of senile plaques (SP) in AD brains. Quantitative analysis showed that clusterin levels were significantly increased in AD, both in frontal cortex (150% of the control value, P = 0.002) and in the hippocampus (179% of the control value, P &lt; 0.001), while normal clusterin levels were found in cerebellum (104% of the control value). No significant changes were found in VAD. Within the AD group, there was a significant negative correlation between clusterin levels in hippocampus and severity of dementia (r = -0.40), while no such correlation was found in frontal cortex (r = 0.12). No significant correlations were found between clusterin levels and the number of SP or neurofibrillary tangles. No significant differences in clusterin levels were found in any brain region between AD patients possessing different numbers of the ApoE4 allele. The increased clusterin levels in AD brain, together with the absence of a correlation between SP counts and clusterin levels, and the finding that clusterin is only found in a smaller portion of SP do not suggest a link between clusterin and beta-amyloid dependence. Instead we hypothesize that the increase is part of a regional response in AD brain.
Intercellular signals provided by growth and neurotrophic factors play a critical role during neurogenesis and as part of cellular repopulation strategies directed toward reconstruction of complex CNS circuitry. Local signals influence the differentiation of transplanted and endogenous neurons and neural precursors, but the cellular sources and control over expression of these molecules remain unclear. We have previously examined microenvironmental control in neocortex over neuron and neural precursor migration and differentiation following transplantation, using an approach of targeted apoptotic neuronal degeneration to specific neuronal populations in vivo. Prior results suggested the hypothesis that upregulated or reexpressed developmental signal molecules, produced by degenerating pyramidal neurons and/or by neighboring neurons or nonneuronal cells, may be responsible for observed events of directed migration, differentiation, and connectivity by transplanted immature neurons and precursors. To directly investigate this hypothesis, we analyzed the gene expression of candidate and control neurotrophins, growth factors, and receptors within regions of targeted neuronal cell death, first by quantitative Northern blot analysis and then by in situ hybridization combined with immunocytochemical analysis. The genes for BDNF, NT-4/5, trkB receptors, and to a lesser extent NT-3 were upregulated specifically within the regions of neocortex undergoing targeted neuronal degeneration and specifically during the period of ongoing pyramidal neuron apoptosis. Upregulation occurred during the same 3-week period as the previously investigated cellular events of directed migration, differentiation, and integration. No upregulation was seen in panels of control neurotrophins, growth factors, and receptors that are not as developmentally regulated in cortex or that are thought to have primary actions in other CNS regions. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry revealed that BDNF mRNA expression was upregulated specifically by local interneurons adjacent to degenerating pyramidal neurons. These findings suggest specific effects of targeted apoptosis on neurotrophin and other gene expression via mechanisms, including intercellular signaling between degenerating pyramidal neurons and surrounding interneurons. Further understanding of these and other controls over neocortical projection neuron differentiation may provide insight regarding normal neocortical development, intercellular signaling induced by apoptosis, and toward reconstruction and cellular repopulation of complex neocortical and other CNS circuitry.
After an ischemic episode induced by the electrocoagulation of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) in mouse, neurons within the damaged territory die either by an apoptotic or by a necrotic process. Most of the cortical neurons within the ischemic area display both morphological and biochemical signs of programmed cell death: nuclear condensation, DNA degradation, formation of apoptotic bodies, and glutathione depletion. In fact, apoptosis essentially contributes to the expansion of the ischemic lesion and the maximum of damaged territory is reached 24 h postocclusion. Several potentially neuroprotective pathways have been evidenced in different experimental models of ischemia including the activation of antioxidant enzyme activities and/or the recruitment of neurotrophic as well as antiapoptotic factors. In our model of permanent focal ischemia induced by MCA occlusion, we measured the temporal synthesis of nerve growth factor (NGF) and examined the status of antioxidant enzymes as well as Bcl-2 antiapoptotic product. We detected in both cortices a transient increase of NGF which peaks at 6 h. Moreover, we reported that glutathione peroxidase is recruited with a time course which parallels NGF synthesis. Finally, we observed the induction of Bcl-2 in safe neurons; this may represent a self-protective response against ischemia-induced apoptosis. We provide evidence that in a model of permanent focal ischemia, several neuroprotective pathways could be coactivated.
To determine the differences in behavioral effects between intrastriatal and intracerebroventricular glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) administration, spontaneous locomotor activity was measured after intrastriatal or intracerebroventricular injection of GDNF (10 microg) in normal adult rats with implanted guide cannulae. In addition, the distribution of GDNF after intracerebral injection was studied immunohistochemically. Intrastriatal administration of GDNF significantly increased rearing behavior 3-4 h after injection. Increases in all three aspects of locomotor activity (motility, locomotion, and rearing) were most pronounced 3 days after intrastriatal injection, and they lasted for several days. This hyperactivity was blocked by the selective dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH22390 and by the selective D2 receptor antagonist raclopride at doses of the dopamine receptor antagonists, which by themselves did not affect spontaneous locomotor activity. These results suggest that GDNF has both acute and long-lasting pharmacological effects on dopamine neurons in adult animals and stimulates locomotor activity by activating both dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. On the other hand, intracerebroventricular administration of the same dose of GDNF failed to increase locomotor activity at any time during the test period (12 days). The immunohistochemical study demonstrated widespread distribution of GDNF in the entire body of the striatum within 24 h after intrastriatal injection. It also revealed deep penetration of GDNF from the ventricular space into the brain parenchyma after intracerebroventricular injection. GDNF-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were seen in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars compacta most frequently 6 h after intrastriatal injection. The number of such cell bodies after intracerebroventricular administration, on the other hand, was much lower than that seen after intrastriatal administration. Taken together, these data suggest that intrastriatal administration of GDNF is an effective approach for affecting DA transmission. Long-lasting behavior effects are mediated via dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. Higher doses of GDNF would probably be needed using the intracerebroventricular route as compared to intraparenchymal delivery to exert effects on the nigrostriatal system in Parkinson's disease patients.
Cellular localization and tissue levels of BDNF protein were studied using immunocytochemistry and enzyme immunoassay, respectively, in the cortex and striatum at different reperfusion times (0-24 h) after 2 h of unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rats. The distribution of neuronal injury was analyzed in NeuN-, cresyl violet-, and Fluoro-Jade-stained sections. At 2 h postischemia, but not at later time points, there was a several-fold increase of the number of BDNF-immunoreactive (-ir) cells in the ipsilateral cingulate and frontal cortices outside the damaged area. Animals with cortical injury showed loss of BDNF-ir fibers in the striatum at 2-24 h, whereas rats with cell damage confined to the striatum exhibited no such change. At 2-16 h, strongly BDNF-ir fibers were observed along the myelinated fascicles medially in the striatum, in the anterior commissure, and in the corpus callosum ipsilateral to the MCAO. BDNF protein levels were increased (by 133-213%) at 2 h in the cingulate and frontal cortices and decreased (by 40%) at 24 h in the striatum. These findings show that the increased expression of BDNF mRNA in cortical neurons previously demonstrated after transient focal ischemia is accompanied by elevated levels of BDNF protein. The rapid decline of BDNF protein levels suggests a pronounced release or anterograde axonal transport in the postischemic phase. The reduction of BDNF protein in the striatum of animals with cortical damage provides further evidence for anterograde transport, which is also supported by the accumulation of BDNF protein in several preterminal fiber systems. The changes of BDNF protein after focal ischemia could play a role for survival and plasticity of cortical and striatal neurons.
Serine proteases play a key role in the fundamental biology of the central nervous system (CNS), and recent data suggest their involvement in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases. Little is known about the physiological regulation of these proteases in the CNS. Among the multiple growth factors present in the brain, transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) has been described as an injury-related growth factor. However, its beneficial or deleterious role remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the influence of TGF-beta1 in apoptosis and necrosis, two mechanisms involved in ischemic neuronal death. We show that TGF-beta1 exerts a neuroprotective role restricted to necrosis induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate. This effect is observable only in the obligatory presence of TGF-beta1-responsive astrocytes. We demonstrate that this neuroprotective activity is mediated through an up-regulation of a serine protease inhibitor (PAI-1) in astrocytes. These results underline the involvement of serine proteases and extracellular matrix components such as the PAI-1/t-PA axis in the excitotoxic cascade. Moreover, regardless of the underlying mechanisms of t-PA involvement in excitotoxic injury, our observations might warn against the use of tissular plasminogen activator as an alternative therapy for the treatment of hypoxic-ischemic injury in the brain.
In the teleost fish, Haplochromis burtoni, three gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) peptides and their corresponding cDNA sequences and full-length genes have previously been reported. Here we describe the ontogeny of mRNA expression for these three GnRH forms in H. burtoni. Each of the three forms has been shown to have a distinct spatial expression pattern in the adult brain. Ser8GnRH (the releasing form) is expressed exclusively in the hypothalamus, His5Trp7Tyr8GnRH is expressed in the midbrain mesencephalon, and Trp7Leu8GnRH is expressed in the terminal nerve area of the telencephalon. Previous work in other animals has shown that GnRH-containing neurons in the preoptic area arise from the olfactory placode and that these cells migrate into their final positions in the brain during early development. By using molecular probes to identify the cell types expressing distinct GnRH forms, our data are consistent with the migration of both Ser8GnRH and Trp7Leu8GnRH neurons from the placode to their appropriate adult locations in the brain. In contrast, we show that His5Trp7Tyr8GnRH neurons arise from the germinal zone of the third ventricle. By using in situ hybridization with digoxigenin-labeled cRNA probes, His5Trp7Tyr8GnRH mRNA was first evident at day 4, Trp7Leu8GnRH mRNA at day 8, and Ser8GnRH mRNA at day 14. However, by using the reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), all three GnRH mRNAs were found in whole embryos at day 4 of the 14 days of embryogenesis. This striking difference may be due to the greater sensitivity of RT-PCR compared with in situ hybridization. Alternatively, it is possible that Ser8GnRH and Trp7Leu8GnRH are expressed outside the brain during early development and only later inside the brain.
One of the most intriguing characteristics of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) neuronal system in mammalian species is the pulsatile release pattern of the peptide from the hypothalamus into the portal circulation, which is essential for the maintenance of normal reproductive function. In this review article the new concept that LHRH neurons possess an endogenous pulse-generating mechanism, but this is modified by other neuronal and nonneuronal inputs is discussed.
Spectrin is a cytoskeletal protein found in the cortex of many cell types. It is known to occur in cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) with previous immunoelectron microscopical studies showing that it is located in the cuticular plate and the cortical lattice. The latter is a network of filaments associated with the lateral plasma membrane that is thought to play a role in OHC motility. Spectrin has also been found in inner hair cells (IHCs) and supporting cells using immunofluorescent techniques, but its ultrastructural distribution in these cells has not yet been described. This has, therefore, been investigated using a monoclonal antibody to alpha-spectrin in conjunction with pre- and post-embedding immunogold labelling for transmission electron microscopy. Labelling was found in a meshwork of filaments beneath the plasma membranes of both IHCs and supporting cells and, in pillar cells, close to microtubule/microfilament arrays. It was also found in association with the stereocilia of OHCs and IHCs and, as expected, in the cortical lattice and cuticular plate of OHCs. Thus, spectrin is a general component of cytoskeletal structures involved in maintaining the specialised cell shapes in the organ of Corti and may contribute to the mechanical properties of all the cell types examined.
Frequency discrimination was investigated in the albino rat using a modified go/no-go positive reinforcement procedure in which subjects reported frequency increments in an ongoing series of pure tone bursts. Weber ratios (frequency difference limen/frequency) were measured from 5 to 32 kHz at 50 dB sound pressure level. A signal detection analysis of the procedure enabled a direct comparison to be made with the rat's performance in a discrete trial go/no-go task. A mean Weber ratio of 3.06+/-0.44% was measured in the frequency range 5-32 kHz. This indicates that the rat has better frequency discrimination acuity than has previously been thought. The result is discussed in the context of factors affecting performance. Among the factors that were explored we found that long training times and the specific training paradigm played important roles. In comparison to discrete trial go/no-go paradigms, rats performed much better when detecting signals from a repeating background. Frequency discrimination performance decreased linearly for tones less than 50 ms in duration. For longer tone duration performance was unaffected. The means and variability of reaction times for threshold changes of frequency were greater in comparison with supra-threshold frequency changes.
The shape of rate-intensity functions recorded from individual neurons of the auditory nerve using stimulus frequencies at and below the characteristic frequency have been both well-characterized and modeled by other researchers. However, previous studies of rate-intensity functions using stimulus frequencies above the characteristic frequency have primarily focused on the slopes of the rising phases of the functions. Hence, they did not determine whether rate-intensity functions recorded using stimulus frequencies above the characteristic frequency saturate, and, if so, at what firing rates the saturation occurs. In this study, rate-intensity functions have been obtained from neurons of the eighth nerve of the chinchilla in response to gated, sinusoidal stimuli in order to investigate saturation firing rates for frequencies above the characteristic frequency. For each neuron, rate-intensity functions were obtained for stimulus intensities up to 90 dB SPL at the characteristic frequency and at as many frequencies above the characteristic frequency as time would allow. These data clearly reveal that, for frequencies above the characteristic frequency, saturation occurs at a rate that decreases monotonically as the frequency of stimulation is increased. In addition, an empirical equation is given which summarizes the dependence of saturation on stimulus frequency for the data of this study.
We investigated the effects of the neurohypophysial peptide, arginine vasotocin (AVT), on the calling behavior of male Acris crepitans during and immediately following a simulated acoustic agonistic encounter. AVT did not block the aggressive response to agonistic calls, as the changes in temporal call characteristics in response to the encounter were similar to those of saline-treated males. However, AVT caused males to begin calling sooner during the agonistic encounter and to call significantly more than saline males during and after the agonistic encounter. In addition, AVT-treated males maintained a higher dominant frequency compared to saline animals during and following the agonistic encounter. Changes in temporal characteristics in the period following the agonistic encounter indicated that control males were more likely to exhibit a rebound effect which resulted in larger changes in calling parameters compared to AVT-treated animals. The results indicate that AVT causes changes in calling behavior in male A. crepitans during and following an agonistic encounter that are consistent with animals highly motivated to maintain vigorous active calling throughout changing social conditions.
We studied the distribution of HLA-A, B, C, DR and DQ antigens in a cohort of HIV-1+ individuals and their heterosexual HIV seropositive (concordant) or seronegative (discordant) partners of Black non-Hispanic, Hispanic or Caucasian non-Hispanic ethnicity. The prevalence of DQ7 and Cw7 was significantly higher in the HIV-1+ compared to seronegative Black and Hispanic individuals, respectively. The frequency of DQ4 was significantly elevated in the Black seronegatives, whereas B53 was increased in the Hispanic seronegatives in comparison to the seropositives. No significant differences were observed between the Caucasian HIV infected and non-infected individuals. Analysis of the primary concordant HIV+ and discordant HIV+ individuals showed a marked increase in the prevalence of B44 in the Hispanic discordant seropositives, whereas the Caucasian primary concordants had a marked increase in the prevalence of A26. The prevalence of DQ7 and Cw7 was significantly increased in the Black and Hispanic secondary concordant seropositives, respectively in comparison to the seronegatives. The proportion of couples with matching HLA antigens was similar among the HIV-1+ concordant and discordant groups. These results provide additional evidence that HLA polymorphism may confer a genetic risk or protection for HIV-1 infection in individuals of various ethnic backgrounds.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive motor neurodegeneration resulting in paralysis and death from respiratory failure within 3-5 years. About 20% of familial cases are associated with mutations in the gene for copper/zinc superoxide dismutase ( SOD1 ), which catalyses the dismutation of the superoxide radical to hydrogen peroxide and oxygen. Experimental evidence suggests mutations act by a toxic gain of function but the mechanism is unknown. There are &gt;60 known SOD1 mutations associated with ALS and all are dominant except for one in exon 4, a D90A substitution which is recessive. D90A pedigrees with dominant inheritance have now been reported and this apparent contradiction needs to be explained. We performed a worldwide haplotype study on 28 D90A pedigrees using six highly polymorphic microsatellite markers. We now show that all 20 recessive families share the same founder (alpha = 0.999), regardless of geographical location, whereas several founders exist for the eight dominant families (alpha = 0.385). This finding confirms that D90A can act in a dominant fashion in keeping with all other SOD1 mutations, but that on one occasion, a new instance of this mutation has been recessive. We propose a tightly linked protective factor which modifies the toxic effect of mutant SOD1 in recessive families.
Virtual environments (VE's) let users navigate and interact with computer-generated three-dimensional (3-D) environments in real time, allowing for the control of complex stimuli presentation. These VE's have attracted much attention in medicine, especially in remote or augmented surgery, and surgical training, which are critically dependent on hand-eye coordination. Recently, however, some research projects have begun to test the possibility of using VE's for the study and rehabilitation of human cognitive and functional activities. This paper highlights recent and ongoing research related to the applications of VE's in the neuroscience arena. In particular, it focuses on the American and European initiatives in this field, including a description of the European Commission (EC)-funded VREPAR projects. Finally, the paper provides a general introduction to virtual reality (VR), as it relates to its impact on cognitive and functional abilities.
This paper describes automatic procedures for extracting sulcal and gyral patterns from magnetic resonance (MR) images of the human brain. Specifically, we present three algorithms for the extraction of gyri, sulci, and sulcal fundi. These algorithms yield highly condensed line representations which can be used to describe the individual properties of the neocortical surface. The algorithms consist of a sequence of image analysis steps applied directly to the volumetric image data without requiring intermediate data representations such as surfaces or three-dimensional renderings. Previous studies have mostly focused on the extraction of surface representations, rather than line representations of cortical structures. We believe that line representations provide a valuable alternative to surface representations.
Functional magnetic resonance images (fMRI's) provide high-resolution datasets which allow researchers to obtain accurate delineation and sensitive detection of activation areas involved in cognitive processes. To preserve the resolution of this noninvasive technique, refined methods are required in the analysis of the data. In this paper, we first discuss the widely used methods based on a statistical parameter map (SPM) analysis exposing the different shortcomings of this approach when considering high-resolution data. First, the often used Gaussian filtering results in a blurring effect and in delocalization of the activated area. Secondly, the SPM approach only considers false alarms due to noise but not rejections of activated voxels. We propose to embed the fMRI analysis problem into a Bayesian framework consisting of two steps: i) data restoration and ii) data analysis. We, therefore, propose two Markov random fields (MRF's) to solve these two problems. Results on three protocols (visual, motor and word recognition) are shown for two SPM approaches and compared with the proposed MRF approach.

Individual schizophrenic patients are sometimes reported to benefit from unusually high doses of neuroleptics. Such patients may have poor drug penetration into the brain or ultra-rapid metabolism. Alternately, very high doses may be required to induce occupancy of 5-HT(2) receptors, which have been suggested as mediators of atypical effects. Five schizophrenic patients treated with high doses of fluphenazine decanoate (100-250 mg/wk) and adjunct medications were examined with positron emission tomography and [(11)C]raclopride to measure D(2) receptor occupancy and [(11)C]NMSP to measure 5-HT(2) receptor occupancy. All patients were rated globally as 'markedly' to 'severely' ill and had high scores on all subscales of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for schizophrenia. However, according to retrospective clinical evaluation, there was improved social function and reduced distress following high-dose treatment, an effect that deteriorated after previous explorative dose reduction. Extrapyramidal symptoms were modest. D(2) receptor occupancy was very high (89-97%). 5-HT(2) receptor occupancy was also high (76-105%). Plasma concentrations of fluphenazine were 5-37 nm. No patient had a cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 genotype associated with ultra-rapid drug metabolism. The findings suggest almost complete saturation of D(2) receptors, and do not support poor drug availability in the brain as the basis of the apparent high-dose requirement. The high 5-HT(2) receptor occupancy may have contributed to the apparent clinical improvement and modest degree of EPS. However, it is likely that the treatment used also induced occupancy of other neuroreceptors.
The pilot study attempted to determine whether subjective muscle testing employed by Applied Kinesiology practitioners, prospectively determine those individuals with specific hyperallergenic responses. Seventeen subjects were found positive on Applied Kinesiology (A.K.) muscle testing screening procedures indicating food hypersensitivity (allergy) reactions. Each subject showed muscle weakening (inhibition) reactions to oral provocative testing of one or two foods for a total of 21 positive food reactions. Tests for a hypersensitivity reaction of the serum were performed using both a radio-allergosorbent test (RAST) and immune complex test for IgE and IgG against all 21 of the foods that tested positive with A.K. muscle screening procedures. These serum tests confirmed 19 of the 21 food allergies (90.5%) suspected based on the applied kinesiology screening procedures. This pilot study offers a basis to examine further a means by which to predict the clinical utility of a given substance for a given patient, based on the patterns of neuromuscular response elicited from the patient, representing a conceptual expansion of the standard neurological examination process.
In three separate experiments, groups (4/group) of male rats with limbic epilepsy were exposed for 80 min every 24 hr during the midscotophase for 24 successive days to sham-field conditions or to one of four complex patterns of magnetic fields whose average intensities ranged between 20 nT to 500 nT. The numbers of episodes of boxing, biting, mounting, eating, drinking and grooming were then recorded each night during the latter 20 min. Moderately strong statistically significant interactions occurred between the presence or absence of the field and the pattern of the field explained 25% and 50% of the variance in the numbers of biting and boxing responses, respectively. Other behaviors were not affected. The results suggest that group aggression can be increased or decreased as a function of the temporal characteristics and morphology (shape) of the applied magnetic field.

The present study set out to define the possible effect of reduced glutathione (GSH), the substrate of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), a free radical inactivating enzyme, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Thirty-two patients affected by definite ALS seen in our institution between August 1993 and July 1994 were admitted to the study. The effect of GSH was studied in an open, crossover, randomized study. GSH was given at the dose of 600 mg each day intramuscularly for 12 weeks. The patients, taken sequentially, were randomly assigned to two groups. The first group received the drug while the second received only symptomatic therapies for 12 weeks. After a week of washout, the second group received GSH and the first only symptomatic therapies for 12 weeks. The rate of progression of the diseases was compared in the two groups. Clinical evaluation included manual test for muscle strength, Norris scale, bulbar scale, and forced vital capacity (FVC) percent. No significant difference was found in the progression of ALS in the two periods, although a slight slowing of the disease progression rate was found during the period of treatment, probably related to the open design of the study. Our data do not show any significant effect of reduced glutathione in modifying the progression of ALS.
Serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are currently among the most frequently prescribed therapeutic agents in all of medicine. Their therapeutic actions are diverse, ranging from efficacy in depression to obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, bulimia and other conditions as well. The plethora of biological substrates, receptors and pathways for serotonin are candidates to mediate not only the therapeutic actions of SSRIs, but also their side effects. Specifically, the immediate actions of SSRIs are mostly side effects, and may be mediated by the initiating actions of SSRIs, namely negative allosteric modulation of the serotonin transporter. A leading hypothesis to explain these immediate side effects is that serotonin is increased at specific serotonin receptor subtypes in discrete regions of the body where the relevant physiologic processes are regulated. Desensitization of post-synaptic receptors in these same discrete brain regions may explain the development of tolerance to these same side effects. The explanation for therapeutic effects characteristic of SSRIs may be found in delayed neurochemical adaptations. A leading hypothesis for this action is desensitization of somatodendritic serotonin 1A autoreceptors in the midbrain raphe. The hypothesis to explain why SSRIs have such diverse therapeutic actions is that somatodendritic 5HT1A autoreceptor desensitization increases serotonin in those critical brain regions and at those key serotonin receptor subtype(s) which may mediate the pathophysiologies of the various disorders. Understanding the topography of serotonin receptor subtypes in discrete anatomical pathways may enhance our understanding of both the therapeutic actions and side effects of these important pharmaceutical agents.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is neuropathologically characterized by neuritic plaques (NPs) and neurofibrillary tangles and functionally by a decreased metabolic rate of neurons. Our previous studies showed that in brain areas which are extensively affected by plaques and tangles, i.e. the CA1 area of the hippocampus and the hypothalamic tuberomamillary nucleus, neuronal protein synthetic ability is significantly lower in AD patients than in controls. However, the presence of tangles as shown by Bodian staining appeared not to be directly related to decreased protein synthetic ability of neurons. In order to study to what extent the metabolic function of neurons might be affected by the other neuropathological hallmark of AD, i.e. NPs, which are presumed to contain neurotoxic compounds, we studied eight severely demented AD patients matched for the ApoE genotype (ApoE 3/3). Using an image analysis system, the size of the neuronal Golgi apparatus (GA) and of the cell profile area was measured as a parameter for protein synthetic activity in the CA1 area of these patients. NPs were stained by Bodian, and subsequently the distance of each neuron with an immunostained GA to the nearest NP was measured. Our results showed that neither NP density nor the distance between NPs and neurons correlated with the protein synthetic ability of neurons as judged by the size of the GA. Based on these results we suggest that in AD the presence of NPs and decreased neuronal protein synthetic ability are basically two independent phenomena
The stereotypic behavior of children (N = 26) while in a playroom session with their parent was studied. The sample included children with a pervasive developmental disorder, an attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, a developmental expressive language disorder, or a developmental receptive language disorder and normally developing children. Stereotypic behaviors associated with distress, elation, and composure were compared on mean duration and form of the stereotypies and heart rate changes around the onset of the stereotypies. Results showed that stereotypies associated with different moods differed in all variables studied. Results confirm that a valid classification scheme for stereotypic behaviors is needed as they indicate different functions of individual stereotypies.
In chick pineal cell culture, stimulation of adenylate cyclase with the diterpene forskolin was greater during the subjective night than during the subjective day. This rhythm of cyclic AMP (cAMP) stimulation mimicked the rhythm of unstimulated cAMP measured previously during LD cycles from flow-through culture. Direct measurement of adenylate cyclase activity in permeabilized cells revealed an adenylate cyclase activity activated by Ca2+/calmodulin during the night but not during the day. However, this difference in adenylate cyclase activity at two times of the circadian cycle is apparent only when permeabilized cells were prewashed with buffer containing GTE When cAMP was measured from flow-through cultures maintained in continuous darkness to determine whether a circadian clock may regulate cAMP, a low-amplitude rhythm was measured. The circadian rhythm of cAMP was similar to the cAMP rhythm previously measured on LD cycles except that the rhythm in darkness had a lower amplitude. Similar to the suppression of melatonin, cAMP was suppressed by light presented during the middle of the night. LD differences in nocturnal cAMP levels were abolished with dipyridamole, an inhibitor of cyclic GMP (cGMP) phosphodiesterase. These results suggest that the rhythm of cAMP in chick pineal cells involves the stimulation of adenylate cyclase by Ca2+/calmodulin during the night and a GTP-dependent suppression of adenylate cyclase activity during the day. The photic suppression of cAMP at night involves the activation of a dipyridamole-sensitive, cGMP phosphodiesterase.
The effects of frovatriptan (VML 251/SB-209509) on coronary artery function were investigated in isolated coronary arteries from beagle dogs. Low concentrations of frovatriptan produced contraction with -logEC50 7.55 +/- 0.08 (n = 11). The maximal observed contraction attained was 56 +/- 7% of the control 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; 10 microM) response. At high concentrations of frovatriptan (&gt;6 microM), reversal of sumatriptan (10 microM)-induced contractions was noted. In arteries precontracted with the thromboxane mimetic, U46619, frovatriptan produced a bell-shaped concentration-response relation with a maximal response at 600 nM. Concentrations of frovatriptan &gt;2 microM produced marked reversal of tone, with full relaxation of precontracted tissues at 200 microM. In anesthetized, open-chest mongrel dogs, intravenous (n = 5) or intracoronary (n = 5) artery administration of frovatriptan (0.0001-1 mg/kg) had no consistent effect on left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, left end-systolic pressure, cardiac contractility, aortic blood flow, systemic peripheral resistance, coronary blood flow, coronary vascular resistance, mean arterial blood pressure, or heart rate when compared with vehicle (n = 3). Intravenous sumatriptan produced minor effects on blood pressure and heart rate. Intracoronary artery administration of sumatriptan (0.0003 mg/kg) produced an increase in systemic peripheral resistance to 120.5 +/- 8.2% compared with vehicle (97.8 +/- 5.4%; p &lt; 0.05). This dose of sumatriptan also produced a significant increase in coronary blood flow and decrease in coronary vascular resistance. Intravenous administration of sumatriptan produced a dose-related reduction in left ventricular diastolic pressure with a reduction to 58.3 +/- 8.3% and 41.7 +/- 25% of control values observed at 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively; however, administration of sumatriptan by an intracoronary route had no effect. In a model of myocardial infarction, comparable doses of sumatriptan (1.0 mg/kg) or frovatriptan (0.1 mg/kg), in terms of their effect on carotid vascular resistance, had no significant effect on infarct size. Frovatriptan had no effect on coronary blood flow after reperfusion; however, sumatriptan produced a significant reduction in coronary blood flow for &lt; or =3 h. These studies show that frovatriptan has the capability of relaxing coronary arteries in vitro, has no overall effect on cardiac function at rest with no effect on coronary hemodynamics after myocardial infarction, and has a profile superior to that of sumatriptan.
The establishment of the junctional complex in epithelial cells requires the presence of extracellular calcium, and is controlled by a network of reactions involving G-proteins, phospholipase C and protein kinase C. Since potential candidates for phosphorylation are the tight junction associated proteins ZO1, ZO2 and ZO3, in a previous work we specifically explored these molecules but found no alteration in their phosphorylation pattern. To continue the search for the target of protein kinase C, in the present work we have studied the subcellular distribution and phosphorylation of vinculin and alpha-actinin, two actin binding proteins of the adherent junctions. We found that during the junctional sealing induced by Ca2+, both proteins move towards the cell periphery and, while there is a significant increase in the phosphorylation of vinculin, alpha-actinin remains unchanged. The increased phosphorylation of vinculin is due to changes in phosphoserine and phosphothreonine content and seems to be regulated by protein kinase C, since: (1) DiC8 (a kinase C stimulator) added to monolayers cultured without calcium significantly increases the vinculin phosphorylation level; (2) H7 and calphostin C (both protein kinase C inhibitors) completely abolish this increase during a calcium switch; (3) inhibition of phosphorylation during a calcium switch blocks the subcellular redistribution of vinculin and alpha-actinin. These results therefore suggest that vinculin phosphorylation by protein kinase C is a crucial step in the correct assembly of the epithelial junctional complex.
Topographical disorientation (TD) refers to impaired orientation and navigation in real-world environments. Although numerous cases have been reported, disagreement over neuroanatomical correlates remains. This has been contributed to by concern with the &quot;essential defect,&quot; ambiguous terminology, and incomplete assessments. Attention to three factors permits a coherent understanding of the widely divergent descriptions of cognitive deficits and neuroanatomical findings: point in course (acute vs. chronic), characteristics of the environment, and a patient's specific cognitive deficits. Defects in visual learning/recognition of topographical scenes or spatial-topographical knowledge are common, but the &quot;agnosia&quot; versus &quot;amnesia&quot; dichotomy is an oversimplification: Careful assessment typically reveals impairment in both realms. Anterograde TD is most highly associated with medial occipitotemporal lesions in either hemisphere, especially posterior parahippocampal gyrus, whereas TD consequent to right parietal damage tends to be time-limited. Persistent retrograde TD is attributable to right medial occipitotemporal lesions.
The study of zinc finger proteins has revealed their potential to act as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. Here we report the molecular, biochemical, and functional characterization of KS1 (KRAB/zinc finger suppressor protein 1), a novel, ubiquitously expressed zinc finger gene initially isolated from a rat pancreas library. KS1 contains 10 C2H2 zinc fingers, a KRAB-A/B motif, and an ID sequence that has been shown previously to participate in growth factor-regulated gene expression. Northern blot analysis using pancreatic cell lines demonstrates that KS1 mRNA is inducible by serum and epidermal growth factor, suggesting a role for this gene in cell growth regulation. Biochemical analysis reveals that KS1 is a nuclear protein containing two transcriptional repressor domains, R1 and R2. R1 corresponds to the KRAB-A motif, whereas R2 represents a novel sequence. Transformation assays using NIH3T3 cells demonstrate that KS1 suppresses transformation by the potent oncogenes Ha-ras, Galpha12, and Galpha13. Deletion of the R1/ KRAB-A domain does not modify the transformation suppressive activity of KS1, whereas deletion of R2 abolishes this function. Thus, KS1 is a novel growth factor-inducible zinc finger transcriptional repressor protein with the potential to protect against neoplastic transformation induced by several oncogenes.


We report a method using radial basis function (RBF) networks to estimate the time evolution of population activity in topologically organized neural structures from single-neuron recordings. This is an important problem in neuroscience research, as such estimates may provide insights into systems-level function of these structures. Since single-unit neural data tends to be unevenly sampled and highly variable under similar behavioral conditions, obtaining such estimates is a difficult task. In particular, a class of cells in the superior colliculus called buildup neurons can have very narrow regions of saccade vectors for which they discharge at high rates but very large surround regions over which they discharge at low, but not zero, levels. Estimating the dynamic movement fields for these cells for two spatial dimensions at closely spaced timed intervals is a difficult problem, and no general method has been described that can be applied to all buildup cells. Estimation of individual collicular cells' spatiotemporal movement fields is a prerequisite for obtaining reliable two-dimensional estimates of the population activity on the collicular motor map during saccades. Therefore, we have developed several computational-geometry-based algorithms that regularize the data before computing a surface estimation using RBF networks. The method is then expanded to the problem of estimating simultaneous spatiotemporal activity occurring across the superior colliculus during a single movement (the inverse problem). In principle, this methodology could be applied to any neural structure with a regular, two-dimensional organization, provided a sufficient spatial distribution of sampled neurons is available.
The firing rate of neurons in parietal area 7a of the behaving Rhesus monkey with its head fixed incorporates both visual and eye position information. This neural tuning is not in an ego-centered coordinate space. This physiological result was unexpected as behavioral deficits following parietal damage in human and monkey subjects suggested the existence of egocentric representations. A formulation to extract a world-centered system from area 7a neurons is presented that depends on the linearity of the eye position signal and the similarity of the equation describing the tuning of these neurons to the center of mass equation. This formulation permits the computation of the location of objects in world coordinates using either serial analysis of a single neuron's activity or parallel processing of a collection of neurons. Experimental predictions are made for the relationship between different parameters of angle of gaze neurons.
Using the original McCulloch-Pitts notion of simple on and off spike coding in lieu of rate coding, an Anderson-Kohonen artificial neural network (ANN) associative memory model was ported to a neuronal network with Hodgkin-Huxley dynamics. In the ANN, the use of 0/1 (no-spike/spike) units introduced a cross-talk term that had to be compensated by introducing balanced feedforward inhibition. The resulting ANN showed good capacity and fair selectivity (rejection of unknown input vectors). Translation to the Hodgkin-Huxley model resulted in a network that was functional but not at all robust. Evaluation of the weaknesses of this network revealed that it functioned far better using spike timing, rather than spike occurrence, as the code. The algorithm requires a novel learning algorithm for feedforward inhibition that could be sought physiologically.

Although resection of cervical &quot;chondromas&quot; had been reported since the late twenties, the true nature of this condition was not recognized at that time. This paper reports a case of &quot;inferior cervical radiculitis by herniation of nucleus pulposus&quot; operated by Prof. Angelo Chiasserini Sr, one of the founders of Italian neurosurgery, in January 1937. To our knowledge this represents one of the first examples of correct etiopathogenetic interpretation of cervical disc disease. Surgery was followed by excellent recovery, a quite remarkable result in those times. The case history is reported in detail, and a short historical sketch of cervical disc disease is depicted.
The Animal Spirits Paradigm had been in place for over a thousand years as a general way of looking at the nervous system, and was completely ingrained into the fabric of scientific thinking. However, the community of researchers in the 17th and 18th centuries abandoned their long-held assumptions, and started anew with the novel assertion that the currency of nervous function was, instead of Animal Spirits, a uniquely amimal electricity. This conceptual rearrangement represented a scientific revolution in thinking, a change in absolute perspective that required the reinterpretation of old data within a completely novel framework. The manner in which this transition occurred followed the general form of scientific paradigm shifts as outlined by Thomas Kuhn (Kuhn, 1962)
The short- and long-term clinical efficacy of add-on vigabatrin treatment was evaluated in a group of 36 patients with intellectual disability and drug-refractory epilepsy. The results were compared to the efficacy of vigabatrin in 75 non-retarded patients with drug-resistant complex partial and secondarily generalized seizures. After 3 months, 42% of the patients with intellectual disability had experienced a reduction in seizure frequency of more than 50% (responders). The percentage of responders was still 22% after 6 years. No impairment in psychological function was observed during vigabatrin treatment compared with baseline values. However, one patient was excluded from long-term treatment because of psychotic depression and two patients because of psychomotor slowing after 1-2 years of treatment The need for extra supervision appeared to diminish and three patients were able to be discharged from institutional care during the follow-up. In the group of non-retarded patients, the percentages of the responders were 55% and 27% after 3 months and 6 years of treatment, respectively. The results from these studies suggest that vigabatrin is effective and relatively well tolerated, and that the successful treatment of epilepsy also has socio-economic consequences in patients with intellectual disability and severe epilepsy.
Immunohistochemistry was applied in the investigation of the possible existence of serotonin in human skin. It was found that epidermal melanocytes express a serotonin-like immunoreactivity. The immunoreactivity was associated with both the cytoplasm and the cellular membrane, though the latter was only found in certain cells. The serotonin anti-serum labeled the same cells as NKI-beteb, which is known as a reliable marker of melanocytes. Blocking experiments showed that both serotonin and NKI-beteb have different epitopes in the melanocytes. In in vitro studies, serotonin-like immunoreactivity appeared in approximately 90% of cultured human melanocytes, and was found both in the cytoplasm and also in the nuclei. Thus, we believe the melanocytes to be the origin of serotonin (or a serotonin-like molecule) in the skin.
When neurons swell and shrink they extensively reorganize their plasma membrane. A striking aspect of these membrane dynamics is the transient appearance of vacuole-like dilations (VLDs) which, counterintuitively, expand as the neurons shrink. Here, confocal microscopy of cultured molluscan (Lymnaea) neurons was used in conjunction with aqueous phase and membrane dyes to examine changing VLD membrane topology as VLDs form, reverse or recover. We show that VLDs start as discrete invaginations at the adherent surface, so VLD and plasma membranes are initially contiguous. Over the next few minutes VLDs expand and penetrate the cytoplasm. At the substratum, the mouths of VLDs develop into irregular annuli of motile adherent processes whereas deeper in the cytoplasm, VLD membrane profiles are smooth. Subsequently VLDs spontaneously shrink; as this recovery proceeds, constriction of the motile VLD mouth leads to the internalization of plasma membrane. Washout experiments with aqueous phase dyes demonstrated that VLD constriction yields bona fide vacuoles, i.e., membrane-bound compartments isolated from the external medium. VLDs can also be experimentally eliminated by returning cells to swelling conditions; this reversal process drives membrane back to the surface. VLD formation and reinternalization of VLD membrane can be seen as aspects of plasma membrane surface area regulation. We postulate that area adjustments, driven by regional membrane tension differences, become noticeable when excessive perturbations overload normal membrane reprocessing steps. Both the changes in VLD membrane topology, and previously established capacitance changes accompanying cell shrinking and swelling, argue that osmomechanically perturbed neurons regulate their surface area as their volume changes.
The development and properties of locomotor behaviors in zebrafish embryos raised at 28.5 degrees C were examined. When freed from the chorion, embryonic zebrafish showed three sequential stereotyped behaviors: a transient period of alternating, coiling contractions followed by touch-evoked rapid coils, then finally, organized swimming. The three different behaviors were characterized by video microscopy. Spontaneous, alternating contractions of the trunk appeared suddenly at 17 h postfertilization (hpf), with a frequency of 0.57 Hz, peaked at 19 hpf at 0.96 Hz, and gradually decreased to &lt;0.1 Hz by 27 hpf. Starting at 21 hpf, touching either the head or the tail of the embryos resulted in vigorous coils. The coils accelerated with development, reaching a maximum speed of contraction before 48 hpf, which is near the time of hatching. After 27 hpf, touching the embryos, particularly on the tail, could induce partial coils (instead of full coils). At this time, embryos started to swim in response to a touch, preferentially to the tail. The swim cycle frequency gradually increased with age from 7 Hz at 27 hpf to 28 Hz at 36 hpf. Lesions of the central nervous system rostral to the hindbrain had no effect on the three behaviors. Lesioning the hindbrain eliminated swimming and touch responses, but not the spontaneous contractions. Our observations suggest that the spontaneous contractions result from activation of a primitive spinal circuit, while touch and swimming require additional hindbrain inputs to elicit mature locomotor behaviors.
The beta-amyloid peptides, A beta1-42 and A beta1-40, were quantified in ventricular CSF taken daily for up to 3 weeks from six individuals with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). There was considerable interindividual variability in the levels of A beta peptides, but in general A beta1-42 levels equalled or exceeded those of A beta1-40. Averaging the daily totals of our trauma cohort revealed that the levels of A beta1-42 and A beta1-40 rose after injury, peaking in the first week and then declining toward control levels over the next 2 weeks. A beta1-42 levels were on average two to three times higher in the trauma cohort than in CSF from nontrauma samples. Compared with nontrauma samples, the A beta1-40/A beta1-42 ratio decreased about fivefold in the trauma patients, further indicative of increased A beta1-42 levels. The ratio remained low at all time points studied. No change was measured in the levels of beta-amyloid precursor protein during the same interval. These results suggest that A beta1-42 becomes elevated in the CSF after severe brain trauma.
Paired helical filaments (PHFs) are the structural constituents of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease and are composed of hyperphosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau (PHF-tau). Pathological hyperphosphorylation of tau is believed to be an important contributor to the destabilisation of microtubules and their subsequent disappearance from tangle-bearing neurons in Alzheimer's disease, making elucidation of the mechanisms that regulate tau phosphorylation an important research goal. Thus, it is essential to identify, preferably by direct sequencing, all of the sites in PHF-tau that are phosphorylated, a task that is incomplete because of the difficulty to date of purifying insoluble PHF-tau to homogeneity and in sufficient quantities for structural analysis. Here we describe the solubilisation of PHF-tau followed by its purification by Mono Q chromatography and reversed-phase HPLC. Phosphopeptides from proteolytically digested PHF-tau were sequenced by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry. We identified 22 phosphorylation sites in PHF-tau, including five sites not previously identified. The combination of our new data with previous reports shows that PHF-tau can be phosphorylated on at least 25 different sites.
The repeated finding of an apparent protective effect of cigarette smoking on the risk of Parkinson's disease is one of the few consistent results in the epidemiology of this disorder. Among the numerous substances that originate from tobacco smoke, nicotine is by far the most widely studied. Nicotine is a natural alkaloid that has considerable stimulatory effects on the CNS. Its effects on the CNS are mediated by the activation of neuronal heteromeric acetylcholine-gated ion channel receptors (nAChRs, also termed nicotinic acetylcholine receptors). In the present study, we describe the neuroprotective effects of (-)-nicotine in two animal models of parkinsonism: diethyldithiocarbamate-induced enhancement of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine toxicity in mice and methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rats and mice. The neuroprotective effect of (-)-nicotine was very similar to that of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801. In parallel experiments, we found that (-)-nicotine induces the basic fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor in rat striatum. The effect of (-)-nicotine on the induction of FGF-2 was prevented by the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine. We also found that (+)-MK-801 was able to induce FGF-2 in the striatum. As trophic factors have been reported to be neuroprotective for dopaminergic cells, our data suggest that the increase in neurotrophic factors is a possible mechanism by which (-)-nicotine protects from experimental parkinsonisms.
Many forms of neurodegeneration are ascribed to excessive cellular Ca2+ loading (Ca2+ hypothesis). We examined quantitatively whether factors other than Ca2+ loading were determinants of excitotoxic neurodegeneration. Cell survival, morphology, free intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), and 45Ca2+ accumulation were measured in cultured cortical neurons loaded with known quantities of Ca2+ through distinct transmembrane pathways triggered by excitatory amino acids, cell membrane depolarization, or Ca2+ ionophores. Contrary to the Ca2+ hypothesis, the relationships between Ca2+ load and cell survival, free [Ca2+]i, and Ca2+-induced morphological alterations depended primarily on the route of Ca2+ influx, not the Ca2+ load. Notably, Ca2+ loading via NMDA receptor channels was toxic, whereas identical Ca2+ loads incurred through voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels were completely innocuous. Furthermore, accounting quantitatively for Ca2+ loading via NMDA receptors uncovered a previously unreported component of L-glutamate neurotoxicity apparently not mediated by ionotropic or metabotropic glutamate receptors. It was synergistic with toxicity attributable to glutamate-evoked Ca2+ loading, and correlated with enhanced cellular ATP depletion. This previously unrecognized toxic action of glutamate constituted a chief excitotoxic mechanism under conditions producing submaximal Ca2+ loading. We conclude that (a) Ca2+ neurotoxicity is a function of the Ca2+ influx pathway, not Ca2+ load, and (b) glutamate toxicity may not be restricted to its actions on glutamate receptors.
This study examines the effects of interleukin-10 (IL-10) and combination IL-10 + IL-2 gene transfer on experimental brain tumor growth in vivo. 9L gliosarcoma cells were engineered to stably express murine IL-10 (9L-IL-10 cells) and implanted subcutaneously or to the caudate/putamen of syngeneic rats. The growth of tumors expressing IL-10 was substantially reduced compared to that of control tumors (p &lt; 0.05). Intracranial tumors expressing IL-10 and IL-2 were established by co-implanting 9L-IL-10 cells with endothelial cells engineered to express IL-2. At 14 days post-implantation, tumors expressing IL-10 + IL-2 were 99% smaller than control-transfected tumors (p &lt; 0.0001). This extent of anti-tumor effect could not be achieved by expression of IL-10 or IL-2 alone within tumors. Neither IL-10 nor a combination of IL-10 + IL-2 gene delivery inhibited tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID-Beige) mice (p &gt; 0.05). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that IL-10 + IL-2 gene delivery markedly increased T-cell infiltration within the striatum ipsilateral to tumor cell implantation. These findings establish that IL-10 expression, particularly in combination with IL-2 expression, can have significant immune-dependent anti-tumor actions within intracranial gliomas.



Opioid-activated postsynaptic, inward rectifying potassium currents in whole cell recordings in substantia gelatinosa neurons. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2954-2962, 1998. Using tight-seal, whole cell recordings from isolated transverse slices of hamster and rat spinal cord, we investigated the effects of the mu-opioid agonist (-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol)-enkephalin (DAMGO) on the membrane potential and conductance of substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons. We observed that bath application of 1-5 microM DAMGO caused a robust and repeatable hyperpolarization in membrane potential (Vm) and decrease in neuronal input resistance (RN) in 60% (27/45) of hamster neurons and 39% (9/23) of rat neurons, but significantly only when ATP (2 mM) and guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP; 100 microM) were included in the patch pipette internal solution. An ED50 of 50 nM was observed for the hyperpolarization in rat SG neurons. Because G-protein mediation of opioid effects has been shown in other systems, we tested if the nucleotide requirement for opioid hyperpolarization in SG neurons was due to G-protein activation. GTP was replaced with the nonhydrolyzable GTP analogue guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S; 100 microM), which enabled DAMGO to activate a nonreversible membrane hyperpolarization. Further, intracellular application of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP-beta-S; 500 microM), which blocks G-protein activation, abolished the effects of DAMGO. We conclude that spinal SG neurons are particularly susceptible to dialysis of GTP by whole cell recording techniques. Moreover, the depletion of GTP leads to the inactivation of G-proteins that mediate mu-opioid activation of an inward-rectifying, potassium conductance in these neurons. These results explain the discrepancy between the opioid-activated hyperpolarization in SG neurons observed in previous sharp electrode experiments and the more recent failures to observe these effects with whole cell patch techniques.
Development of ionic currents underlying changes in action potential waveforms in rat spinal motoneurons. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 3047-3061, 1998. Differentiation of the ionic mechanism underlying changes in action potential properties was investigated in spinal motoneurons of embryonic and postnatal rats using whole cell voltage- and current-clamp recordings. Relatively slow-rising, prolonged, largely Na+-dependent action potentials were recorded in embryonic motoneurons, and afterdepolarizing potentials were elicited in response to prolonged intracellular injections of depolarizing currents. Action potential amplitude, as well as its rates of rise and repolarization significantly increased, and an afterhyperpolarizing potential (AHP) became apparent immediately after birth. Concurrently, repetitive action potential firing was elicited in response to a prolonged current injection. To determine the ionic mechanism underlying these changes, the properties of voltage-gated macroscopic Na+, Ca2+, and K+ currents were examined. Fast-rising Na+ currents (INa) and slow-rising Ca2+ currents (ICa) were expressed early in embryonic development, but only INa was necessary and sufficient to trigger an action potential. INa and ICa densities significantly increased while the time to peak INa and ICa decreased after birth. The postnatal increase in INa resulted in overshooting action potential with significantly faster rate of rise than that recorded before birth. Properties of three types of outward K+ currents were examined: transient type-A current (IA), noninactivating delayed rectifier-type current (IK), and Ca2+-dependent K+ current (IK(Ca)). The twofold postnatal increase in IK and IK(Ca) densities resulted in shorter duration action potential and the generation of AHP. Relatively large IA was expressed early in neuronal development, but unlike IK and IK(Ca) its density did not increase after birth. The three types of K+ channels had opposite modulatory actions on action potential firing behavior: IK and IA increased the firing rate, whereas IK(Ca) decreased it. Our findings demonstrated that the developmental changes in action potential waveforms and the onset of repetitive firing were correlated with large increases in the densities of existing voltage-gated ion channels rather than the expression of new channel types.
Inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-mediated Ca mobilization is not required for cerebellar long-term depression in reduced preparations. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2963-2974, 1998. Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a cellular model system of information storage in which coincident parallel fiber and climbing fiber activation of a Purkinje neuron (PN) gives rise to a sustained attenuation of parallel fiber-PN synaptic strength. Climbing fiber and parallel fiber inputs may be replaced by direct depolarization of the PN and exogenous glutamate pulses, respectively. The parallel fiber-PN synapse has a high-density of mGluR1 receptors that are coupled to phosphoinositide turnover. Several lines of evidence indicated that activation of mGluR1 by parallel fiber stimulation is necessary for the induction of cerebellar LTD. Because phosphoinositide hydrolysis has two initial products, 1, 2-diacylglycerol and inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3), we wished to determine whether IP3 signaling via IP3 receptors and consequent Ca mobilization were necessary for the induction of cerebellar LTD. First, ratiometric imaging of free cytosolic Ca was performed on both acutely dissociated and cultured PNs. It was determined that the threshold for glutamate pulses to contribute to LTD induction was below the threshold for producing a Ca transient. Furthermore, the Ca transients produced by depolarization alone and glutamate plus depolarization were not significantly different. Second, the potent and selective IP3 receptor channel blocker xestospongin C was not found to affect the induction of LTD in either acutely dissociated or cultured PNs at a concentration that was sufficient to block mGluR1-evoked Ca mobilization. Third, replacement of mGluR activation by exogenous synthetic diacylglycerol in an LTD induction protocol was successful. Taken together, these results suggest that activation of an IP3 signaling cascade is not required for induction of cerebellar LTD in reduced preparations.
The effect of blocking NMDA glutamate receptors in adult rat cortex on experience-dependent synaptic plasticity of barrel cortex neurons was studied by infusing D-AP5 with an osmotic minipump over barrel cortex for 5 d of novel sensory experience. In acute pilot studies, 500 microM D-AP5 was shown to specifically suppress NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent responses of single cells in cortical layers I-IV. To induce plasticity, all whiskers except D2 and D1 were cut close to the face 1 d after pump insertion. The animals were housed with 2 cage mates before recording 4 d later. This pairing of two whiskers for several days in awake animals generates highly significant biases in responses from D2 layer IV (barrel) cells to the intact D1 whisker as opposed to the cut D3 whisker. D-AP5 completely prevented the D1/D3 surround whisker bias from occurring in the D2 barrel cells (p &gt; 0.6 for D1 &gt; D3, Wilcoxon). Fast-spike and slow-spike barrel cells were affected equally, suggesting parity for inhibitory and excitatory cell plasticity. D-AP5 only partially suppressed the D1/D3 bias in supragranular layers (layers II-III) in the same penetrations (p &lt; 0.042 for D1 &gt; D3). In control animals, the inactive L-AP5 isomer allowed the bias to develop normally toward the intact surround whisker (p &lt; 0.001 for D1 &gt; D3) for cells in all layers. We conclude that experience-dependent synaptic plasticity of mature barrel cortex is cortically dependent and that modification of local cortical NMDARs is necessary for its expression.
Subjects were asked to shape the right hand as if to grasp and use a large number of familiar objects. The chosen objects typically are held with a variety of grips, including &quot;precision&quot; and &quot;power&quot; grips. Static hand posture was measured by recording the angular position of 15 joint angles of the fingers and of the thumb. Although subjects adopted distinct hand shapes for the various objects, the joint angles of the digits did not vary independently. Principal components analysis showed that the first two components could account for &gt;80% of the variance, implying a substantial reduction from the 15 degrees of freedom that were recorded. However, even though they were small, higher-order (more than three) principal components did not represent random variability but instead provided additional information about the object. These results suggest that the control of hand posture involves a few postural synergies, regulating the general shape of the hand, coupled with a finer control mechanism providing for small, subtle adjustments. Because the postural synergies did not coincide with grip taxonomies, the results suggest that hand posture may be regulated independently from the control of the contact forces that are used to grasp an object.
To explore a role for chemorepulsive axon guidance mechanisms in the regeneration of primary olfactory axons, we examined the expression of the chemorepellent semaphorin III (sema III), its receptor neuropilin-1, and collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) during regeneration of the olfactory system. In the intact olfactory system, neuropilin-1 and CRMP-2 mRNA expression define a distinct population of olfactory receptor neurons, corresponding to immature (B-50/GAP-43-positive) and a subset of mature (olfactory marker protein-positive) neurons located in the lower half of the olfactory epithelium. Sema III mRNA is expressed in pial sheet cells and in second-order olfactory neurons that are the target cells of neuropilin-1-positive primary olfactory axons. These data suggest that in the intact olfactory bulb sema III creates a molecular barrier, which helps restrict ingrowing olfactory axons to the nerve and glomerular layers of the bulb. Both axotomy of the primary olfactory nerve and bulbectomy induce the formation of new olfactory receptor neurons expressing neuropilin-1 and CRMP-2 mRNA. After axotomy, sema III mRNA is transiently induced in cells at the site of the lesion. These cells align regenerating bundles of olfactory axons. In contrast to the transient appearance of sema III-positive cells at the lesion site after axotomy, sema III-positive cells increase progressively after bulbectomy, apparently preventing regenerating neuropilin-1-positive nerve bundles from growing deeper into the lesion area. The presence of sema III in scar tissue and the concomitant expression of its receptor neuropilin-1 on regenerating olfactory axons suggests that semaphorin-mediated chemorepulsive signal transduction may contribute to the regenerative failure of these axons after bulbectomy.
Retinal ganglion cell numbers in adult mice vary from 40,000 to 80, 000. Much of this variation and the prominent bimodality of strain averages are generated by allelic variants at the neuron number control 1 (Nnc1) locus on chromosome 11. The Nnc1 locus may modulate either ganglion cell production or the severity of ganglion cell death. Here we have determined what the relative contributions of these two processes are to variation in adult cell number by estimating total ganglion cell production in 10 strains of mice (A/J, BALB/cJ, BXD32, C57BL/6J, CAST/Ei, CARL/ChGo, CE/J, C3H/HeSnJ, DBA/2J, and LP/J). These strains have adult populations that range from 45,000 to 76,000 (data available at http://qtl.ml.org). We estimated cell production by counting ganglion cell axons after ganglion cell neurogenesis but before the onset of significant cell death. Total cell production ranges from 131,000 to 224,000, and most of the variation in adult ganglion cell number is explained by this significant variation in cell production. In contrast, the percentage of cell death is relatively uniform in most strains (approximately 69% cell loss). The exceptions are BXD32, a strain that has an extremely high adult cell population, and Mus caroli (CARL/ChGo), a wild southeast Asian species that is distantly related to laboratory strains. In BXD32 and M. caroli, approximately 62% of the population dies. Our analysis indicates that substitutions of single alleles at the Nnc1 locus are responsible for production differences of approximately 8000 ganglion cells.
The electric organ (EO) of the weakly electric fish Sternopygus macrurus derives from striated myofibers that fuse and suppress many muscle properties. Mature electrocytes are larger than muscle fibers, do not contain sarcomeres, or express myosin heavy chain (MHC) or tropomyosin. Furthermore, electrocytes express keratin, a protein not expressed in muscle. In S. macrurus the EO is driven continuously at frequencies higher than those of the intermittently active skeletal muscle. The extent to which differences in EO and muscle phenotype are accounted for by activity patterns, or innervation per se, was determined by assessing the expression of MHC, tropomyosin, and keratin 2 and 5 weeks after the elimination of (1) activity patterns by spinal transection or (2) all synaptic input by denervation. Immunohistochemical analyses showed no changes in muscle fiber phenotypes after either experimental treatment. In contrast, the keratin-positive electrocytes revealed an upregulation of MHC and tropomyosin. Nearly one-third of all electrocytes expressed MHC (35%) and tropomyosin (25%) 2 weeks after spinal transection, whereas approximately two-thirds (61%) expressed MHC 2 weeks after denervation. After 5 weeks of denervation or spinal transection, all electrocytes contained MHC and tropomyosin. Newly formed sarcomere clusters also were observed in denervated electrocytes. The MHC expressed in electrocytes corresponded to that present in a select population of muscle fibers, i.e., type II fibers. Thus, the elimination of electrical activity or all synaptic input resulted in a partial reversal of the electrocyte phenotype to an earlier developmental stage of its myogenic lineage.
To investigate the possible anatomical basis for the functional recovery of visual cortical responses after reverse monocular deprivation, we have studied the morphology of single geniculocortical afferents to area 17. In kittens reverse-sutured for 10 d after an initial week of monocular deprivation, single-unit and intrinsic signal optical recordings confirmed that the effects of the initial deprivation were largely reversed. Responses through the originally nondeprived (OND) eye were drastically diminished, but remained much more selective for orientation than after an initial monocular deprivation (Crair et al., 1997). Responses through the originally deprived (OD) eye recovered completely. Geniculocortical afferent arbors in layer IV of area 17 were filled by iontophoresis of Phaseolus lectin into lamina A of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and were serially reconstructed. Arbors serving both the OD and the OND eye were analyzed. The plastic changes of both OD and OND arbors were evaluated by comparison with arbors reconstructed in normal animals and in animals studied after an equivalent initial period of deprivation (Antonini and Stryker, 1996). These analyses demonstrate that closure of the OND eye caused a substantial shrinkage of the arbors serving that eye. Moreover, reopening the OD eye induced regrowth only in some arbors, whereas others appeared to be largely unaffected and continued to have the characteristics of deprived arbors. Quantitatively, the initial and the second deprivation caused similar proportional changes in total arbor length and numbers of branches, whereas several other features were more severely affected by the initial deprivation.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease involves the loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, resulting in the presynaptic breakdown of dopaminergic transmission in the striatum. Huntington's disease and some neurodegenerative diseases with Parkinsonian features have postsynaptic defects caused by striatal cell death. Mice were generated in which an attenuated form of the diphtheria toxin gene (tox-176) was expressed exclusively in D1 dopamine receptor (D1R)-positive cells with the aim of determining the effect of this mutation on development of the basal ganglia and on the locomotor phenotype. Transgenic mice expressing Cre, a site-specific DNA recombinase, were crossed with a second line in which a transcriptionally silenced tox-176 gene was inserted into the D1R gene locus by homologous recombination. Young doubly transgenic mutant mice expressing the tox-176 gene displayed bradykinesia, dystonia, and had falls caused by myoclonic jerks. The mutant brain had evidence of apoptosis and reactive gliosis and, consistent with the D1R expression pattern, the striatum was reduced in volume, and the Islands of Calleja were absent. In contrast, the cortex was of normal thickness. D1Rs were not detectable in mutants by in situ hybridization or ligand autoradiography, whereas D2 dopamine receptor (D2R) mRNA and protein was present in the striatum. In addition, substance P and dynorphin, neuropeptides known to be expressed in D1R-positive striatonigral projection neurons were not detectable. Enkephalin, a marker found in D2-positive striatopallidal projection neurons was expressed in the mutant brain. The mutant represents a novel neurodegenerative disease model with a dramatic extrapyramidal phenotype.
A novel G-protein-coupled receptor (GRL106) resembling neuropeptide Y and tachykinin receptors was cloned from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. Application of a peptide extract from the Lymnaea brain to Xenopus oocytes expressing GRL106 activated a calcium-dependent chloride channel. Using this response as a bioassay, we purified the ligand for GRL106, Lymnaea cardioexcitatory peptide (LyCEP), an RFamide-type decapeptide (TPHWRPQGRF-NH2) displaying significant similarity to the Achatina cardioexcitatory peptide (ACEP-1) as well as to the recently identified family of mammalian prolactin-releasing peptides. In the Lymnaea brain, the cells that produce egg-laying hormone are the predominant site of GRL106 gene expression and appear to be innervated by LyCEP-containing fibers. Indeed, LyCEP application transiently hyperpolarizes isolated egg-laying hormone cells. In the Lymnaea pericardium, LyCEP-containing fibers end blindly at the pericardial lumen, and the heart is stimulated by LyCEP in vitro. These data confirm that LyCEP is an RFamide ligand for GRL106.
We have previously isolated epidermal growth factor (EGF)-responsive multipotent progenitor cells from the early postnatal rodent cerebral cortex independent of generative zones. In this study we have examined the mechanisms regulating the generation of differentiated oligodendrocytes (OLs) from these multipotent cells. Although cultures of primary cortical OL progenitor cells propagated at clonal density spontaneously gave rise to differentiated OLs in defined medium, cultures of multipotent progenitors isolated from identical regions supported the elaboration of OL progenitors but not differentiated OLs. These observations indicate that the terminal maturation of OL progenitors derived from multipotent cells is dependent on signals present within the cellular environment. Application of cytokines such as basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), or neurotrophin 3 (NT3) to clonal density cultures of cortical multipotent progenitors increased the proportion of OL progenitors but failed to support the generation of differentiated OLs. By contrast, application of factors that activate gp130/leukemia inhibitory factor beta (LIFbeta) heterodimeric receptors, such as ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), activated signal transducers and activators of transcription-3 in these OL progenitor cells and promoted the generation of differentiated OLs. Clonal analysis also demonstrated that CNTF directly targets OL progenitors derived from the multipotent cells. These observations suggest that two distinct progenitor cell pathways contribute to the generation of differentiated OLs during postnatal cortical gliogenesis. Although oligodendroglial maturation of classical OL progenitor cells is driven by cell autonomous mechanisms, our findings demonstrate that the generation of differentiated OLs from cortical multipotent progenitor cells is dependent on environmental cues, including activation of gp130/LIFbeta receptors.
Programmed cell death, or apoptosis, has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). DNA damage was assessed in primary cortical neurons infected with herpes simplex virus (HSV) vectors expressing the familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) gene presenilin-1 (PS-1) or an FAD mutant of this gene, A246E. After infection, immunoreactivity for PS-1 was shown to be enhanced in infected cells. The infected cells exhibited no cytotoxicity, as evaluated by trypan blue exclusion and mitochondrial function assays. Quantitative analysis of cells that were immunohistochemically labeled using a Klenow DNA fragmentation assay or the TUNEL method revealed no enhancement of apoptosis in PS-1-infected cells. This result was confirmed using assays for chromatin condensation and for DNA fragmentation. Expression of PS-1 protected against induction of apoptosis in the cortical neurons by etoposide or staurosporine. The specificity of this phenotype was demonstrated by the fact that cortical cultures infected with recombinant HSV vectors expressing the amyloid precursor protein (APP-695) showed, in contrast, a significant increase in the number of apoptotic cells and an increase in DNA fragmentation for all parameters tested. Our results indicate that overexpression of wild-type or A246E mutant PS-1 does not enhance apoptosis in postmitotic cortical cells and suggest that the previously reported enhancement of apoptosis by presenilins may be dependent on cell type.
The synaptic basal lamina protein agrin is essential for the formation of neuromuscular junctions. Agrin mediates the postsynaptic clustering of acetylcholine receptors and regulates transcription in muscles. Agrin expression is not restricted to motor neurons but can be demonstrated throughout the CNS. The functional significance of agrin expression in neurons other than motor neurons is unknown. To test whether agrin triggers responses in neurons that lead to the activation of transcription factors, we have analyzed phosphorylation of the transcriptional regulatory site serine 133 of the transcription factor CREB (cAMP response element binding protein) in primary hippocampal neurons. Our results indicate that the neuronal (Ag4,8), but not the non-neuronal (Ag0,0), isoform of agrin induces CREB phosphorylation in hippocampal neurons. The kinetics of agrin- and BDNF-induced CREB phosphorylation are similar: peak levels are reached in minutes and are strongly reduced 2 hr later. Neuronal responses to agrin require extracellular calcium, and, in contrast to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, the specific inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) does not affect agrin-evoked CREB phosphorylation. Our results show that hippocampal neurons specifically respond to neuronal agrin in a Ca2+-dependent manner and via the activation of tyrosine kinases.
Activation of the Drosophila photoresponse is a rapid process that results in plasma membrane Ca2+ and Na+ conductances. Ca2+ functions in negative feedback regulation of Drosophila vision including deactivation. Protein kinase C (PKC) binds directly to Ca2+ and is required for deactivation. However, the consequences of disrupting phosphorylation of any individual PKC substrate in the Drosophila retina have not been addressed. In the current work, we show that NINAC p174, which consists of a protein kinase domain joined to the head region of myosin heavy chain, is a phosphoprotein and is phosphorylated in vitro by PKC. Mutation of either of two PKC sites in the p174 tail resulted in an unusual defect in deactivation that had not been detected previously for other ninaC alleles or other loci. After cessation of the light stimulus, there appeared to be a transient reactivation of the visual cascade. This phenotype suggests that a mechanism exists to prevent reactivation of the visual cascade and that p174 participates in this process.
We describe a method for characterizing and studying afferent input to the central nervous system arising from deep axial structures of the neck during defined cervical vertebral movement. Multiple or single unit recordings of afferent activity arising from identified receptive fields in these tissues can now be studied in situ while simultaneously inducing 'natural' stimulation of mechanoreceptors during well defined movements of the intact vertebral column. When combined with existing strategies for extracellular and intracellular recordings of neurones, the methods described here will allow in vivo investigation of the central effects of functionally identified afferents innervating identified receptive fields located in deep paravertebral tissues during a variety of discrete movements of individual vertebra. This has particular importance in determining the relative role that afferents innervating specific axial tissues have on identified neurones in the central nervous system. It will allow determination of the 'bias' of input to projection cells, such as 'hyperconvergent' neurones, during natural movement. Furthermore, it will allow investigation of their role in the control of somatic and autonomic reflex behaviour.
We describe a minimally invasive method for administering diffusible substances to computer-targeted regions of the primate brain. Treatments enter the brain by diffusion or under pressure from the portion of a curvilinear implant that lies within the region of interest. During the implantation surgery, a guide-tube cannula is passed through a cranial burr-hole and concentric, telescoping needles are extended from the cannula in sequence to trace a pre-planned course through brain tissue. After the leading end of the longest needle emerges through another burr-hole, the surgeon fastens a hollow dialysis fiber to its tip and draws the fiber into the brain by retracting the telescoping device in an orderly sequence. The surgery affects brain tissue only along the course of the fiber, causing about the same acute damage as the stereotactic introduction of an ordinary straight needle. The 'extended local access fiber' is relatively soft, flexible, and biocompatible. It remains permanently in the brain, with its semipermeable portion lodged in the target region. Leading and trailing portions are accessible from outside the brain. Experiments indicate a broad range of possible trajectories and confirm that substances delivered by access fiber can have physiological effects even 10 weeks after implantation.
Manipulation of MRI images prior to volumetric analysis is a common practice that may unwittingly lead to errors in measurement. In this study, we examine the effects of two types of image manipulation: changes in the total number of slices used to obtain volume estimates (slice sampling rate) and image rotation. A phantom containing two regularly-shaped and two irregularly-shaped regions of interest (ROIs) was scanned using an SPGR sequence and 1-mm slices. Changes in slice sampling rate produced marked effects on volume estimation of irregularly-shaped ROls. Comparatively little error was associated with changes in slice sampling rates for regularly-shaped ROIs. In addition, there was an interaction between image rotation in non-orthogonal planes and slice sampling rate. The data suggests that the ability to detect anatomical effects may be influenced by an investigator's choices concerning the number of slices included in a region of interest and image rotation when estimating volumes.
We developed a human brain mapping analyzer to determine the quantitative distribution of specific molecules, such as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators, based on a fluorescence microphotometry system that we had previously developed. The immunohistochemical fluorescence emitted from each microarea of a brain slice is collected into a photomultiplier tube through the pinhole and objective lens of a microscope. The brain slice is moved in the x- or y-direction by a motorized scanning stage under the objective lens, and the fluorescence intensities are measured quantitatively. The scanning speed is approximately 100 microareas/s, the maximum stage motion is 150 x 150 mm, and an unlimited amount of data can be gathered continuously by transfer to external memory devices. In this paper, this analyzer is characterized in detail, and the methods used for the preparation and analysis of human brain slices are described. As an example, the cholinergic distribution in hemispheric coronal slices of the adult human brain is analyzed. Each slice, immunohistochemically stained for choline acetyltransferase, was divided into approximately 3 million microareas (one area is 50 microm in diameter), and the distribution of the cholinergic neurons is shown.
A reliable source of human neural tissue would be of immense practical value to both neuroscientists and clinical neural transplantation trials. In this study, human precursor cells were isolated from the developing human cortex and, in the presence of both epidermal and fibroblast growth factor-2, grew in culture as sphere shaped clusters. Using traditional passaging techniques and culture mediums the rate of growth was extremely slow, and only a 12-fold expansion in total cell number could be achieved. However, when intact spheres were sectioned into quarters, rather than mechanically dissociated, cell cell contacts were maintained and cellular trauma minimised which permitted the rapid and continual growth of each individual quarter. Using this method we have achieved a 1.5 million-fold increase in precursor cell number over a period of less than 200 days. Upon differentiation by exposure to a substrate, cells migrated out from the spheres and formed a monolayer of astrocytes and neurons. No oligodendrocytes were found to develop from these human neural precursor cells at late passages when whole spheres were differentiated. This simple and novel culture method allows the rapid expansion of large numbers of non-transformed human neural precursor cells which may be of use in drug discovery, ex vivo gene therapy and clinical neural transplantation.
This report describes a quick and versatile method to perform non-radioactive in situ hybridization in which none of the hybridization steps are performed under RNAse-free conditions. This study demonstrates that in situ hybridization can be performed without an RNAse-free environment provided that the concentration of RNAse introduced during the experiment does not reach 0.1 microg/ml, a concentration that is unlikely to be achieved through an accidental contamination. Moreover, evidence is provided that the only step sensitive to RNAse degradation is the pretreatment since degradation during the hybridization step can not occur due to a very efficient protective effect exerted by formamide. Finally, our data suggest that endogenous RNAse activity might be readily neutralized through paraformaldehyde fixation. A feature of this method is the strong fixation that ensures a perfect tissue preservation, even at level of the fine structure of the cell processes. The method allows a uniform tissue penetration by sodium periodate and sodium borohydride treatment and can be easily used in combination with diaminobenzidine immunohistochemistry for double labeling experiments.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, progressive, degenerative, autoimmune disease that usually follows a relapsing-remitting course. In most cases of MS, the clinical course is variable with the vast majority of patients having mild to moderate disabilities that develop over the course of years. A subset of acute forms of MS exist and may be relatively unknown to neuroscience nurses. The acute forms follow a virulent course and are associated with high morbidity and mortality. A case presentation of a patient with the Marburg variant of MS raises the neuroscience nurse's understanding of the challenges associated with caring for patients with this unusual form of MS.
When parents are faced with the possibility of death or disability from their child's brain tumor, it manifests as a daily crisis. Some seek comfort and reassurance in sharing similar experiences within a support group. These groups have much to offer people who derive support from group interaction. Pediatric neuroscience nurses are in a unique position to coordinate and facilitate the development of a support group for parents of children with brain tumors. Although the literature identifies many reasons people join support groups, little has been explored among parents of children with a life-threatening illness. The literature stresses that the success of a group is in knowing why people attend groups and the ability to address the group's needs.
The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is present in many regions of the adult and developing brain as are receptors for PACAP. PACAP stimulates different signalling cascades in neurons, involving cAMP, MAP kinase, and calcium. These characteristics suggest that PACAP may influence neuronal development. Here we have studied the effects of PACAP on mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons using primary cultures from embryonic rats. PACAP increased the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons, elevated TH protein, and enhanced tritiated dopamine uptake in these cultures. Moreover, PACAP counteracted the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine treatments, which induce cell death of dopaminergic neurons. In situ hybridisation showed that both PACAP and PACAP receptor type 1 are present in developing and adult rat mesencephalon. These results show that PACAP has a neurotrophic action on dopaminergic neurons and partially protects them against 6-OHDA induced neurotoxicity.
Vertebrate myelin is enriched in the lipid galactocerebroside (GalC) and its sulfated derivated sulfatide. To understand the in vivo function of these lipids, we analyzed myelination in mice that contain a null mutation in the gene encoding UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase, the enzyme responsible for catalyzing the final step in GalC synthesis. Galactolipid-deficient myelin is regionally unstable and progressively degenerates. At postnatal day 30, demyelination is restricted to the midbrain and hindbrain, but by postnatal day 90, it spreads throughout the central nervous system. Activated microglial cells and reactive astrocytes appear with the loss of myelin in older animals. Nonetheless, major myelin protein gene mRNA levels are normal throughout the life of these animals, suggesting that widespread oligodendrocyte death is not the primary cause of demyelination. The developmental switch in myelin-associated glycoprotein isoform expression, however, does not occur normally in these mice, suggesting an alteration in oligodendrocyte maturation. Taken together, these findings indicate that GalC and sulfatide are required for the long-term maintenance of myelin and that their absence may have subtle effects on the development of oligodendrocytes.
Synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (Snap25) is an intracellular protein that is defined as a target receptor for synapse vesicles prior to neurotransmitter release. Snap25 is highly conserved, with 61% identity between human and Drosophila melanogaster. Whereas mammals and chicken have a single locus for Snap25, the tetraploid goldfish has at least three loci. We report that the zebrafish has two loci with 91% amino acid identity to each other. The alternative splicing of exon 5 arose before the gene duplication. The expression patterns of the two loci are virtually identical in adult zebrafish. The two zebrafish snap25 loci are located in paralogous linkage groups that seem to correspond to human chromosome 20, which harbors the SNAP locus, and human chromosome 14. Because no additional Snap25 homologue has been reported for any mammal or chicken, snap25.2 may have been lost in the amniote or even tetrapod lineage.

Spinal cord injury can lead to an exaggeration of transmission through spinal pathways, resulting in muscle spasticity, chronic pain, and abnormal control of blood pressure and bladder function. These conditions are mediated, in part, by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on spinal neurons, but the effects of cord injury on the expression or function of these receptors is unknown. Therefore, antibodies to the NMDA-R1 receptor subunit and binding of [3H]MK-801 were used to assess NMDA receptors in the spinal cord. Receptor density in rats with intact spinal cords was compared to that in rats 1 and 2 weeks after spinal cord transection (SCT) at the mid-thoracic level. At 1 and 2 weeks after SCT, [3H]MK-801 binding was reduced in most laminae in cord segments caudal to the injury, whereas no decrease in amount of R1 subunit immunoreactivity was observed. No significant changes in [3H]MK-801 binding and NMDA-R1 immunoreactivity could be seen rostral to the transection. Since [3H]MK-801 binding requires an open ion channel, the discrepancy between [3H]MK-801 binding and immunocytochemistry may indicate a loss of functional receptors without a consistent change in their total number. Therefore, the exaggerated reflexes that are well established in rats 2 weeks after cord injury must be mediated by a mechanism that withstands attenuation of NMDA receptor function.

[3H]5-HT revealed the presence of serotonin receptors in cultured rat sensory neurons. [3H]5-CT binding was inhibited by cyanopindolol with an IC50 of 0.87 +/- 0.30 nM, suggesting the expression of the 5-HT1B receptor in these neurons. The presence of 5-HT1B receptors was confirmed by the displacement of [125I]Iodocyanopindolol binding by cyanopindolol with an IC50 of 2.43 +/- 0.81 nM. 5-HT1B receptors are the predominant type of serotonin receptors labeled by [3H]5-HT in cultured DRG neurons, representing approximately 60% of the specific [3H]5-HT binding sites. In addition, 5-HT1D and 5-HT2A receptor binding was also found in these neurons. RT-PCR analysis of RNA isolated from embryonic sensory neurons in culture confirmed the expression of 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D and 5-HT2A receptor mRNA. It also demonstrated the presence of 5-HT1F, 5-HT2C, 5-HT3, 5-HT4, 5-HT5A and 5-HT5B receptor mRNA and the absence of 5-HT1A, 5-HT1E, 5-HT2B, 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 mRNA. The identification of multiple subtypes of serotonin receptors expressed in cultured embryonic sensory neurons suggests that DRG neuronal cultures may be an excellent model to examine the direct effects of serotonin on the activity of these sensory neurons.
Troops in the Persian Gulf War have registered complaints consistent with CNS dysfunction that emerged after returning from the Gulf. A common experience among Persian Gulf War veterans was exposure to pyridostigmine bromide (PB) for prophylaxis against nerve gas exposure. To determine whether PB causes emergent CNS dysfunction, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were given PB for 7 consecutive days in their drinking water. The WKY, but not the SD, rats exhibited a delayed-onset, persistently exaggerated startle response. The WKY rats exhibited exaggerated startle responses that appeared 15 days after the end of PB treatment and were still evident 22 days after the end of treatment. Both the duration and the magnitude of the exaggerated startle responses were related to the dosage of PB. The PB-treated rats exhibited normal short-term and long-term habituation. However, exaggerated startle responses were related to the development of enhanced short-term sensitization. Treating the rats for a second time, 7 weeks after the end of the first PB treatment, induced an exaggerated startle response that appeared sooner and dissipated faster than was evident after the first PB treatment. Inasmuch as the WKY rat has inherently low butyrylcholinesterase activity, a scavenger for PB, these results suggest that prophylactic PB may influence CNS function in individuals with low butyrylcholinesterase activity. Elaboration of the factors that mediate enhanced sensitization in the WKY rat may provide insight into some of the complaints registered by veterans of the Persian Gulf War.
